BUSINESSANSYS, a Delaware corporation formed in 1994, develops and globally markets engineering simulation software and services widely used by engineers, designers, researchers and students across a broad spectrum of industries and academia, including aerospace, automotive, manufacturing, electronics, biomedical, energy and defense. Headquartered south of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2,600 people as of December 31, 2013. The Company focuses on the development of open and flexible solutions that enable users to analyze designs directly on the desktop, providing a common platform for fast, efficient and cost-conscious product development, from design concept to final-stage testing and validation. The Company distributes its ANSYS suite of simulation technologies through a global network of independent resellers and distributors (collectively, channel partners) and direct sales offices in strategic, global locations.  It is the Company's intention to continue to maintain this hybrid sales and distribution model.The Company's product portfolio consists of the following:Simulation Platform: ANSYS® Workbench™ ANSYS Workbench is the framework upon which the Company's suite of advanced engineering simulation technologies is built. The innovative project schematic view ties together the entire simulation process, guiding the user through complex multiphysics analyses with drag-and-drop simplicity. With bi-directional computer-aided design ("CAD") connectivity, powerful highly-automated meshing, a project-level update mechanism, pervasive parameter management and integrated optimization tools, the ANSYS Workbench platform delivers unprecedented productivity, enabling Simulation-Driven Product Development™.Simulation Process and Data ManagementANSYS Engineering Knowledge Manager™ ("ANSYS EKM") is a comprehensive solution for simulation-based process and data management challenges. ANSYS EKM provides solutions and benefits to all levels of a company, enabling an organization to address the critical issues associated with simulation data, including backup and archival, traceability and audit trail, process automation, collaboration and capture of engineering expertise, and intellectual property protection.High-Performance ComputingThe Company's high-performance computing ("HPC") product suite enables enhanced insight into product performance and improves the productivity of the design process. The HPC product suite delivers cross-physics parallel processing capabilities for the full spectrum of the Company's simulation software by supporting structures, fluids, thermal and electronics simulations. This product suite decreases turnaround time for individual simulations, allowing users to consider multiple design ideas and make the right design decisions early in the design cycle.Geometry InterfacesThe Company offers comprehensive geometry handling solutions for engineering simulation in an integrated environment with direct interfaces to all major CAD systems, support of additional readers and translators, and an integrated geometry modeler exclusively focused on analysis.3Table of ContentsMeshingCreating a mesh that transforms a physical model into a mathematical model is a critical and foundational step in almost every engineering simulation study. Accurate meshing is especially challenging today with increasing product design complexity and heightened expectations of product performance. The Company's meshing technology provides a means to balance these requirements, obtaining the right mesh for each simulation in the most automated way possible. The technology is built on the strengths of world-class leading algorithms that are integrated in a single environment to produce the most robust and reliable meshing available.StructuresThe Company's structures product suite offers simulation tools for product design and optimization that increase productivity, minimize physical prototyping and help to deliver better and more innovative products in less time. These tools tackle real-world analysis problems by making product development less costly and more reliable. In addition, these tools have capabilities that cover a broad range of analysis types, elements, contacts, materials, equation solvers and coupled physics capabilities all targeted toward understanding and solving complex design problems.Explicit DynamicsThe Company's explicit dynamics product suite simulates events involving short-duration, large-strain, large-deformation, fracture, complete material failure or structural problems with complex interactions. This suite is ideal for simulating physical events that occur in a short period of time and may result in material damage or failure. Such events are often difficult or expensive to study experimentally.CompositesComposites blend two or more materials that possess very different properties. The Company's EVEN - Evolutionary Engineering AG ("EVEN") composite analysis and optimization technology is offered through ANSYS Composite PrepPost™. It efficiently defines materials, plies and stacking sequences, and also offers a wide choice of state-of-the-art failure criteria. ANSYS solvers provide the foundation for accurate results.FluidsThe Company's fluids product suite enables modeling of fluid flow and other related physical phenomena. Fluid flow analysis capabilities provide all the tools needed to design and optimize new fluids equipment and to troubleshoot already existing installations. The suite contains general-purpose computational fluid dynamics software and specialized products to address specific industry applications.ElectronicsThe Company's electronics product suite provides field simulation software for designing high-performance electronic and electromechanical products. The software streamlines the design process and predicts performance, all prior to building a prototype, of mobile communication and internet-access devices, broadband networking components and systems, integrated circuits ("ICs") and printed circuit boards ("PCBs"), as well as electromechanical systems such as automotive components and power electronics equipment.Low-Power ElectronicsThe Company's software suite from Apache Design, Inc. ("Apache") delivers power analysis and optimization platforms along with methodologies that manage the power budget, power delivery integrity and power-induced noise in an electronic design, from initial prototyping to system sign-off. These solutions deliver accuracy with correlation to silicon measurement; the capacity to handle an entire electronic system including IC, package, and PCB; efficiency for ease-of-debug and fast turnaround time; and comprehensiveness to facilitate cross-domain communications and electronic ecosystem enablement.SystemsThe Company delivers a unique and comprehensive system simulation capability that is ideal for the design of today's increasingly automated products. This collaborative environment leverages the Company's multiphysics, multibody dynamics, circuit and embedded software simulation capabilities, enabling users to simulate the complex interactions between components, circuits and control software within a single environment. These technologies provide a complete view into predicted product performance, which creates greater design confidence for engineers.4Table of ContentsMultiphysicsThe Company's multiphysics product suite allows engineers and designers to create virtual prototypes of their designs operating under real-world multiphysics conditions. As the range of need for simulation expands, companies must be able to accurately predict how complex products will behave in real-world environments, where multiple types of physics interact in a coupled way. ANSYS multiphysics software enables engineers and scientists to simulate the interactions between structures, heat transfer, fluids and electronics all within a single, unified engineering simulation environment.Embedded SoftwareThe Company's SCADE® product suite from Esterel Technologies, S.A. ("Esterel") is a comprehensive solution for embedded software simulation and code production. It has been developed specifically for use in critical systems with high dependability requirements, including aerospace, rail transportation, nuclear and industrial applications. SCADE software supports the entire development workflow, from requirements analysis and design, through verification, implementation and deployment. SCADE solutions easily integrate with each other and the rest of the ANSYS product suite, allowing for development optimization and increased communication among team members.AcademicThe Company's academic product suite provides a highly scalable portfolio of academic products based on several usage tiers: associate, research and teaching. Each tier includes various noncommercial products that bundle a broad range of physics and advanced coupled field solver capabilities. The academic product suite provides entry-level tools intended for class demonstrations and hands-on instruction. It includes flexible terms of use and more complex analysis suitable for doctoral and post-doctoral research projects. The Company also provides a low-cost, problem-size-limited product suitable for student use away from the classroom.PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The Company makes significant investments in research and development and emphasizes accelerated new integrated product releases. The Company's product development strategy centers on ongoing development and innovation of new technologies to increase productivity and to provide engineering simulation solutions that customers can integrate into enterprise-wide product lifecycle management systems. The Company's product development efforts focus on extensions of the full product line with new functional modules, further integration with CAD, electronic CAD ("ECAD"), product lifecycle management ("PLM") products and the development of new products.  The Company's products run on the most widely used engineering computing platforms and operating systems, including Windows, Linux and most UNIX workstations.During the year ended December 31, 2013 and in the period from January 1, 2014 until the filing date, the Company completed the following major product development activities and releases:•In January 2014, the Company released an expanded suite and new functionality for ANSYS® SIwave™. The Company's electromagnetic simulation suite for the design of high-speed PCB and IC packages is now available via three targeted products, SIwave-DC, SIwave-PI, and SIwave. Users can quickly identify potential power and signal integrity problems with increased flexibility and easier access to a complete set of analysis capabilities that can be leveraged throughout the PCB design flow. Powered by its hybrid, full-wave finite element electromagnetic solver engine, the new SIwave suite delivers a complete signal integrity analysis solution in a single user interface.•In December 2013, the Company released version 15.0 of ANSYS software, providing new, unique capabilities and enhancements that offer a highly advanced approach to guide and optimize product designs.  ANSYS 15.0 delivers major advancements across the entire portfolio, including structures, fluids and electronics.  In addition, this enhanced version enables complete multiphysics workflows for leading simulation practices. Highlights for structures in this release include tools that provide greater insight into simulating composites. Enhancements to the fluids portfolio feature the capability to study turbomachinery flow paths with greater fidelity, while in electronics, ANSYS 15.0 offers a comprehensive electric motor design process.The release also enhances the Company's pre-processing capabilities, enabling users to quickly and accurately mesh the widest range of model size and complexity regardless of type of physics simulated. ANSYS 15.0 also builds on the Company's global leadership in HPC, speeding up performance by a factor of five for specific applications.5Table of ContentsThe Company's total research and development expenses were $151.4 million, $132.6 million and $108.5 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, or 17.6%, 16.6% and 15.7% of total revenue, respectively.  As of December 31, 2013, the Company's product development staff consisted of approximately 930 employees, most of whom hold advanced degrees and have industry experience in engineering, mathematics, computer science or related disciplines.  The Company has traditionally invested significant resources in research and development activities and intends to continue to make investments in these areas, particularly as it relates to expanding the capabilities of its flagship products and other products within its broad portfolio of simulation software, evolution of its ANSYS Workbench platform, expanding its HPC capabilities, robust design and ongoing integration.PRODUCT QUALITY  The Company's employees generally perform product development tasks according to predefined quality plans, procedures and work instructions. Certain technical support tasks are also subject to a quality process.  These plans define for each project the methods to be used, the responsibilities of project participants and the quality objectives to be met. The majority of software products are developed under a quality system that is certified to the ISO 9001:2008 standard.  The Company establishes quality plans for its products and services, and subjects product designs to multiple levels of testing and verification in accordance with processes established under the Company's quality system.SALES AND MARKETING The Company distributes and supports its products through a global network of independent channel partners, as well as through its own direct sales offices. This channel partner network provides the Company with a cost-effective, highly specialized channel of distribution and technical support.  It also enables the Company to draw on business and technical expertise from a global network, provides relative stability to the Company's operations to offset geography-specific economic trends and provides the Company with an opportunity to take advantage of new geographic markets.  Approximately 25% in 2013, 26% in 2012 and 26% in 2011 of the Company's total revenue was derived through the indirect sales channel.The channel partners sell ANSYS products to new customers, expand installations within the existing customer base, offer training and consulting services, and provide the first line of ANSYS technical support. The Company's channel partner certification process helps to ensure that each channel partner has the ongoing capability to adequately represent the Company's expanding product lines and to provide an acceptable level of training, consultation and customer support.The Company also has a direct sales management organization in place to develop an enterprise-wide, focused sales approach and to implement a worldwide major account strategy.  The sales management organization also functions as a focal point for requests to ANSYS from the channel partners and provides additional support in strategic locations through the presence of direct sales offices.During 2013, the Company continued to invest in its existing domestic and international strategic sales offices. In total, the Company's direct sales offices employ 1,140 employees who are responsible for the sales, technical support, engineering consulting services, marketing initiatives and administrative activities designed to support the Company's overall revenue growth and expansion strategies.  The Company's products are utilized by organizations ranging in size from small consulting firms to the world's largest industrial companies.  No single direct sale customer accounted for more than 5% of the Company's revenue in 2013, 2012 or 2011.Information with respect to foreign and domestic revenue may be found in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the section entitled “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.STRATEGIC ALLIANCES AND MARKETING RELATIONSHIPSThe Company has established and continues to pursue strategic alliances with advanced technology suppliers, and marketing relationships with hardware vendors, specialized application developers, and CAD, ECAD and PLM providers. The Company believes that these relationships facilitate accelerated incorporation of advanced technology into the Company's products, provide access to new customers, expand the Company's sales channels, develop specialized product applications and provide direct integration with leading CAD, electronic design automation ("EDA"), product data management and PLM systems.The Company has technical and marketing relationships with leading CAD vendors, such as Autodesk, Inc., Dassault Systèmes S.A., PTC Inc., and Siemens Product Lifecycle Management Software Inc., to provide direct links between products. These links facilitate the transfer of electronic data models between the CAD systems and ANSYS products.6Table of ContentsSimilarly, the Company maintains marketing and software development relationships with leading EDA software companies, including Cadence, Synopsys, Mentor Graphics, Zuken and Agilent. These relationships support transfer of data between electronics design and layout packages and the ANSYS electronics simulation portfolio.The Company has established relationships with leading suppliers of computer hardware, including Intel, AMD, Microsoft, NVIDIA, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Dell, Cray, Mellanox and other leading regional resellers and system integrators.  These relationships provide the Company with joint marketing opportunities, such as advertising, public relations, editorial coverage and customer events.  In addition, these alliances provide the Company with early access and technical collaboration on new and emerging computing technologies, ensuring that the Company's software products are certified to run effectively on the most current hardware platforms.  In 2013, important engagements with NVIDIA and Intel occurred in the areas of accelerator technology and  graphics processing unit computing, and parallel scaling in excess of 10,000 cores was demonstrated with Cray.The Company's Enhanced Solution Partner Program actively encourages specialized developers of software solutions to use the Company's technology as a development platform for their applications and provides customers with enhanced functionality related to their use of the Company's software.  With over 100 active enhanced solution partnerships, spanning a wide range of technologies, including optimization, electronics, mechanical simulation, fluid simulation and CAD, this partner ecosystem extends the depth and breadth of the Company's technology offerings.  Important software engagements in 2013 included introducing a new strategic partnership with the topology optimization leader, Vanderplaats R&D, and expanding the Company’s development toolkit training programs in response to growing demand from partners, including Safe Technology, FunctionBay, VirtualMotion, Pro-Lambda Solutions, FE-Design and others.The Company has a software license agreement with Livermore Software Technology Corporation ("LSTC") whereby LSTC has provided LS-DYNA software for explicit dynamics solutions used in applications such as crash test simulations in automotive and other industries. Under this arrangement, LSTC assists in the integration of the LS-DYNA software with the Company's pre- and post-processing capabilities and provides updates and problem resolution in return for royalties from sales of the ANSYS/LS-DYNA combined product.In 2013, the Company entered into a new software license agreement with NICE SRL ("NICE") targeting the emerging paradigm of data-center-based deployment of simulation.  EngineFrame from NICE is bundled with the ANSYS EKM and facilitates running interactive ANSYS applications on remote data centers.The Company has a software license agreement with SpaceClaim Corporation ("SpaceClaim") that provides direct modeling geometry creation and editing capability through the ANSYS SpaceClaim Direct Modeler application, leveraging the open architecture of the ANSYS platform. SpaceClaim is bundled with a variety of ANSYS products in order to encourage adoption of engineering simulation by engineers involved with early concept phase design work, where simulation can deliver low-cost, high-impact system optimization, upstream of building the first physical prototype.The Company also has a software license agreement with HBM that provides the advanced fatigue capabilities of nCode DesignLife™, a leading durability software from HBM. ANSYS® nCode DesignLife™ technology leverages the open architecture of the ANSYS platform and enables mechanical engineers to more easily address complex product life and durability issues, all before a prototype is ever built.COMPETITIONThe Company believes that the principal factors affecting sales of its software include ease of use, breadth and depth of functionality, flexibility, quality, ease of integration with other software systems, file compatibility across computer platforms, range of supported computer platforms, performance, price and total cost of ownership, customer service and support, company reputation and financial viability, and effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts.The Company continues to experience competition across all markets for its products and services.  Some of the Company's current and possible future competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company, and some have well established relationships with current and potential customers of the Company.  The Company's current and possible future competitors also include firms that have or may in the future elect to compete by means of open source licensing.  These competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions and/or increased operating costs, and could result in lower revenues, margins and net income.7Table of ContentsPROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND LICENSESThe Company regards its software as proprietary and relies on a combination of trade secret, copyright, patent and trademark laws, license agreements, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect its proprietary rights in its products. The Company distributes its software products under software license agreements that grant customers nonexclusive licenses, which are typically nontransferable, for the use of the Company's products.  License agreements for the Company's products are directly between the Company and end-users. Use of the licensed software product is restricted to specified sites unless the customer obtains a multi-site license for its use of the software product.  Software security measures are also employed to prevent unauthorized use of the Company's software products and the licensed software is subject to terms and conditions prohibiting unauthorized reproduction. Customers may purchase a perpetual license of the technology with the right to annually purchase ongoing maintenance, technical support and upgrades, or may lease the product on a fixed-term basis for a fee that includes the license, maintenance, technical support and upgrades.The Company licenses its software products utilizing a combination of web-based and hard copy license terms and forms.  For certain software products, the Company primarily relies on "click-wrapped" licenses.  The enforceability of these types of agreements under the laws of some jurisdictions is uncertain.The Company also seeks to protect the source code of its software as a trade secret and as unpublished copyrighted work. The Company has obtained federal trademark registration protection for ANSYS and other marks in the U.S. and in foreign countries. Additionally, the Company was awarded numerous patents by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and has a number of patent applications pending.  To the extent the Company does not choose to seek patent protection for its intellectual property, the Company primarily relies on the protection of its source code as a trade secret.Employees of the Company have signed agreements under which they have agreed not to disclose trade secrets or confidential information and, where legally permitted, that restrict engagement in or connection with any business that is competitive with the Company anywhere in the world while employed by the Company (and, in some cases, for specified periods thereafter), and that any products or technology created by them during their term of employment are the property of the Company.  In addition, the Company requires all channel partners to enter into agreements not to disclose the Company's trade secrets and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, there can be no assurance that misappropriation of the Company's technology and proprietary information (including source code) will not occur. Further, there can be no assurance that copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret protection will be available for the Company's products in certain jurisdictions, or that restrictions on the ability of employees and channel partners to engage in activities competitive with the Company will be enforceable.  Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary in the future to enforce the Company's rights to its trade secrets and proprietary information or to enforce its patent rights and copyrights, and it is possible that in the future the Company's competitors may be able to obtain the Company's trade secrets or to independently develop unpatented technology similar to the Company's.The software development industry is characterized by rapid technological change.  Therefore, the Company believes that factors such as the technological and creative skills of its personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition and reliable product maintenance are also important to establishing and maintaining technology leadership in addition to the various legal protections of its technology that may be available. The Company does not believe that any of its products infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties will not claim such infringement by the Company or its licensors or licensees with respect to current or future products. The Company expects that software suppliers will increasingly be subject to the risk of such claims as the number of products and suppliers continues to expand and the functionality of products continues to increase.  Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements.  Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company.SEASONAL VARIATIONSThe Company's business has experienced seasonality, including quarterly reductions in software sales resulting from slowdowns of customer activities during the summer months, particularly in Europe, as well as from the seasonal purchasing and budgeting patterns of the Company's global customers.  The Company's revenue is typically highest in the fourth quarter.8Table of ContentsDEFERRED REVENUE AND BACKLOGDeferred revenue consists of billings made or payments received in advance of revenue recognition from lease license and maintenance agreements. The deferred revenue on the Company's consolidated balance sheets does not represent the total value of annual or multi-year, noncancellable lease license and maintenance agreements. The Company's backlog represents installment billings for periods beyond the current quarterly billing cycle and customer orders received but not invoiced.  The Company's deferred revenue and backlog as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 consisted of the following: Balance at December 31, 2013(in thousands)Total Current Long-TermDeferred revenue$317,730 $309,775 $7,955Backlog91,786 33,446 58,340Total$409,516 $343,221 $66,295 Balance at December 31, 2012(in thousands)Total Current Long-TermDeferred revenue$324,429 $305,793 $18,636Backlog55,198 10,036 45,162Total$379,627 $315,829 $63,798Revenue associated with deferred revenue and backlog that will be recognized in the subsequent twelve months is classified as current in the table above.EMPLOYEES  As of December 31, 2013, the Company and its subsidiaries had approximately 2,600 employees. At that date, there were also contract personnel and co-op students providing ongoing development services and technical support. Certain employees of the Company are subject to collective bargaining agreements and have local work councils.ACQUISITIONSThe Company makes targeted acquisitions in order to support its long-term strategic direction, accelerate innovation, provide increased capabilities to its existing products, supply new products and services, expand its customer base and enhance its distribution channels. The following table presents the Company's acquisitions since January 1, 2011.Date of closing Company DetailsJanuary 3, 2014 Reaction Design Reaction Design, a leading developer of chemistry simulation software, was acquired for approximately $19 million. The combination of ANSYS's computational fluid dynamics ("CFD") solutions with Reaction Design's chemistry solvers is expected to provide the best-in-class combustion simulation tools available on the market.April 2, 2013 EVEN - Evolutionary Engineering AG EVEN - Evolutionary Engineering AG ("EVEN"), a leading provider of composite analysis and optimization technology relying on cloud computing, was acquired for $8.1 million. The acquisition strengthens the Company's simulation solutions for composites technology, which has become a standard in manufacturing in a wide range of industries due to its combination of light weight, high strength and outstanding flexibility.August 1, 2012 Esterel Technologies, S.A. Esterel, a leading provider of embedded software simulation solutions for mission critical applications, was acquired for $58.2 million. Esterel's software enables software and systems engineers to design, simulate and automatically produce certified embedded software, which is the control code built into the electronics in aircraft, rail transportation, automotive, energy systems, medical devices and other industrial products that have central processing units. The acquisition extends the Company's vision to encompass both hardware and software systems.August 1, 2011 Apache Design, Inc. Apache, a leading simulation software provider for advanced, low-power solutions for electronics, was acquired for $314.0 million. Apache’s software enables engineers to design power-efficient devices while satisfying ever-increasing performance requirements. The acquisition complements the Company's software solutions by bringing together best-in-class products that drive the Company's system vision for ICs, electronic packages and PCBs.For further information on the Company's business combinations, see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.9Table of ContentsAVAILABLE INFORMATIONThe Company's website is www.ansys.com.  The Company also maintains a presence on social media through its blog at www.ansys-blog.com, Facebook page at www.facebook.com/ANSYSInc, Twitter account at www.twitter.com/ANSYS_Inc and LinkedIn page at www.linkedin.com/company/ansys-inc.  The Company makes available on its website, free of charge, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, interactive data files, Current Reports on Form 8-K, reports filed pursuant to Section 16 and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").  The Company's reports may also be obtained by accessing the EDGAR database of the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In addition, the Company has posted the charters for its Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and Strategy Committee, as well as the Company's Code of Business 