 Looking for a better home loan? Tic:Toc makes home loans simple. We perform your home loan assessment as you fill in your application, so you get real-time answers online. Before you start, check if you're eligible and get your information ready You need to borrow between 50k and 2 million, and buy or refinance a home worth at least 150k. We only lend to established houses, so it can't be land, or off-the-plan. The property needs to be located in a capital city or major regional centre, and you'll need at least a 10% deposit. You'll also need the address of the property you want to buy and its estimated value. Have a borrowing amount in mind, and make sure you have a good understanding of your household income and expenses. As for you, you need to be currently employed and an Australian citizen or permanent resident living in Australia. You need ID so we can verify you, too. Have your banking logins handy so our secure tech can instantly receive read-only copies of your transaction statements. It's faster this way. Or, manually upload your latest three months of statements and a home loan expert will review these instead. Okay, now let's step into the process. First up, we'll ask you the property address and the amount you want to borrow. We run an automated valuation to make sure we can lend against the home, then you're on your way. If at any point you're not eligible, we'll let you know straight away, so we don't waste your time. Onto your loan. We find out what's important to you and gauge your priorities, as well as how frequently you'd like to make repayments. Grab an offset account if you fancy. Based on your answers, we'll recommend some loan options Next! Apply alone or with your plus one. Introductions start with a name, so what's yours? We'll verify your personal details by securely checking your ID with a government database. We'll run an instant credit check in the background too. If you get the green light, we'll ask about your employment, and then talk cash How much do you have saved, and what other assets do you have? If you own a property already we'll ask for the details. Almost there Give us a thoughtful estimate of your expenses, and if you have any loans or credit cards, let us know here too. We calculate all your info, and if it looks good, it'll be time to verify your finances. For fast digital validation, log in securely with your bank accounts and we'll receive read-only copies of your account statements. Or, manually upload your transaction statements and a human will review these ASAP. The moment of truth. Our explainable AI tech will crunch the numbers and come to a decision. If the information you provided looks good, and if you're suitable for the loan type and amount - instant approval! If there's anything we need to look into further, we'll let you know and a home loan expert will be in touch. And if you have any questions our Aus-based team are on call seven days a week. Once you've been approved, it's time for settlement. Sign your purchase contract and pay your deposit. After, make sure you get building insurance and get yourself a conveyancer to transfer the title officially. You'll need to confirm you're you. We provide an instruction sheet in your settlement pack, but you just need to book an appointment for a human to verify your ID in person, and then we'll e-mail you your home loan contract. Next, our solicitor gets to work and chats to your conveyancer. Almost done. Make a cup of tea, read over your loan docs, and print the bits you need to return - the only paper in the process. Sign away and wait for your settlement date, when the money changes hands. Then, go get your keys to unlock your new home, and pop a bottle of bubbly. Tic:Toc. Finally, a home loan that makes sense 