 Sanyam Bhutani: Hey, this is Sanyam Bhutani and you're listening to "Chai Time Data Science", a podcast for data science enthusiasts, where I interview practitioners, researchers, and Kagglers about their journey, experience, and talk all things about data science. Hello, and welcome to another episode of the "Chai Time Data Science" show. In this episode, I interview the chief security scientist, Dr. Ashrith from h2o.ai. And as you can guess, we talk all about cybersecurity and AI, AI broadly speaking in this episode. Ashrith has a background in cyber security and has done a lot of interesting research in the field. And he's also currently doing applied research so to speak at h2o.ai which of course we talk all about. We discuss about cybersecurity generally speaking, and its applications in AI, this is I know a first on this podcast series. So I'm really excited to be sharing this with you. We also talk a lot about anti money laundering and the applications that h2o is working on in the cybersecurity domain. If you'd like to know more about all of these amazing things, Ashrith, we'll be doing a lot of webinars soon. Again, please scroll down to the show notes if you'd like to check them out. For now, here's my interview with Ashrith, all about cyber security, anti money laundering, artificial intelligence and applied AI in this domain. Please enjoy the show. Hi everyone. This is a first unique on this series where I will be talking all about cyber security but, I'm on the call with Dr. Ashrith, thank you so much for joining me on the "Chai Time Data Science' podcast. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Thanks Sanyam, maybe we'll keep the doctor part to who you know people who save lives and you can just call me Ashrith. That'd be fantastic. Sanyam Bhutani: Hehehe. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Thank you for inviting me. Sanyam Bhutani: Now, I want to start by talking about your background. I'm curious how did you discover your passion for machine learning, you followed a learning path in cybersecurity and research. Where did machine learning start to come into the picture for you? Dr. Ashrith Barthur: So that that's, that's actually a good question. Maybe it'll help out, you know, people are seeking something similar. So, I, after I finished my masters, I had this real itch for research, I wanted to do a lot of research in the field of cybersecurity. And it so happened that a lot of research that was actually being done was very operational, you know, in the sense, someone's trying to hack you. So we just prevent you kind of thing. What I wanted to do was much more analysis, which was, you know, can I use algorithms? Can I use mathematical statistical models to actually detect these things? And that's how I ended up at Purdue. You know, and my advisor, Dr. Williams Cleveland is one of the really well known network security researchers in the field like from statistics point of view. And so what I did was always very statistical, you know, we used like random forests and we use svms and these kind of things, but it was never put under the umbrella of data science. And to be very honest, you know, when you're when you're in the, when I was in school, the concept of data science had not evolved, just stock analysis, you know, analytics. And even when I was looking out for a job, it was like, oh, you know, an analyst's job would be great. This is how we were thinking about. Sanyam Bhutani: Okay. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: But I got a bit of an exposure to a bay area. And then, you know, the term data science came in, and yeah, that's, that's how I probably moved towards fish. Sanyam Bhutani: Okay. Is it common in your field for an outsider, talking about statistical analysis? Is that common in cybersecurity? Dr. Ashrith Barthur: So when I started, it was definitely not that common. There were only a few people who had actually published papers, you know, using using the approach that I had spoken about before me, and they were like the pioneers of you know, people who did it. It is still not common because one of the things about cyber security is it's always very reactive, which means that you're always firefighting, you're not thinking in the future. So which essentially means that it's more operational than algorithmic. So it's still not uncommon is what I would say. I mean, it's still not common is what I would say. Sanyam Bhutani: Okay, now, before we talk about the intersection, can you tell us more about your passion for cybersecurity, when did that happen? And asking for a friend, can you retrieve someone's Facebook messages if they've been locked? Dr. Ashrith Barthur: So I think these kinds of questions have been asked quite some time. I would, I would like to say, I think these these kind of things are not something that you're supposed to do. But if people are motivated enough, I think you can get these, you know, you can do these things. So having said this, one of the things that I was always very interested in is from from a very generic point of view, I just wanted to see how things you know, how all components come together, how things break apart and you know, how like what are the weaknesses kind of a thing, it was very it was not necessarily you know, from a software point of view, it was from a larger computers point of view. And then when you get into you know, like a field very specific to trying to see vulnerabilities in like software, then it becomes much more interesting and then that's where I kind of got into the, the idea of cyber security itself which you know, eventually led to my interest in actually be like an active penetration tester, you know, in my masters and after that, you know, going into much more research in the field of cybersecurity, try a try and identify people who are doing these kinds of things, something that I did much before you know, as a part of my masters program and my internship and all those things, to try and see if mathematical modelsor statistical models for that matter, can actually identify this behavior, or can we build models that can identify this behavior is how to the progression mentor. But coming back to your friend's question, I think all technologies are vulnerable. So you know if this is something as an experiment that you would want to try. Sanyam Bhutani: We'll be back after a break, dear audience. Hehehe, kidding aside, now, I want to talk about were you still following your passion at h2o.ai. What problems are you working on? What does a day in your life currently look like? Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Um, that's actually a pretty big question. Maybe I'll break it apart into a few things. So one of the primary I mean, the general umbrella that I work in is in the area of identifying malicious behavior. And I started off with the field of cybersecurity, with focus heavily on network security, you know, trying to identify malicious behavior. You know, through network traffic. And what that eventually led us to is, is to add many different kinds of behaviors into my portfolio. So right now, I also look at electronic fraud. I also look at money laundering as a part of this larger scope of things that I researched. And we also look at other kinds of malicious, like other kinds of larger state acting malicious behavior as a part of this entire portfolio. And we essentially build models for all of these things for you know, different organizations. I'm sorry, I think I forgot the second question. Sanyam Bhutani: What does it mean your life currently look like? Dr. Ashrith Barthur: So in a day, I would actually say, a big part of my work is is still testing models, is still building and testing models, is also researching what are the different approaches that I can use, but one of the things that I'm I am very passionate about a few few if you would want to identify something much smaller, like a sliver of grass, what I would have said, is to actually see everything that I built like a model that I built to be taken to a point where it's completely applied. Because mind you, when I'm building a model, if I build a model, and it's a fantastic model, I'm only satisfying the data scientist in me or the analyst in me. But if I take that model, and put it into a solution and solve someone's network security problem, like let's say an analyst who's sitting on the other end, and this analyst, he or she has a lot of false positives in their network, you know information or the network attacks or alerts. And if my model can solve that, if it can reduce the number of false positives, give them much more accurate information, then I've solved a real world problem. Sanyam Bhutani: Yes. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: I've actually applied you know, problem solving kind of thing and getting things end to end, literally from like science here to applied solutions is what I'm actually very passionate about in getting done. And that's that's what I focus on in my, in my day to day activities. Sanyam Bhutani: Where does h2o come into the picture? h2o to the world is is the auto ML company? Where does auto ML come into the picture, so to speak? Dr. Ashrith Barthur: So yes, um, so I'm guessing you're talking about auto ML human when we say AML, or is it; Sanyam Bhutani: Automatic? Because you mentioned building models, and auto ML is supposed to replace you. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Okay, yeah, of course. So so one of the big things that we always have to focus on is the idea that eventually, uh, systems will take over human beings. And essentially what you have to do is you have to train the systems enough to understand how you're thinking because mind you with the number of attacks that happens, with the number of alerts that are generated, with the number of things that are becoming digital or electronic, for that matter. And systems being interconnected, we will not regardless of what rate the population explodes, we will not have enough manpower to, to identify all this behavior. So, which essentially means that a lot of things needs to be handed off to systems, which also includes intelligence. And one of the things that intelligence aspect is the very kernel of how h2o fits in or h2o's auto ML for that matter fits in or even if you want to be much more specific, you know, the whole aspect of how driverless AI fits into the whole equation. It gives us the ability to build models, it gives us the ability to refine the models tune the models, for different kinds of variations and behaviors, be it changing data be you know, periodicity sees not to be any of these things. And I think that is and the fact that you can get a model from you know, conceptual to actual production very quickly gives it gives you a gives you the ability to just come a bit closer to that situation where I was telling you about where machines should be doing a lot more work. Sanyam Bhutani: So you're in the side of robots in the robots with the human race. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: On the contrary, I'm actually, to be very honest, I like to do things like I like to do things with my own hands kind of thing is is how I approach it. But, you know, the reality is that these things are going to explode, you know, exponentially. And you are better off handing it off to an intelligent system than trying to make things work and losing out, you know, in the process. Sanyam Bhutani: I think it's similar to creativity in general, before the call you were making coffee and coffee makers are now automated. You don't need to manually figure out that's what maybe data science will be in in a few years now. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: I would agree. I would agree. But you know, just like how you know that there are spaces where coffee handmade is slightly no better than coffees that are made out of machine. Sanyam Bhutani: All the very niche expert has a very exclusive class Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Completely, I completely agree with you, although I do like machine coffee, I'd have to tell you that. The same way a data scientist for that matter, would be able to polish the premade model by a system or by an automated system to just give it that edge to you know, be better. And and that is how you could see your workers or you know, as you use it as a data scientist you could see your work the same way. Sanyam Bhutani: Okay, now coming to an application that I think you recently interested in, you've been working on anti money laundering. Why is it even a thing in 2020? Everything's digital, how is money being laundered in 2020? Dr. Ashrith Barthur: So, this is, is like a fantastic, you know, question that you put out and you know, it might even come on as we are you working in cybersecurity and then money laundering. But what have you been? I'm sure that that will probably be your next question. So one of the things was that I could see, while I was exploring a lot of behavior, I saw a lot of behavior that was that I was looking while I was studying network behavior was that there were a lot of similarities in papers that were published about fraud and money laundering and these kind of things. So I kind of started to explore a bit more about that. And then what we did is we engaged with a few clients to work on this, these aspects as well. And the thing is, almost always people want to save up on what they have to pay the state. Of course, these these are these are not there's not ethical, non moral, any of those things, but they just want to try and evade the system as much as possible. And which is one reasons money laundering exists. In old school, it was very similar. You know where you set up, shell corporations in like different countries, then just move the money around when you're done right? In the current day, it's because it's digital, it's fantastic. Like you can move, let's say, fantastic I say it with a bit of responsibility in terms of how money laundering is happening. There are, you know, the way money laundering learning is done using electronic means itself is just, you know, it's, it's so well done that it's it's, you know, it becomes really, really difficult for identifying and because the crooks are also growing with the, with how, you know it's like a generational change they are undergoing as well. So which still makes it an important aspect for you know, today's something that needs to be focused on today. And yes, which is why 2020 is still relevant for me. Sanyam Bhutani: How do we end up, how do we end up automating the process? Since you mentioned it's it's beautiful in a sense how people evade this beautiful in in not the real fashion, but it needs a lot of human expertise, how can we ensure that whatever models that we are DriverlessAI builds are are robust enough, are of the human expert level? Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Fair enough. Um, so, that's that's, you know, I would see that as, you know, like, like a much more like a technic, technically rooted question, right. So the idea is that what you're trying to do is you're trying to identify behavior. Now, anything out of the ordinary, be it like an attack on a network or be it you know, you're siphoning off money is is going to stand out. Okay. But the important thing is, with reference to what is the big question, like if you want something to pop out, or you know, be seemingly visibly compared to something else, the thing that you're comparing to, needs to also establish like a baseline for something to pop up. And the models that we build, essentially, sorry, the features that we build essentially does that. Sanyam Bhutani: Okay. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Now these guys, I think you had a question. Sanyam Bhutani: No, Sorry. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Okay. Yeah. Um, so the features that we build are so tuned to actually pop out unique behaviors that you could have not normally not seen. I mean, for example, you know, if an investigator were to look at, like, you know, behaviors in the last week, he or she might not see anything interesting. But now, if you were to look at us, you know, a long term shift about how much money or you know, how much transaction a certain account was doing. There could have been a steady shift or the clubbing a spike, you know, that happened much before a week before which the investigator might not have sights on and that is essentially what the model captures. The model is capable of going long, far and wide and deep, which, for humans we limited, we not not not smart, but we are limited because there is only certain amount of information that we can process at a given point in time. But that limitation does not exist with these with these features or models or systems. And essentially, when you add these features, the models have the good capability to pick these things up. And that's where the, you know, driverless AI comes into the picture, you have these fantastic features that are identified, you know, for use cases, and the models in driverless AI are able to pick up on these features. And then you know, your model is highly likely to be, you know, a good predictor of what money laundering is. And that's essentially how we go about, like building the model. Sanyam Bhutani: This is actually pretty interesting because someone would assume that a human expert needs to spot those errors, and you talk about the model being robust enough to actually see through things that a human might miss through the fine grains? Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Yes. And it and it's not, um, I would, I would, I would also, you know, be honest enough to say that this is not necessarily in a negative connotation as well, right? Because we as humans, all of us, like you and me and me, we there is a limitation and the amount of information that we can consume. So it's obvious that we'll miss out on something. The only thing that we're saying is, hey, look, you know, when for example, when you when you're fatigued, you don't necessarily grab let's say, you're reading a book and you're like, tired. You don't necessarily grab all the story that's coming out of the book. You know, sometimes I'll which I always do, I go back about four pages, and I start again, which is the same. But machines don't have that problem. Sanyam Bhutani: Yeah. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Or maybe we still haven't figured out if machines or systems and algorithms have fatigues will I'm sure we'll figure that out later. But they don't have that so which is one of the reasons if you can offer these things to a machine, you know, it helps us. Sanyam Bhutani: Before we talk about where machines are currently helpful, can you tell us more about the data set curation process? Because anomalies happen, maybe in a ratio of 1:100, maybe less? I'm not sure. But how do we find the right data in place up? I couldn't find any proper data sets on Kaggle. Maybe they were one or two competitions not, it's not a common problem, so to speak. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Yes, it's not a common problem. And one of the reasons is because there is it's heavily guarded, you know, with security, because one of the things is that when you're looking at these, these kind of irresponsible behavior, you aren't necessarily bringing in your organizational risk team, you're bringing in the state. You're bringing in many different agencies. So which essentially means that you have to be very, very, very careful when you're handling this data set, because we've got PII, personally identifiable information. Sanyam Bhutani: Okay. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: So it's not it's, you would hardly find, I don't think you would find any data set available online, which we should be how it is, which is how it should be. And so essentially means that a lot of this work actually happens, you know, iteratively, which means that you look at the data, you learn, you build, you know, your first iteration of a model, and then you look at the data again, you know, try different kinds of features, try different kinds of joins, and then I tried the model to be much better. And that's essentially how we have built the whole, you know, the solution space for any of these malicious behaviors, using driverless AI. Sanyam Bhutani: Can you speak to where driverless AI is currently being used? What sectors is it being currently deployed across maybe the model from driverless or auto ML? Dr. Ashrith Barthur: So, um, I one of the things that has happened is driverless AI has given organizations that amazing ability to be able to build models and deploy models without having as many data scientists as they would have earlier need it. Sanyam Bhutani: I think we need to first clarify for the unknown people, what is driverless AI and how is it related to cybersecurity. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Please um, okay, so I mean, I think I think for the the people who don't necessarily know what Driverless AI is, Driverless AI is this tool that you know, our company h2o.ai or a but so you know, makes which basically is a completely machine learning automated tool. And, and, and I think it's very popularly called as Kaggler, a Kaggler in a box. Sanyam Bhutani: Yeah. hehe. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: And what it does is, you know, it has this amazing ability to tune the model, build better features, and process iteratively and then give you the best output. And that's essentially how driverless AI works. Now the way we adopted for the field of cybersecurity or money, fraud or any of these things or malicious behaviour for that matter is that we tuned driverless AI, we rather configured driverless AI, with the, with something called a recipes. The idea of recipes is to tell driverless AI that, you know, there are certain set of, there is a certain design of features that it needs to look for, or to explore when it's building the model, which is very specific to a use case. For example, when we're looking at malicious users, I'm going to tell it to look at, you know, historical patterns, periodic patterns, anomalies thatstand out with a certain statistical effect. Or, you know, unique interesting behavior that never existed, maybe logs that are incomplete. You know, in, in terms of money laundering transactions that you know that that seemed to go in circles, for example, in money laundering, there are a lot of times when you know, people move the transactions in circles, because if money is in transit, which means that they don't necessarily have to pay tax for, which, which is one most of the people do as well. So any of these behaviors is actually encoded, like in proper coding. It's not, it's not an illegal language, it's actually encoded, and it's from a different driverless AI. So yeah, which gives the driverless AI the ability to actually build models and engineer features that are very much required for this kind of reasons, and that's essentially how it fits. So which is why I would say, driverless AI, is the kernel in this case, you know, very typical business model. But once it's built the model, you know, we call back driverless AI model again, when you want the model to be built again, or you know, when you go to build the model again, but other than that, the output of driverless AI, which is the actual model object gets gets deployed. Sanyam Bhutani: You mentioned about the configuration, is this a different version? Or is it just a few switches that you toggle to put it into security mode? Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Oh no. So it's so it's actually very simple. It's when I say configuration, it's it's the feature. It's the recipes feature that comes over. And the idea is, you write a custom recipe for any of the use cases that you're working in. It could be any of the use cases that I'm working in, it could be that which includes, you know, the entire spread of malicious behavior across electronic fraud, cybersecurity, to transactional and money laundering. Or it could also be for things like, you know, you want to identify loan default, you want to identify, you know, are you going to have customer churn or any of these excuses, and driverless AI has the capability to ingest any kind of recipe that user, you provide, to adopt that for the use case that you are expecting model for. So it's, it's, it's, you can think of it as you know, a much more unique customization for the use case that you want to use now that you want to work on. Sanyam Bhutani: Okay, now, this was an interesting tangent coming back to various driverless being used for any sectors where we currently using it. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Oh, yeah, yeah, I'm from, from what I can see, from what I know, driverless has been adopted across the entire spectrum of all the customers who are using it shortly shortly, of course, was the, is an open source product as well. And it's used across the industry. It's used in financial insurance, manufacturing, supply chain management, I think hardcore security as well. So pharmaceutical and I think, yeah, for these are the ones that probably crop up in my head right away. So I would say that these are groups they're using, but it's it's, it's gained the same amount of traction as much as you know, h2o's widespread. Sanyam Bhutani: Any applications of anti money laundering that that come to mind in this broad spectrum? Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Um, yes, of course, um in the sense you're saying in respect to driverless AI, right? Sanyam Bhutani: Right. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Yeah. Um, so we've used multiple models for the AML use case itself, which is the anti money laundering, we use driverless AI as the engine, the very engine to generate the model and to be predictive enough for AML, and that and the driverless AI with the AML solution is something that we have deployed, you know, quite a few organizations to solve this to solve their problems. Sanyam Bhutani: Any upcoming sectors that that you excited about where we could we could help with AML or even cyber security problems? Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Um, so one of the sectors that I'm very excited about is IoT. IoT is a vast space from from diminishers behavior in which which I always start with and it's got it's got it's you know, influence in the financial sector, you know, like remote payment systems for that example, or economists payment systems. And it's also in the field of cybersecurity like IoT is like, very important, you know, because you have systems that are not necessarily, you know, like, managed, but that that are very critical in the entire operations space. So I would I'm very excited to see you know, how that will come about and how we can work with that on from from a modeling point of view. Sanyam Bhutani: To me this also brings an interesting question, I'm visiting US soon. So I know IRS flags any transactions, I think, above $10,000 and it's, it's 50,000 INR for India, which is like thousand dollars. Does does this problem vary from region to region across this-This might be a bad example. But do you see any challenges in shifting from region to region or policy changes? Dr. Ashrith Barthur: So the thing is, you have to understand where limits come from right, the limits, you know, comes from the idea that, you know, a certain country has certain average income, average, you know, per capita kind of thing. So, you know, that essentially plays a part in setting up the limits, but there are other activities, you know, the kind of activities that they're looking for also plays a very important part in setting up resubmits. For example, in, in Europe, it's much more stringent, you know, in in India, it's probably stringent as well. You know, because there might be a lot of activities that are seeping through. In America, it's much more regulated. You know, there is a lot of much of the financial sector has actually moved to, you know, an electronic footprint, which means that trackability is easy, it's not a big deal. And this, this will vary region by region. And that is that in essence is dependent on what you know, the specific agencies who guide these things? Think is a reasonable amount that would be, you know, threshold. And that's essentially what would drive the entire process. Sanyam Bhutani: US, like you said, is a properly regulated, maybe maybe relatively properly regulated even up do you think? How does the future to you look like in the region such as Asia, India, where it's still up and coming technology internet is still sort of still picking up? Dr. Ashrith Barthur: I mean, See, the thing is, I'm Asia, all parts of Asia, right? Of course, it's up and coming. There's no, there's no question about it. But you do have to understand that there is a fundamental problem that exists is that regardless of what you do, regardless of the fact that you use any kind of technology, if you want the technology to be applicable, like let's say you want a large kind of electronic footprint, like the way Europe operates and the way America operates, you would have to deploy the same kind of electronic footprint across you know, usually China and India have some innovative banking methods that have come through, you know, like SMS based banking and all these things. And, you know, transactions that can be monitored as well. I think media is coming with the one unique ID we know that everybody starts to, you're able to unify, you know, any kind of addiction if, if that helps. So, what matters is because the numbers are so big in this in Asia, it's not a matter of will we be able to, it's a matter of when will we be able to, and it's only because the technology has to be applied everywhere. And that's when I think they could they will be much more you know, I would say effective monitoring, and also transparent monitoring, you know, because both sides can see what's happening. If I am falsely flagged. I think I'd have the ability to you know, question that. But on the other side of someone things have, right I've, I've actually done some kind of, you know, illegal transaction, then they'll have enough information to flag me for that as well. So it's, it's, it's a problem on numbers, not necessarily, you know, will we be able to do it? So, so I'm just saying that. Sanyam Bhutani: you're talking about being flagged. And h2o already has MLA in our products, how interpretable are these models that we just talked about? Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Oh, yes. Um, so one of the things that we, that we do when we're building these very unique, specific use cases or specific solutions, is that we work very closely with the financial risk groups of the financial institutions or the organizations that we work with, from cyber security, fraud, money laundering any of these things, right. We actually engage with the with the risk team, internal risk team, because one of the things that they also have to do is let's take money laundering for a quick example. Now, when a transaction that seems like money laundering for a matter of fact, is visible in a bank, it needs to be reported to the state. It's, it's something it's a process of they have to work, which essentially means that this information is not something that you are keeping it for yourself for your knowledge, but you have to provide it for others as well. And it must be equally informational for them. So which is one of the reasons what we do is we we customize driverless AI to build unique statistical features. So it's, so we do a little bit less of feature combinations. We do a lot more of statistical features, you know the going to the model and because the statistical features are naturally interpretable. For example, if I tell you the average amount in a month for a user, you want, you know what it means. I mean, you, you know, it's aggregation, everything developed by the number of icons, simple as that. So it's very, you know, intuitive, like easily interpretable. And that's something that we strive for in all of these use cases. And, and let me give you a simple example, a quick, simple example, if you have the time for cyber security as well. Let's say you are the Risk Officer working in association with the [] the chief information security officer of an organization. And essentially, what happens then, is that if your systems are breached, you you're duty bound, you know, to like, inform the state as well informed you know, all the required agencies that you've been hacked, you know, if there is a certain loss of data, and these are the customers that you've lost, you also have to inform your customers, you know, whose data seems to be lost, which essentially means that you have to make all these things parties, not probably to the same level, but you have to make all these parties understand what actually happened. And if I'm using AI, it behooves me to actually be able to explain these models through explainable features. And it can be just feature combinations, it has to be explained them features, and which is why we adopt the same approach, we customize driveless AI a crew recipes, of course, you know, for these kind of features so that when we looking at malicious behavior specifically, the thing is the models are super transparent, you're able to explain everything in one. Sanyam Bhutani: Now, broadly speaking, or maybe even naively speaking, how do you convince such regulated industry banks to use AI something that that's maybe like hard to sell, so to speak? Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Fair enough. That's that's a very fair question, I would say. So this is the thing right? Is this AI or ML for that matter is this fantastic tool that you know, companies who've got good resources have adopted it have been very successful. Now, one of the things that is and these companies who have been successful you, you can identify them, you know, literally because these are companies who have large amounts of data, now AI, very different to you know, like different approaches of predictive you know, making models seeks large amounts of data to be predictive. Now, which essentially means that AI is more observational than, you know, a concept called emergent, you know, where you actually getting knowledge out of. So there is a slight difference. So it's very experimental and observational. While I would say ML is more experimental and observational by you know, other forms like old school statistics is more emergent. So what you have, the way you have to convince, you know, regulators is the fact that you don't necessarily show them that large amounts of data will give you a much better result. But you show them a process of transparency in how your model is built in what your model actually is, it could be a very simple, you know, card model, but it has to be transferred like the investigator should, I mean, the, the regulator should understand what it does, like how does it make its decision. And the very fundamental aspect in the model are the features these features must be understandable, like that, I would say is the golden rule. To get a regulator to actually understand how AI makes a difference is to make the features understandable because then everything falls into place, and it's intuitive for them to understand. Sanyam Bhutani: I think that where also AutoDoc comes into the picture AutoDoc is already integrated everywhere. So that gives out a fully regulated regulatory friendly so to speak document for any anyone that wants to investigate or probe into these. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Yeah, I mean AutoDoc, I think surfing news on the features, I think, I think that would be amazingly useful, you know, as a consumption device for regulators because it keeps the model very transparent it, it's able to, you know, take in all the feature sets that we have put in and, you know, build a story around how much of a bigger story you know, can build and then essentially provide that as information to you know, the regulators for consumption. Sanyam Bhutani: We were also talking about being fatigued as as a data scientist, you know what most excited about writing documentation you want to move on to the next model building task! And I think it's, it's where the automation is helpful. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: It is, it is, I would agree with that. But the other aspect, this, this, of course, is not something that, you know, people who build models like, and that includes me as well, is, you know, to document everything. It's like this, right? You, you've done, you've gone and done something really cool. And you're like, I don't want to document this. I mean, that's, that's where it ends. But that's not how it is, right? what I'm doing, the model that I build is not for my satisfaction. It's for the satisfaction of someone else who sought my help, which means that our customer or client organizations who work with us, it's for their consumption, which means that be must be very title in what we give them as information. And which essentially means that because the customer came to me for help, I must provide him or her with all the information that they can to understand that what we have built is something that they can trust. What we have built is something that they can rely on. And what we have built is robust enough to solve that problem. So, which is one of the reasons, although we don't like it, we have to force upon ourselves to get these things done. I think that's where AutoD c kind of helps us to a large extent, it fills up the larger s ace, you can probably browse t rough it very quickly and pred ct a few things and that's p obably all. Sanyam Bhutani: This has been an amazing interview full of many great insights. I know a lot of the audience's is students,MLl students. For them who are excited about machine learning, you have a good grasp of it. And now you think to apply it to the domain that you're an expert of  what best advice would you h ve fo Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Um, so one of the things I would say is try and get your hands on any kind of data set that you can, you know, to, to, to familiarize one with the domain and to familiarize with the data science, with the data science aspect of it, which is one thing that I do, you know, to get an idea of what you do, and when, when you're familiarizing yourself with the domain, try and don't focus on the the accuracy of the model, focus on what is going into the model. So it gives you a much better, you know, valuable result, I would say focus on that a bit more. And the next thing that I that I actually, I feel very strongly, is try and be a full stack data scientist as much as possible. Because building models are cool. Building a model is really cool. But solving someone's problem is much cooler, which means that if you can build from model to a solution, and then an application, that's way cooler than building a model and saying this is my shiny new object. So if you can follow these two things, I mean, if you know guidelines, I think that would be fantastic. People are starting off. Sanyam Bhutani: Awesome. So before we end the call, what would be the best platforms to follow you, follow your work? Dr. Ashrith Barthur: I think I wasn't expecting this question. Because I don't necessarily put out information on a lot of platforms. But I think I rarely put things out on Twitter. You know, when when there are some good articles, sometimes probably on LinkedIn, but h2o blog is is a very much a good space to seek through what I write because even though I write a few things that there are people who push me to publish it, so that that helps me. Yeah, I think I think that should be I'm good enough to. Sanyam Bhutani: Perfect. Thank you so much Ashrith for joining me on the podcast. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: Thanks Sanyam. I really appreciate the time and the opportunity. I would say to the audience, if you know if there's any questions that they would have, please feel free to drop on the line and we'd be more than happy to answer them. Thank you. Sanyam Bhutani: Leave them in the comments we'll try to review and leave a reply to your reply. Dr. Ashrith Barthur: I thought I would never get an opportunity to say that but yes, leave them in the comments. Sanyam Bhutani: Thank you so much for listening to this episode. If you enjoyed the show, please be sure to give it a review or feel free to shoot me a message you can find all of the social media links in the description. If you like the show, please subscribe and tune in each week to Chai Time Data Science". 