 (Loud Clap) Top of the mornin' to you laddies my name is Jacksepticeye and welcome back to Rick and Morty Virtual Rick-ality. Where we left off the last time, I took the plunge. I went out into space, I took some fuses out of a thing and I did all that good shit So, I'm on to... Wait, where's the disks? th- woah "Spectator Cam On" or "Giant Morty Mode" (Reading) "Makes you bigger, and the world relatively smaller. Off and On Doesn't fix your dumb idiot small brain." (laughing) Uh Spectator Cam: "Broadcast your dumb clone antics to the galactic federated internet. Grab and place anywhere. Double click.." Okay I don't want to mess around with those yet Can I- Can I close you? (Clunk) (Clunk) Do I have to do this again? *inserts disc* I was saying "where are the discs?" And they're right on the fucking thing "Call Rick for Details" Okay I don't have any of my shit So I might have to do this again? Oh no! I have to go out into space again? I hated that part! It freaked me out Cause you are like standing on the ground normally And when you have to go to through the portal-  It's like: "Oh there's ground- What the F*ck?!" Okay, so I don't have to go to space again I just ordered this again, so How do- How do I use you? *device falls* I- I don't know Okay Rick, help! *Talking to holographic watch* Rick: Wow, that's all the time you needed to prepare for your impending doom? Hey, its your funeral *deep breath* Alright, listen, I opened up new location for you in the portal. Just select the new location with the arrows on the portal wall lever and then you know *Jack's sensual Ohhh* After you've selected it, pull the lever and a portal will open automatically for you. You're gonna wanna grab the device you bought on the internet. You are going to bring that with you. It just says new location I opened up a new location for you. It's called new location *Giggles* right ok I need to prepare to my impending doom - do I need to bring something like this? Ok, new location *Sean sensual steen voice* I'M READY! LET'S DO THIS SH*T!. "Dumb idiots" Ohhh the portal is cool looking That's awesome Woo! Woo! It actually looks like it's right there! I'm sorry, I'm geeking out about all this sh*t Okay, ugh... what? I don't even have an arm anymore! Oh hey *Rick is calling* What? R: Alright clone Morty. Step 1: Of this very challlenging part of the game attach the device to the bottom of the plunger Am I- Am I plunging the f*cking toilet Ok I am gonna clean the toilet with this AHHHH! I took some wicked sh*ts earlier, I need to clean it up Stop smiling at me, clone Morty Can I take this off my face? Hello! Huehaha, yeah! *Dancing* Awwwh yeaahhh, what's up!? *Jack Dances Epicly* How it going!? Okay. Uh, Patty cake, Patty cake, baker's mahahan *Reading* "Jerry, if the toilet doesnt flush Stop crying Open the toilet tank Make sure there's liquid in the tank -Beth" Oh my god, this sh*t actually works! That's awesome! *knocks toothbrush off table* AH F*CK! I want the toothbrush... Yes! There we go, Squeeze, Squeeze, SQUEEZE! Oh, it's done. Awh yeah, shave my neck *giggles* This is cool! Eah Ahhh yeah! Ahh Ah yeah! *more moans* That really gets the gunk out Okay, f**k you Ohhh, "Mr. Poopy Butthole!" And "Snowball!" Or "Snuffles" As your uh- 'slave name' was Where are my testicles, Summer? Where are my testicles- (reading) 'Life Is Rough' AYYYYY I'm Mr. Meeseeks look at me! Jerry! Uhm, right, I know what I'm supposed to do, but I don't wanna do it yet I'ma wash me hands Scrub scrub scrub scrubb Scrub scrub scrubbb Get all the alien gunk off them Noice! What is this?! (reading) 'Baby Legs Baby Powder ' Ohh I approve! It's the- it's the baby legs detective dude! Oh yeah Oh yeah Is that gonna give me baby legs? Is it gonna be- make me the best cop, detective, person ever? Ok, what are these? "EyeHole Man" Get on up outta here with my eyeholes! *laughs* Oh yay! :D I was hoping there was gonna be a little bits segment It's one of my favorite jokes in the show "Eat some f*ckin' sh*t you f*cking stupid b*tch!" *Laughs* You ever tryna eat food ahm but it's too big for you cause you got a big head and a tiny mouth Yeah, come on down to 'Lil Bits *Whispers* 'Lil biiiiiits So good Seriously, if you're not watching Rick and Morty a lot of this is just gonna go over your head and it won't make any sense Uh, right, ok What the f*ck? Oh, that gets the gunk out Right, Can I sit on that? *laughs* It's like a, oh god jesus Did I do it??? y-you you seeing this sh*t? ahhh ahhh ahhh ohh! oh, Beth. OH THIS IS GOOD SH*T Oh god what did I do? are you gonna get drunk? are you gonna puke? please puke There OH sh*t sorry so, yeah Rick is an alcoholic and Beth is also an alcoholic so he said the apple doesn't fall far from the tree...right! so do I like fill this sh*t up? ok I might need something to fill uh let me go back here see this is what I love about the developers of this game when you're actually filling something, like, the physics work really well albeit, a little slow Here we go! wait now uh..i just said that your physics work well now your going through the cup come on man make me f*cking look bad can I-can I just fill this? see what I mean it like sloshes around! That's cool and the physics and everything  of all the objects feel really real. Wa-Wa- One more Morty, just need one more then we're good to go Okay, flush What the f*ck is that? Is that a sh*t? Rick, Is that- Is that a duke? Is that a-- Is that a duker? Okay, What? Rick: "Alright, good job, Clone Morty I-I told Morty, you know, to use the bathtub to deposit that thing, but he insisted on the toilet. Now, we have to grab it Now that we have it, grab it and head back through the portal." What is it? Ahhhh, Jesus, Is that an alien poop? Okay, goin home. What do I do with this, Rick? Oh, hey. Oh, Jesus Christ, that's big. RIck: "Clone Morty, you're finally back from your little bathroom adventure. Listen, I need to upgrade the car for a very important outing that I don't want to get into, right now. Anyways, I'm gonna need you to plug that seed into that seed-shaped hole in the engine area." I get it, yeah. Oh my god, his ship is so cool, looking at this It's a lot bigger than I thought it would be. Yo-You guys are gonna start talking to me again, aren't ya? Probably. Engine repair kit at: gazorp.zon. Nitro dark matter tech. Okay.I'm probably gonna have to do a bunch of sh*t with this Right. Okay, seed go. *Engine Voice* Mega seed artifical intelligence micro-processor activated. Wow. Rick: "We-We're gonna need some help updating this car. Since you can't talk, go ahead and call me on your watch thing. You know- th-the thing on your wrist. And, Mr. Poopy Butthole will tell me when you're ready to start." Okay, that's cool. Also, are these the seeds you had up your a**? How the f*ck did you fit them up your butthole? Morty, mad respect for ya, bro. Uhmmmm Okay. Morty, You wanna go to BLITZ AND CHITZZZZZ? No? Operation: "Keep Summer Safe." Morty: "OOOOO-WEEEE. The clone's ready to help, Rick.' Rick: "Oh, alright, you're ready to go. Huh.  I'm gonna need your help to upgrade the rest of the car." Got it. Morty: "Ho-Ho-How's the clone supposed to know how to fix the car, you know.I mean, it's just a dumb clone." HEY! Rick: "Morty, the instructions are simple." Morty: "Yeah, right Rick. I bet y-your-you-you-you couldn't figure it out." Rick: "Shut up, Morty" Okay,I think I gotta go order something. Ahh. This. "Engine Repair Kit" Dude, I've got it. I'm a smart little bee. I've got brain. Uh, here we go. Cool I'm gonna go over here now. oookay. Shbahahahaha It has, like a smart phone opening lock. Ahhh, Christ. Why you gotta be so smart about this? Okay. Ahh.. 3B8 Is that like BB8? What ya doin? Yo-You better stop that, Rick. I-I'm good at words. Um.... And then, wait what is that? It's a blue. We have a blue at the top? I do. No this. Incorrect combination, please try a little harder. Well, I don't f*ckin' know, do I? Um, let me see. What else do we have? Ehhh, Yellow bone connects to the yellow bone. I-I Am I getting a hint anywhere, or am I just f*cking guessing sh*t? Cause I have no idea. Anything? At all. Let's try this with, no, with this. Motor: "That's an upgrade? Ha. Ha Ha. Ha." HEY. I'M A SMART COOKIE. Ahh, wait.There's a manual. Get off here As, as with anything that you have to build, there's a manual for it Oh, god. I stood on my own cables. *laugh* I almost broke my own neck. Engine link must contain two link parts with valid serial codes STOP IT One link serial ending in a number.  One link serial ending in a letter. OK No more than 5 bands total No more than one blue band total. At least two red bands at least one link-part with no duplicate colors. See back for diagrams link serial colored bands 8 link parts Are you giving me a hint right here? Requires two valid link parts to function. Right so I'm only allowed one blue band so So... okay they all just have one blue band anyway shit tits. Um... At least two red bands oh is that in the whole thing okay at least two red bands with it do they do the- do the- do the bands have to be on one thing like Like this has two red bands and it's the only one with two so would that mean that it's this it's this one? One link serial ending in a number of you end in a number no more than one blue band so there are two red and one blue and he's at least one link part with no duplicate colors so I need green and yellow then right? right? or just two yellows no incorrect combination, (Jack) F*ck you, please try a little harder a little harder oh wait these have red band okay and that ends in a number no more than at least two red bands or at least two red bands and no more than one blue band oh okay so I can have four f*cking red bands if I really want you know more than five bands total. this is f*cking difficult YEAH! (A.I.) Regulation interconnect secured. Nice! I did it. I'm a smarty um it took me a little while but whatever uh so know what what's next oh god what are you oh Jesus another battery really dog gonna make me do this sh*t again wait can I just go to this can we go manual again? I put a battery in that, didn't I? can I just go and steal it from it from them again oh don't look down don't look down don't look down don't look down don't that it's fucking empty god f*cking damn it oh god oh my god that is terrifying it's so f*cking scary because it really sells the distance and the depth I hate it I'm going home gonna make another battery then f*ck wait do I have to or is there one laying around somewhere no okay what happens if I shoot the guys (computer) *initiating* Hey oh it doesn't shoot you guys come on ah that sucks take the gun Morty Oh god it broke em While Rick stood next to him when he was freaking out right okay battery- whatever cool oh sh*t this is new oh there's so much more stuff here now this time. what What are you. Do I just move you Oh God pray for me this isn't going to go well because this is a bigger battery what It's already gonna take longer Here we go. I got this I got this I got this keep an eye on the top ones that's what you got to do like Simon Says like just keep looking at these there we go look at me go I'm doing it yeah Oh got it look at the f*cking progress you f*cking serious okay okay okay it's getting much faster I don't like this ah f*ck f*ck f*ck f*ck SHUT UP AAHHH EEEHH I DON'T KNOW WHAT I'M DOING f*cknuggets YEAH ha ha ha take that you- oh god they're gigantic in the background oh all I was doing was looking at these to see what has to be doing f*ck okay I got a back seat sorry byeee Oh God wait okay only charge to microbrews power cells connected I hope that came from a conflict-free Microverse it probably did Oh later Dark Matter tank then you will need to automate concentrated dark matter and anybody know okay to put stuff in there nice with dark leather thing we're gonna get that matter can i buy it on this at all greetings earth user Rick yeah thanks ah how do I make that Oh danger explosive material and probably fine oh god okay that's what I can play the tape stop okay Oh with you that I'm easy are you Sikhs um okay go over there okay I gotta do this backwards um hey do this here we go ah you go to tank okay I got a f*cking manual I'm just grabbing daddy did you we need to swap oh f*ck it's your fault I blame him get rid of that I don't need that okay let's write it up again ah yes ah moving your life backwards it's not that easy uh hey you got a tank you have it with you faster it'll explode oh you just brought it yourself yes I did it okay not too fun slowly to the Greg where did you make me do this okay oh you guys better watch the shit there we go Wow all right morning summer looks like the cars ready to go so let's get rolling Madhu you're welcome okay okay just give me a call back okay that's cool so I can either just stick around more or do that I want to the tape the best mixtape let's listen to it I am the car I made a mixtape to your mixtape sucks mine is better um that's why my tape has don't fit okay okay I am the car I'm just not going to listen to your mix tape there is that's okay sh*t example gesture to actually see a round of it that's a good time done is there a projector somewhere that I could use that's what I want to know huh lick lick my balls nice oh my good way okay all right what are we doing you read the garbage you want a real sh*t job when she tried to upgrade the car we broke down and we need your help to get us out of this mess open up the portal all to the new location to excrete here okay but also f* ck you let's really breath damn it where we going don't be space whoa what is space but it's with different I feel like I need a weapon focus be fight finally you definitely screwed up with this approx anyway you came here to get a special kind of a the one on that rock over there so why don't you figure out how to get it bring it over here while I fix the mess you made in my car they come to rock I can't teleport anywhere here holy fucking shit this is upsetting that's so cool what are those grandpa I think this clone is either dumb or just broken can't you make a robot that passes VA a good or something you clean yes they on the importance of Cologne summer wait I'm not even I don't think oh there I can't do anything here or around here okay yeah I get it but like there's no more key to go back through so Oh clones my rank I got a big space you've done the poor victim eka didn't do it okay fine alright how do we do it what do they do what you pick the one oh yes a sweet burrito oh really look both of it here do I kill myself oh that's always exit oh okay I have to do this one maybe you should bring out IU seeks with me okay I gotta kill him you think this time Oh finally he definitely screwed up with this upgrade clone Morty okay we came here to get a special kind of egg the one on that rock over there so why don't you figure out how to get it bring it over here while I fix the mess you made in my car it's the one on that rock over there okay all I see is something over there so can I hope that everything broke oh come on reg astir again please I think this clone is either dumb or just broken couldn't you make a robot that passes the egg or something you clearly don't understand the importance of Cologne summer is my unique site my plan fails I am desolate nothing works what if somebody's going and some of them are not oh oh alright get over here and give the end of the car wait fucking stupid it was right there all that time oh boy my bad I didn't know I'm sure about this Rick this seems like some kind of nature preserve you know already it is the nature preserve and I'm Way ahead of you I just abled any alarms or any detective measures that might have the technicals coming here oh my god someone Paul Jamison what are you for combat oh yeah oh yeah oh yeah yeah yeah Wow okay okay okay okay are you f*cking serious say that why why we're totally fake now and we're on our way back I have no problem when you continue to vaporize the government heads but I have no way of getting you back here so I'm gonna go ahead and disable all the safety mechanisms but your hand cannons and do what they say there's only one way out so morning honorable okay I died well he did say there's only one way out oh that was awesome okay hello what's happening here you ever stopped to think about the total deserting of your life you're in shock dying apparently with wild abandon fuck you I don't care I'm gonna go back oh they're here what oh we're warming incubated you know somewhere nice and warm so that it'll get nice and incubated in hatch I'm sorry are you talking about my a*s I used to have to shoot that giant egg up my a*s I know hey shut up f*cking single ha ha ah f*ck okay we're gonna need this episode of virtual Rick allottee here we have like three more disks to go through by the end of it or two or something but there's a small beta game left I think I love it so far and then it takes you on like some of their little adventures or they're doing this adventures around you and they're so nonchalant about it like when you talk to them it's just like oh yeah fix our car we got to go over here yeah see you later and then they're just oh yeah we're on another planet we were here in that two seconds it took you to actually get here I don't know it's cool it's it could be an in their environment and just being in that world and seeing what it's like you almost get because Morty in this it's kind of like he's not most so much the sidekick anymore especially in like the later seasons of Rick and Morty anyway he kind of comes into his own a small bit so you can you become the role of like idiot morning all the time which is a cool mechanic as they make you the more he clone you're the one just kind of sitting around and all the dumb sht happens to and everything's your fault so I don't know I really like it it's so charming and I really don't feel like being in that universe it doesn't feel shoehorned in like they made some jokes just for the sake of making jokes like I look great Morty yay cause when I initially saw that they were making a game on this I thought it was just going to be mess around and Rick's carriage and I didn't think that was wrong I thought it was just like a little like fun thing that they were making what the job sim devs did a really great job on it and making it like a fully fledged thing it's not just writing off the gimmick of all of Rick's thing like at least right here and there there's lots of Easter eggs there's lots of references and there's lots of characters from the show in it but it's called the theatre it actually becomes a full thing it's a full-on experience then the developers of this same ones that did job simulator they have there's some of the best people doing VR stuffs because it really sells the presence of you being in that environment when you pick up something it really feels like it has the weight it should a bit lighter than it would be but that's unavoidable when it comes to VR because you have no weight but when you're like you do stuff and like you can pour things into other things you can match them you can hit them off each other it really feels solidified you can throw them and it feels like they actually throw properly you feel like you can actually aim them and throw them up and catch them a lot of VR games don't do that very well they have stuff in them and then when you throw it it kind of just like forces are going to like wait my brain knows that's not how that should have gone but you get very tricked into it here and I really love this Tyler with everything I know super cool anyway thank you guys so much watching this I sort of you liked it right Sally Panetta face by no pause and like oh girl oh Toh come on f*ck about my kids they make  