 What you're watching is not a movie or a game It's actually a 360 degree virtual reality tour of space using your own smartphone That's coming up next! Hi everyone! Welcome to Keith's Toy Box! Get ready for an out-of-this-world experience with today's surprise! The Utopia 4D Space Exploration Augmented and Virtual Reality Kit! Thanks to ReTrak for sending this to us Learn a universe of information on the planets and space with the included 26 interactive augmented reality cards and virtual reality headset It works with tablets and smartphones to help make learning fun Just download the free Space 4D App and begin immersing yourself in this interactive experience You can even take a 360 degree virtual tour and drive a Land Rover So let's open the box and check it out Here's the deck of 26 interactive augmented reality flashcards It has information on the planets, our solar system and even space missions And here's the included virtual reality headset With it, you can take a virtual 360 degree tour of the International Space Station, our Solar System and even drive rovers with on-screen controls Just slip in your phone with a downloaded 4D Space app Here's the included strap for putting on the headset And here are the instructions So let's try it out First let's get the tablet and download the Space 4D app Just search for Space 4D and download It's available on the App Store and Google Play, and it's compatible with smartphones, tablets and virtual reality headsets Once downloaded, just launch the app Then put a flash card in front of the camera and see what happens Solar System Awesome! You can even zoom in to get the better view Looks like the planets and the sun are to scale. The sun is so big! Oh, and there's earth right there Now, let's try the planets Saturn Nice! Meteor Earth Here's the Apollo 15 to 17 Mission Apollo 15 to 17 Awesome This one is a Land Rover Lunar Rover Nice! You can even use the controls to direct it where to go Now let's try on the virtual reality headset and take a 360 degree tour Just slip in your phone with a downloaded Space 4D App Adjust for the best fit and put it on Wow Awesome You can even access more information about the planets in the solar system There's a universe of information here to help make learning fun Earth So that's the Utopia 360-degrees 4D Space Exploration Augmented and Virtual Reality Kit Thanks to ReTrak for sending this to us Hit the thumbs up icon to see more videos like this or tell us what you think in the comments below Thanks for watching Keith's Toy Box and remember to subscribe for more videos Remember always be kind to others and share with you have 