 [Music] Title: Washington State University Tri-Cities - Education professor Jonah Firestone using virtual and augmented reality in the classroom Well there are two things I'm actually looking at virtual reality which is creating a 3-d complete environment that a user can be in. So imagine like regular video games, you're just looking at a flat screen. But with virtual reality you wear a headset and you can look all around, 360 degrees and up and down, and you see this complete world around you. I'm using that along with augmented reality which is different. So augmented reality is like Pokemon Go where you look through like your phone and then it displays things on top of what you're already seeing. Except I use things like iPads and something called a Hololens to project these things in either bigger screens for kids to use or that can project it completely around wherever you look. So I'm using these two technologies more and more and to look at how we can improve learning in various contexts. One, when it comes to virtual reality, we have a lot of classes, especially in science, that are lecture based or that have very static pictures that create misconceptions because the students can't interact with it very readily. So we're using technology that puts children and adults into complete virtual worlds in which they could be a cell going through the human body or they could do experiments in physics or chemistry that you couldn't normally safely do and you can repeat them over and over again. When it comes to the augmented reality, what we do is we create things that are dynamic. So imagine looking at a picture of a femur, but now not only did you see a picture of the femur, but it has a voice that tells you, "This is a femur." And it defines it for you and then shows you where it is on a human body and you can see it in front of you and other people around you can also see the same femur if they're looking through the AR, either the goggles or through a handset. So one of the issues with students with learning disabilities, and we can look at this in a very different ways. We have oral disabilities where you don't really process the information that's coming in orally. Or you have visual disabilities where it's difficult to process kind of just static information like lots of text. Or we also have issues about attention and reinforcemen. So what these do is they reinforce learning in ways that helps from a different ... let's say a different varieties of vectors. So we used to talk about this thing called learning theories where certain people are typed different types of learners. But that's not really true. We all learn in a variety of ways, but the more modes in which we learn, whether it be oral, or visual, or tactile, the more we have those going on, the more readily we're going to learn. It's not as if there's one way that's better than all others, but if we can create something that's dynamic and attention-grabbing and that will reinforce what students are learning, then they'll truly learn it. And the way I define learning is that you need to know it maybe three or six months down the line. We've all taken classes where I aced the class, but then I have no idea what I learned, but I did well on the tests. So what we want to do is this more organic method of learning. [Music] Title: Washington State University Tri-Cities - College of Education 