 Top o' the mornin' to ya laddies! My name is Jacksepticeye and welcome to Doom VFR! This is ... um... It's the VR version of doom 2016 for any of you who've played that game. I played some of that game I played about half of it. I never got around to finishing it, but my god I love that game! It's so fast-paced, the shooting [is likeable], and it feels amazing! But the best thing about the whole game is the soundtrack Because it's heavy metal \m/ and you know how much your boy loves heavy metal. **\m/ FUCK YEAH JACK** Are you sure you want to quit the game? Umm, no! When did I ever say that? Don't fucking do that to me! Oh! The menu is weird :/ What happened? *Jack being awesome with some guitar in the background* It's not even the best song in the fuckin' thing- Okay! Campaign! Let's do this. A new slot. I dunno how the campaign in this game works, Ah, well, I don't know how the game itself actually works I'm too young to die, Hurt me plenty or Ultraviolence. I'll go with Hurt Me Plenty. I mean, I don't want to die but... Ya know, we were not gonna be a lil' bitch. Oh, we're not gonna- Oh God, Jesus Christ. This is all over the place I dunno know what's happening. I'm excited though cause I like Doom and I like VR so- Voice: Progress takes sacrifice! Make you're commitment today! Okay, I don't know what you're talking about, but thanks Wait, who am I? Also, I think the VFR stands for Virtual Fucking Reality, which is amazing that gets- that gets two fists up from me What's goin' on? Stop please! Jesus, okay, relax Relaaaaax. Where- Fuckin' hell, that's loud! Okay It's always good when your demonic levels are at safe levels; demonic presence. I don't know what I'm saying! Oh, shit! What am I supposed to do--? Fucking Christ! What the fuck Okay, I completed my objective of dying! Ohhh Is that me? Ohh, I got- I got fucked up. I am dead! Guy: I'm dead, but not... "I'm dead but not" Hey, hello, are you okay? Sir? Woaaaah Guy: activated the cognitive Transfer Protocol. This hasn't been done since.. Guy: Hayden! "Since Hayden". Yeah sure that guy hate him!  Guy: Time to get some answers Bloop Bloop! Bloop Bloop!! Guy: The power's down. Guy: We'll start there Okay, I look like I have.. like... astral rocket arms!  Guy: There must be a combat chassis somewhere Guy: Good timing What the fuck is happening? You're doing shit, and I don't even know Okay, I have to figure out how to move.  "The combat chassis moves primary- primarily with teleportation, but aiming..." aw man! You use teleportation. Okay, what... what button do I press to do that? I don't know what I did. This thing is stuck in a finger mode Stop that Can you... hello? okay. D'oh god! All right, I figured it out. I got it done. Don't worry anymore! whoo-hoo All righty! Can I go all the way over there? Whoa! I can travel far, dude! "Tap direction to dash" "In addition to teleporting, the combat chassis can also make short dashes in one of four directions Okay, this thing breaks every time I do that. Oh! That's cool! Oh, that's way handier than fuckin' teleporting! ah "Right trackpad" "Hold weapon wheel, release to select highlighted weapon."  okay. Oh, no, I don't want that! I don't want this I want that one! Yeah! Okay, how do I reload? Reload please okay, whatever. FOhOhOCK! "Aim teleporter to staggered enemies."  Oh, this is my like takedown thing Okay staggered enemies Come on! Come closer! Give Daddy a kiss! ;) Oh shit, oh shit, oh shit! Whoa Fuck it! Get away! Okay, you're not you're not doing the thing anymore. Okay! Okay! Okay! God almighty! Do I just become them? *Ouch* Here we go Are you? Does that work? Are you gonna die? Oh, hey that worked! *Grunting noise* Nice, now throw it back! Okay fucking rude This is weird. I can't throw with my left hand! *Another grunt* Yah fucking see! so far controls are not that good oh Shit shield burst, that's what I was trying to do before That's cool No, die! no, die! Okay, okay. You're not dying. Don't just have to keep doing the shield burst? Oh fuck. Ah, it pushes everyone away! Okay lads It's been great. It's been a nice time, but your boy has to get out of here now. Okay. ow! ow! I'm missing a fucking foot now Give me that tesseract! Aw man, I can't touch it Hey, I have the force! "chassis integration"  "permanently increase maximum health n' armor capacity" We don't want that one!  "Increase the slow-motion duration durin' teleportation" That is a fuckin...  "decreases slow motion dur-a-tion durin' tele--por-ta-tion" "Permanently increases maximum ammo capacity and drop rate" okay teleportation, please. I like the slow motion. I like to pretend them in a Zack Snyder movie Weapon upgrades!  "the weapon upgrade station allows you to upgrade your modification station during your teleportation slow motion" Whoo-hoo. Okay that's bizarre normally... I-I thought it was goin' to be a thing where I press the button and then you were automatically in the mod and then you press the button to toggle between them, but you have to hold the grip to turn into that one. I dunno, I don't like that too much Maybe I'll get used to it "Congratulations are completing the combat chassis course."  Thanks. Uh-oh! Uh-oh! Uh-oh! Go away! See, I'm getting it. I'm getting it. A-whoosh! weapon mod OOOOHUHU I'm gonna fucking die! *DUDUDUDU* okay. Do it again. Whoa whoa okay? Okay man So what bothers me is that you press the middle button you press down in the center of this controller... to do the teleportation But then you can press in any four of the directions to strafe so sometimes in you're trained to do one it does the other so that's fucking annoying I I don't know, I'll get used to it. We'll figure it out. Where am I actually going? I need to turn the power on oh okay. Oh Now I'm just actually here in the game oh Okay No more tutorial levels! fucking works for me! Can I have the ammo? Okay, I'm full on health and ammo apparently. Ah this looks cool! Because the doom game looks awesome as it is But to see it like in scale Is really cool! I wish... I feel really short though. I want to feel taller I play video games to feel like something else not be short boy like always Ooh, what's that? A server farm for minecraft? Yeah, they need it all minecraft's a hard game to run! Go there Okay, I don't know what I'm doing ah Power I can see shit now Oh That's not good demonic creatures are the worst kind of breaches Also, you see these like indicators on my screen where it shows my health for my gun I really wish they were closer up here cuz right now. It feels like they're blocking too much of my vision Whoa wait who's shootin you? Do we have friends whoa Let's do that oh Okay all you guys suck Jesus Christ stop that Got'em okay, shit, I don't want a fucking weapon change That's right. Oh Fuck off Right, it's very easy to get disoriented I Feel like I should just use this to move around Okay, I don't like the sun's or the fucking music though nice shit. Oh shit There you go, oh crap am I oh damn? Oh, oh crap? Okay, okay, okay, but when we do when that happens oh? My god, okay, and now my fucking me what am I supposed to do if I run out of ammo? I mean change guns yes, but do I have a melee but? Gonna, be really fucking handy without you okay here. We go. Are you are you feeling sick yet? Are you feeling vomiting yet? Cuz I sure as hell I'm okay Let's took the long way around Scenic route Surprise bitch Oh Pretend I pretended. How old God pretend that happens when I said surprise bitch whoa Being a fucking rocket back out of cool Oh, it's fucking love the music in this game Sorry I'm just gonna head bang when I kill you Fuck Hahaha ladies and gentlemen. I am here to fuck your shit. Oh No keep the viewers a cold it's so fucking good Alright where am I fucking going now? Hey look. It's me need to see facility status Jesus I Want to be that one reason Richie transfer station has been activated What right whoever? I have to that argit reserve station created a new portal If that portal isn't closed this facility will be overrun Are you the guy who was dead back there whoa? You're awesome you're not The BFG are you? Today Dave, what the fuck is the name from there's something demon I? Can't remember You're awesome Sorry, it's really cool to see them up close to see all the tensions Wow look at that demon crotch you actually do anything here system offline What's waiting here where it should go? Ah this little guy? Hello, oh Look at him. Go. I got my own bb-8 Wally Roomba Where you go Okay, I'm heading back. This is making me so fuckin nauseous. Oh, my god. Just fucking go I go out my Jesus I Came back you give me a card oh Thank you little one. Okay. Okay? What the fuck is happening pick that up. There you go. Thank you Putt putt I can't Pat you properly because you know my hands don't work so good Access granted. Thank you was this just need to get this back to the teleporter Was it all dude? People told you not to have their there in churritos. They go we did it repaired teleporter cumple eat it Thanks, everyone. I tried super hard If I get into that transfer station an argent accumulator could overload the systems and destroy the portal Sure rule machine guy. Oh, I love discord. It sounds so cool. Oh Yeah Look at that. There's a good age for you guys touch touch Okay You guys are not very good at catch, right? When I say die you die die see your friend listened. Why didn't you this is where you're not going places? Oh, he went faces. He disappeared up great time oh Shit did not mean to throw a grenade It's like on explode or are we safe oh god, I broke the game oh? God I can't do the thing oh god. Why did you let me teleport away from the menu? if I'm not supposed to be able to On this one Okay, I can't select the fucking upgrade Okay, I can't Why doesn't allow you to do that but silly? Anybody else going up? yeah, just mean oh yes assault rifle upgrade that oh, it's the Rockets ah Yes, yes indeed full health, please Alright how do I help all right? Okay? I'm at full health. Thanks Wow look at this hell on Mars Very Very pretty what's making noise. Oh, it's just a door They hacked the computer the cursor moves back and forth on a row of letter stopping the cursor by pulling the right trigger when it flashes green over a letter and the cursor pussy's Okay Let's see how oh shit got it and got it To sum over rice I'm in oh wait. There's more. I'm not a hacker yet guys I Don't like those sounds I Got it last accumulator is in that prototype cyberdemon they lost Cyberdemon we've got to get back to the ops lab. That's what he's called. That's what I was trying to figure out Wow look at you guys I Would so love statues like that in my house Teddy cake can I have those statues I Mean everybody else here is dead. I may as well. Just take them Okay, just the movement system, and this is so bizarre. I don't like it at all turn till the Porter shouldn't be too far I Don't need a teleporter look. I have one whoosh see oh wait am I going back here For me am I going back in the fucking elevator, oh hello, oh shit you're everywhere. Oh, okay? Alright hi my name is Jack. I am the janitor for today But you don't need to know that cuz you're fucking dead bitch, this is a rocket launcher Whoa you bet your glorious. Golden ass it is Nothing survives, and I have this oh My god, it's like it's like a Shredder versus paper you guys on assign a chance against this who open airlock. Yeah, let's do that I want to go outside. I want to breathe in the Mars Fuck me. I got a new gun apparently Who owns this it's not mine? These are bad sounds this is anybody left Hello, oh Hi I'm by This fire less hectic than I was expecting to be honest oh, oh oh Yeah, what's up, bitch? Fuck yes Ha ha this music is the fucking face What's up? Whoa, okay, let's go rocket launcher The dinner today that is edit edit edit edit edit edit edit intended it didn't it it it oh? Yeah, baby, Oh What's hit me Wow put you Motherfucker alright from two bitches Brown fucka - well you weren't the bad one the last fight it was your fucking friends that showed up Boom bitch I like them apples I Don't like your apples. No thanks. I don't even think I've been hit now this time Last time I was all over the place Hey, let's yeah. What are you doing? Where do you do it? Oh? Oh Jesus don't like it don't like it don't like it. Oh Oh, what the fuck are these bunnies oh? fuck fuck Son of a bitch die come on I'm out Mother it. God. Are you fucking christ did I suck? Okay, okay, okay, okay? Okay fuck me Jesus. Oh yes No, can you please fucking? My Eugenius Nice I Think I did it okay We are safe right, okay? Well I'm going to leave this episode of doom via for here. It's a little weird It's not as good as I was expecting it to be the visuals they like shooting guys everything defeated Oh, is that all feels exactly like the original doom game, but the controls are really bad Let in and it's very rare that I get motion sick playing a VR game anymore. Maybe I'm just too warm or something I don't know I don't know if it's actually the game that's making me motion sick, but it felt very like a lot of the times It's the best way to describe it is Which I don't feel in any other VR game I've played tons and tons of VR games right now, so I know no they make me motion sick So I don't know why this one is making me feel like that, but the combat itself Feels a little all over the place again mainly because of how you move And a lot of the times then you've seen me like - left and right. I'm trying to just actually teleport I'm trying to click the button to teleport and go in that direction, but because clicking a button To fire off-center can like when you're using the controller you don't know where your thumb is half the time when you're playing it You're just going by instinct so you have to play press like right in the center To do the teleport thing more pressing in any of the other directions lets you go all over the place so it got very confusing very quickly and then just I don't know just didn't feel right it didn't feel a Tight and compact and I didn't feel because when you played there the normal doom doom 2016. We're gonna Call it cuz it's just called doom But when you play that game the controls are so perfect than that that you feel like a beast That when you're going around the environments you feel like you're in control of everything. That's you're bouncing all over the place You're shooting guys You're running over them you punch their heads up, then you get now you're shooting a bunch of other guys It feels very very fluid and very nice so don't know what kind of falls apart in this and maybe I just need to play a bit more of it to get a Stronger feel for it, but it just didn't feel very intuitive. It didn't feel like I should be knowing where I'm going and that indicator showing you Like I don't know if you could actually see it properly. It was very very faint Even in the headset their objective marker was saying how far away you are from something And then if you went in certain direction it was like pointing back here was like oh go this way It was still kind of unclear as to where I was supposed to go so If the controls were tightened up a small bit I think it would be way way better as it is now it still feels cool to shoot things It's it like the actual mechanics of it still feel good the shotgun feels powerful. It feel like that Doom shotguns have always felt powerful. They always feel really good, and this is no different It still has a lot of the field from the doom 2016 game. Just when you're in VR Kinda doesn't work as strongly as it probably should And I don't really know how you go about that. I just start with the movement system might be a beginning I don't know. It feels like a lot of the buttons are assigned weirdly and Trying to use the trackpad to open up your weapons system as well didn't feel I didn't feel What's the word? I'm looking for it didn't feel accurate It didn't feel fast and precise it felt like I was hitting it then I was like okay Go around this right if it was in slow motion. I would've got killed so many times, but just Little things like that and then having the grenade on a dedicated button that's nice But then it's like well that button could have been dedicated to the the teleportation system And then the grenade could have important something else, so I don't know maybe it's just a lack of buttons That's not really translating well, but it as much as the sounds I can complaining about the game I actually still did really liked it. I like the visuals. I like the doom world. I like the new doom I like the sort of the the the style that are going for with the new doom gates And the fucking music is so good so Keep up that maybe I'll play the normal doom game at some time in the channel I don't know I like it a lot, and it's very very good But for now, thank you guys so much for watching this video if you liked it punch that like button in the face LIKE A BOSS and High fives all around *WAPOOOSH *WAPOOOSH Well thank you guys and I will see all you dudes IN THE NEXT VIDEOOOOO Maybe it's because I ate right before this and all the moving around is making me feel sick 