 Kelly is one of the most interesting people I've ever met she's kind she's humble she's nurturing and loving If there were more people like Kelly the world it would be a better place. I knew that I wanted to marry her as soon as I met her She's Kelly. So I had an idea to do a virtual reality proposal I'm gonna drop down on my virtual knee and hopefully she says yes Alex great to meet you you too come on I'll show you what we're doing what our system does is we have this great big free room VR untethered space so you can totally walk around in an experience as if it was the real world. I've been lucky enough to have zero latency make me an entire virtual world based on Kelly's happy place. So Kelly's coming in she has no idea what's happening She thinks just a to play a regular Zombie Outbreak Zero Latency experience Little does Kelly know that when the game ends she's gonna be teleported to a favorite place in the world... The tree out front of her grandparents place in South Africa Every time she thinks of the happiest time she thinks of the time she spent out there with her friends and her family and simpler fun time to be alive back when she was a kid she'll be able to walk around her favorite tree and she'll be able to see her grandma's house it'll really feel like she's actually there. Wow. This is so cool! And that's where I'm gonna propose. Do you want to give it a practice? Give that knee a try. Well Scott I've known you for a long time I'm so muscley in virtual reality I love this here zombie zombie zombie it's Kissin bitches where are we whatever one go does this look familiar grandmother's house it's my grandmother's house now Kelly Wow how I know that we have had a joke that we virtually feel as though we're already engaged so I thought why not make that the reality okay you can thank me dear our latency dreamed with me they just went for it it's a great story that they'll talk about for the rest of their lives I think it's amazing a really beautiful moment for it not only them for our team we're so excited be a part of it toast Killian Alex 