 We stand on the precipice of a new future. A future other than reality. One that's virtual. Except we've been here before with Virtual Reality- all the way back in the 1990's. Articles of the time were unsure of its future… “What VR lacks in sophistication it easily makes up in potential... truly successful VR will require the efforts of disparate disciplines ranging from psychology to programming to filmmaking...” and they questioned it's staying power. “The potential remains unproven. Corporations will not commit to virtual reality efforts which will require major expenditures of time, money, and man-months when there is no immediate payback in sight.” But they could not stop the imagination of science fiction. Today on DUST, we turn our satellites to examine virtual reality as a science fiction artifact. Hollywood was able to run wild with high tech premises unrestrained by the bottom line that corporations are forced to meet. They could take all of these new exciting ideas and present them as if they did work and discard the ones that seemed wildly improbable or outside the scope of acceptance. “Virtual reality is an academic specialty, but movies like "Tron" and "The Lawnmower Man" are introducing the concept to mass audiences.” If an audience could understand VR on the screen and it made sense, technology in the real world would eventually catch up. Meaning Hollywood could and did promote Virtual Reality far beyond what the industry could do for itself; taking the best ideas and examining them from every angle without worrying about the technology behind their premise. Just last year, the director of The Lawnmower Man – a film known for its early depiction of VR—said: “It’s interesting to look back at the film now and see that there are VR experiences that are being created now that are similar to some of the experiences we showed in The Lawnmower Man.” Hollywood, coupled with past visionaries of VR, informed almost everything we're using it for currently, more than twenty years into the future. But it took a while to get from here -- The Sword of Damocles, a head mounted display so heavy it was suspended from the ceiling -- to now. The term “virtual-reality” as we've come to know it today was popularized by Jaron Lanier founder of VPL (Visual Programming Lab) who were the first to sell VR goggles. Their starting price without computer? Ten thousand dollars. For obvious reasons, it was not aimed at the average consumer. But the promise of VR was everywhere, if only for a brief moment. 'This was very fresh. It's a whole new technology and they call it virtual reality.' The dreamers of science fiction pontificated on what this fascinating technology might offer as it seemed just around the corner. In fact, the late film critic Roger Ebert wrote in 1992, “Virtual reality is still more theory than practice, but for a movie critic, it holds out fascinating possibilities. What is a movie, after all, but a crude form of VR, in which we see and hear what the filmmaker desires?” But even though console makers like Sega had invested heavily in the technology, going so far as to premiere a headset at 1993's Consumer Electronics Show, the headset never made it to market. Coupled with the fact that most consumer uses of VR were relegated to giant pods that cost a 1990's arm and a leg to use, VR quietly excused itself from public life. But it would remain a staple of popular culture, especially in Science Fiction, where the dreamers and creators could run free... un-restrained by the physical demands of technology. So where did we run to? They ran to films, like Lawnmower Man. While the CGI in Lawnmower Man isn’t up to contemporary standards, the ideas it portrays are as relevant as ever. The VR props in lawnmower man? They were real VR hardware, cutting edge at the time and straight from VPL. There's a core idea in The Lawnmower Man about using Virtual Reality for medical reasons – predominantly for therapy. And now we’re seeing this idea play out in real life; some health practitioners are now turning to VR instead of pharmacology to supplement Cognitive Behavioral Therapy and Exposure Therapy, which are incredibly effective in helping treat anxiety, panic attacks, phobias and even OCD. The company Virtually Better tackles all sorts of phobias from fear of heights to public speaking. They've even extended into treating PTSD, a disorder that over 7.5 million people struggle with, using an application called Bravemind. Bravemind is at the forefront of VR therapy in treating soldiers— going beyond sight alone to generate smells like gunpowder, and duplicating the rumble of explosions to help veterans work through their issues developed from war and conflict. While clinical studies on efficacy are ongoing, an early study showed therapy focused only around VR was shown to be just as good as VR therapy AND drug therapy combined, and in some cases preferable due to pharmacological side effects. But VR isn't just about therapy… 'Combat training.' It can also be used for training. Military training has always focused on trying to replicate that feeling of danger for its soldiers without actually putting them in danger. To that end, the military has always dipped its toe in modifying existing video games and building out large scale real world environments. But those environments can cost millions. A virtual representation of the battlefield can cost tens of thousands, be easily modified, and can closely monitor stats to make sure there's improvement. These representations can be created in VR faster than ever using telegramatry and satellite data. Meaning when these soldiers are deployed, they're beyond familiar with the battlefield. They've already been there. There's a whole spectrum of virtual reality focused on understanding what others are going through, promoting advocacy through VR. PETA uses a traveling exhibit to give people a three minute taste of what it might be like to be a chicken, concluding with your slaughter. This is an idea The New York Times has embraced, partnering with ‘Within’ to take you deeper into their journalism in their “Walking New York.” And Chris Milk, head of ‘Within’, has lead the charge in this kind of advocacy, even further partnering with VICE and the U.N. for viewers to experience such encounters as the Millions March and a twelve year old Syrian girl's life at a refugee camp. “VR is such a fascinating medium for journalism because two huge factors of VR are the feeling of transporting you to some place, and secondarily, but just as importantly, connecting you to the people inside of that place.” But what about experiencing what someone else has experienced? Like in Brainstorm, or getting a taste of what it might be like to be someone else, like in Kathryn Bigelow's Strange Days. Often, sci-fi will take us to the lurid corners of human darkness and desire. In the real world 'The Machine to Be Another' is trying to do something similar, but with a far less salacious result. Using VR combined with object interaction and movement synchronization, they're able to trick the brain and simulate the perception of being inside another's body. The hope being, this will allow for a greater human understanding of Gender Dysphoria and Implicit Bias, and helping others understand or at least empathize what it might be like to be someone of a different gender or a different race. Some of these real world applications stand in stark contrast to the current wave of cynicism around technology and social media and the grim focus on the way it divides us. Therapy, training, empathy all of these uses are focused on making us better people- they’re all uses that have been brought to us by Hollywood, but only our humanity has brought the goodness in it. 'The good that will come out of this far outweighs the bad.' And it's a reminder of the almost forgotten hope that technology should enrich our lives and understanding, not making us better users but better humans. A future that looks a little more Star Trek and a little less Black Mirror. 'But through this machine we become more compassionate, we become more empathetic, and we become more connected, and ultimately we become more human.' 