 Hey, what is up guys Stephen the salon guy here, and I'm bringing you this video in VR 360, so if you have Google cardboard I would suggest putting your phone into the cardboard so you can literally see what's going on Or if you're on your phone you can use your finger to Swipe across the screen to kind of turn and look all the way around or I suggest watching this video in Google Chrome Because on your desktop you can actually take the mouse and move all over the screen, so I'm super excited I Want to engage with you guys and a lot of people on my team and say you got a vlog more you gotta bring people? into you you know show them what you do just make more fun interactive stuff, so I'm like why not do a 360 video so basically I know you're looking at me But if you turn your phone around or scroll around you can see behind me in the mirror Hey, what's up in the mirror and also what the heck friggin Pennywise is right there. Okay? That's interesting, but anyway I want to show you around my studio Give you a little bit of poor so this basically is where the magic happens on pretty much day a day basis This is my studio space as the long guy studios. It's where I do my production stuff is where you know brands will come here To create content to do work on projects. This is also where I? House my products and stuff, too I do all that shipping out of here my video editing my filming everything really goes on in here So I've like I don't know if you member when I first started this space but about three almost three years ago or so is when I you know hook this place over and No, rent ain't cheap. I said hey right now, but It's been a journey and I absolutely love this place. It's like my second home I'm actually here more than I am like yet more. I live you know But I just want to give you a little bit of a tour so come along with me I'm gonna pick the camera up and I tried to move this around too much. I learned how to shoot 360 At Google now if you if you scroll to the opposite side of me you look behind and see an interesting person Yes, Pennywise is right behind us very very scary but um yeah, so what you're looking at other Pennywise or me right now, but uh I how to shoot 360 VR at Google and on this particular camera, and I'm not really seeing a whole bunch of stuff But I figured why not so if you look around you'll see like camera stuff It's kind of a mess right now, but I'm trying to Clean up and reorganize some stuff. I had some people here earlier today help you know moving things around and stuff And I'm I was just kind of Having people help me organize paperwork and all sorts of stuff so but this is really where all the magic happens, so it's kind of like a cross between BH Studio meets a Hair salon, you know even though. I'm not really an open to the public hair salon It's more for private studio so moving along this way. Let's walk over here. This is my front desk area and if you look on the wall You'll see I have a painting up there of the salon guy that someone named Rob painted for me He actually hand-painted that picture for me, and then also my youtube plaque for a hundred thousand subscribers which I think is really really cool and check this out over here I Was looking at this magazine and look at this haircut Like what do you think of this dude's haircut right here? It's almost like James Dean meets like Almost like Elvis. I mean this is really really cool. So because I have been low limited even that kind of hurt, man Oh even that it's moving my arm a certain way is definitely not fun But what do you think about you know breaking down haircuts? I know I've been doing it here and there But let me know in the comments below like what you'd like to see that I you know if I can't actually physically cut hair like what would you like to see? remember frank frank n stein Who appeared on my channel well I got a letter in the mail from frank, and it said I don't have a cell phone See you soon. I was like okay only only Frank would write something like that, but I guess that means He wrote a letter or saying that so he could possibly be in some upcoming videos who knows what's going on But let me know if I should have Frank back on the channel It's been too long, but you guys all seemed to like him I don't know if he got scared or he went who knows so Frank could potentially come back soon But let me know what you guys Want to see if in an I've been wanting to do more stuff like this So I said went up So now we're walking back towards my shampoo area and this is a Kate obviously if I need to wash somebody's hair And then I use this for whatever else is needed really really high ceilings You know really I went and painted Repainted all this a friend of mine Ted this was about three years ago He actually did a lot of painting too, but this was a pain and a butt to repaint but you know I said why not so this is this space and then I've got two bathrooms in here and Working in through here again. Don't mind the mess there's boxes everywhere This in here is my if you look behind. This is my warehouse and my shipping studio I pack and ship everything here or someone on my team. You know will pack it and ship it, but everything is done here It's not like outsourced to a third-party shipping company. I mean maybe at some point, but I try to keep up with it here, so That's that when it comes to my space it's kind of like my little hub inside there It's where I have meetings and things like that, but again. I'm reorganizing things and having things cleaned up a little bit So that is that but anyway have a look around again. It's kind of an organized mess But thank you guys so much for watching. Let me know what you think I should be doing in the comments below Do you want to see more like vlog stuff like this? Like what? Would you like to see you know like? I can't really be doing hair cut tutorial videos as much do you want to see a haircut breakdown? Do you want to see comedy stuff do you want to see like more stuff like this? I mean let me know I'm not going anywhere YouTube is a part of my life It's a part of my brand so That's it, but I hope you guys enjoyed this don't forget to Like comment and subscribe and please please, please leave comments So I'll see you next time for more videos with ass long guy 