 - [Man] Today's video is sponsored by Anki. - Yo guys, Jonathan here. If you like tech, if you like adorable things, then your day just got better, because I've to something that checks both those boxes. This is Vector, this insanely cute, adorable robot that kinda makes it impossible not to smile. Like, seriously, how are you not smiling right now? Now, as you'll see, Vector has a ton of tricks up his sleeve, or in this case, robot arms. What kind of makes him stand out and really kinda blows my mind is the personality of this little dude. He's kind of crazy. From those futuristic adorable noises, to those eyes. Like those could give that cat from "Shrek" a serious run for his money. So, there's a good chance you have Snapdragon chip inside the phone you are using to watch this video right now, and so does Vector. He might look small, but he is packing some serious robot punch. Now, inside those incredibly lovable eyes is 120 degree wide angle camera, which it uses not only to see the world around him, but to actually recognize faces. So, to get Vector doing his thing, simply say, "Hey, Vector", wait for him to listen, he is so smart, then say the command. Hey Vector, (futuristic beeping) come here. (futuristic beeping) Hey, Vector, my name is Jonathan. (futuristic beeping) - Jonathan. (speaks in robot voice) Jonathan. - That's crazy. Maybe you want that pude style fist bump. Hey, Vector. (futuristic robot beeping) Fist bump. (futuristic robot beeping) Those eyes, the way he looks at me. Oh man. Are you kidding me? Maybe you're making some hard-boiled eggs in the kitchen and you don't want to overcook those babies. Ask Vector. Hey Vector, set a timer for 12 minutes. (futuristic robot beeping) That is the perfect amount of time for those perfect hard-boiled eggs. Now, maybe you've got a question. If you're using an iPhone, we know that virtual assistant doesn't know the answer half the time, but Vector does. What is the distance from LA to San Francisco? - The distance is approximately 347 miles from Los Angeles to San Francisco (speaks in robot voice). - From there, as heartwarming as those robot sounds are, sometimes there is a time and place for silence. Honestly, I think he plays the quiet game better than most kids out there. Hey, Vector, be quiet. (futuristic robot beeping) He didn't look too happy about it, but he definitely complied. He's like, "Fine, I'll do it. I don't wanna be quiet, but I will". Now, just like you, just like me, after a full day of running around, answering questions, setting timers, Vector's bound to get a little tired, but when he does, he will automatically return back to his base and recharge that robot battery. Go home. (futuristic robot revving) He's so smart. What a time to be alive. I see you right now on anki.com, ready to order one for yourself. He's a ton of fun, I had a blast. Hopefully you enjoyed the video. If you did, and you feel like being honest, make sure you guys go Vector on that "like" button. This is Jonathan, and Vector and I will catch you guys later. 