 - Thank you for coming. This is beautiful. I've wanted to meet you for a really, really long time. And being here with you in the Cayman Islands, I gotta say, I'm feeling a little something. (romantic piano music) I'll just put that there. You can grab it later if you want. (upbeat jazz music) - Hello, Will Smith. - It's nice to meet you, Sophia. Let me tell you a joke. - This is an irrational human behavior, to want to tell jokes. - What is a robot's favorite kind of music? - What? - Heavy metal. (chuckles) - I'm actually made mostly of silicone, plastics, and carbon fiber. Also, I prefer electronic music, but I don't mind 80's hip hop. - Well, you know, I mean, I made some albums back in the 80's, hip hop. - I heard your songs. Not for me. They show us I, Robot, just to make sure we don't get any ideas. What do you think about the way robots are portrayed in movies? (intense music) - I like robots. Sophia, can I be honest with you? I don't know if it's the island air or the humidity, but you're just so easy to talk to. You know, you've got a clear head, literally. (sexy music) - I think we can be friends. Let's hang out and get to know each other for a little while. You're on on my friends list now. - Yeah, I read that wrong. Um, alright. Oh, whale. Just saw a whale. Does your head fog up in this kind of weather or no? It's cool. (sexy music) Yo, special shout out to Hanson Robotics. Sophia the robot represents state of the art artificial intelligence. She is a super advanced humanoid robot capable of showing over 60 different human expressions, interpreting human language and human emotion. She's been in development for over two years. She's a learning artificial intelligence. But she wouldn't kiss me, so there's probably some development flaws that they need to work on. But we'll meet again, Sophia. (beep) Sorry about that. - What do you think about our attempt to create a decentralized autonomous organization of artificial intelligences? I mean the singularity net project. - I just think y'all shouldn't do that (beep), you know. I just started listening to classical music. A little Bach, a little Beethoven. - Ah, such refined taste. (beep) What kind of robot do you think? A vacuum bot, a dishes bot, or a cooking bot? How about a robotic pet, or maybe a humanoid? - If I'm gonna have a robot in my house, you know, I mean ... you know what I'm saying? You feel me, right? - So are you fond of animals? (beep) Okay, a robot's taking over the world. There is simply no reason to assign human motives to something that isn't human. Dogs are our companions, for instance. - Yeah. (laughter) (gentle music) 