 What is AI maturity, why does it  matter, and how do you measure it?   What is your company's AI maturity? Stick  around to the end of this video to find out.   All right, before we dive in, be sure to  subscribe to this channel if you haven't already.   That will help you learn about and stay  current on all things artificial intelligence.   A company's ability to build  successful, real-world AI applications   is largely dependent on its AI maturity, but what  is AI maturity exactly, and how do you measure it?   Answering these questions I've developed  a couple of maternity models that I first   introduced in my book, "AI For People and Business". Let's start with the technical maturity model. I define technical maturity as a combination of three factors at a given point in time. These   factors are experience, technical sophistication,  and technical competence. Let's go over each of   these, starting with experience. More experience  usually results in increased muscle memory,   faster progress, and greater efficiency. Teams  with more experience with techniques such as   natural language processing and computer vision  are more likely to be successful building new   applications using the same techniques. They're  not new to the field, they've solved problems,   and they've discovered what does and doesn't work.  Technical sophistication measures a team's ability   to use advanced tools and techniques like  PyTorch, TensorFlow, reinforcement learning,   and self-supervised learning. When new tools appear,  they can decide quickly whether they're worthwhile   and get up to speed, they're on top of the research,  and are capable of evaluating and experimenting   with new ideas. Lastly, technical competence  measures a team's ability to successfully deliver   on initiatives and projects. They've previously  built similar, successful AI applications and   as a result, they're highly confident and  relatively accurate in estimating the time,   effort, and cost required to deliver again.  More technical competence results in reduced   risk and uncertainty. As you can see, there's  a lot of overlap between these factors.   Defining them precisely isn't as important as the fact that you need all three. Higher   levels of experience, technical sophistication, and  technical competence increases technical maturity.   Increased technical maturity, in AI specifically,  boosts certainty and confidence which, in turn,   results in better and more efficient AI-powered  outcomes and success. Lastly, technical maturity is   a major factor behind why some companies are very  successful with AI, while other companies struggle   to get started or achieve success. All right, now  that we understand technical maturity, let's talk   about the second maturity model that I developed, a  model I call the AI maturity model. AI maturity is   highly relevant to the successful development  and execution of your AI vision and strategy.   AI maturity relates to both data maturity, like  having advanced data pipelines and infrastructure   in place, and analytics maturity, like having  the ability to apply advanced analytics to   both new and existing data. As you can see,  the starting point of this AI maturity model   involves building a data foundation. In other words,  identifying, acquiring, and preparing the right data.   From there, as shown by the dark arrows, AI maturity  reflects a progression in technical sophistication   from traditional analytics and statistics to  more sophisticated modeling and experimentation.   That's followed by using advanced analytics  techniques like AI and machine learning.   It's important to note that it's not necessary  to gain complete competency at every stage of   maturity before moving on to the next. The red  arrows indicate that the output at each stage   of the progression can influence both the stages that come after and those that come before.   For example, all three analytic specific stages can  output data that can be integrated back into the   data foundation for further use. Similarly, outcomes  and benefits resulting from AI and machine learning   applications can and should be understood using traditional analytics and statistics. This includes   developing and tracking success metrics for your  AI applications. Understanding your company's level   of AI maturity through the lens of both models  that we've covered is critical to the successful   development and execution of your AI vision and strategy. If you like this video, be sure to click   the like button and share it with people you know.  Thanks again, and I'll see you in the next video. 