 Hello and welcome to this video tutorial on basics of graphs in physics. In this video you will learn about Why we need graphs What are graphs and How to plot graphs By the end of this video's students would be able to define graphs and plot graphs using data on dependent and independent variables. Let us now start with why we need graphs. We need graphs in physics because a graph is a very powerful method of presenting information. We can use both tables and graphs to represent the same information but graphs are a lot easier to read and interpret information than tables. Having established the need for graphs let us now define what is a graph. A graph is a line straight or curved that shows relation between two quantities out of which one varies as a result of change in other. To make it clear let us consider we have two variables x and y where, y=2x Variable that is made to alter or change is called independent variable. Here in our case x is an independent variable. Another variable which varies as a result of change in independent variable is called dependent variable. Here y is the dependent  variable whose value changes with change in value of x. This relation between independent variable and dependent variable can be shown by means of a graph. So how do we plot a graph? We already know that a graph is plotted to display the relation between two quantities. To understand how a graph can be plotted, consider a car that is moving along a straight line. The distance moved by the car in every 6 minute is given in this table. let us now use the example of above table and start looking at the steps involved in plotting a graph. Before starting it is important to note that here time t is the independent quantity and distance travelled depends on it. Now our step 1 in plotting the graph is Choosing the axes In this step first mark the axis by drawing two perpendicular lines crossing each other at a point. Now mark x axis and y axis. We will take time along x axis because generally independent variables are taken along x axis. We will take distance which is dependent variable along y-axis. So the line OX represents time and line OY represents distance. These lines OX and OY are named after the quantities they represent. In our second step we would choose the scale. We have to choose the scale because size of the paper on which graph is drawn is limited. Values are marked at equal distances on available length of the axis. you have to do it in such a way that all the values of the quantity represented on the axis can be accommodated in the available length. In third step we would be plotting the points. Now each set of values of the two quantities are represented by a point on the graph. For example the set 6 minutes and 10 kilometre is represented by point A on the graph. Yo get this point we mark 6 minutes on the x-axis and draw a perpendicular at the point on x-axis. Similarly locate 10 kilometre on y axis and draw a perpendicular on the y axis at the point. The point of intersection of these perpendiculars is point A. In this way we will mark all the information given in the table on the graph. Our 4th step would be joining the points. Once all these points corresponding to available information in the table are plotted they are joined by a smooth curve to get the graph. Here in this case we get a straight line that represents a uniform motion. I think now you have an idea about basics of graph and how to plot them. so if you have knowledge of how distance varies with time for any object you should be able to plot a distance time graph. Similarly you can also plot speed time graph using this procedure. Thanks for watching. 