 Math 105, it's called "Data, Functions and Graphs." A lot of people refer to it as pre-calculus. And it is, of course, it's a good preparation for our calculus course, but we didn't name it that for a couple of reasons. One is that it's really not a traditional precalculus course. We cover things in a very different way. And the other is that it's not only a preparation for calculus. So many students take it and it's the only math course they take at Michigan. So it serves really well as a standalone course teaching you about mathematical modeling, as well as a preparation for calculus. As the name says, we spent a lot of time on functions, including specific types of functions like linear, exponential, logarithmic, and trigonometric functions. Students have generally seen those kinds of functions before in the course, but we cover things in a different way and at a depth that isn't familiar. And again, we do lots and lots of modeling, so lots of real-world problems with these different kinds of functions. We have students from all sorts of majors in 105. Some do go on to become math major, but many of them, this might be the only math course they take at Michigan. Most of our students are first-year students, but some are even in their final year. We don't have any prerequisites for the course. But if you're sitting around right now wondering what you could do to prepare, the best thing to do is to practice your algebra skills, especially your exponent rules. This is something that shows up early on, and is really important. It shows up repeatedly in the course. So make sure you know how to manipulate expressions involving lots of exponents. You're going to be really well set for the course. One thing about the course I'm really excited about is that we've just moved to a mastery grading approach, which means that you're going to get opportunities to reassess on our assessments. So it's different problems, but they're testing the same knowledge and skills. This gives you the opportunity to keep working, focus really on learning, until you are able to demonstrate that knowledge to us, rather than just cramming in all as much information as you can before an exam and then just hoping for the best. It's been really great watching students use this opportunity to really learn and master the skills. I also love that there's so much diversity in this course. So students come in with lots of different majors, lots of different interests, lots of different backgrounds, and they're taking the course for lots of different reasons. A lot of students come in seeing themselves as "not math people" or "not good at math." And I really like challenging and changing that view of themselves. So everyone is capable of learning what we teach in this course, and helping students see that about themselves and build their mathmatical confidence is one of the really rewarding things about teaching this course. 