 Hello. In our last video, I talked about how  archaeologists make measurements and what kinds   of tools they use to do that. An equally important  aspect of archaeological lab work, however, is how   we disseminate the data that result from all those  measurements. Among the ways that archaeologists do   that is through the use of tables and graphs. So,  in today's video, I'd like to talk to you about   the effective use of tables and graphs. And i'll do  that by showing you some examples of what i would   consider good graphs and tables as well as some  examples that i would say are not very effective   or, in some cases, downright misleading. And I'll  summarize at the end of the video by giving you   some tips on how you can make sure that your  graphs and tables are as effective as possible.   A very common archaeological lab  activity involves sorting artifacts,   bones or some other objects into different  categories of a classification system.   The result of this process is a frequency  distribution: simply the number or percentage   or proportion of artifacts or bones or seeds that  belong to each category of the classification. One way to represent a frequency distribution  is with a table in which the cells in the grid   represent the various categories, and numbers in  those cells represent the counts, percentages, or   proportions of each type of item. This can be  somewhat effective when there aren't too many   cells or too many numbers, but gets hard for  readers to interpret when there are too many.   You'll also notice in this case that the  numbers are jammed up against the left   margins of each cell, which makes it harder for  the eye to track from one category to another. This table uses most of the same data as the  previous one, but this time only shows the   percentages because those facilitate comparison  among the sites. I've also reversed the order of   the x and y axes, and reordered the rows so that  the most abundant fauna are at the top of the   table and the least abundant at the bottom. The  column on the right gives a kind of marginal   total that allows us to compare the values to  see which ones are unusually high or low. And I've bolded the ones that are particularly high or   low values to draw the viewer's attention to them. The marginal percentages near the bottom, as well  as the sample sizes at the bottom, make it obvious   that the Ba'ja site has a disproportionate  effect on the percentages in the right column. Another common way for archaeologists  to display frequency distributions   is with bar graphs, in which the height of each  bar is proportional to the number of items that   belong to a particular category. This is a rather  easy graph to produce and is also easy for the   viewer to interpret because the human eye is  pretty good at comparing the heights of bars.   It's for this reason that bar charts  tend to be more effective than pie charts.   Humans can compare heights more  easily than they can compare angles. In this variety of bar graph, we have  an ordinal rather than a nominal scale,   with the bars arranged from the animal's head  up at the top to the animal's feet at the bottom.   Notice how the x-axis of the graph  is now down through the middle,   and the bars radiate to left and right. This  makes it easy for the eye to track from one to   the other to make comparisons between two kinds  of contexts. It would also be effective for many   kinds of data that appear in pairs, such as the  left and right elements of an animal skeleton. One of the most common kinds of graphs that  archaeologists use and see in publications   is the histogram. A histogram is a classic example  of a frequency distribution, which means it shows   the distribution of measurements in a data set  along a single dimension, like length or mass   or width, and the way we typically display that is  two-dimensionally. One axis of, for example, length goes along the bottom of the graph here —   usually on the bottom at least  — and then every observation is shown  as a kind of a little box on this graph,   and the boxes kind of stack up so that eventually  you'll end up with peaks and valleys on the graph   that show which parts of that length distribution,  or whatever it is, have lots of observations kind   of bunched up in them, and there might be other  parts of the length distribution that have no   observations at all. So, it gives you an idea  of where the observations mostly tend to be   and also gives you an idea whether or not  they're kind of evenly distributed   or clumped up in one place in the distribution,  or if there's multiple "modes" as we call them:   different peaks in the distribution that  might show something interesting going on.   Nowadays, we would normally draw histograms  with computer software but some of that software   is a bit misleading, and they automate a lot of features that actually cause   you to make bad histograms, or actually things, in  some instances, that actually aren't histograms at all. So, it's a good idea, if you're not sure about  how to make an effective histogram, to start out   by drawing one by hand. So that's what we're going  to do today. I'm going to show you how it's done by   hand, even though i would never do ones by hand  when I'm working on a graph for publication, for   example. But it's a good idea to know how to do one  by hand if you had to. So I'm going to start   out with a piece of graph paper on which you can  see I've already drawn a horizontal line across   the bottom and, although you don't necessarily  always have to have the line start at zero, most of the time you are going to have it start at  zero, and if you don't have it start at zero in the   lower left corner, you should be making  it very clear to your viewer that it doesn't   start at zero. It's a good idea to have zero  on there if the magnitude of the measurement   is really important, you want people  to know whether it's high or low. Whereas, if it's just the shape of the  distribution that's important, you might not   care whether zero appears in the graph or not.  In some instances, having zero on the graph   would cause your data to be way too bunched up over at the right end of the graph and wasting a lot of   space. So it might not be a good idea to  keep zero on the graph. So, it's a   bit of a judgment call, and i'll talk more about that in the video later on.   So, we start out with this horizontal line and,  if we count how many squares — those kind of major   blocks in this graph paper, there are, up to the end  of the line, turns out there's 26 of them and we   also check our data set. I have a data set here of  measurements that might be lengths in millimeters,   for example. It doesn't really matter what they are  as long as they're on a ratio or interval scale.   And I notice that the range of those goes from a  little over 30 to around slightly over 65, so we   want to make sure that the range of our line on  the bottom of the graph goes up to a little,    at least a little bit higher than 65. And, as it turns  out, if we decide to make each of these blocks on   here represent 3 mm, let's say this  is in millimeters, three times 25 is 75, so that   means the 25th line up here would represent  75 mm. I'm going to just mark that on like that. Now, when you're drawing a histogram,  it's a complete judgment call about how how wide   the "bins," as we sometimes call them, should be  for distributing your observations on the graph.   A bin is just an interval along  this x-axis scale that we have here   and you're going to basically count up all of the  observations that fit within each of those bins. There's a tendency... a lot of people want to  make them equal to 1 unit or 5 units or 10   units, but there's actually no reason that it  has to be divisible by 10 and your choice of   unit is really... it's not entirely arbitrary but  it's a judgment call. You have to decide what unit   is going to show your data most effectively. Now,  since most of the data on here are lumped between   30 and 65 mm, having a really wide unit  wouldn't be very effective because you wouldn't   see much variation in the data. They'd  mostly be kind of lumped into into a very few of   these bins and most of the bins would be empty, so  it makes sense to have a somewhat narrower one.   Just to kind of demonstrate that it doesn't  have to be divisible by 5 or 10 or whatever,   and since it kind of works out well on this  particular piece of graph paper, let's use   a bin size of 3. That way... so in that case, we're  going to have little markers at 3, 6, 9, 12,   15, 18, 21, and 24. I'm just going to mark 24 down  there... 27, 30. Actually could mark 30 down, 33, 36, 39,   42, 44, 48... I'll mark that down, 51, 54, 57, 60. So, there we  have our distribution of bins and then what we do   is, we go through our data set. This one happens  to be in scientific notation, so it's actually   measured in tens of millimeters, or centimeters,  in other words, but we can just, like, 3.75   is really 37.5 mm. So, for each of the  observations, we want to draw a little square   that's the width of one of these bins and  we'll draw that square. It actually doesn't   have to be a square — it could be a rectangle — as  long as all the rectangles are the same height,   because, on histograms, the important  thing is area. So, the we're going to   represent each one of these observations  by a rectangle of identical area and   parked on the graph where it belongs along  the x-axis. So, our first one here will be   37.5 mm, so that would be — there's 33, 36 — it's going to be between 36 and 39, obviously.   So let's put — I'm going to make them square  just so it's easy for you to see, and we're   not going to be too tidy here because obviously,  if you're doing this for publication, you do it on   a computer using software and  you make it look nice and tidy and everything —   but this is just a rough one to give us an idea  of how we do that. So i'm just going to tick that   one off to show that we've done it. The next one  is 44.3, so here's 44 here, so that's going to go   right here. The only reason i'm drawing an x on here  is just to make it a bit easier for you to see.   Tick that off. Next one is 37.9, so it's 33, 36, 39,  so that's going to be in the same same bin as   this one, right? Because it's higher than   36 but less than 39. So it's going to go here. Okay, we've now finished all of the entering   of the data onto the graph and you can see   that it is kind of clumped up into two sort  of peaks might suggest a bimodal distribution.   On the other hand, some of those  peaks and valleys might be just be due to   a sort of sampling error and so on.  If we were to use a different width of bin,   the the gap between those two peaks might  disappear. If we used a wider bin,   that gap would almost certainly disappear. Histograms are very sensitive to your decision   about which width of bin to use and here we used  a pretty narrow one, which wouldn't necessarily be   a good idea, so when you do a histogram, it's not  a bad idea to try it with different widths of   bins and see what shows the data the best.  The other thing we need to do now is to show what   the units are on this graph, and the  simplest way to do that is just to draw   an extra box out in a blank area of the graph  somewhere, and it says this equals one observation. Now, the alternative that you'll  see a lot in published histograms   is to have a y-axis as well as an x-axis. And this is where a lot of people go wrong  though. It has to do with how they label this   axis. Now, the fact is, as long as you make a  box like this that says how much is equal to   one observation or 10 observations, you don't  actually need a y-axis on a histogram because    what's important on the histogram is the area  within which you find these observations and how   clumped up those areas are. If you do decide to  use a y-axis, however, you need to be careful about   how you label it. People are tempted to decide  that they'll label it according to the heights of   the bars on the histogram but these aren't really  bars, even though we kind of made them that way. We treated each bin as though it was  kind of a bar and we added observations on top of   one another until we reached a certain height. Now  that works fine as long as all of these intervals   are of equal width, in which case, if they're  equal, the height of these so-called bars   is proportional to the area, so it  works out fine. But some histograms have   intervals that are not of equal width — they don't  have to be all of equal width — and if you go by   by heights then your graph will be  very misleading. It'll tend to exaggerate   the influence of the wide bins and underestimate  the influence of these narrow bins, so you don't   want you want to be very careful about that.   In this one where the heights are proportional to   area anyway, it's very straightforward because  we can just label this y-axis like this. Put ticks along there and we've got one, two, three,  four, let's say five observations, six, seven, eight,   nine, ten observations, and the highest one  here is 11 observations. However, when we label   the axis of that graph, it shouldn't say "Number of  Observations." It should say "Number of Observations  per 3 mm" or "Number of Observations per Interval" or something   like that. You need to have an indication in there  of what was the width of the bin because, if you   change the width of the bin, the heights will be  different and the shape of the whole distribution   could be different as well. So you need to indicate  on that y-axis what kind of unit these heights are,   based upon bin. The implication of that is that,  if you had one bin, let's say we had an observation   up around 75 millimeters, and for whatever  reason we decided to have a bin that was 6 mm   wide instead of 3 mm wide, and let's say there's two of them.   So there's two of them. Keep in mind, if  we're doing it by area that means we would have, they would be side-by-side to make a width of 2 mm  — uh, sorry — a width of 6 mm,   even if they both were very close  together, not actually side-by-side.   The point is to keep the area proportional.  You need to have this particular bar   only be one unit high, not two units high, because,  if you made it two units high, let's say here,   it would be basically doubling the importance of  those two observations because, if you're   labeling it on the y-axis, people are  going to read that as a 2 and they're going to    interpret that as meaning that there are  two observations in both of these three   millimeter slots when in fact there are  not. There's only two observations in a 6 mm   wide slot. So, if you label the y-axis  as number of observations per 3 mm,   then it works out very well because you know  that two observations in the 6 mm range   should be two per six which is one per 3 mm,  so you just make them one unit high. Now, once the graph is done — let's  assume you did do it by hand like i just did  — it looks kind of ugly. You  wouldn't want to present it like that.   So what I would recommend is you would then trace  it — you do it neatly using rulers and so on — and you   wouldn't draw every individual box as i've just  done, let alone put an x across them. Instead, you   just outline the outer parts of this distribution  with a reasonably heavy line like that. And if you're able to do so, you would then shade  in the area beneath or within that heavy line   to emphasize that it's a that it's an area.  And you would also shade in the little key one up   here that says how much is one observation. Now,  one of the things i should mention about this   is the fact that these bars, if you want to call  them bars, are jammed up against each other and,   when you do the finished one, you don't even  separate the bars. You just draw it all in as one   continuous area or, in this case, discontinuous area  that emphasizes that the data in this particular   instance are on a continuous scale, because  measurements in millimeters are, ordinarily at   least, on a continuous scale, which means  there's no discrete intervals between things.   If, on the other hand, we had discrete data, such  as the number of handstones found in the rooms   of a number of structures, we would show the bars  separately as here, to emphasize the fact that   we could find one or two or three handstones  in a room, but we're not going to find 1.3 or   6.2 handstones in a room if we're quantifying  the handstones as number of specimens. Today, of course we'd usually make histograms  with software, and here we have a set of data   on the heights of collars on some pots measured  in millimeters. I'll first show you a very crude   way to make a histogram manually using  the data in a spreadsheet like this. First, we sort the data from  smallest to largest value. Then, we add a column to record  the boundaries between our bins, and add yet another column to tally the   number of observations that fall  within the interval of each bin. Then, we decide on what bin interval to use.  Here, let's use 4 mm and begin   the process of counting how many observations,  or how many rows, fall within each of our bins. We can now use the bin totals from the third  column in order to start drawing our histogram.   since here we use equal intervals of 4 mm,  the bin totals can be proportional   to the height of the bar within each interval.  As we have no values greater than 20 mm, all the intervals to the right of 20  will have zero values or no bars at all. Fortunately, we don't usually have to  draw histograms manually these days   because even spreadsheet software  usually has some way to make histograms.   Here, for example, we can just select  the column from our original data set, then go to a menu that allows us to pick a  chart type, and we pick the type for histogram. This generates an automatic histogram  within a box that we can then resize.  However, this histogram is far from  ideal. For one thing, it generates the   width of the bins automatically  and they may not be optimal.  Secondly, it labels the bins in a very awkward  manner that we'll want to correct and, thirdly,   it records the magnitudes of the observations  in each bin by height rather than by area. We can often do at least some editing of the  histogram within the spreadsheet software itself   by selecting some features that allow us to edit  the bin widths and so on. Here, for example, we can   select bin width and change it to some other value. And you'll see how much the shape of the  histogram changes when we change that bin width.   We also see that the scale on the y-axis changes  quite substantially because the bin widths are now   narrower, and here we see again, with the still  narrower bin width, extreme difference in shape. Instead of playing with the bin width  directly, we can also alter the number of bins   distributed over the width of the graph. But even when we find a bin width that  seems to represent the data quite well,   there are features in this graph that aren't very  desirable. For example, the label for the x-axis is   at the top of the graph instead of at the bottom.  The labels on the bins are very crowded and messy, and there's an unlabeled y-axis that's  scaled to bar heights rather than bar areas. And, worse yet, the software  provides lots of special effects   that tend to distract from the data  rather than help the viewer understand it. Instead of making do with a graph like this it's  better either to use dedicated graphing software   that gives you a lot better control over the  format and size and scale of your graph, or instead   to use the spreadsheet only to draw a  rough version of your graph and then   copy and paste it into some kind of drawing  program that you'll use to finish the graph. Let's say we're happy with this version of the  graph that has a bin width of 1 mm.   What we can do now is select the graph,  copy it, and then paste it into a graphics program. In this instance, I'm using Adobe Illustrator,  but there are lots of other programs that you   could use instead. I start with a blank  page and then paste the graph onto it.   It occupies layer 1 in the file and I have to  resize it to get it to fit on the page better.   I then show a grid on the page so  that i can resize the graph again   in such a way that the boundaries between the bins  and the heights of the bins match up with the grid. This can involve some moving and  stretching the graph in various ways   to get it approximately the size that you want.  You also have to make sure that the graph is   transparent so that you can see the grid in  behind it to do the fine tuning of the scale. Once we have a pretty good fit to the  grid, we can resize it one more time by   some fixed percentage so that it fits more  comfortably in our graph space. For example,   if we want our x-axis to start at 0 mm,  we need a lot more room to the left of these bars. Here, i'll leave the height the  same by setting it at 100 percent   but i'll change the width to 50 percent. Next, we move the graph to the right and we make a new layer on top of this one. Let's rename layer 2 "axes" to indicate  that that's where we're going to draw the   axes for our graph, Now, with layer 1  locked and the axis layer activated,   we can begin to draw a box around our graph  and select line thicknesses for the box. Let's try a two-point line thickness. Next, we'll draw a small vertical tick  mark, copy it, and paste it, so that we   can have identical tick marks along  the bottom of the x-axis of the graph.   Because we used a 1 mm bin size in  this case, we can align the ticks to the corners   of the bars on the graph. That way, we ensure  that the tick marks are 1 mm apart. We might not be perfectly accurate at  first, but we can always tidy those up later. Notice that initially we don't have to put the  tick marks directly on the x-axis. We can put them   anywhere on the graph. We want to make it easier to  line them up with the boundaries between the bins.   Later, we'll align them with one of  the alignment tools in the software. Once all the tick marks are the correct horizontal  distance apart, in this case 2mm, we can   then align them using the alignment tool. We select  all, everything on the layer except the outer box,   and then pick a range on a horizontal line. Now  they're evenly spaced along a horizontal line and   we just need to drag them down to the bottom of  the graph so that they're aligned with the x-axis. Now, we can copy this group  of tick marks and paste them   so that we can make more tick marks to the left  on the graph. However, to avoid being distracted   by the histogram bars while i'm working on the  axes of the grid i will first turn off that layer. I'll zoom in so i can place  the text more precisely. I paste the tick marks then move them into  position so that they align with the grid. Then we copy another small group of tick  marks so that we can finish off the x-axis After zooming out again, we select all the ticks  and make sure they're all aligned properly. Either in the axis layer or in a new layer for  labels, we select a font and a point size and   we begin to place some labels along the x-axis. We  don't need to label every increment, let alone with   its beginning and end, we only need a few  points along the axis to give an idea of the scale. As the box for our axis is actually too big, we   just drag it over to make  it match up with the zero, and then delete the unnecessary tick marks. Then, we make layer 1 visible again so that  we can trace the shape of the distribution. We'll do the tracing in a new  layer that I'm calling "bars." We'll zoom in a bit so that  we can trace it more precisely. We'll use the pen tool set to "no fill"  and hold down the shift key to make sure that  all the lines are either vertical or horizontal. Then we select a fill for the  shaded area of the histogram. This is where you'll have to decide what color  or tone would be most effective for your graph. If your graph is going to be published in a print   medium, it's often a good idea  to use a grayscale for the fill. Now that we have the histogram mainly complete,   we go back to layer 1 and delete it because  we no longer need the rough copy of the graph. We do some fine adjustment of the placement of  the shaded area to reflect the fact that the   Excel spreadsheet had started the leftmost  bar at 9.8 rather than 10 mm. After zooming in a bit, we select a  square area on the graph to represent one observation. This will provide the scale  for the area on the graph. Then we add a label for the  x-axis that shows the units and do some tidying up to remove some  notes that i had made on the graph earlier. After zooming back out a bit, we  now select everything in all the layers   and move it more to the center of the page. We now have a simple histogram with  only as much labeling as it needs. In a series of books on the  visual display of information,   Edward Tufte makes a number of recommendations  that are very useful for archaeologists to follow.   One of Tufte's concepts is  called the "data:ink ratio."   Essentially the focus should be on the data,  not on decoration that uses up a lot of ink. For example, this graph has a lot  of unnecessary lines and labels   that do nothing to highlight the information.    This other graph that has exactly the same data is much   cleaner and puts the focus on the information. In general, you shouldn't use any more labels  than are necessary to show the magnitude of the   observations and to make the graph's purpose clear.  You also don't need to put a lot of grid lines.  You should definitely not put numerals  on tops of bars or pie chart segments   because they're redundant  and just use up a lot of ink.   Furthermore, you should avoid using cute images  or meaningless decoration on your graphs. Another of Tufte's principles is "graphical integrity,"  which means ensuring that your graphs are honest.   The graph should not mislead the viewer  by distorting the magnitude of values   either by non-linearity of bars or lines on your  graphs, or by distorting the areas on histograms   or pie charts. 3D effects can cause these kinds  of problems. Consequently, you should only use   3D effects for 3D data and avoid the use of  icons that might distort area on the graph. Here, for example, we see a simple bar chart that  has a 3D effect to give the bars perspective.   This distorts the areas of the bar so they're no longer  proportional and therefore misleads the viewer. Here, icons of the artifact  types have replaced the bars,   with their heights proportional to  their abundance in the assemblage.   However, the icon representing 30%  has two or three times the area of the one   representing 20% and four or five  times the area of the one representing 12%. Some other tips are to represent magnitudes  proportionally whenever possible, clearly   label all the axes and units directly  on the graph rather than in the caption,   and draw attention to significant events in  the graph by arrows or other kinds of labels. I hope you found my video on ways to make your  tables and graphs more effective helpful. You'll   find a great deal more on this topic in chapter 5 of my book, The Archaeologist Laboratory ,  published by Springer. And if you'd like to be  updated as i post new videos on archaeological   laboratory work, please click on the "subscribe"  button down below. Thank you and stay safe. 