 Good evening! Today we're learning about the Trigonometric Graph! On the first part of this video, you will learn about the graph of sine theta and cosine theta and on the next video, you will learn about the graph of tangent theta. First, let's talk about the characteristic of the sine graph. So, here we can see the sine graph between 0 and 360 degree. What we can notice is that the curve ranges from negative 1 to positive 1. So, the maximum is positive 1 and minimum is negative 1. We can also notice that the curve is oscillating around y = 0. So, we see this lines curve is oscillating around it. It mean it goes up and down around this axis. So, this is the axis of the curve, in that case the axis of the curve is y = 0. The distance between the axis of the curve and the maximum, 1, is called the amplitude. So, here we have an amplitude of 1. Sine and cosine are periodic functions, that means that this is one period of sine between theta equals 0 to theta for 360 degrees. If we look at the graph on a bigger domain, the graph will look like this! So, here we see the graph on the domain negative 360 to 720 degrees. As we can see, the graph is basically repeating itself. So, we have the first period between 0 and 360. Then we have another period between 360 to 720. And if we look on the negative side, same thing we can see one period from 0 to negative 360. One period of the sine function is the original wave between 0 to 360. Every 360 degrees, the wave will repeat itself! So, the period of the sine function is 360 degrees! To graph the sine function, we can notice a few things!  First thing is, we don't need to plot every degree of the function. So, when you start graphing the function, you can graph every 90 degrees. So, zero degree, 90, 180, 270, 360, and so on and so on! As a periodic function, the first wave is going to repeat every 360! So, as long as you have the first period, you can just repeat that period over and over! The sine function starts at the axis of the curve. So, every time you plot your zero degree point, you can put it at the "axis of the curve". This axis of the curve is going to change depending on your function. On a simple sine function, it's at y = 0. After that, to reach the maximum of your function at 90 degrees, axis of the curve again at 180...270 we reach the minimum and we go back up to the axis of the curve. We are at the axis of the curve for zero degree, 180 degrees and 360. On the other end, we're at the maximum at 90 degrees and we're at the minimum at 270 degrees. The cosine graph shows a lot of characteristic with the sine graph. You have the same maximum, we have the same minimum...maximum is still 1... the minimum is still negative 1. We have such curve, oscillating around an axis of the curve. In this case, the axis of the curve still y = 0 and we can still find amplitude from the axis of the curve to the maximum! So, this is an amplitude of 1. The cosine function is also periodic with the same period of 360 degrees. So, here we can see one period between 0 and 360. We can also go in the negative between 0 and negative 360 and you can repeat this pattern as long as you want! Every 360 degrees, you will get a new wave! To create the graph of cosine, it's the same as the graph of sine. We only need five points that we're going to repeat over and over again. The graph of cosine starts on a maximum, then we're at the axis of the curve at 90 degrees, on a minimum at 180...270 we'll go back to the axis of the curve and then maximum at 360. So, we are at the axis of the curve at 90 degrees and 270 degrees, we need to remember that! We're at the maximum for zero degree and 360 and we have a minimum at 180 degrees. If you place with five-point correctly, you can build your cosine graph very easy! The usual question we're going to ask you is: sketch y = a sine theta plus b, or a cos theta plus b. On the question, you will know the value of a, you will know the value of b. In this case, 'a' is the amplitude. So, basically, if a is 1, then amplitude is 1! If a is 5, then the amplitude is 5. Meaning, that the distance between the axis of the curve and the maximum or the minimum, will be whatever the value of a is! On the other end, we have b...b is the axis of the curve! The axis of the curve is an equation. So, it's going to be y = b! If we combine what we just saw, we can guess that the maximum of the curve is the axis of the curve plus the amplitude! So, b plus a! While the minimum of the curve will be at b minus a (amplitude). We are first finding the axis of the curve, the amplitude, maximum, minimum, and then sketching the graph become very easy! Let's look at an example, here we asked you to sketch a graph of y = sine theta + 2, between zero and 360 degrees. So, y = sine theta + 2, this gives us a = 1. So, the amplitude equal one! ...and b = positive 2! So, this is the axis of the curve. The axis of the curve is y = 2. From what we've seen before, we know that the maximum will be at amplitude plus axis of the curve! So, 2 plus 1, the maximum will be at 3! The minimum will be at axis of the curve minus amplitude, so, axis of the curve is 2...amplitude is 1... 2 minus 1 is 1! We know that the maximum will be 3. So at the line y = 3, we can start drawing a line, this will be your maximum! The minimum is at 1, so at 1, we can also start drawing a line, this is the range of our function. The axis of the curve is at y = 2! So, to help you, we can also draw a line for y = 2. Okay now, we can start placing our points. If you remember for the sine function, we start on the axis of the curve. So when x = 0, we're at the axis of the curve. For x = 90, we are at the maximum. x = 120, we're at the axis of the curve! x = 270 we're at the minimum! And x = 360, we're at the axis of the curve, again! We just need these five points and then we can get the first period of our graph that looks like this! Now we get our function y = sine theta + 2. We notice that the plus 2 simply mean that we shift the function two units up! This is what we call a "translation". Let's look at another example, this time we are plotting y = 4 cosine of theta, between 0 and 360 degrees. So, same thing if we look at the function 4 cosine of theta, we see that the amplitude a is 4 and the axis of the curve b is zero, because the axis of the curve is y = 0. If we follow that, we know that the maximum will be axis of the curve plus 4. So, it's 0 + 4 that's 4! The minimum is axis of the curve minus amplitude: it's zero minus four that's minus 4! We can already put a line at four and another line at minus 4... or axis of the curve is at y = 0. If that helps you, you can put a line! Okay now, that we're ready, we can place our points! For the cosine function, we start at the maximum for x = 0. At 90 degrees, we're on the axis of the curve... 180 we're at the minimum and then we go back up 270 axis of the curve and 360 is the maximum. We're done placing our five points, the question asked us only for one period, so now, we can connect the dots! Now, we have a sketch of y = 4 cosine of theta! Let's look at the last example, this time, we are asked to sketch a function 3 cosine of theta + 5. Same thing as before; 3 cosine of theta + 5. We find that the axis of the curve is five and we find that the amplitude is 3. From this, we can get that the minimum is 5 - 3, that's 2. The maximum is 5 + 3, that's 8! So, I can already put a line on the maximum and the minimum. We said that the axis of the curve is on 5, so, that's y = 5! So, I put a line at 5 to help me with my graph. The line I'm graphing is a cosine, so, I start with the maximum, then axis of the curve...minimum... axis of the curve...and maximum, again! Finally, I finish by connecting the dots. 