 [Ripping Sound] Haaaa! [Paper rustling] [Singing] [Music] Hey everybody, it's Rich, and this is 2GuysTek. Today on the show, I'm going to teach you how to take a dumb lamp and make it smart. Ahh, spring has sprung here in the Northwest, and that means a lot of things. But what it also means is: garage sale time. So, on my walk through my neighborhood, I stopped at one and found this lamp for a dollar. My first thought was, hey, this lamp would look great in my foyer, but it's not smart enough. I think I can fix that. So, I'm going to turn this lamp in to a smart lamp. This process is actually incredibly easy to do and only takes minutes to complete. There are lots of great Z-Wave and Zigbee relays on the market, and we found one for $43.00 off Amazon made by Remotec. This is a dry contact relay, and we're going to take this relay and put it into that lamp. And, let's get started. But first, let's take a look at this relay. So the relay is 120 volts, and on the back side, you have the screw-ins for the load, the neutral, your relay, and then you've got a set of terminals for another switch, so if you had another switch you wanted to remotely trigger this with, like a physical switch, you could wire it into there. So, pretty basic, very simple. It's slightly too big to fit into one of those decor plates, so I wouldn't recommend putting it on the wall. But it fits into a regular single gang electrical box. And it's pretty compact, pretty lightweight. And, that's it. Let's get started with the installation, shall we? Ok, so we've got our trusty dollar lamp from the garage sale. Plug it in real quick just to see if it works as expected. Yes it does. Okay. Let's take this thing apart. I realized half way through the filming of me putting that lamp together, that it was really hard to see the wiring that I was doing, so let's scratch that part and let me go ahead and make an example of how to do it, right here, right now. So, to make things more understandable, because lamp cord is all a single color, I'm going to go ahead and use some wire here that you can see. This guy right here is just going to be our pretend power source, you know, from the wall. I have a little bit of a small jumper that I've created here, and that's going to go between some of these contacts. And then, followed by our lamp. So, what we're going to do here, very simply, is we're going to take, first off, the jumper, little 'U' piece of metal here, and imagine that this was lamp cord inside of the base of the lamp. And so, we're going to use the line side as the side that we're actually going to be powering, so we're going to loosen that contact there, and we're going to loosen one side of the relay over here. We're just going to insert this in to there, because that right there is going to be us adding line voltage to the relay side. This guy right here is going to be our lamp. White corresponds with common and black corresponds with the line. And these guys are going to go like this. So, straighten this out real quick. So there we go. We've got these two guys here, and we're just going to put them into place next to each other here. Okay. So, I'm going to go ahead and screw in this side of the relay. See this here, because that's done. And this side, the load side, is also done here. We're not going to add any more cabling. So, now we've got the last bit here. This is the line that's going to go up to the lamp. Now, this is going to be the switched side of the relay, the load side, and this is going to be us continuing the common side on. So, we'll take this and we will insert both of them in to their appropriate sides. I want to make sure I get everything there. So, what we have now, then, is this side here, which is going up to the lights. This side is the power from the wall. And that's it. So we'll zoom in here real quick just to take a close look at it. And if you can imagine, this goes in the underside of the lamp, in the base. Tada! Magic! No, home automation! Why is this so cool? Well, let me tell you. It's cool because now this smart lamp is part of my home automation. So my first task was to create a schedule, and that schedule says that, let's say sunset, the light automatically comes on and lights the foyer and and the stairwell. And about, oh let's say 10:30, the light automatically shuts off. Also, I'm tying this to my front door Z-Wave lock, so if someone comes home at, say, after 10:30, and the house is dark, the light will come on automatically, lighting the way. So, this is what home automation is all about. It's about making life easier, and kind of living in the future. Everything you saw here today cost a grand total of $44.00. That's the lamp, plus the relay cost. And you can find this exact relay on Amazon. I put the link down in the description if you're interested. Alright, thank for watching. What did you think of our little project here? Is this something you could see yourself doing? Are you in to home automation? Let us know in the comments below. Also, if this is the first time you've seen us, please consider subscribing. It really helps us out, and keeps us making these videos. You can follow us on Facebook and Instagram and Twitter at @2GuyTek, and me personally at @2GuysTekRich. Thanks again. 