 I'm Ryan, and I'm Tori. Welcome to another edition of TCC Talk. Today we'll be discussing a line of products to take you from basic house to smart home. Have complete control over your home security with iSmart Alarms expandable system that you can customize to fit you and your family's needs, and of course, it can be totally controlled from your smartphone. The camera lets you watch what's going on in your house from anywhere and it's free to store recordings in the cloud so you never miss a minute. Philips Hue makes it so you can do so much more with your lights, other than just turn them on and off to switch. The iOS and Android compatible smartphone app lets you control your lights remotely. You can make a light schedule so your lights are always on when your home and off when you're not. You'll never have a room be too dim or bright again. With comfort dimming, you don't even need any extra hardware. Do you remember those lights that turn on and off when you clap? I thought that was as good as it got, but now Philips Hue are compatible with Amazon Alexa, Apple Home Kit and Google Home so you can control your lights with simple voice commands you don't even have to move your hands anymore. We've all left the house in a hurry before, but then once we're where we need to be, we find ourselves wondering, "I closed the garage door, right? I think I did." With Chamberlain MyQ garage door opener, never worry about your garage door again. It has a downloadable smartphone app that allows you to control your drive to work, no matter where you are, whether it's at home were at work. You can also set option alerts for when the garage door opens and closes, so you can keep an eye on your house even from around the world. Don't let the small size on this next product fool you. Despite its size, The Zulu My Plug is packed with functionality. It's a great product to start your transformation into a smart home because it has so many different uses. Again, the Zulu smart plug is controlled by a smartphone app for extra convenience. A room with the smart plug will be able to sense your presence and it'll adjust the lighting and temperature to your personal preferences and then turn them off when you leave. You can connect any light to the smart plug and you can now control its brightness even if it doesn't have a dimmer. Ring is a video doorbell with two-way talk and a downloadable smartphone app, so you can have total control, even remotely. The HD camera has a wide angle lens with night vision so you can see who's at your home even when you're not. You can even get notifications every time there's motion detected at your front door thanks to the built-in motion sensors that also activate the camera. You can learn more about these products by visiting our website at tccrocks.com and don't forget to like, subscribe, and comment below. 