 It is often said that truck driving is not just a job, it's a lifestyle. A truck driving career is similar to many other professions with a lot of travel, like airplane pilots, flight attendants and military service members. There are things you can do, as a truck driver, to stay connected with family and friends and you'll have our ongoing support to help. Support from the company that you work for and support from home makes it so you can be successful out here. Keeping in constant contact with my family. I can't be there physically but as long as we can speak to each other in some form all the time we're fine. I keep in contact with my parents, I call them every other day or so. I have a two year old son. He's my world. We have iPhones so we can FaceTime. The other night I was helping my son do homework over the phone, we have a lot of that interaction. I'll write a nice letter, what I'm thinking, maybe what happened during the day, same things you might put into a text, if you write it out it means a lot more. Just about every truck stop I've been to has either a mailbox out front or they'll mail the letter for you. And, a lot of them even sell post cards. You can send your family a little picture of where you've been and what you've seen during the day. They're thinking about you and they want to know that you're thinking about them, it's an important thing and it keeps the family together I think. When I entered the trucking industry one of the big things was that I could bring my pet with me and as you know, Roehl has a pet program. From national fleets with flexible home times to home weekly regional or dedicated fleets to set schedules on one of our HOMEtime Plus fleets, the key here is finding a fleet that meets your needs! I also got on a dedicated regional fleet so that I do go home once a week. I stay out for anywhere from 4-6 weeks at a time because I get more home time, I earn more days off and can go home and spend 5, 6, 7 days off, if I can, with my family. I stay out about 18-21 days, go home for 3 or 4 days. I don't need to go home, I don't feel I need to go home due to the fact that Roehl gets me through my home terminal. It can be a great lifestyle, you just have to find what fits your personality. At Roehl, we believe you deserve a LOT, a life outside the truck, so you can enjoy your time, your way. You're going to have time to be at home, maybe kick back and watch some TV or football or whatever you want and get the grass cut or whatever you need to do. Remember to take the time to do something fun and personal with your family. I fly Radio Controlled airplanes as a hobby, me and my dad set aside a day to go out and do that. If there's a movie that I know my daughter wants to see we buy those tickets in advance. You find the things that you know you all enjoy. Whether I take my kids to the waterpark, bowling, go to your local zoo, whatever you want to do. When I go home this next time we're going to San Diego for my son's birthday. We're going to spend a whole week out there, go to Sea World, San Diego Zoo, we rented a little condo on the beach. Without this job I couldn't take those weeks off at a time, so it is beneficial! When I get home I drop my truck off where I park it, get my car and go get my boy. Make the most of that time, that makes the transition going back to the truck easier because you feel like you've actually done something while you where at home. I actually get more time with my family than I did as a mechanic when I worked six days a week and only had one day off, yeah I was home every night but I was drained! I can tell I really like this business because I look forward to going back out. I come back out and get a little pit in my stomach from missing my family but then I just look forward to the next time home. Being a successful truck driver means understanding the trade off between your home time and how much you earn. We offer many different fleet options so you can find balance. Also, because of the great technology we have access to, it's easier than ever to stay connected with friends and family. At Roehl, you will have full access to the support you need to make your career a success! 