 - [Phil] So I've talked a whole lot about connected speakers, and specifically Amazon, and Alexa, and the Echo's and all that. But I've never really touched on Google Home here, and it's time to fix that because they're really good, they're really competitive, and we now have three speakers in the family. There's the original Google Home of course, and more recently we have the Google Home Mini, tiny little thing, not a whole lot of money. Now at the end of 2017, we have the grand daddy, the new guy, the big guy, the big cheese, big speaker. But you know what? It's also really compelling. Ready? Let's go take a look. (upbeat rock music) Now we have the Google Home Max. The Max is a whopping $399. It's big. It's heavy. And it's made specifically to play music. It also just happens to do all that other connected smart stuff. The overall design is actually a little blah, I think. The drab kinda color works for the smaller Google Home or even the Mini, but at this larger scale, it just kinda looks institutional to me. And you can't change out the grill or anything. You can either get it in gray, or you can get it in black, that's it. Set up is super simple, you just unbox it first, as one does. Again, be kinda careful. It's heavy, and the handles for some reason are on the bottom of the box, that's kinda weird. After that, just plug it in. You're gonna set it up the same way as you do any of the other Google Home devices, you do it in the Google Home app. It's actually really cool 'cause it detects it as soon as it's plugged in and turned on and all that stuff, the app can see it automatically. And then you just go through it. Look, Google has onboarding down. It doesn't get any easier than this. So back to the speaker, or to the back of the speaker. So there's audio in jack, if you wanna plug something else into it like a record player. There's a USB-C port which is for connecting an ethernet jack. There's no ethernet port, so you have to use an adapter, and you really only wanna do that if you're gonna be doing multi room audio and have latency problems over your network. I've never had that problem here in my smaller house, but if you do, that's where you're gonna have to go. There's also a reset button in an LED that will let you know the speaker's alive. And there's a physical switch if you wanna turn off the microphones so it can't hear you at all. - [Google Home Max] The mic's off. - [Phil] So by the way, I love the plug angles off to the side, and it doesn't take up any space at all either on your wall, or more important, on a power strip. Too many other companies and products screw that up including, by the way, the Google Home, and the Google Home Mini. I can't stand that. Now there's a rubber base thing that you wanna stick under your Google Home Max. I actually kinda missed it at first when I took the thing out of the box. So it does a couple things. One, it keeps the vibrations down to a minimum, you don't want speakers rattling around anywhere. But it also keeps the speaker from slipping. So it's gonna be on the bottom side when it's horizontal, and on the short side when it's vertical. In any event, it's gonna be on the edge closest to the plug, that's the important part. Now up top, we have the touch controls. So you tap the middle for play, pause. And you swipe your hand left to right to move the volume up and down. That's actually kind of annoying 'cause it doesn't go min to max in one swoop. I have to stop and start again and it usually takes me a couple tries. Maybe I just suck at it, or maybe it's just bad design. Now for all the smart stuff going on here, just like Google and Google Home Mini, its got Google Assistant built in, so you can ask it all sorts of questions. You know this, you've done this a million times by now. You can have it play music, you can have it play podcasts, you can ask it directions and have them send them to your phone. You ask it about traffic. Here's what's really cool about it with the Max. Even with the music cranked way up, all of these far field microphones built into it can hear me just fine. Just watch this. (loud dance music) These mic's are kinda crazy 'cause I just said hey Google at that volume and it heard me over the music. - [Google Home Max] Sorry, I don't understand. (loud dance music) - [Phil] So the other cool thing about the Max and the mic's is that it's actually listening to the sound as it's booming around it and bouncing back to the speaker and the microphones, and it's adjusting it over time using artificial intelligence. Google calls it Smart Sound and it's a really cool way to do this. I love that it does it automatically here. I don't have to lift a finger. So, how does it sound? Pretty damn good, and it better for the $400 price. I mean look, like any speaker, it's gonna matter a lot what you're listening to on it, right? If the source material sucks, it's gonna suck coming back at you. But if it was done right with a bunch of high's and a bunch of low's, and mixed well and just a good recording, it's gonna sound really good on here. But let's talk about that price, it's not inexpensive at $400. At that price, you can get three Google Home's or five at the current sale price of $80. You can get what, seven, eight, Google Home Mini's, depending on the price. It's a lot of money. But neither of them sounds as good as the Google Home Max. Full stop, end of story. Google Home Max is made for music. That's what it does first, it does everything else second. So what's missing in the Google Home Max? A few things off the top of my head. There are no threads for mounting these on speaker stands, or to stick them up against the wall or anything. Again, there's no ethernet port, so you're gonna have to use an adapter through USB-C if you need that. And there's no real way to use this with your home entertainment system. I guess you could Bluetooth it and do a stereo pair maybe, but that's lack-tastic and just a really bad idea, and it's not made for that unfortunately. So the big question, is it worth $400? Because that's a lot of money, and I'm willing to bet that we're paying a little bit of an early adopter tax here, right? Prices can always come down, it's really hard to send them back up. Now something else to consider, Google Home Max is unequivocally better than anything Amazon's put out at this point, way better than all the Echo's. That's not actually who Google is gunning for here. As you might have guessed, it's Sonos, and specifically the Play:3 and the Play:5. I tell you, it's really close. That's gonna be a whole another video, so stay tuned for that. As for the Max, look, it's made to do music first. It's made to just blast your house with sound, and do all that other assistant and connected home stuff second. It does it really well, but music is the main driver here. But I tell you, if you're into the Google ecosystem at all, or just even into good wireless music, it's gonna be a really good buy. I'm enjoying the hell out of it already. It's really that good. So that's it for the Google Home Max. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't already. Sign up for the newsletter with the link down below, you can do that. Go share this video with your friends. Tell them all about us here. That's it, see you next time. (upbeat rock music) 