 Hi, what's up guys. This is Anna Fan from Techaply. I'm coming back with another video showing my laptop Dell laptop computer for you guys. Today, we're going to have one is a mouse and one is a touchpad. So, this video will show you guys how to disable the Dell laptop touchpad here when the external mouse here is connected okay. Now, everything is working fine I can both use the touchpad like this okay touchpad like this okay and the mouse okay so I can both use it now but now I'm going to tell you guys how to set it up for when you plug this external mouse in then the touchpad will not be working okay. On the Dell laptop, there's something a little bit different on a normal laptop, not a Dell laptop then you're gonna go in setting over here and click on touchpad and there's an option for leave the touchpad on when the Mouse is connected or something like that and then you're going to uncheck that box then everything is fine, but on the Dell laptop Windows 10 laptop you have to do like this go to this search window here and search for control panel okay. I'm going to type it in C and then the control panel will be on ok. So now control panel is on, open the control panel and open the hardware and sound okay, over here click on that. Now, click on Mouse settings. This will bring up the touchpad Dell settinga okay. Now, in the touchpad Dell setting here, you're going to click on the change the Dell touchpad setting and here we go. Now, in this you're going to go and click on device settings and on the device setting you will see the option for disable touchpad pointing stick when external USB mouse is present okay go and click on this box and click on apply and click on ok so now we'll go ahead and see now it's the my mouse here is plug it in rain so I'm going to pull this out first and you will see the touchpad is working let me hold on touchpad where's my touch but yeah that that's was working guys okay so now I'm going to plug the mouse external mouse in then hold on the touchpad again now it's not working ok but if I hold on the mouse and clicking around like this then it's working so that's it guys thanks so much for watching this video and I am Anna Fan from Techaply and don't forget to subscribe to this channel for more videos later on. Good bye for now. 