 - Welcome back to another episode of App TV, I'm Tasia Custode. Air quality and allergies often go hand in hand. If you've ever suffered from allergies, you'll want to stick around for a device and app that could change everything for you. Join me Tasia Custode. - [Richard] And me Richard Harlow. - [Tasia] For another episode of App TV. - On the counter beside me I have the Philips series 2000i Connect Air Purifier. It's white and resembles a tall rectangle about 24 inches in height. With the connected air purifier and companion app, you can track and control your air quality, anytime, anywhere. The device itself has three filters. A pre-filter to capture big particles. A carbon filter to reduce odors, and a HEPA filter to remove 99.9% of allergens and pollutants. And yes that includes pollen, dust mites and pet dander. Ew! There are three auto modes, General, an extra sensitive allergen mode, and bacteria and virus mode. There are also five manual settings, including a quiet sleep setting. After you've plugged in your air purifier, turned it on and connected it to your wifi, you'll want to download the Air Matters app to get the most of the Philips Connected Air Purifier. In order to pair your purifier to wifi, you may need some assistance. When you first download the app, you'll be prompted to provide your location. Click Allow in the bottom right of the pop up. Click Allow again if you'd like to receive push notifications. To add your Philips Connected Air Purifier, tap the plus icon in the right corner of the app. Tap on Philips, then select Setup New Device. Then select Get Started at the bottom. The app will automatically confirm your wifi connection. Click Yes in the bottom right of the app. If you've already prepped your purifier by holding down the power on button and light bulb icon, you can click Next at the bottom of the app to confirm the purifier is ready to connect. Now select Philips Setup in your wifi network settings on your mobile device. From here you'll be able to name your device. Select Next on the bottom when you're done. Now it's time to start using your app. The app provides detailed visualized air quality feedback and will automatically tell your the air quality in your city and other locations near you. Not just the air quality in your home. How cool is that! The app also works fairly well with voice over and talk back. So if you can't see the visuals, you'll still be able to get all the information you need about air quality. If you tap to select your city based on your location, it will provide you with a top allergens, a review of pollutants and even give you advice like, if being outdoors is not recommended for sensitive groups. As you scroll down you can even get a history of the air quality in your city. Underneath that is a map view, populated with air quality indicators. If you tap to select your device, you'll be able to control your air purifier from anywhere. You can change the fan speed, set a schedule or see your filter lifetime. For more information head to Philips.ca and search for the series 2000i Connected Air Purifier. For more App TV tips, how to's, featured apps and interviews, head to AMI.ca/shows. 