 Going green we're creating more comfortable and enery efficient living space And who doesn't want to save a little green when it comes on to navigating the home loan process We've got tips the heat or cold is on... How the proper HVAC can help your home stay at just the right temperature Plus better design smart products are giving home owners faster connectivity So let's get connected! (Music) When we think of utility bills, we usually don't smile but when we lower those bills Well that's a whole other story... A great way to lower your energy bills with heating and cooling is getting efficient insulation installed For many owners or professional do-it-yourselfers are using a product that is making a lot of competitors green with envy, want to learn more come lets go! (Music) Insulating your attick is one of the best way to control energy cost. The EPA estimates proper insulation can save homeowners up to twenty percent on heating and cooling bills. Adding insulation helps to reduce heat loss in the winter and heat gain in the summer. "Hey Donna! How is it going up there?" "Hey Debbie, it's going great!" Yea.. "Yea we're making great progress and it is very easy to do. As a matter of fact, another fifteen minutes and I think I'll be completely done." So tell me, "why did you use green fiber?" For me,it was about the fact that I already have insulation up here and I need to improve up on it to lower my energy cost, and this is going to be what I found to be certainly the easiet thing to do. I didn't want to make a huge investment, I did feel like I needed to because I alredy have something I just wanted to improve upon what I already had. You're almost done? "I am just about done". How long did it take you? So far I have been up here just about an hour, so it will be total of about an hour and fifteen minutes. Easy enough right.. Yea, It was well worth my time. aww.. I have a cool drink waiting for you. That sounds great, Thanks Debbie!... (Music) Here to tell us more is Ben Underwood an insulation and green fiber expert. Ben, thank you for being here today. Thank you for having me. So ben, What makes green fiber such a smart choice for consumers and home owners? Right, well it's a higher R value print, high recycle content, eighty-five percent and the machine is very easy to use. One cord here for electrical connection, there's the glowing hose here, thats goes into your attick. Yea it doesn't get any easier than that you, plug it and I turn it on, so that was fantastic. Now I've heard of something called "Rvalue" what is that? Rvalue is standard for detemining the resistant to heat transfer, the higher the Rvalue the better thermo will perform. Ok that makes. How do we know how much green fiber to add? If it's an existing home, the existing amount of insulation dictates how much you need to bring it up to standard. In this case it's roughly four inches there, need to add about six to get it up to standard. "So, you're talking about adding to exisiting like you did, What about a new construction though?" This product has been used for alot in new consturction for a nearly a century. So ben can it save us money? "Yes it can absolutely save money, it can save up to twenty percent cost savings on your energy bills with use of this product". And debbie my experience with this in my house, I have been in here over twenty years. I love my house, however what I have notice is that the electrical bill in the summer is going up, the heating bill is going up and it is costing me more money. So we were looking for something that would give us more efficiency, a better way of spending our money. And I have found it and very pleased. And what about the sound, How do it work with the sound? The product fills all the gabs and bullets, it's also a more dense product two to three times more dense than traditional insulation. So, those two things combines to make it truly a superior sound control product. My husband has complained about the sound noise in the house and frankly when I am working even at home and I'm talking on the phone. I can hear the gardener landscaping, sites going on outside. So I never realize how noisey my house is during the day. And because it's paper, How does it work should a fire break out? well it is eight-five percent recycled newspaper and created with fire retargeted chemicals. It's very resilient to fire in fact We just got a class 1A fire rating. You know when I think of insulation, the first thing that comes to mind is, itchy. So, how is green fiber different? OK.. absolutely no itch.. And where do we find green fiber and the blowing system? You can find green fiber products in most big buck retailers, independent retailers or professional contractors anywhere in the country. Well to learn more, and help you save money, jump on the web and visit greenfiber dotcom and you can always visit us at designingspaces.tv Remember summer or winter, sound or fire, green goes with everything. (Music) From smart phones to smart TV's to smart living, the evolution has created technoligies that has touched every aspect of our lives. Changing the way we live, work and play. It's no wonder smart homes or a house with a lot of interconnected devices, is on the rise. But integrating some of these products can make many of us feel anything but smart. The Cardozo family knows this feeling all too well. I love technology but what really frustrates me is I want to sync up all my smart products under one platform. That's the most frustrating part for me. I use technology for so many aspects of my life, which makes it really convienient but the thought of setting up automated system on my own or with him. It kind of overwhelming and I really don't have time for that. So three products that I would like to integrate into my home is, a monitoring camera, an automatic door opener and an automated light switch. Tech expert Steve Toby from TESCO Technologies a leader in wireless communication technologies says this level of frustration is pretty common with many consumers today. Traditionally a lot of have consumers require professional installation to install a lot of these products. when you look at a home that has mulitple lights and multiples doors throughout the home, can be an inexpense proposition. So with this smart product some of the issues that you can have is the compatability concern They may not be aware as to whether it connects with their smart phone or it's compatible with their existing WIFI network, bluetooth or maybe there's a propriety standard like zigbe or Zwave. And so there can be a lot of confusion or apprehension to encounter when looking at connected products. To address consumers concern in the market place TESCO provides a variety of smart technology designed to be user friendly and conveniently managed from any smart device. I've done some research on these products in the past and its' either it's too complicated or too expensive for me to install. I finally found the ability to get all of these installed. It wasn't complicated, it wasn't hard, I was able to get the automatic door lock, video camera and automatic light switch installed not hard, not complicated not expensive. For the consumer, they can simply download an app, pair them with their devices and existing technology of wifi and Bluetooth allowing them to very easily interact. The smart products are proving on enhance productivity, increase efficiency and give the cardozo piece of mind. I always have my mobile device with me and it makes it alot simplier with the automated system. When a person comes to the door I don't have to fumble for my keys because I am always carrying groceries or taking care of the kids. So the door opens automatically and the lights turn on automatically too and I can see who is my front door when I am at any room in the house. "Siri, please unlock the door?" "Siri(of the front door is unlocked" (Music) Our connected home products address several areas for consumers, including: home security, home convenience and home efficiency. These products allow them to save money buying more efficient homes that have a more secure home environment. So what we are seeing is a lot of growth and interest from the device operating system and the companies that make the smart phone. Investing a lot of resources into the technology for connected home eco system. By doing so this opens the door to more consumers, to easily adopt the technology. It will be alot more attractive to them in the coming years. Creating a connected ready home needs to be seamless and thanks to TESCO today's home owners can enjoy perfect connectivity in a twenty four seven mobile world. To learn more about smart home products visit TESCO dotcom or to watch this segment of the show again visit designingspacesdottv (Music) Coming up! Why going local when it comes to a home mortgage makes the most monetary sense. (music) (music) Are you looking for a home and a mortgage? or just need to refinance your exisiting loan. If so go local, well that seems easy enough, there are things you need to know. Participating federal home loan bank lender are making the mortgage process easier, faster and better for consumers. Meet Chad and Elizabeth Vertinin, who's dream of home ownership became a reality, they decided to go local for their mortgage needs. One of things that I liked about the local lending institution, was the we had a lot of things going on at the time. So we were at the same time planning for a wedding and with all the craziness of that the people here at tropial financial really made it accessable. And so, they gave us their phone numbers, we were able to call them; our lender really made herself accessable to us. So it was great help for us. The best part of the local lending instituiton was how flexible they were and also how friendly they were. One of the things I find most helpful was that obviously mortgage rates were lower. I was like, let me dive in more, let me learn a little more. What I learned about this lending institutions was the fact that they kind of laid everything out for me. They were kind of walking me through the process but at the same time letting me know, these are the steps needed to take in order for us to close on this property. (Music) The federal homeloan banks are made up of eleven home loan banks across the United States. We are a corporate system establish by congress in 1932 to help support local lenders and make sure they have the funds availbale to them, needed to make sure that they can continue lending across the United States. Kind of makes me think of a movie, "It's a wonderful life"; you may have seen it at christmas time starring Jamie Stewart. That was all about the financial crisis and the fact that the funds were not available when it was needed. The home loan banks make sure that money is available when it's needed. The federal homeloan bank mortgage purchase program is a program that allows community lenders; such as credit unions and local community banks. Make mortgages in their market and work with local people And take those loans and have a source secondary market is what we call it. To sell that loan to, we're that investor that buys that loan and puts it on our balance sheet, and gives them the money back so that they can relend it in their community. Having that local experience and understanding what the local environment is, what the real estate market is about. Those are the type of things that the local lenders has the experience and knowledge of that perhaps someone who is national may not have that local understanding. FHO banks are sponsored by the federal government and has helped millions of home owners since they were created in 1932. Through it's mortgage programs the FHO banks have provided six hundred and eighty billions dollars of mortgage funding. The federal home loan banks through our mortgage purchase programs for a variety of products that we make available through our local lenders. For example, Tropical Financial Credit Union is working with us under our "JUMBO" product and making JUMBO available in addition to that we have other products for instance the thirty year fix such as the FHA and VA loans. So alot of products make a lot of options available to local community. It's the biggest process you're have to go through, It's the biggest purchase in your entire lifetime. And it's a very scary process, it's not something that just happens over night. So having someone local to walk you thtough every single step, I think is really imperative. It's building that trust relationship with someobody that you can work with and understand the complicated process of obtaining a mortgage loan. And to have somone that you can go to locally pay that premium at the local bank and have a friendly smile greet you everytime you do that is a wonderful thing. So,go local reach out to your local community bank or credit union support your local community. While saving time and money,it is a win win. To locate a community bank or credit union in your city of town. Go to mymortgagelocatordotcom or visit our website designingspacesdottv. Anybody who wants to buy or refinance a home. I would totally recommend that they go would local, like we did. Later connecting your home for maximum efficiency and we're venting ! Tips from the pros on your heating, ventalating and air conditioning. (Music) (Music) When it comes to cool technology or technology that keeps us cool. What's cooler than HVAC and that is heating, ventilation and air conditioning. By the way Joining us on this tip from designing spaces is pretty cool lady herself, Nikki Garlan. "Ok Debbie, great intro I like that very cool". "You like that, I do I do". "But your right debbie, choosing the correct HVAC equipment and HVAC professional is very important to ensure your getting your home cool in summer as well as warm in the winter. Cause we really don't want it the other way around You got one the other way around.. Just as important Debbie is ensuring that the best heating and cooling system for your budget. Bascially getting the biggest bang for your buck. "You know what our installers are always on time". "so let's head outside to the garage, you think he's here don't you" Let's check it out. Ok, so "How do we do that? By using a true trusted HVAC professional,to come in asess your homes heating and cooling needs. Someone like Franco! "Hey Franco!..Good timing" Thank you.. Thanks Franco, yea keep it cool, it's pretty hard to come by. Well I will tell him you said that.. So what do you look for in a dealer? Armstrong Air and various dealers are located throughout the United State. When a dealer comes into your home typically he's going to do a low calculation; to determine what is the proper size of equipment for your home and for your heating and cooling needs. Well that makes sense because everyone is different And on top of that debbie, out dated, older models of equipment can we way less efficient than our new updated equipment. So what that could mean is when you get a new system, you get the old replaced. You may incur or potentially have cost saving and the way of lower utility bills and lower monthly expenses to operate that equipment. So pretty much what I am hearing the bottom line is, stay cool in the summer and warm in the winter. We need to do our home work meaning get the right professional and get the right equipment. You're absolutely right, Armstrong Air, AirEase brand are two brands that can be one great solution. So let me thank you so much for being here, "Thank you Debbie". I appreciate it.. Well to to keep your environment cool in the summer and warm in the winter. All you have to do is jump on the web for more imformation and just visit armstrongairdotcom and aireasedotcom and you can always check out out website at designingspacesdottv. Thanks for joining us and be cool! (Music) With almost five hundred thousand homefires reported last year in the US. Smoke detectors and Carbon Monoxide detectors will continue to serve a vital purpose to get you out of harms way. But what about when your not at home and a fire starts. So I went digging for a better solution and thats when I found out about the "Roost smart battery". Row Peters is the Ceo of Roost now Row what you have in your hand it looks like a nine volt battery. How does it really work? Actually it is a nine volt battery, more importantly it is a WIFI enabled cloud connected nine volt battery. And you can plug it in your exisiting smoke or seal alarm, and when that alarm goes off and your not at home, you actually get a notification on your smart phone. "ok, so how do I get set up?' Start by downloading the app; and the first question we ask is where are we going to put it? So let's start with the kitchen because that's where we're at. You type the WIFI password once, place the battery on a flat surface and place phone right next to it. So the battery and the phone speaking to each other right now. That's exactly right and once that information is transferred, now the battery communicates through WIFI to the cloud all the way back to the phone. Incredible I can keep the same smoke detector! Absolutelty, so that's one option. However people don't just realize that smoke alarms expire after ten years. We actually have developed a two smoke alarm, the two hundred is smart fire and smoke alarm. The RC400 will only detect fire and smoke and also natural gas and CO carbondioxide. Or you can also add friends and neighbors to it, so that when an alert goes out it's not just you that's notified but also your trusted friends and neighbors. There is one more great benefit we have over five years of battery life in a typical smoke alarm. And om top of that we will let you know way in advance that the battery is running low and it needs replacement. That's great news because I have been certainly woken up in the middle of the night, with my smoke detector chirping. Very annoying, so thank you so much for explaining how the roost battery works. For information you can go to getroostdotcom or our website designingspacesdottv. (Music) For information on anything you have seen on today's show or to learn how to be apart of the show go to designingspacesdottv. You can visit these websites to learn more about the participants on this edition of designing spaces. Making a space you can call home, Living the lifestyle you desire It's what We're all about, we are designing spaces. (Music) 