 Steve Martin: Alright, thank you very much. Raj. I appreciate Steve Martin: The invitation. Steve Martin: I'm sorry that I was unable to visit. Steve Martin: In person back in the spring. Steve Martin: But I think this is the new normal. At least for the next probably six months, I would imagine. Steve Martin: So yeah, I, uh, I'm going to spend most of my time today talking about membrane materials, which is really the area that my group is focused on the most in the last, I would say five years or so. Steve Martin: And so title of the talk, Nano composite membranes for high flux and I selectivity membranes was kind of deliberately they most of what I'm going to talk about today has to do with desalination. Steve Martin: Although I think some of the concepts that we're we're interested in exploring have applications and other kinds of separations, whether it's for organic solvent filtration and separations, or whether it's for Steve Martin: Gas phase. Steve Martin: Separations and so Steve Martin: We'll start with it. Steve Martin: Will start just by giving the the the advertisement about Virginia Tech. So for those of you who don't know, Virginia Tech. Steve Martin: Is the land grant state university in the Commonwealth of Virginia. We're located in Blacksburg, Virginia, which is a true college town, we have a population of about 40,000 Steve Martin: Full time residents and the student population of the University grad and undergrad is about 30,000 or just over 30,000 students so Steve Martin: We really are a college town in terms of where we are. We're located in the Appalachian Mountains. So we're about an hour from Roanoke. Steve Martin: Which is the the big Metropolis in the area, which most of you have have probably never heard of our about four hours from Washington DC, about two and a half to three hours from Charlotte and about three and a half hours from from the Raleigh Durham area so Steve Martin: We're, we're, we're a nice place to live as long as you don't want to spend a lot of time in the big city, which is is convenient for me. Steve Martin: This last weekend. My son is a as a sixth grader. He just started Boy Scouts and so we spent the weekend up on the Appalachian Trail. Steve Martin: And so basically, these are some views from from Sunday morning and Saturday evening. So if you like the outdoors. This is a great part of the country to be so I recommend if you have the opportunity to come out and visit, we'd be we'd be glad to have you out here in Blacksburg Steve Martin: And so basically this is a you know a view of university that we Steve Martin: Historically were a Military College. Steve Martin: Up until the early 70s. Our students were required to be in the Corps of Cadets and so the thing of the center of campus is called the drill field and we still have a significant Steve Martin: Significant population of cadets on campus, my building is actually up in the corner here and actually in this picture hasn't yet been built Steve Martin: So we're actually in a in a newer building on campus. But despite the fact that we are in the South. Steve Martin: By Southwest Virginia. We are in the mountain. So we do actually get all four seasons, which Steve Martin: As a Canadian by upbringing. I was happy to be able to have at least a little bit of wintertime when I moved to Virginia Tech. Steve Martin: Um, so a little bit about the department. I'm a faculty member in the Department of Chemical Engineering. We are a small department on campus. Steve Martin: You know the mechanical engineering department in electrical engineering department here are very, very large. So we have about 18 and a half faculty. Currently we share one faculty member with material science department. Steve Martin: And we graduate, something on the order of about 100 seniors per year that number fluctuates a little bit. And generally, we have some, something on the order of 60 to 70 graduate students at any given time in the department. Steve Martin: And so that's my my academic home. However, I'm also heavily involved with the macro molecules Innovation Institute, which is an interdisciplinary research institute focused on polymer science and engineering. And so that has about 65 faculty from across 16 different departments. Steve Martin: Basically has a lot of shared facilities materials characterization laboratory where they have different kinds of Steve Martin: instruments that we get access to, as well as running its own graduate macro degree program. So we actually have Steve Martin: A macro with your science and engineering PhD students who go from that who go through that program in my eye. Steve Martin: But then actually do their research with faculty in the various, various home home department. Alright, so that's that's enough advertisement. Steve Martin: Should probably get on with the technical part of the talk. Steve Martin: In terms of my background. I'm a chemical engineer by training. However, as an undergraduate. I had a minor essentially in material science. And then I went to the University of Minnesota. Steve Martin: Which is a combined chemical engineering and material science department. So everything that I do has a heavy materials bonus Steve Martin: And so if I were to describe what what we're interested in, in my lab, we have sort of three pieces that I think come together. The one is looking at processing synthesis and self assembly, to a certain extent. Steve Martin: In terms of how do we actually make materials and how do we actually control the properties of those materials that we make. Steve Martin: The next one is material structured. Right. How do we control material structure. How do we measure material structure. Steve Martin: What impact does that have on the the materials or devices that we're creating and then finally Steve Martin: We're interested in molecular transport and interactions. And this is really where the the work and membrane separations, and some of our other separations kind of work comes in. Steve Martin: So I'm not going to go through all of these in detail. Again, a large part of the work in our group currently is focused on membrane separations, and that's Steve Martin: Some of that is water desalination and wastewater treatment. Some of that is gas separations. Steve Martin: We also have some efforts in CO2 capture basically looking at gas scorpion and we're actually have some interesting work looking at agricultural gases as well that were potentially getting into Steve Martin: We've done work in thin film morphology and adhesion. We did some work with ice adhesion and anti aging coatings. We've done working composites and Nana composites. Steve Martin: Things like so those nano fiber composites and composites containing carbon nanotubes and then we did some work. Steve Martin: In morphology development, and I should update this because, again, the work and block of polymers is something that's that's a few years old now. We haven't, haven't focused on it recently. Steve Martin: But we're looking right now at expanding some of that work into applications and additive manufacturing. So really understanding Steve Martin: How morphology develops during the 3D printing process, especially for fused deposition modeling hype 3D printing. But for today's talk, I'm going to focus entirely on this first bullet point right nano composite membranes for water purification Steve Martin: And so I'm going to do what every other membrane talk has done now for at least the last year, probably longer than that. Steve Martin: Basically, there was an article that came out by David show and Ryan lively from Georgia Tech back in April of 2016 Steve Martin: In nature, seven chemical separations to change the world. And so basically everybody pulls this this nice diagram from that paper to show you why we care about membranes. Steve Martin: And so the idea here is that we have a total US energy consumption of 98 quads. Steve Martin: And now, before I spent a year at the Department of Energy. I did not actually know what a quad was so a quad is short for a quadrillion BT us or B to you is a British thermal units. If we think about that in SI units. That's about 2.9 times 10 to the Steve Martin: kilowatt hours. And so I was I was doing some back of the envelope calculations on this. So the average American home consumes about 11,000 kilowatt hours per year. Steve Martin: So this number here is equivalent to about 2.6 billion American homes and that combines everything right. So that's the residential power usage commercial power usage, transportation, industrial power usage, etc. Steve Martin: So for memory and applications were really interested in this industrial piece which is 32% of the whole and of that industrial peace. Steve Martin: Between 44 or five and 55% so about half of that industrial energy usage is due to separation processes and so they Steve Martin: Kind of split these out into distillation drying and evaporation. So the thermal Steve Martin: Thermal separation processes, which we know are going to be very high in energy because you have to come over overcome Layton heats a very vaporisation in order to affect those those separations. Steve Martin: And so basically we see that we have about 16 quads of energy and separation and about eight quads of energy, just in distillation Steve Martin: And so the number that they bandy about is that if you could replace all of those distillation processes with something like membranes which don't rely Steve Martin: On a face change to affect the separation. We could save 90% of that energy that we're spending on distillation, which is about 7.2 quads. Steve Martin: Which comes out to about 7.3% of the total energy usage. And so if we think about, again, the total energy usage being 2.6 billion homes worth of energy use that 7.3% is about 191 million homes worth of energy use. Steve Martin: So that's why people care. That's why we think this is an interesting place to go. Now again, this is dealing with all different kinds of separations. Many of these are not water. Steve Martin: In fact, in the case of water and desalination we actually find that that membranes have have actually taken a much bigger role already Steve Martin: Um, so let's take a minute and think about what what membranes aren't basically what a membrane is a barrier. Right. So we have some kind of material. I've got, I've got three different types of membranes depicted schematically here. Steve Martin: It's basically a barrier where we have some mixture of chemical compounds on one side and the goal of the membrane is to prevent or at least to Steve Martin: Change the rate at which those different compounds move through this this membrane barrier. Right. So we have a difference in concentration Steve Martin: Between the upstream side and the downstream side. So if we look at this, this particular situation we have these blue molecules and these orange molecules. Steve Martin: And I've depicted three here to have these are porous membranes and one of them is a non porous or solid membrane. And so if we start over on the left. Steve Martin: And we can think about what's called a Knutson diffusion separation method. And this is only only something that we would see in gas in the gas phase right because we realized very low. Steve Martin: Very low gas densities in comparison to the width of these pores, but we do actually see this in certain kinds of inorganic membranes and carbon nanotubes and metals. And so basically what you're relying on is a difference in the Knutson diffusion constant Steve Martin: Between these two molecules. And as we move further right we actually decrease the size of those pores and we move away from from a new to diffusion mechanism, something we might refer to as molecular sitting and so we have a sieve. A set is just a now a something that will allow Steve Martin: allow certain size particle through while preventing another another particle size coming through. So again, we see these orange. Steve Martin: particles that are much bigger than the blue ones. And so these pores will prevent passage of these orange particles through while allowing the blue particles to go through and so again we can see this Steve Martin: In the lights, we can see it in certain kinds of porous polymers and they're also metal oxide membranes that exhibit this kind of molecular sieving Steve Martin: The third case is the one that we may be most familiar with in terms of the mechanism. And this is this. These are our dense solid membranes. Often, these are Paul America. Steve Martin: And these use what we call a solution to fusion mechanism. And then in the solution diffusion mechanism. Steve Martin: We have a combination of two effects. There's the effect of solubility and the effect of the diffusion constant. So, Steve Martin: As each of these molecules comes up to the surface, it has to partition basically dissolve into the polymer membrane. Steve Martin: And they will do that at different rates. Right. So one molecule might have more affinity for the polymer. Also, the size of the molecule has an impact on Steve Martin: On how much can be dissolved into the into the polymer membrane. And then there's a secondary effect of diffusion right and so generally smaller molecules will diffuse at a faster rate through the membrane. Steve Martin: But again, they're all there are always exceptions to that rule based on specific inner molecular interactions. Steve Martin: When we talk about desalination membranes. Steve Martin: Usually we people to people talk about this from the perspective of molecular sieving because what you're trying to do is effect a separation between a water molecule which is small and a hydrated salt ion, which tends to be large. Steve Martin: However, there's, there's some question about, you know, whether this is more of a solution diffusion mechanism or a molecular sitting, sitting mechanism. Steve Martin: And when we talk about liquid phase separations for membranes. There are basically a hierarchy of different materials, depending on the size of the things that we want to separate Steve Martin: And so if we think about the largest Steve Martin: For sizes on the order of 100 nanometers to 10 microns. This would be known as micro filtration. Steve Martin: And so the things that would be rejected by our micro filtration membrane are fairly large rates were talking about large scale collards bacteria. Steve Martin: That are large enough to be rejected as we get smaller. We get to ultra filtration, which has pore size is somewhere between two and 100 nanometers. Steve Martin: And again, at that point, we can start rejecting smaller things like macro molecules and proteins. So by a macro molecules and Steve Martin: As we go to the next stage down Nana filtration. Now we're talking about things that are on the pore size on the order of anatomy or so and so. Nana filtration. Steve Martin: Can affect some forms of desalination. So if you look in the literature. Some desalination processes will refer to nano filtration. That's really only good for multi valence salts, right, so where we talked about calcium Steve Martin: Sulfate type salts, where you have larger, larger cannons and and I and that are going to have a much larger hydration radius. Steve Martin: And then the final one, the one that we're going to focus on is reverse osmosis. And so for reverse osmosis membranes. Steve Martin: We're generally talking about pore size on on the order of point one to one nanometers. And as I mentioned before, once you get down to the small pore sizes. It is important to kind of ask whether we actually have a Steve Martin: Molecular sieving type of factor, whether this is more like a solution diffusion mechanism. Steve Martin: But the advantage of that is that we can now get down to the size scale where we can reject those monovalent salts, which make up the bulk of the salts that we see in say seawater or Rakesh surface water. Steve Martin: So again, depending on what we have, we're just rejecting smaller and smaller types of materials. Steve Martin: Are interested in the area of nano composite membrane. So instead of just using a pure polymer membrane. Steve Martin: As, as might be commonly done for some of these some of these separations are interested in adding functionality or altering the performance of the membrane through the addition Steve Martin: Of nano particles and I've basically split these up by geometry. So we can think about zero d nano. Nano particles are zero dimensional nanoparticles. Steve Martin: Which are things like quantum dots metallic nanoparticles. These are basically spherical or near spherical types of nanoparticles. Steve Martin: We have one dimensional one D nanoparticles, which are rod rod like in nature. And a lot of these are things like carbon nanotubes and other kinds of nanotubes like for nitrogen additives. Steve Martin: But another one of significant interest to us. Are these cellulose nano crystals which we'll talk about Steve Martin: in some detail later on. And then we can also think about two dimensional nanoparticles. And these have gained a lot of interest in the membrane area. Steve Martin: In the last 1015 years these go down, go back to things like nano clays and obviously people looked at Nana plays for Steve Martin: Several decades but also newer and more functional materials like graphene and graphene oxide. Steve Martin: And again whenever people are adding nanoparticles to these membranes. They're trying to change the properties of the membrane. Steve Martin: And so generally we're talking about trying to do things like improve the flux right so improve the rate at which Steve Martin: Material moves through the membrane improvements in selectivity. Right. So, improve the difference between the flux rates of different different compounds. Steve Martin: We want to be able to reduce falling so fouling is when we have built up of some kind, on the side of the membrane that will actually prevent the membrane from functioning properly. Steve Martin: That can be things like bio falling. So again, in a, in a desalination process are typically taking the at this water from the environment. There are lots. There's lots of stuff in that water bacteria, viruses, Steve Martin: Other kinds of bio macro molecules floating around, but can stick to the membrane and prevent rent effective functioning of the membrane. Steve Martin: But this can also be things like mineral scaling right where, again, we have sometimes have dive Vaillant Steve Martin: Salt right especially calcium salts can cause this problem that actually precipitate out onto the membrane and can basically block the membrane. So Steve Martin: So, reducing fouling is one of the one of the goals. And then the other thing that people often talk about is Steve Martin: Their desire to improve the physical stability and robustness of the membrane. And so again, people have known for a long time that adding fillers to polymers can change the physical properties of those materials right increase the strength increase the modules. Steve Martin: So the focus for this talk is going to be on one dimensional nanoparticles are interested in these high aspect ratio. Steve Martin: One dimensional nanoparticles. And so there are three that we're going to discuss the first our carbon entity based membranes and we'll talk about cellulose nano crystals and then finally we'll discuss memo organic framework based I aspect ratio and a particle membranes. Steve Martin: So dissemination. Again, this is big business now water and the availability of clean water has been identified. Steve Martin: By a variety of groups as one of the important challenges facing us globally in the 21st century. Steve Martin: And one of the solutions to the availability of clean water is through dissemination and purification technologies and so Steve Martin: These numbers are a couple of years older from 2018 but at that point, there were almost 16,000 operational desalination plants globally. Steve Martin: With total ease have desalination capacity of about 95 million meters cube per day or 35 billion meters cube for a year, right. So this is a huge industry are ready. Steve Martin: And if we look at the share of different technologies that that perform these receive that by far the largest share about 70% is taken up by reverse osmosis, which is a membrane technology. Steve Martin: If we look at the other other pieces of the pie here 18% is multistage flash, which again is a thermal evaporation process is that we're just boiling off the water leaving a Brian behind Steve Martin: We do have some other membrane process, obviously we have Nana filtration at about 3% again that does not get your sodium chloride out of your water right so this is Steve Martin: Very specific applications of desalination. And then we have things like electric dialysis, which is also a membrane process, but is very specific. Steve Martin: In its usage. But you can see that reverse osmosis is really the biggest piece of the pie. And then we look, look. When we look specifically at the type of waters that are being Steve Martin: In purified using these techniques we see that seawater is still the biggest one right so 60% seawater about 21% brackish water which is basically lower salinity and then we have a few others right river water pure water and wastewater and Brian Steve Martin: So what is desalination by reverse osmosis. So if you go back to your thermodynamics course you'll remember that osmotic pressure. Pressure is a thermodynamic quantity that is related to the number density of objects. Sophie Wang: In a solution. Steve Martin: And so in the case of saltwater and freshwater if we do the, the thought experiment where we have salt water on one side of a semi permeable membrane and fresh water on the other side of a semi permeable membrane what we expect. Again, if Steve Martin: This membrane will allow water through that will prevent the salt ions from from transiting the membrane. Steve Martin: We expected the freshwater will cross the membrane to dilute the salt water on the other side of the membrane and it will do so. Steve Martin: Until the osmotic pressure is equalized by hydrostatic pressure. So we would expect that the height of the water on the salty side would increase until that hydrostatic pressure head will equalize Steve Martin: So what is reverse osmosis reverse osmosis as a brute force approach to making this go the other way. So what we do is we play enough pressure Steve Martin: To the saltwater side that we overcome that asthmatic pressure and then drive the freshwater to the other side. Right. So basically what we were doing. Steve Martin: Is instead of diluting that salt water with fresh water, which was what would occur naturally. We're actually applying an external pressure to that salt water or side. Steve Martin: Driving water across the membrane. So we get fresh water on the downstream side. So basically, what we have is a feed of Steve Martin: Seawater or brackish water high salinity feed goes through a high pressure pump and this is where most of the energy goes into the process significant amount of energy goes into that high pressure pump. Steve Martin: And then we come into our memory module. And so hopefully fresh water comes out as the permeate and concentrated Brian comes out. Steve Martin: As the return take from that membrane system. And if we want to think about how much energy we're talking about here. We can we can look at membrane operating pressure Steve Martin: As a way of thinking about how much energy goes into the process. So for brackish water. And again, all of the results that I will show for our work is done with brackish water. Steve Martin: Mainly because we don't want to deal with really high pressure systems salinity on your about 2000 PPM. And so the asthmatic pressure there is about 31 psi. And so basically we have to put at least 31 psi Steve Martin: On the upstream side of the membrane to get any water across generally what we're going to do is then add a significant amount of extra pressure to try and get the water to flow through faster. So we operate on the order of Steve Martin: 200 psi or there abouts seawater is significantly higher in terms of salinity or about on the order of 35,000 again this can vary depending on which Steve Martin: Part of the world you're drawing your water from so the asthmatic pressure here is also much higher right now 550 psi and so pretty pressures can be as high as 800 even much higher right Steve Martin: Up to 1200 or 1400 psi Steve Martin: In terms of the separation itself. We have water molecules which have a diameter on the order of 2.8 inch drums and then hydrated sodium and hydrated chloride, which both have diameters, on the order of Steve Martin: Seven extremes. So in theory, this is a relatively easy separation to do based on the difference in size. And so that's generally what people assume the separation is controlled by Steve Martin: In terms of our characterization. We have a lab scale setup to do these Steve Martin: Experiments. I'm going to cover this now and just, this is basically what we do for all of the different membranes. We're going to look at Steve Martin: Basically, we have a fee tank where we prepare our Brian solution you have our high pressure pump that then feeds into our, our own membrane cell. Steve Martin: Inside the cell, we have our membrane, which we've we've put in there. We have the feed. So basically, on the high pressure side if he comes in. There's a spacer. Steve Martin: Which serves to increase turbulence in the flow across and prevent concentration polarization and falling of the membrane. Steve Martin: And then that comes out the outlet and then is basically recirculated background into the feet tank. Right. So we just basically we circulate our Brian solution. Steve Martin: And then on the other side, we have a permeate stream which hopefully is low salinity and so we basically measure Steve Martin: The quantity of the permeate that comes out with respect to time. And we use that calculator flux. Right. So the flux Q will be equal to the Steve Martin: Volumetric quantity of the permeate divided by the time divided by the area of the membrane. Steve Martin: Typically this is reported in units of Ellen H which is liters per meter squared or our that's the standard or the arrow membrane literature. Steve Martin: And then we'll take that sample and use atomic absorption spectroscopy. To calculate the concentration of salt in both the feed material and in the permeate material. Steve Martin: And from that will calculate a rejection rejection is a percentage value is defined as one minus the ratio of the concentration in the permeate divided by the concentration in the feed is 100. And so you can see that if we have Steve Martin: Zero percent rejection of the salt than those concentrations will be the same and that value will go to zero. However, if we have 100% rejection Steve Martin: Or we have have no salt allowed to go through the membrane will see that CP will go to zero. And we'll get a value of 100 so the goal here is to get as close to 100% rejection, as we can. Steve Martin: Typically, again, we're doing brackish water conditions. So we're talking about 2000 PPM feed we flow it through our membrane salad about 2.5 liters per minute and Steve Martin: Most of the work is done here with a trans membrane pressure of 257 250 psi or about 1.72 mega Pascal, there is some data that will show that is at a slightly different slightly different transmit bring pressure as well. Steve Martin: So let's talk about the types of membranes that we're interested in. Steve Martin: So thin film composite reverse osmosis membranes have been state of the art in terms of the industry standard since the late 70s. Right. So the first Steve Martin: The first of these membranes were patented back in the late 70s. What they consist of is is multiple layers. Right. So there is a non woven support typically a polyester. Steve Martin: That is just there to provide structural stability for the rest of the membrane. Steve Martin: On top of that, is a porous poly cell phone layer. And when I talk about porous, we're talking about small portion. So this is essentially an ultra filtration membrane. Steve Martin: in its own right. And then on top of that ultra filtration membrane. We will then deposit a very thin layer. Steve Martin: Of polyamory. This is the selective layer in terms of where the separation occurs between water molecules and the salt ions. Steve Martin: And that Pollyanna added layer is typically deposited using an interracial polymerization technique where we have one monitor and aqueous solution that is basically laid down on the surface of that probably cell phone ultra, ultra, ultra filtration membrane and then a second Steve Martin: Monomers then added on top of that, and a hexane solution and the the polymerization occurs at the interface, resulting in a very, very thin layer. Steve Martin: And I have some images here that show what this looks like from the side. So here's some an SEM image of one of our membranes. Steve Martin: And this actually contains some some carbon nanotubes, so we can ignore those. For the time being, basically, what we see is this porous poly ether cell phone. Steve Martin: ultra filtration membrane support and then on top of that we've laid down our Pollyanna layer. And what we see is that this Pollyanna mid layer is not very smooth at all. It actually has a very rough region Valley type of structure. Steve Martin: And it has been suggested that that rigid Valley structure is actually very important in terms of increasing the amount of flux through membranes. Steve Martin: What I'm interested in our nano composite reverse osmosis membranes. And again, people have been looking at these for quite a long time as well. We can go all the way back in terms of carbon nanotube nano composites. Steve Martin: To work that was done in the early 2000s. And so there's some really interesting work done by Bruce Hines at the University of Kentucky where they were growing vertical forests of carbon nanotubes and then in filling between them to create a very nicely well ordered material. Steve Martin: That's not actually what we're going to be doing because we're trying to create a more scalable type of process to produce the membranes. Steve Martin: In terms of our members, as I mentioned, there are a variety of different kinds of nano composites, we can refer to Steve Martin: We have the surface located nano composite basically where we're just embedding nanoparticles at the surface of a membrane to try and alter the surface properties. Steve Martin: We have membranes, where instead of embedding those nanoparticles in the active Pollyanna glare. We're actually embedding them in that Polly ether cell phone support. So we're basically modifying the ultra filtration membrane lying underneath. Steve Martin: This is also the same as what they this particular paper refers to as the conventional Nana composite Steve Martin: What we're interested in is the thin film nano composite where we're actually embedding our nano particles inside this Pollyanna didn't polyamory layer at the surface of the membrane. And so there's been a variety of work done, they're Steve Martin: Using a variety of different nanoparticles silver. So because the light, etc. And even in the area of carbon nanotubes. There was, there was a variety of work. Steve Martin: We're actually interested in these videos on functional nanoparticles. And there's a couple of reasons for that. Number one, they act as Steve Martin: gatekeepers for access to the interior of the carbon nanotube. And number two, it's been shown that when we add zero I on functional functionality to a membrane, we can actually increase the resistance to fouling that we might see in that membrane. Steve Martin: So in terms of our of the work that we're interested in doing. We're adding these nanoparticles again some of these, we can see Steve Martin: People have added nanoparticles to the membranes. These are gold 10 nanometer gold nanoparticles that we can see built up Steve Martin: In the membrane. And as I said, carbon nanotubes are the ones that we're going to be focused on initially, but then we'll also talk about cellulose nano crystals and metal organic frameworks. Steve Martin: So why are we interested in carbon nanotubes. I mean, people have been interested in carbon nanotubes, since they were discovered. One of the really interesting applications from a separation perspective. Steve Martin: Is the idea that the carbon nanotubes, which are made up of these rolled up graphic carbon Steve Martin: Sheets of what has been referred to as unprecedented atomic smoothness. And so the idea is that if you can get a molecule inside that carbon nanotube, it can shoot down the interior of that to Steve Martin: Very little resistance. And so the idea is that we might get one to five orders of magnitude of flow enhancement right compared to a traditional no slip flow prediction fluid dynamics kind of prediction. Steve Martin: And there has been a variety of molecular dynamics work done on the system. I'm just going to show this one result by by Corey from 2008 that specifically focuses on desalination. Steve Martin: And what he did was, was create a model and change the internal diameter of the carbon nanotubes. Right. So we have the amateurs starting at about 11 anthems going down to about 6.78 strums Steve Martin: Them and as we move from larger diameter to smaller diameter, we see that our salt rejection increases, right. So our 10.8 Engstrom diameter has a salt rejected and 58% Steve Martin: By the time we get to 8.1 read 100% salt rejection based on the molecular dynamics simulations. Steve Martin: At the same time, the flow rate in terms of how much water can travel through that membrane also decreases, but does not go to zero. Right. So the idea is that if we could get an 8.1 Engstrom internal diameter carbon nanotube. Steve Martin: Then we could get still have significant flow through that, while still maintaining 100% salt rejection. So that's kind of the goal in terms of making the membranes. Steve Martin: So I mentioned that we weren't going to be making nicely vertically aligned forests of nanotubes. Steve Martin: And again, there's a few reasons for that. Right. We don't want to deal with a chemical vapor deposition process, right, because that's kind of slow and expensive potentially we're much more interested in Steve Martin: Solution based processes or suspension based processes which are similar to the methods that are currently being used to make Steve Martin: Our own membranes. And so that's what what was originally developed for these carbon nanotubes in terms of the materials that we're using. We're actually using as a vendor, I am functionalist carbon nanotubes. So we have Steve Martin: This amine based as Veronica group that we add on, it's fairly big, it's fairly bulky Steve Martin: The goal behind adding these was to actually serve as as gatekeepers either three charge repulsion, or three stare Kendra. So the idea is that you have a nanotube, that is too big. Steve Martin: So it shouldn't have selected it for for the assault ion. And if we add this bulky group the bucket group will allow water molecules to go through Steve Martin: A through a combination of sterile hindrance and charge repulsion will prevent our ions from traveling through the membrane. Steve Martin: And so basically what we're doing is we're basically adding these Savannah and functional as carbon nanotubes into Steve Martin: Our membranes that we're producing using a traditional amphetamine diamond and try me. So according to create a cross link network of polyamory. Steve Martin: And in order to do this we actually use what we call a vacuum filtration process. So we start with our ultra filtration. Steve Martin: Membrane where you have are probably cell phone layer on our nonwoven polyester we place that in Steve Martin: A vacuum filter and then we would start with a disparate solution of ours mineral ionic single wall carbon nanotubes. Steve Martin: And actually vacuum filter that down onto the surface. So we end up with a map of what we referred to as semi alignment around a single wall nanotubes. Steve Martin: Your original idea was that we were going to be getting some kind of vertical alignment of those nanotubes due to the hydrodynamic forces present when we actually vacuum filter these things down. Steve Martin: I'm not actually convinced that we have as much alignment, as we would like. So if I've tended away from using that semi aligned term terminology as we move forward. Steve Martin: Once we have that in place, we then put our, our Amina solution, so it's it's water containing em Fennelly diamond on the surface. Steve Martin: We then as we roll it off. So we just have a thin layer left and then we add Steve Martin: A solution of Chinese or Korean hexane to the surface and and we get our interface with memorization. And the idea is that we are now embedding is carbon nanotubes inside that interface, the plumber ised oriented layer. Steve Martin: And so this is what it looks like at the end. Again, the nice thing about carbon nanotubes. You start with a nice white Steve Martin: ultra filtration membrane support and then we see a nice black membrane where we put down our carbon nanotubes. So that's the advantage of using the carbon nanotubes, you actually see where they are when you put them down. Steve Martin: So when we we made these membranes and we played around with a variety of different things. I'm not going to go into all of the all of the detail. Steve Martin: And basically, if we look at it, we can see there are some differences in the way the membranes, look. So this is the policy through cell phone support before we do any kind of Steve Martin: Memory in preparation, if we do a pure polyamory membrane without any added carbon nanotube. This is what we see. And this is again. Steve Martin: The, the normal rigid Valley structure that we would expect to see in a polyamorous membrane, we do see a significant change. Steve Martin: In the morphology of that surface when we add is carbon nanotubes. So, so we know that those carbon nanotubes, or having a significant impact on the morphology and structure of the membrane. And then if we look at this freeze fracture SEM image, you can actually see Steve Martin: What looks to be bundles of carbon nanotubes. They're not single and attitudes, because you wouldn't expect to see those in an SEM image, but we do expect to see bundles of carbon nanotubes that are kind of embedded in that membrane. Steve Martin: More importantly, we do see a significant impact on membrane performance. And so what I have here. Steve Martin: On this plot. On the left, we have the permission flux again and leaders per meter squared per hour. Steve Martin: On the right I have percent rejection and I'll point out, this goes from 90 to 100% not zero to 100% so even these things that are low are still at about 93% rejection Steve Martin: Um, and so we have a plane polyamory membrane as our control. And then we have to membranes here where we are increasing the quantity of Steve Martin: Dry and functional fictionalized single all nanotubes. So 9% and 20%. And the key thing to note is that Steve Martin: A permutation flux in grey increases from 11.6 and 23.9 and then all the way up to 48.6 so we're seeing more than a four fold increase in water flux and these are all done at the same trans men bring pressure Steve Martin: At the same time, we are seeing, seeing that we are maintaining or even increasing Steve Martin: The salt rejection again from a 97% 98.5 and 98.6%. So we see that by adding these veteran fictionalized carbon nanotubes, we see a significant improvement in performance over our control, which was the plane Pollyanna membrane. Steve Martin: The other interesting thing. And again, I mentioned anti bio fouling we did some work. Steve Martin: Using bovine serum albumin and basically tuning our solution so that we would have the most amount of BSA absorbed on a surface over time. So, Steve Martin: This just shows different conditions where we're looking at how much BSA to have in and and what the ionic strength of the solution would be. And so we did some studies where we had one gram per liter BSA with an ionic strength of 10 milli molar Steve Martin: And we see a significant decrease in the flux as a function of time. And so if we look over here on the right, we have a normalized flux. So we start out with a flux of 1.0 Steve Martin: We have two different membranes. We have the plane polyamory membrane and purple and there's been Ryan carbon nanotube functionalist polyamory and membrane. Steve Martin: In red. And so what we see is that over time you see a decrease in the performance of both of these membranes and that's due to the build up of this protein on the surface of the membrane protein is is adhering to the membrane basically inhibiting the flux of water through that membrane. Steve Martin: And so we see a couple of things that we can take away from this number one, we see a much more significant drop in the plane polyamory membrane than we do in the membrane can containing our functional is carbon nanotubes. Steve Martin: Um, the other thing to note is that when we do a Water Flush right water cleaning step while our polyamory membrane, only you know regains a small amount of its original flux our carbon anti membrane. Steve Martin: Basically sees a full recovery of the flux. And so again, the presence of that video and functionality and this carbon nanotubes is helping to prevent adhesion of these proteins on the surface. So, we are seeing a significant impact on anti bio falling in these kinds of systems. Steve Martin: Alright, so there's another piece of this, this is the same plot that I showed you before, and I wanted to talk a little bit about this last piece of data. Steve Martin: So the first three piece of data is playing Pollyanna and then this veteran functionalist carbon nanotubes. Steve Martin: The last piece of data is what we call an end cap carbon nanotubes. Steve Martin: And so this is basically as part of the synthesis process, we would take end cap carbon nanotubes, which basically have a cap over the end. So these are not open tubes. Steve Martin: And we would have to open those up using an acid hydrolysis step, we'd end up with hydroxyl hydroxyl groups decorating the end of the carbon nanotubes and then we do the chemistry on those hydroxyl groups, add this veteran. Steve Martin: Um, but as another control. We decided to look at the end kept materials and so adding the same amount as this veteran. We actually saw the same increase in water flux, right, so we're going from 11.6% the 48.6% Steve Martin: For the very end functionalist nanotubes and 11.6% or 11.6 elements to 49 elements for the end cap tubes. Now we do see a significant decrease in the salt rejection, right down to 93% Steve Martin: Um, but the whole point of adding a carbon nanotube, is that we are seeing transport through the tube. Steve Martin: And this particular piece of data got us to thinking a little bit about what was actually going on inside the membrane. Steve Martin: And so we can think about a few different possible paths for transport in the membrane. And so if we think about our whatever our molecule is I say our water molecule. Steve Martin: And it has three different choices right one, one of those choices is if it finds the end of the of the nanotube, it can basically transport down that attitude and this is essentially what we were assuming would happen Steve Martin: And it always has the opposite of the option of just going through the polymer right so we can we can always have transport through the Pollyanna membrane. Steve Martin: But there's a third potential pathway that pathway involves running down the outside of those carbon nanotubes. And so what if it occurred to us because we're not aligning these with these are not Steve Martin: Vertically aligned for us of nanotubes, so the thought is that basically, we actually have things running through this nano channel. Steve Martin: Rather than running through the center of the carbon nanotube. And we're seeing an impact. Do the presence of these nano channels. And if that's true, and we don't need to actually have a tube at all. All we need is a high aspect ratio nanoparticle Steve Martin: Because, in our case, we have to think about how likely is it that a water molecule is finding the open end of that narrative, it's much more likely for a water molecule to run into the side of one of these narratives and run down the side. Steve Martin: So this brings us to our next film and that's Nana cellulose. There's a few reasons why we chose Nana cellulose. We have some good reasons. Here, things like it's abundant it's renewable they're low cost. Steve Martin: You have unique these unique high aspiration morphology is availability sustainability are really what it comes down to is that when we were started starting to do this group. Steve Martin: Johan foster a professor in material science was kind of just across campus and I could call him up and say, Hey, do you have any cellulose nano crystals. Steve Martin: Okay. And so basically we got these these materials from him and again Celsius crystals. Again, they come from a variety of sources, most of them come from, from would Steve Martin: Depending on the source you actually get differences in how long those nanoparticles are versus the diameter Steve Martin: And so we have a little bit of some games. We can play with what exactly the aspect ratio is Steve Martin: The other thing about them is that they are relatively easy to function wise and one of the classic ways to do that is to do what's called a tempo oxidation Steve Martin: And so tempo basically goes from the go from having a bunch of hydroxyl groups and some salt, a tester is on the surface and we convert all those hydroxyl groups to carb carb oxalic acid groups. Steve Martin: And so that's one of the main the main things that we've done and the data that I will show you will be for tempo oxidized CNC mode or CNC nanopore Steve Martin: So we decided we would try these out and we do exactly the same method that we used for the carbon nanotubes in that we would start with R Steve Martin: E s layer and then we would do a vacuum infiltration step and we get these hopefully semi aligned tempo oxidized. So cellulose nanoparticles on the surface and then we would do our Steve Martin: Inner facial polymerization and get our nice planted membrane with embedded nano crystals. Steve Martin: And so we did that, and we got some data and the data was terrible. Right. So if you, if you look at the end of salt rejection on the left of flux on the right. I'm not sure what my student decided to switch up the order of those Steve Martin: But basically the song rejection data is this light blue data for the plane polyamory membrane. We have very good solid rejection, this, this is close to 99% Steve Martin: And then as we add our tempo oxidized cellulose nano crystals, we see that rejection is decreasing, um, however, we don't see Steve Martin: An increase in flux, which is what we would expect, we would expect that adding these Steve Martin: These nano crystals would provide new funk new avenues for transport through the membrane. And that's just not what happened. We got very inconsistent results, um, Steve Martin: And so, it occurred to us that what we should do would be to look at Steve Martin: What these things looked like before we did the first facial feminization so we can get an idea of what the structure Steve Martin: Of this kind of Matt of sales Nana crystals looked like. And so we did some AFM. And so this is AFM looking at the cellulose nano crystals on the old filtration support before we do any significant amount of Steve Martin: Memorization what we find out is that these things for very, very nice solid mats of nano cellulose. Steve Martin: Which is now what we wanted at all what we were looking for was something where we had these things dispersed in solution. Steve Martin: And so we had to come up with a new way to do it. And we can, what we did was is very common in the nano particle literature is called a dispersion method. Basically we disperse the nanoparticles in one of our two solutions, right, and then we do our inner facial polymerization Steve Martin: Get our nice membrane. And when we do that, we get much more consistent results. So here we can see we're maintaining high salt rejection Steve Martin: And as we increase in the amount of tempo oxidize selling those data crystals. You see, there were actually increasing the amount of flux right in a relatively controllable fashion. Steve Martin: And so again, what we've done here is we've added these new transport pathways within the membrane. Steve Martin: To allow us to alter the flux while maintaining selectivity. We think there's a lot more opportunity for actually controlling what goes on at that surface. Steve Martin: So we can actually really tune the interaction between the Pollyanna and these nanoparticles to control that that transport at the surface. Steve Martin: So again, these things, these, these templates that I seen she's really saw a good impact. And again, the mechanism that we propose is to have these nano scale voids at the surface. Steve Martin: The other thing I wanted to talk about briefly, I think I have a couple of minutes just to finish up. Steve Martin: Is has to do with metal organic frameworks and then we're going to frameworks are kind of interesting because those potentially offer us access to internal pores without having to find the end of a nanotubes. Steve Martin: And so many different frameworks. If you're not familiar with them are basically coordination polymer. So we have organic Liggins that coordinate with with metal centers. Steve Martin: And they formed some very nice different kinds of structures. Steve Martin: We have things that form hexagonal tubes and other kinds of things we can have one dimensional, two dimensional three dimensional structures. Steve Martin: Of the really interesting thing about this came, though, when my colleague and chemistry Amanda Morris suggested to me, she says, Well, I can make moths in terms as as naturopath. I said, well, that fits with what we're really interested in Steve Martin: And so what she did in her group that came up with a material. Steve Martin: Which is a known metal organic framework material and based on changing synthesis properties we can actually alter the morphology of these. And so we could create these more rod like structures. Steve Martin: The problem with these is that they have fairly large pores right 37 Engstrom pores. Steve Martin: And so what we wanted to do was use synthetic modification to actually tune the size of those pores. And so again, the idea here is, now we have rods of morphs, and we have some combination of materials going outside the mob, as well as going through the mouth. Steve Martin: And so, again, the problem here is the size of this poor 37 answers as far too big to be selective right so we can fit a lot of water molecules in there. Steve Martin: Equally, we can fit a lot of sodium ions in there, right. So that should not be selective at all. What we do is we add realistic acid mercy acid goes in there and actually binds to these metal centers and basically limits the amount of free volume inside the poor, but much smaller area. Steve Martin: Once we've done that, again, hopefully, if we do it right, water molecules will still go through. Wow. So your molecules will be rejected. Steve Martin: So we do the same kind of production method where we Disperse these nano rods in one of our solutions and do our inner facial memorization. Steve Martin: And what we saw was kind of interesting. So these are all done for the same loading levels. So the same amount of nanoparticle. However, what we've done is change the amount of marriage. Steve Martin: Like acid inside the mouth. And so we can see as we change the amount of marriage. Take acid reflux actually increases as we increase the amount of risk acid. Steve Martin: And we saw some somewhat inconsistent results in terms of the salt rejection. And I think the reason for that has to do with aggregation. Steve Martin: But the really interesting part was that we didn't see the behavior that was expected or the fully open. We expected when we added Steve Martin: These nanoparticles with no added unrealistic acid that we would see zero rejection, but we still saw 95% salt rejection here. Steve Martin: And the thought is that we actually have polymerization that polyamory to current inside the metal organic framework pores. Steve Martin: And then once we add interesting acid. We're actually preventing that polymerization from occurring. Steve Martin: And then eventually, if we had enough mystic acid. We're actually changing from basically a hydrophobic poor to hydrophobic poor and that's changing the behavior of the transport in the membrane. Steve Martin: And again aggregation is a big problem here. So we see fairly large aggregates and then again as we add these mystic acid components is basically make these Steve Martin: PCN to 22 Nana rods more hydrophobic and so they don't disperse as well and aqueous solution. And so that's a problem that we're still working to overcome right Steve Martin: I'm going to skip through this quickly and just get to the end, I think I've talked enough Steve Martin: So we have PCN to 29 herbs that offer kind of a really interesting to nibble then film nano composite additive Steve Martin: And again, we see up to a 95% flux increase in 96% salt rejection Steve Martin: And again, now we have we've added even more transport pathways right both poor transport within them off as well as the potential for nano channels at the interface. But again, these aggregates really do require significant further study Steve Martin: So just get back again. Steve Martin: We've done work with carbon and teams. We've done work with CNC we've done work with Montana rods and they all offer some really interesting options for tuning and altering the transport properties in these in these membranes. Steve Martin: So we've seen some good results, both from the carbon nanotubes and and some of the other materials but significant amounts of work are really needed still to understand, especially to understand that the actual mechanism of what's going on inside the membrane. Steve Martin: And so with that I'm going to conclude Steve Martin: This Steve Martin: skip through that. Steve Martin: And just acknowledge a few people quickly Connor feral is currently working on this project with Brittany bonnet from the chemistry department. Steve Martin: A lot of the work was done by Ethan Smith, he just graduated in the spring. He's now an employee ID integrity up in Boston and Dr. Keith Hendren from material science that a lot of the synthesis work or the cellulose Nana crystals and he's now at Luna innovations. Steve Martin: Are sorry. Yeah, that's right. Linda innovations in Blacksburg Steve Martin: I'm darker wife on Chan who graduated several years ago is now at Intel did a lot of the work. Steve Martin: On the carbon nanotubes. So I want to want to emphasize that they did the work. Not me. And that and also thank my collaborators men Morris even ran and Johan Foster City. Steve Martin: So with that, I'm going to conclude, and again, thank you for the opportunity to come and talk and I'd be happy to answer any questions you may have. Reg Rogers: Right. Thank you very much, Steve. So now the fourth can be open to questions. Like I said, if you have questions, you want to put them in the chat. That's fine. Otherwise, you can Reg Rogers: unmute yourself and ask you questions directly. So we do have one question already from Ahmed, you seem and question is have to the plus pressure has been considered inside the CMT due to the capillary build up, I would expect there is a significant pressure Steve Martin: Um, so that's an interesting question that I probably don't have have the answer to Steve Martin: I'd have to go back and look at the, look at the original papers doing the modeling. It's certainly not something we considered Steve Martin: So, Steve Martin: Yeah, I actually don't have a good answer for that. Reg Rogers: Hear from Luke after the water cleaning step was the same sodium percent rejection of pain. Steve Martin: Yeah. So what we would you're talking for the anti bio fouling kind of work. Reg Rogers: I think so, yes. Steve Martin: Yeah, so Steve Martin: So in that case, Steve Martin: Back to that real quick. So in that case, yes, we didn't report, we didn't report the the solid rejections here. But, if anything, what you see when you get that build up is actually you see an increase in salt rejection Steve Martin: And so yeah, basically, once once we did the cleaning we we got got back to the same song rejection that we had before. Karl Hammond: I guess I had a question about the moths part of this. So it's been a while since I've worked with maths. Karl Hammond: related literature but it used to be that you know if you breathed on them the wrong way they'd all fall apart or their stability issues with these or is it, like is it limited to a specific application where they're stable or what's the what's Steve Martin: Yeah, so that's, that's, that is a really good question. And it's one that always comes up. And the answer is, it really depends on the month. Steve Martin: So these ones are stable under a number of conditions. One of the concerns that has been reported before with morphs Steve Martin: In the interface with a polarized membranes. Was that the master actually dissolving one of the byproducts of that inner facial polymerization is a small amount of hydrochloric acid. Steve Martin: So the idea was, he had he had this HCl in there that was was basically dissolve in these small particles and we've not observed that Steve Martin: We've done a lot of testing with the PCs to 22 under different conditions. Steve Martin: Boiling and nitric acid, you know, all kinds of stuff. So, so the answer is yes. Some ops are very sensitive, but there are, there are a number of moss nowadays that have significantly better stability under different conditions. Steve Martin: We do note that those particular moths. If we let them sit right in aqueous solution for too long a change color. Steve Martin: And that suggests to me a structural change right it is going on. So we didn't, we made sure that we would use them within a reasonable amount of time. We haven't done long term stability stuff because our goal here was just proof of concept. So it's not meant to be a an optimized system. Steve Martin: Like you Reg Rogers: If the CMT are coded by a hydrophobic fluffy to chew. Well, that'd be good in the same scenario in the senate scenario using CMT s semi align Reg Rogers: Align versa aligned Steve Martin: So that's Steve Martin: So that's an interesting question. Yet this question of alignment is important and Steve Martin: I mentioned, for some reason that I went away from talking about semi line stuff was number one, I didn't think we were getting that Steve Martin: From our technique. And when we looked at CMC is with that vacuum technique we got the opposite of what we want. Right. So you start out, you want things vertically aligned with the CNC forgetting things horizontally aligned Steve Martin: Seeing the carbon nanotubes are a little bit different because there longer and they're flop here. Steve Martin: And so what I often describe to people is that what we have there is kind of like a plate of spaghetti right so you, you basically filter these things down, he end up with this kind of like woven interwoven. Steve Martin: Kind of Matt of carbon nanotubes. I'm, I'm happy with a haystack. That's kind of my idea. I don't need them all vertical as long as on average right there is some verticality to it. I don't want them all horizontal Steve Martin: And we can do that better with carbon nanotubes and CNC, then we could say with graphene. I mean, one of the problems with these 2D things is that they really want to align flat. I don't know about adding something like a fluffy ti O to Steve Martin: One of the challenges with with T IO to if it's hydrophobic, again, is that one of the solutions that we use is in water. Steve Martin: And so if you put down a hydrophobic thing on the surface of the vacuum filter that down on the surface and then we put try and put our water solution. On top of that, we might not actually get good Steve Martin: Coverage of the MVD aqueous MPT solution. And so there is some of this membrane stuff is a little bit like black magic. You have to do it exactly right. Steve Martin: And adhesion with the surface could be a significant significant issue. Now you could potentially disperse those in the hexane phase right if they're hydrophobic, they should disperse and hexane. Okay. Steve Martin: And what you can end up bandwidth is to have those those molecules more in sort of the upper Steve Martin: You know, the upper level of the interface we implemented a membrane and maybe more exposed to the sun. Does that, does that answer the question. Reg Rogers: I think it does. Yes, it does. Reg Rogers: Cool, alright so folks we've reached the top of the hour, and let's see here will have one more question here before we have to call it. Reg Rogers: quits. So let's see, from Luke. Have you considered coding the larger for with material other than touristic acid. I see. I imagine you consume 200 felicity with hydrocarbon tingly saturation or even trying something, it can tour and triglyceride oil. Steve Martin: Yeah, so that that is exactly what we would like to do next. And this is comes down to this question. Well, why did you use mercy acid. Steve Martin: And the answer is, I think that's what Brittany had in the lab. Steve Martin: So she was like, I'm gonna put mystic acid. And so we didn't do a lot of didn't have a lot of like specific thought about like what carbon length or what functionality. So yeah, in theory, we can Steve Martin: Do this. It's called the sovereign assistant Ligon interpolation or insertion. We can do this with Steve Martin: A whole variety of different materials. And so the tune ability is potentially significant we just haven't done a lot of that. And a lot of that work yet. But yeah, adding something that is more hydrophobic Steve Martin: will certainly help with dispersion. And so we might be able to get those maps better dispersed in in the in the membrane and hopefully maybe it gets a little bit more consistency in terms of some of the results, especially at high loading. Reg Rogers: Alright, sounds good. Well, let's think Steve once again for your time and effort, you know, especially with this virtual environment. We really appreciate you taking Reg Rogers: The opportunity to speak to all of us and for everyone out there. We look forward to seeing you next week. So I think that's our next seminar is coming up next week. So we look forward to seeing you then everyone. Have a great afternoon with it. We want to close off, close it out with anything. Matthias Young: Yep. You did. Perfect. Greg. Thank you. Next week speaker will be our Weimer from the University of Colorado, same time, same place 11am on Tuesday on zoom will send out another invite for that talk separate think thanks everybody. Awesome. Reg Rogers: great afternoon. Steve Martin: Thank you very much. Nice to talk to you. Steve Martin: Next week, 