 [Angela Belcher] Hi, I'm professor Angela  Belcher at the Koch Institute at MIT. [Neel Bardhan] Hi, I'm Neel Bardhan. I'm a  postdoc fellow at the Koch Institute at MIT. [Belcher] And today we're going to tell  you about our project that's SWIFTI. This project is involved with finding very  small tumors for early detection of cancer. The kind of cancer we mostly focus on right now is  ovarian cancer, and the reason that we're so dedicated to ovarian cancer is because it's  a very difficult to detect disease. If this disease is found early,  there's a 92% survival rate. Unfortunately most of the time,  the disease is found late and the overall survival rate for five years is 47%. And so what we wanted to do was develop hardware and software and molecular probes to try to  diagnose this much earlier to increase the survival of patients. And so in order to do that  what we found was that there's no test like there is for mammograms  for detecting ovarian cancer. that's one reason it's detected so late. And so we're  setting about to develop tests that could be done eventually in a doctor's office  as a screening mechanism to detect ovarian cancer. Right now the way that ovarian cancer  is mostly treated is through a process called surgical debulking. And that process the surgeon goes in and opens up the patient and removes all the tumors that he or she can see by eye and then follows up with chemotherapy. But it's been shown that the overall survival of the patient is greatly increased when there's a better surgical debulking, when the surgeon can find more and smaller tumors earlier. So that's what SWIFTI is all about. So, the technologies that we're developing are how do you see deep inside the body with with just light, so where you don't have to use x-rays or any toxic materials. And that's really difficult, because if you think about, like a regular red laser pointer, for example, you can see that it doesn't go deep, very deep inside the body. But there's certain wavelengths of light that actually penetrate body much deeper and these are called near-infrared. And they are from about 900 nanometers  to about 1500 nanometers, and that's the perfect range. But in order to do that we had to develop the hardware and the molecular diagnostics in order to be able to do that. Now, there's not very many molecules or  any substances that emit in this wavelength. And it's a very special wavelength.  It's much more transparent to blood and tissues. But one particular kind of structure or molecule that does that is a carbon nanotube. So this is a model of a carbon nanotube, and if you take basically a sheet of carbon like graphene or like a molecular level of graphite, a molecular layer of graphite, and roll it into a small tube with the diameter about one nanometer, has really, really interesting optical properties, in that it's fluorescent  in this range. Now, how do you think about getting this carbon nanotube, which it would be about one nanometer in diameter— so much, much smaller than a human hair  and not much longer in length —into the body to be able to find an ovarian tumor? So, in order to do that we use a  structure called a phage, which is a beautiful structure  composed of proteins. These proteins can be really, really specific to  act as handles to grab onto two things, one, to grab onto a carbon nanotube that fluoresces in this special wavelength of light, which is not visible to our eyes. But it visible to our spectral camera—detection camera. And two, that has a protein to be able to grab on to the ovarian cancer, sit there, and then give off light. Now, in order to do that what we have is this structure called a phage,  which has single-stranded DNA. It is a really beautiful structure that the single-stranded DNA codes for the proteins that make it up .So we can go in with little molecular scissors and make cuts in it, edits in it, add DNA sequences that code for proteins. So a change in this green protein makes a change here—sorry, red protein—makes a change here. Changing this green protein makes a change here. And the change in this DNA that codes for the blue protein will make an addition here. So what we can do is, through a selection and evolution have proteins that very, very tightly bind onto this carbon nanotube and,  over here, actually home to the tumor, sit there and give off the  wavelength of light. And now Neel is going to talk to you about some of the technology from the hardware point of view, the hardware we've developed in collaboration with surgeons for surgical debulking, to help the surgeons find the smallest possible tumors so that they can be removed to increase the outcome for the patient. [Bardhan] Thanks, Angie. So as Professor Belcher mentioned, these carbon nanotubes are fluorescent in the special optical wavelength range called the second near-infrared window, and there are no commercially available instruments which are available which we can use directly off the shelf to use it for our imaging application. In collaboration with scientists from MIT Lincoln Lab, we designed an optical imaging system to help us use this nanoprobe for our imaging application. And so the way the SWIFTI imaging system works is that we have three independently controlled  light sources which are registered together. The first is is an 808 nanometer  laser source, which when you shine the laser on this carbon nanotube, it fluoresces and gives off light in the special wavelength range, which can be used for detecting where the cancer is located. The second light source is an in-band IR light source which allows for co-registration, or putting the images together of the anatomical features with the fluorescence of this molecule to locate exactly where the glowing tumors are located in the body. And the third light source is a visible LED source which is out-of-band. The purpose of this LED is to illuminate the field of view for the surgery so that the surgeon can actually see where he or she is doing the operation and take out the tumors. [Belcher] That was a great explanation of  how it works, but how well does it work? Well, in our preclinical experiments with ovarian cancer, we've seen an increase in the median survival of 42%, which is actually quite substantial for any ovarian cancer work, because there's been such little progress made in the overall median survival rate over the last 30 years. So this has us very excited, looking towards improvements that we can make. So we think 42% is great, but we would like to get even much farther. But has also prompted us to apply for Phase I clinical trials to try to get this in the clinic to help women who have ovarian cancer, help the surgeons find these tumors much smaller and much earlier to increase their quality of life. 