 host: Welcome back to Chemistry Matters, and the final video of Unit 6, Moles and Stoichiometry. I hope you enjoyed the rocket fuel combustion lab and recorded your results on a data table. Not only is this experiment a great way to solidify your understanding of the concepts we've covered throughout this unit, it's also fun. So let's go back out to our classroom to see how our students executed this performance task.  student: All right, so let's try the five to one ratio of hydrogen to oxygen first. I'll start by filling the pipette up with water.  student: Remember, we need to get it completely full of water. And then squeeze it again to get all the air out, then dip it back into the petri dish of water.  student: Yeah, you're right.  student: Okay, the guide says to always fill with oxygen first. So let's place it on the oxygen generator until the gas produced goes up to the first line.  student: Okay, now the rest of this needs to be hydrogen. But we have to be careful to remove it as soon as it's filled with gas. We don't want to accidentally squeeze out the oxygen that's in here.  student: Cool. Now let's test how loud the pop is on a scale from one to ten.  student: Whoa! That was so cool.  student: Okay, so I have two parts of oxygen. I'm going to put it on the hydrogen generator and fill it up to the bulb, and then quickly remove it.  student: Great. Make sure to cap it first! Okay great, this one will give us a ratio of four parts hydrogen to two parts oxygen. Okay, now I'm gonna give it the pop test.  student: Whoa! That was definitely the loudest one we've heard so far!  student: Yeah, let's rank that a 10 on our loudness scale for now.  student: Okay. We'll adjust later if we get any louder ones.  student: What ratio was that for you guys?  student: Four parts hydrogen and two parts oxygen.  student: Yeah, that was our loudest one too! That was the only one that we ranked a ten.  student: Yep, our three to three ratio was pretty loud too. We gave that an eight, but this was definitely the loudest one.  professor: All right, so everyone's had time to test each ratio and complete their data tables. So let's discuss our data. Team one, I'll put your data on the screen. Can you tell us about it?  student: Well, before we started, we thought the best pop would come from the ratio three to three. That ratio did give us a loud pop, and as you can see, we ranked the loudness of that pop as an eight.  student: But when we did the ratio that was two parts oxygen to four parts hydrogen, it was definitely the loudest pop out of all of trials.  professor: Great observations. And that prediction you mentioned about the three to three ratio is really a hypothesis. So give yourself credit for formulating that. So what does your data tell you about the way oxygen and hydrogen combine in this combustion reaction?  student: We were thinking that when the oxygen and hydrogen combine in this reaction, that this ratio, two parts oxygen to four parts hydrogen, is the most efficient. It gives us the most bang for our buck.  professor: Well, that's a great way to put it. And I see that you gave the rating of five to both the one part oxygen to five part hydrogen ratio and to the four part oxygen to two part hydrogen ratio. So why do you think that those sounded similar?  student: We both thought that in those trials, there had to be leftover gas in the bulb that didn't get a chance to react.  student: Yeah, when it was one part oxygen to five parts hydrogen, there must've been excess hydrogen. And the one part of oxygen must have been totally consumed.  student: And we did four parts oxygen to two parts hydrogen, there must have been leftover oxygen in the bulb after all the hydrogen had been consumed.  professor: Well, that's very well thought out. Okay, well, team two, I'll put your data on the screen now so we can discuss it.  student: Our results are pretty similar to theirs. We also thought the three to three ratio would be the best, but it wasn't as loud as the one where we had two parts oxygen to four parts hydrogen.  professor: Well, that's fine. But what does your data tell you about this reaction?  student: We figured that there must be two parts of hydrogen reacting with every one part of oxygen. We also noticed the condensation of water on the inside of the bulb during our various tests. So we wrote what we thought would be the best balanced equation based on the evidence.  professor: Very nice indeed. And does your data support this equation?  student: It does. You see when we mixed two parts oxygen with four parts hydrogen, all of the gases were used up in the reaction, because if you reduced two and four, you would have the exact coefficients for the reaction, two moles of hydrogen being used per every one mole of oxygen.  student: Yeah, that's why it made the loudest pop. All of the other ratios we tried would have leftover gas that couldn't react.  professor: Well, that's outstanding work by both teams. I really like how you were able to gather data and argue from evidence. So your data does support this balanced chemical equation. This is exactly the same reaction that engineers use when they develop rocket fuel systems. So now let's have a little fun. So against the wall over there I have two boxes, so one inside the other. They kind of look like a skeeball setup. But what you're going to do is a little rocket science. Standing behind your lab stations, you'll fire your micro rockets towards those boxes. If you land your rocket in the outer box and can answer a question about the lab, you'll receive five bonus points on your lab. If you land your rocket in the inner box, you get 10 bonus points added to your lab report. But the same deal, you have to be prepared to answer a question correctly. So now, let me give you a little tip as you dig in on your rocket science. In order to launch the bulb across the room, you'll need a propellant inside the bulb, something for the expanding water vapor to push against during the reaction. So try leaving a small amount of water in your bulb before you launch and that will act as a propellant. Does everyone have their rockets ready?  student: Mm-hmm.  professor: Can you start us out?  student: Yep!  professor: All right. Let's see it.  student: Come on!  Student: Let's do this!  student: Let's go, let's go.  professor: Wow, good job! Good job. Okay, so you'll get 10 bonus points on this lab if you answer a question later on, okay?  student: Okay.  professor: All right.  student: Yes, yes! Finally!  professor: Good job! So, you'll get five bonus points on your lab if you answer a question correctly later on.  student: Okay.  professor: Okay? All right, you ready?  student: Yes.  professor: All right. Let's see if you've got it. Good job! All right, so answer a question correctly later on and you'll get 10 bonus points on this lab.  student: Okay.  professor: All right. Good job!  student: Almost a 10...  professor: So you'll get-- you'll get five bonus points on your lab if you answer a question correctly later on, okay?  host: The students in our lab have now become rocket chemists, and they're experimenting with stoichiometry to determine the most effective combination of rocket fuel. Obviously, when traveling into orbit, it's very important to minimize weight. The less material you have to lift, the farther and faster it can go. While the hydrogen and oxygen fuel for a rocket provide enormous thrust to get the spacecraft into orbit, these chemicals have a lot of mass. And again, that mass is something scientists try to minimize. Notice that these fuel tanks for hydrogen and oxygen are meant to hold very cold, or cryogenic, liquids. To save space, the gases are cooled until they become liquids. Also notice that the hydrogen tank is twice as large as the oxygen tank. And with the knowledge gained in this lab, you now understand why! But as I mentioned earlier, there are a seemingly infinite applications of the concepts we've explored in this unit that extend well beyond rocket fuel. For example, we were recently visited by Dr. David Gottfried, a Principal Research Scientist at Georgia Tech, where he's the deputy director for the national nanotechnology coordinated infrastructure. Some of you may want to investigate a career like this for yourself.  host: Dr. Gottfried, thank you for joining us today.  David Gottfried: Glad I could be here.  Now let's get into a little of what you do. Would you tell us what nanotechnology is?  David: So the best way for me to describe nanotechnology is to, um, is to go to the official government definition, and yes, there is an official government definition of nanotechnology. And this comes about because about 15, 16 years ago, the government created something called the National Nanotechnology Initiative. Um, and this is a, um, a way for the United States government who-who realized-- which realized the, um, fundamental importance of nanotechnology, both to our economy and to scientific research, um, wanted to coordinate all of the Federal spun-- spending on research and development in this area. And in order to do that, they needed to have a definition that all of the different Federal Agencies could agree on. And so that definition is, uh, that nanotechnology is the understanding and control of matter between one and a hundred nanometers, where unique phenomena enable novel applications. And we're gonna kinda break that down.  host: Great, yeah.  David: Understanding and control, that's where a lot of the government money is going to fund this research and development because you obviously need very specialized tools to be able to manipulate and look at matter on this type of scale. And that's where things like electron microscopes, and, uh, scanning tunneling microscopes and large-- other large types of equipment come into play. And that's why the U.S. government has invested in-in research and development at universities and at companies. Um, one of the things that happened when material, uh, gets onto the nanometer scale-- um, and it's important to understand that there's not some magical physics or magical chemistry or forces that occur at the nanometer scale-- It's just that dif-- the same forces that exist on the human scale now take on a different importance. So the example I like to give is the gecko, which is that little lizard that likes to climb up the walls.  host: Right.  David: Um, and, in order for that-that animal to do that, it has on the ends of its fingers, uh, millions of little projections that are nanometer-- nanoscale in size. Um, and that creates a very large surface area.  host: Hmm...  David: And so that surface area, as it interacts with a wall, has an intermanec-- intermolecular force that overcomes the force of gravity, so it doesn't fall onto the ground.  host: Sure.  David: But, of course, as a human, if I want to climb up the wall, even though there are intermolecular forces between my fingertips and the wall, the force of gravity is too great, and so I can't climb up the wall. So that's one example where, at the nanoscale, the same forces, just different proportions.  host: Absolutely.  David: Um, another example of this unique phenomena is we're all familiar with the element gold, many of us have gold jewelry...  host: Sure.  David: And we're-- so we-- and in fact the color, gold, comes from the fact that gold is that color.  host: Mm-hmm.  David: But at the nanoscale, um, nanoparticles of gold are no longer gold, and in fact, I have some nanoscale gold with me here.  host: This is not like anything I've seen in a jewelry store.  David: No, exactly. And this is a liquid, so this is in a solution, but this is nanoscale particles of gold, and you see they have-- take on this reddish or brownish tone.  host: Sure.  David: No longer looks gold. And so, actually, this phenomena was known to ancient artisans, mid-medieval artisans, and in fact they would use this effect by grinding metals into very, very fine powders. Of course, they didn't know what the size of those powders were, and dispersing them in glass, uh, they were able to use that to color stained glass windows. And there are many examples, particularly in Europe, of stained glass windows colored using, uh, nanoscale particles of both gold and silver, uh, that exhibit this effect.  host: Now those are some interesting examples, but what are some examples of nanotechnology that we may all use in our everyday lives?  David: That's a good question, so, um, that really leads to an area that I like to call, um, uh, nano-enhanced products. So there are a number, hundred-- literally hundreds of different products that already have nanotechnology, and-and many of us are not aware of it. Um, so the most common example is the cell phone, which pretty much everybody carries around--  host: Got one of those, yes.  David: They all have one of these. And so, this has-- this device has transistors in it which are on the order of 10 to 20 nanometers, and getting smaller all the time.  host: Sure.  David: Um, and so this would not exist. We could not have the computing power of this device in this small of a package without those nano-enabled products. Um, a-a-another example are-- kind of the more mundane things are things like, uh, sunscreen which has a nano-scale titanium dioxide which gives-- allows sunscreen to be clear, but still have the UV protective properties that we all want. Uh, sporting goods. Uh, so, uh, baseball bats and golf clubs and tennis rackets may have carbon nanotube composites that give them strength, but light weight. Uh, things like tires and paints and batteries all have a variety of different nanomaterials, um, to-to really give them added capability.  host: And looking forward, what are some of the new developments on the horizon for nanotechnology?  David: So that takes us into an area called nano-enabled technology, or nano-enabled products. Um, and that's where we're talkin' about, um, and where a lot of the research and development in universities and at companies is, is trying to come up with new uses for nanomaterials and nanotechnology to create things that don't exist or could not exist without them. Um, and some of the examples are in the electronics segment. The same electronics industry, um, of extending the capabilities we currently have with silicon electronics to, uh, to new computing power by using a material called 2D Materials, or two-dimensional materials.  host: Huh...  David: Um, the most common example of this, the one that, um, has been used most and actually won a Nobel prize in 2010, uh, is graphene. So graphene is a two-dimensional form of carbon, of graphite. Uh, graphite, of course, we all know is pencil lead.  host: Sure.  David: Uh, that's what's in our pencils. Uh, and if you take graphite and you, uh, remove a single atomic layer, you get what's called graphene, and that has a lot of very interesting p-properties for the electronics world. Um, there are a number of other two-dimensional materials, including one called molybdenum disulfide, MOS2, and a variety of others that people are investigating for electronics applications. On the other side of things, there's, uh, a number of, uh, nano-- uh, nanoparticles and nanomaterials that are being investigating for their use in drug delivery and as drugs themselves.  host: Interesting.  David: And there are a couple already in use, but even more are being researched.  host: So it seems like this is a field with a lot of new developments on the horizon. What are some things that students who may be interested in this field can do to prepare now, even from a high school classroom?  David: So certainly if students are interested in the research side and the product development side, they should continue their studies in math, engineering, science, those types of technical fields.  host: Mm-hmm.  David: But it's not just-- you don't have to get a PhD or even a bachelor's degree to-to do work in this field. There's gonna be plenty of opportunities for students who maybe go on to get associate degrees or technical degrees from community colleges. There-there are-- there's a real need for a nano-enabled workforce in this area. Not only that, but those students who may be not geared out for the technical side of things, but perhaps are interested in the legal aspects, or the public policy, or the regulatory aspects, or the communications side of things. Uh, there's a h-huge chunk of the economy will be built around nanotechnology in the years to come, and so there's a role for everybody.  host: It's really a multidisciplinary field.  David: Absolutely.  host: It's so interesting. Which leads me to your background. Were you, uh, big fan of chemistry in high school? How did you end up where you are today?  David: I was a big fan of chemistry-- I-I got my first start interest in chemistry because I had a home darkroom back when, of course, photography was darkroom based,  host: Right!  David: ...instead of digital. Um, and just being able to see the-the chemistry that goes on in transforming, you know, a blank of piece of paper into a photograph, it got me interested in chemistry. And then I had a fantastic chemistry teacher in 10th grade in high school, um, with lots of, um, great demonstrations and experiments, and I never looked back.  host: Wonderful, and how did that interest in chemistry starting in high school lead you to the field of nanotechnology specifically?  David: So, nanotechnology, and my engineering colleagues may disagree, but it-it's all chemistry.  host: Okay!  David: Uh, I mean, really everything-- there are really two main aspects of nanotechnology that we've talked about. Um, there's what's called top-down nanotechnology, and that's along the line-- that's used, uh, that approach is used in creating a lot of the devices, the electronics, the microfluidics, the optics that we've talked about. Um, and that's where you take a large piece of material, for example a silicon wafer...  host: Mm-hmm.  David: ...might be the starting point in electronics, and you apply chemical processes to either etch material away, or deposit material on top of it. And you build up, layer by layer, a device. Um, and that's called top-down nanotechnology. The other approach to nanotechnology, which is used a lot by chemists and-and chemical engineers, is what's called bottom-up nanotechnology. And that's where you're really starting with individual atoms and molecules to create a variety of different nanomaterials, like carbon nanotubes or, uh, semiconductor quantum dots, or metallic nanoparticles.  host: Wonderful! What an exciting field. Thank you so much for joining us and for giving us information about all this.  David: My pleasure. I had a great time.  host: Good. That just about brings Chemistry Matters Unit 6, The Mole and Stoichiometry to a close. Give yourself a pat on the back. We covered a lot in this unit, and you've learned an important life skill, dimensional analysis, which you'll continue to use in physics, engineering and mathematics classes from now on. You also now know what a mole is, and you've become proficient in mole conversions using molar mass, molar volume, and even counting numbers of atoms. You've calculated empirical formulas and percent composition of compounds. You now know how limiting reactants control the percent yield of chemical reactions. And now that you've completed a performance task with measuring the moles of rocket fuel, you've demonstrated that you've got a solid handle on stoichiometry.  student: Whoa!  host: If you'd like to further explore any of these concepts, feel free to check out the Closer Look videos for this unit, as well as additional content in our Unit 6 Toolkit. Of course, at any point, you can always go back and review the material in this or any other unit. Once you're sure you're comfortable with your understanding of the content in Unit 6, I'll be ready for you at the top of Unit 7, Solutions, Acids, and Bases. 