 So in the second video of our 5 part series on the most disruptive technologies from different technology sectors, we space nerds of course want to look into our favorite topic, the future of manned spaceflight. This industry is still in its early infancy, but already now we can see how fast things are developing thanks mostly to Elon Musk and SpaceX and we'll see some major disruption of classical government driven spaceflight happen. And we'll only talk about immediate disruption, so disruption taking place 10 20 30 years in the future because it's quite honestly really impossible to say what will come in 100 200 years so there will be no talk about fast than light travel Alcubierre Warp drives matter-anti matter reactors, Dyson spheres Van Neumann probes and stuff like that okay so only in the immediate future 10 20 30 years maximum so stay tuned to find out what are in our opinion the 5 most disruptive space related technologies. Number 5 Inflatable habitat modules In many renderings and animations of future moon or mars bases, we couldn't help to notice that a vast majority DO NOT depict inflatable habitats, but rigid metal structures, such as used nowadays on the ISS. However, inflatable habitats are coming and have already been successfully tested many times, the company with the most notable achievements and furthest in this regard is Bigelow Aerospace. Founded by Robert Bigelow already in 1999, the goal is to make cheaper habitats They don't only take less volume for transport but are of course also lighter and more resistant against micro-meteorites. One of such inflatable habitats has been successfully tested on the ISS, the BEAM, which was brought to the ISS by a SpaceX Falcon 9 in April 2016 This inflatable habitat is still docked to the ISS and used as storage space. Now the next habitats planned for future launches are the BA330, which would inflated be quite large with a diameter of 6.7 m, a length of 14 m and an interior volume of 330 cubic meters Now the interesting thing about these inflatable habitat modules is that they can also be used for future moon bases or even for future mars bases. but now the real monster is the BA2100, which will be the next generation of inflatable habitat modules which would offer an insane interior volume of 2100 cubic meters that is twice as much as starship, and over twice as much as the international space station. So to recap those inflatable habitat modules are lighter, cheaper and safer than classical metal based rigid habitation modules because their flexibility offers more protection from micro meteorite impacts so once we see the first inflatable habitat modules by bigelow aerospace be carried to low earth orbit or to the moon or Mars, we'll see a severe disruption taking place of these classical rigid metal based habitation modules Number 4 Asteroid mining now with several companies that already have been founded with the goal in mind to mine asteroids, such as Planetoid Mines, NEO Resource Atlas, Deep Space Industries, Planetary Resources and many others, we surely will see a giant gold rush taking place, but this time in space. Why is space so interesting? Well, let's for example take a look at this shiny stuff called Gold, which currently is pumping nicely. The world gold council estimates that around 187,000 metric tons of gold have already been mined on this planet, with only 57000 metric tons remaining to be mined, as estimated by the USGS. So in total there are 244000 metric tons of mineable gold on this planet. That sounds like a lot, but gold has a high density of 19.32g/cm³, so all gold on this world could be put into a cube with an edge length of only 23.3 meters! Fun fact: All the gold in the universe was probably created by Neutron star collisions, one such collision creating an entire earth mass of pure gold. Insane stuff. And in the solar system? like how much gold or precious metals are there in the solar system okay take 16 Psyche for example, an asteroid which is located in the asteroid belt with a diameter of 200 km now it consists mostly of Nickel Iron, platinum, and yes, also gold. Now how much would all this precious metal on 16 Psyche be worth in today's dollars? you ask Well, quite a lot about 10 QUINTILLION US DOLLARS 10 QUINTILLION and that is only one asteroid because what is the most reliable driver of human exploration of new territories always has been and probably always will be is't science is't like curiosity yes okay curiosity plays a role but no greed greed is the most powerful source of human drive and Therefore we think that this gold rush will take place very soon now who will be disrupted well quite easy the traditional precious metal markets on earth will see some kind of brutal disruption just imagine what would happen to the gold price if suddenly thousands no millions of tons of gold could be mined on asteroids and brought to earth hmm now you know what would be super nice if there would exist a digital alternative to gold as a deflationary store of value now that would be super awesome oh right Number 3 The space elevator Now you thought that reusable rockets will make spaceflight cheap? Think again, because this here has the potential to make getting to earth orbit ULTRA CHEAP Now how would it work? Simple! Place a heavy counterweight beyond geo-stationary orbit at around 100,000 km distance, pull a giant cable, attaching this counterweight with a base station on earth at the equator Let the centrifugal force do its thing, tightening the cable. Then attach an elevator and a station at geo-stationary orbit, and finished. Easy peasy. Now why don't we have such a thing yet? Well, the cable needs to be very strong. Like, insanely strong. now this material would need to have a tensile strength of 48 MPa/kg/m³. so what about Steel? steel surely is very strong right well turns out steel is Far too weak with a tensile strength of only 0.63 Mpa/kg/m³. but what about Kevlar? I mean Kevlar surely is strong enough I mean it absorbs bullets it must be super strong right well turns out it is also far too weak, with a tensile strength of only 2.5 Mpa/kg/m³. so we need something far stronger than anything we have right now but luckily for us it turns out there could be something a material based on carbon nano tube fibers this would enable us tensile strength of 100 Mpa/kg/m³ twice as strong as needed but there is a small little problem with carbon nano tube materials the longest strand of fiber ever produced from carbon nano tubes was one meter long now this carbon nano tube space elevator strand of fiber will need to be how long 100,000 km so 100 million times longer than the longest strand of fiber we have ever created until now in the lab But if in the future it will be able to produce a 100,000 km long strand of carbon nano tube fiber material then we could see a space elevator be built and we could see access to orbit be far far cheaper than it is now now the cheapest cost per kg for payloads to low earth orbit nowadays is of course with SpaceX's Falcon 9 with 5,000 USD per kg of payload cost to low earth orbit now how cheap would be a space elevator? 220 US dollars per kg that's over 20 times cheaper this is so cheap that it will even disrupt reusable rocket systems. Speaking of reusable rockets.... Number 2 Reusable rockets Ok this is no surprise, this is a total no brainer. Our favorite person on planet earth, this cool guy here, has started a company called SpaceX back in 2002, which has resulted in the capability to reuse rockets Before that, you would throw away the whole rocket after every launch. Now, a large part of the rocket can be reused. Reducing the cost per kg of payload to orbit significantly, and disrupting the entire space industry. The european arianespace or the russians with their proton rockets are entirely kicked out of the commercial launch sector. And many try to copy SpaceX's success such as Blue Origin, Rocket labs, and many chinese startups such as iSpace Linkspace and spacetransportation. This disruption is still ongoing, and will for sure make non-reusable rockets completely obsolete very soon. Space agencies will either adapt, or die, that's how simple it is. But there is one reusable rocket, which we wanna talk about right now, because it will be so insanely disruptive, that we gave it the top spot. Number 1 Starship and super heavy And among the reusable rocket systems, the most disruptive one will of course be our favorite starship and super heavy, currently under development at SpaceX. so Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy were or better yet still are very disruptive to the commercial satellite launch industry. But now starship and super heavy go so much further it will totally disrupt not only commercial satellite launches but manned spaceflight as we know it so why don't we have these moon or mars bases yet we talked about it quite often but quite simple because too expensive. But the cool thing about starship and superheavy is that it will be 100% reusable. like the 1st stage being the super heavy booster the second stage being the starship will be both 100% reusable In a new 250 page assessment by NASA on Starship and super heavy it is said that starship and super heavy could launch 24 times per year! now the stats of this beast are of course very impressive, with a bit more than 100 metric tons of payload capability to Low earth orbit with 100 tons of payload capability to the moon, and with orbital refueling even 100 tons of payload capability to mars. so this rocket system is so brutally far beyond anything else in existence today it's not even funny any more. SLS? come on okay it's not even a contender it has less payload capability, it's not reusable, and it's far far far more expensive because of that what about Blue Origin's New Glenn? well new glenn doesn't even fly yet and it will be only finished in 2021 and if it will be finished it will still have less than HALF of the payload capability of starship super heavy In fact, the New Glenn will be even weaker than Falcon Heavy, and Falcon Heavy already exists and has flown 3 times. so what about the russians the poor Russians don't have anything to counter spacex right now and are almost completely kicked out of the commercial launch industry so what about the Europeans well the new Ariane 6 absolutely not reusable so it's looking pretty bad also for them so yeah with no competition whatsoever starship and Super Heavy will enable to build sustainable colonies on the moon and on mars and this beast can launch again and again with almost no refurbishment needed, and huge payload capacity. It will enable to fly humans to the moon, to mars, and even beyond mars for the exploration of the solar system. This beast will enable a future of humanity in space and finally making humanity a multi-planetary species, and there is NOTHING coming even REMOTELY close to starship. It cannot get more disruptive than that! So do you agree with our top 5 space related disruptive technologies list? did we miss something would you change something do you have any other technologies in mind that are more important in your opinion let us know in the comment section what you think and if you have missed our previous episode on the top 5 most disruptive transportation technologies we will link to it in the description check it out! and currently we are releasing only one video per week because we are currently on vocation we're doing an America road trip driving around with a model 3 through the Nevada desert California and so on and so forth once we return we'll continue with two videos per week promised absolutely 