 [RAMA] If you take the example of graphite,  graphite is like a deck of cards and when   you charge your battery, lithium ions go  from the cathode into the deck of cards.  [LISA] Welcome to Nano Matters, the podcast  that explores examples of nanotechnology.   I'm Lisa Friedersdorf, Director of the National  Nanotechnology Coordination Office. Here with me   today is Rama Podila, Assistant Professor of  Physics and Astronomy at Clemson University.   So Rama a lot of your research is at  the intersection of physics and health,   but you also have projects that are  focused on energy generation and storage.   What interested you in energy research? [RAMA] The main thing that interested me was,   you know, there's a lot going on with  global warming and climate change.   And so there is definitely a great need for coming  up with new ways to generate energy, but require   less carbon dioxide emissions and as well as  coming up with new electric vehicles that can   offset emissions from gasoline vehicles. So this  was what got us interested in energy storage and   energy generation, mainly to fight climate change [LISA] So I understand that some of your work has   application in space like maybe in  spacesuits themselves or in a rover   that would be used on Mars. Could you talk  to the challenges of developing and designing   batteries for these types of applications? [RAMA] You know, I love the movie The Martian.   And if you read the book or watch the movie you  would see that there are a lot of technologies   that are featured in there like thermoelectric or  other battery technologies that are also useful   for fighting climate change and global  warming. And one of those is batteries.   So they have similar challenges for electric  vehicles. That is we want to reduce the weight   of the battery itself that we want to pack more  energy into batteries and be able to deliver it   very quickly so that batteries can truly replace  gasoline. And in terms of space applications,   when something is taking off and you want to  have as low weight as possible on the vehicle.   So it's it's important to make  batteries that are highly efficient,   they can store a lot more energy in less mass,  in less volume. And in terms of spacesuits,   when astronauts go out to to perform these extra  vehicular activities, they wear these EVA suits,   which have batteries that ensure that you know  everything is going on, that the suit is powered.   And so these batteries if they are very heavy,  it's very uncomfortable. Not because, you know,   in space there is no gravity really, but in terms  of taking off and in terms of maneuvering, it's   not a weight problem that the astronaut is weighed  down by these batteries, but it's it's more of   making the suits comfortable enough for operation  and for making sure that a lot more energy   is packed into the suit. So that was the challenge  for spacesuits. So we were working on increasing   energy and power density for those spacesuit  applications. And in terms of rovers, the   temperature range the rovers would be exposed to  in space is different. So we need to come up with   new electrolytes. The electrolytes that we have  in today's batteries are not directly suitable   for space applications. So we were trying to come  up with new electrolyte systems that have a wider   temperature range and that could be used in space. [LISA] So when you're talking about these   applications in space and the challenges that  you just outlined, how does nanotechnology   play a role in helping you solve those issues? [RAMA] That's a very good question, Lisa. And   as you know these nanomaterials have a very high  surface area because you're grinding the material   into smaller parts. So they have much higher  surface area, which makes them more efficient for   energy storage. Because the more surface area, you  can store more charge. And that's one of the ideal   things about nanomaterials. And another thing is  today's lithium-ion batteries use graphite or LTO   or some other material as an anode in a lithium  ion battery. If you take the example of graphite,   graphite is like a deck of cards and when  you charge your battery lithium ions go from   the cathode into the deck of cards. And they're  stored in the deck of cards, which is graphite.   And then when you discharge, the ions are  released. And that's how you power the device.   But this graphite has a theoretical limitation. It  can only store so much charge per gram material.   And by increasing the surface area, we can  definitely increase this charge, but it is still   limited by the nature of carbon in this graphite.  The other alternative is to use silicon.   Silicon can store much much higher charge compared  to graphite, at least two to three times more.   So you can reduce the weight. That is you can  pack more energy per gram of material if you use   silicon. But the problem with silicon is that when  lithium ions go into silicon it just expands and   then it bursts open and then the entire material  gets pulverized, which is a big problem for having   stable batteries. So what we did was, we  used a combination of carbon nanotubes and   silicon nanoparticles to come up with an anode  architecture in such a way that this pulverization   of silicon is no more a problem. And that we can  have long life cycles up to 1000, 2000 cycles.   So these batteries can not only pack so much  power, but they're stable because now these carbon   nanotubes are interlinked between small silicon  nanoparticles. So even if they are pulverized,   they still fall back within this form of carbon  nanotubes and they're still in electrically   connected. And that's how we use nanotechnology  to address the challenge with silicon anode to   pack more energy into per gram of material. [LISA] I understand that you have done   some work in triboelectricity. Can you talk  about what that is and how it could be used?  [RAMA] So most people when they're studying  introductory physics, they're taught this   glass rod and silk cloth experiment. When you rub  a silk cloth on a glass rod or a comb through your   hair and then it attracts small pieces of paper,  this is a triboelectric effect. That is you're   generating charges by applying some sort of a  mechanical force. So if we can convert mechanical   energy into charges, then we should be able  to also convert mechanical energy into usable   electricity. And that was the whole idea  of these triboelectric nanogenerators where   we can generate more charge because nanomaterials  have higher surface areas. So when you rub two   materials together, the higher the surface area  of each material higher the charge you would   produce because at the microscopic level more  of the material is in contact if the materials   have higher surface area. So more parts of the  materials are in contact with each other. So we   produce more charge. And so these cannot produce  very high currents. They produce naturally,   they produce high voltages, but they produce very  little current. So the power is still limited. But   they have enough power for microelectronics,  for example. You know, you don't need so much   power let's say to power your calculator or not  so much power to power your phone or some other   microscopic things that we use daily. And  so our goal was to see if we could use these   triboelectric nanogenerators for powering micro  devices initially. But then later we realized that   if we could choose the right materials, like we  could make some materials like graphene and Teflon   or some sort of highly electronegative material,  we could harvest the mechanical energy even from   ocean waves. So there's a lot of mechanical energy  in ocean waves, so by choosing the right pair of   materials, we could we could harvest all that  energy. And this is majorly led by professor   Zhong Lin Wang at Georgia Tech, but we got into  that recently. And along those lines, we have come   up with some new materials that can enable not  only mechanical energy conversion to electricity,   but they have enough high voltage to create a  significant electric field to wirelessly transmit   this energy directly into capacitors or batteries.  So in terms of triboelectric generators,   that's the kind of research we're doing. In  terms of powering microelectronic devices   and as well as harvesting energy from ocean waves. [LISA] Well thank you so much for sharing   some information today about how nanotechnology  is being used both in the generation and storage   of energy. And I want to thank  you for taking your time to   to talk with us. Do you have  any closing thoughts that   you'd like to share with our listeners? [RAMA] Thank you Lisa. The only closing   thought I have is that I would like to request  the general public to closely read the papers   and inform themselves better in addition to  reading news articles about nanotechnology. you 