  I think we should get started. So welcome, everybody, to the seventh MIT International Colloquium on Thermal Innovations, or otherwise known as Innotherm. We're really excited to have you all here today, and the topic of this panel discussion will be focused on extracting water from air. We'll have these really esteemed researchers in different areas that are going to talk about their perspectives and then open it up to Q&A. I first want to introduce our moderator for this session, who is professor TJ Zhang. I believe this is actually the hardest job in these sessions, and he is currently an associate professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at Khalifa University of Science Technology in Abu Dhabi, UAE. And his areas of expertise are broad in the areas of phase change, heat transfer, microfluidic flows, 3D printing, and nano fabrication, as well as concentrated solar power generation, cooling, and multi-phase flows for subsurface flows and water treatment. So please join me in welcoming Professor Zhang to moderate this session. Thank you, Evelyn. OK, let me just share my slides. OK, today we're going to have mainly a few speakers here. So first one is Professor Jean. And Jean is a professor of international health from Johns Hopkins, and, also, he she was a director of Institute for Zimbabwe and also her research area, mainly on intervention to prevent child undernutrition in low, middle-income countries, and also environmental enteric dysfunction, also, the role of sanitation and hygiene on child stunting. So the next speaker will be Professor Guihua Yu from UT Austin, and he is associate professor of material science and mechanical engineering and, also, he got multiple awards. For example, he is also a fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry and the Institute of Physics, and his research area mainly nanomaterials for energy science and environment and energy storage and a conversion and water treatment and water harvesting technologies. So next speaker, we are going to have Professor Pang Wang. He has joint appointments with King Abdullah University of science and technology from Saudi Arabia and also from Hong Kong Polytechnic University. And he has been there with KAUST since 2009, and he got multiple awards, and, also, his research area mainly on clean water production and also atmospheric water harvesting and, also, he is well known in environmental nanotechnology. And our last speaker is Professor Ruzhu Wang from China and Shanghai Jiao Tong University. And Professor Wang is the university chair professor and the director of the Institute of Refrigeration and Cryogenics and, also, director of the engineering research center solar energy of the Ministry of Education in China and, also, definitely, Professor Wang is very, very well-known in China. He got many awards, like a National research. Award and also National Teaching Award and the multiple awards from international society like Japanese Heat Transfer Society and also International Institute of Refrigeration. And he has a major interest is heating and cooling and thermal managment. So I also would like to remind all our participants. So today we are going to have presentations from panelists, about 40 minutes. Then, after that, we are going to have a panel discussion, and in between, we are going to have two polls, I just want to remind you. And, also, we really encourage you to submit to your questions from right here. This here you have-- this [INAUDIBLE] here. This is a Q&A right here. So if you see this part, you just click and poll your questions there. And then our student assistant is going to select questions, and I'm going to just pull a few questions here just to share with our panelists, and we can discuss, OK, interactively. OK, I just want to remind you, also, this seminar on the curriculum is recorded, OK, where we post on YouTube, and, also, we are going to-- we may not able to address all the questions, and many questions, we are going to all post it to share with the community, OK? So if you want to-- if you want to be anonymous, then we can also-- you don't need to put your name over there. OK, it's fine, OK? So with that, we are going to start the first presentation from Professor Jean, OK? Jean, please, thank you very much. Thank you all so much. It's such a pleasure to be here. And my job is not to talk about atmospheric water harvesting, but to underscore the huge global consequences of poor water access and the urgency of developing innovation engineering solutions to improve water access for people around the world. Children throughout the world grow taller at a remarkably similar rate between birth and five years of age, regardless of race, culture, diet, or geography, if they are free of disease, have nutritious food and health care, and live in a clean environment. This has allowed the World Health Organization to develop reference norms of height for age for use in all countries in the world. Now, of course, tall parents have tall children, but that genetic influence doesn't really kick in until after five years of age. Children whose growth is constrained by impoverished living conditions are short for their age. These little boys are all four years old. The red line is the WHO median height for four-year-old boys, and the blue line is two standard deviations below that median. Children with a height more than two standard deviations below the standard, like these three little boys on the left, are defined as stunted. Stunting develops between conception and two years of age. Children in Asia and Africa who are in the green and orange lines here, are born about a half a standard deviation below normal length for age and then fall further and further from normal until about two years of age when the median child in these populations is one and a half to two standard deviations below normal. After two, there is little to no catch-up. The damage has been done and is largely irreversible. These first two years of life are also the period of rapid growth in many other systems of the body, including the brain. 23% of the world's children are stunted, making it the most common form of malnutrition. And we don't really mind that children are short, but what we mind are the other consequences. Children who are stunted at two are more likely to die in early childhood to have had 10 fewer years of school and perform more poorly while they are there and to earn less money as adults. So we care about stunting because it is an indicator of lifelong human capital. For many years, we have known that the structure and the function of the lining of the small intestine is very different for people in industrialized compared to impoverished living conditions. Whoops. For people who live in countries like this European city on the top, the lining of their small intestine has these long finger like projections called the villi, which create miles and miles of surface area for nutrient absorption, but for people who live in impoverished situations, like this village in Africa at the bottom, the gut wall is flat and inflamed. This disorder is called environmental enteropathy, or environmental enteric dysfunction, and it's primarily caused by environmental exposure to fecal contamination, and we have hypothesized that it underlies stunting. We hypothesize that if we could implement an intense water sanitation and hygiene, or WASH intervention, we would reduce fecal exposure, environmental enteric dysfunction, and stunting. Three randomized controlled trials were conducted in Zimbabwe, Bangladesh, and Kenya to test this hypothesis. I was the PI of the Zimbabwe site. These were multi-million dollar investments primarily by the Gates Foundation, and they were the first ever randomized controlled trials of sanitation on human health involving more than 19,000 pregnant women and their children. We tested the water sanitation and hygiene interventions that have been commonly available and recommended for low-income rural areas for decades that include the improved latrine, point of use water chlorination with Water Guard or another chlorination substance, hand washing stations that are not connected to a water source in most cases with plenty of soap. And we in these studies delivered these commodities to the doorstep of the household of the participating families along with intensive education to motivate hygiene behaviors. The results of these three trials were published in 2018 and '19, and in all three trials, we found that the WASH intervention had absolutely no effect on stunting. Moreover, nearly all the laboratory studies of stool specimens showed that children who received these WASH interventions were already infected with at least one pathogen by the time they were a month old, and the average child was already infected with three of these pathogens by his first birthday. And there was no difference in the infection rates between children who received the WASH intervention and those who did not, showing that this intensive WASH interventions with currently available interventions from rural areas of developing countries had virtually no impact on reducing fecal exposure. These three trials and other studies have shifted three paradigms in our thinking about WASH and health. Virtually all kids are persistently infected with pathogens originating from fecal contamination from an early age. This continuous infection is the main driver of poor growth and cognitive development, causing huge losses in human capital of entire populations. And the low-cost WASH interventions that governments, UN agencies, and nongovernmental organizations have been recommending and implementing for decades do not prevent these infections, even when they are intensively implemented with millions of dollars from the Gates Foundation. This has resulted in consensus and interpretation papers published over the last year, which all basically call for transformative WASH, a radical change in WASH services available to poor people. And central to transformative WASH is meeting the aspirational goal of the UN's sustainable development goal for water, SDG 6. SDG 6 calls for a universal provision of water that is free of infectious pathogens and toxins provided in sufficient quantity for domestic needs at an affordable price and available on plot. The minimum required volume for domestic requirements is 20 to 50 liters per capita per day. This is the volume needed not just for drinking and cooking, or consumption, but also hygiene. Having sufficient water is even more important-- sorry-- having sufficient water quantity is even more important for human health than achieving a very high level of quality, and that is because water quantity available, water access, determines the amount of water used for hygiene. Access to water must be affordable, and we estimate that it should be that whatever technology is developed should be less than the cost of digging a borehole, or we could consider that it should be no more than about 25% of the total income of an average African family, which is about $600 a year. So if you can calculate out, what we're looking for is a technology that could provide water at about $0.02 per liter. And that means that the family would have to spend 25% of their total income on water. I think that of all of the parts of the SDG 6, the part that is most challenging is that we want to have access to water on plot, that is providing water on the yard or in the household of every household in the world. And this graph shows why. This is the per capita of water volume used as a function of the return time to collect water, and what you'll see is a sharp decline from about 50 liters per capita used when the water is available on plot to only 15 to 20 liters when the source is just two and a half minutes or about a five-minute return trip away from the house. So even having the pipes stand in the center of the village vastly reduces the amount of water that's used for hydrogen. I first read about atmospheric water harvesting just as our results were coming out and connected with Professor Wang, and we convened a meeting with senior global WASH engineers to discuss whether atmospheric water harvesting could contribute to achieving SDG 6 and publish this brief report of our meeting in March in Lancet Planetary Health. We identified these characteristics of atmospheric water harvesting that make it attractive for people in rural areas of low and middle income countries. First, of course, it provides a high quality of water, but most importantly to me is that it decentralizes water access to point of use off the grid and can be built to be completely powered by solar energy. On-plot water will improve gender equity, a major global goal, because it is mostly women and girls who spend 200 million hours a year carrying water. These are the minimum specifications that the group defined for a new technology, that it would need to produce at least 500 to 200 liters a day at a cost of about $0.02 per liter and that it must be culturally acceptable. We talked about this quite a bit, and we would encourage engineers to consult with and talk with end users and engage them in the development of such a technology. So I'll stop there and turn this over to the engineers. Thank you very much, Jean. I think this is really exciting. I thank you for sharing those slides, and I know, as I think you from the health point of view, you basically impose those kind requirements, also formulate the problem very well for our engineers and scientists. And also, today, we have a few other speakers from materials, from device, also from process system point of view. We are going to share our kind of solutions or recommendations on this topic, OK? So that would be, I think, as I said, would be very exciting. OK, also at the end, we can have some discussion afterwards. So before that I would like to launch a poll, OK, to just to our participants to share also your opinion about-- let me see. Where is the poll here? OK, so the first poll, I'm going to launch just for all the participants to vote, OK? You can see the questions, OK? So how much water do you think we have in the atmosphere? Please vote, OK? I'll give you a few-- one or two minutes to vote. It's very interesting to see the number. [CHUCKLE] So numbers coming, OK, wow! OK, very good. I think we have collected a lot of votes. OK, almost there. OK, very good, coming, OK. So, yeah, almost 80%. Please, put a vote as soon as possible, OK? I'm going to launch the results too. OK, good. So I think we're ready to go, right? It's just the end of the polling, OK? So I want to share the results with you. So we have, actually, how many people voted? OK, for the 10% of all water in river on Earth. Only 10%? OK, 26% of people voted that. OK, and also six times all the water in the river and the on Earth, OK? So, basically, this is, like, we'll get the 35% of people vote, OK? So the water in the atmosphere is about six times all the water in rivers on Earth, OK? So this is very kind of promising, right? That's why we should have these kinds of seminar today. So, very good, OK. We'll have more discussion afterwards, OK? Good. Now we leave the floor to the second speaker, Professor Guihua Yu from University of Texas at Austin. Guihua, [INAUDIBLE]. Guihua, you can start now. OK, first of all, many thanks to Evelyn and [INAUDIBLE] for a kind invitation and, also, other Innortherm organizing committee members for organizing these stimulating webinar series. And the following Jean's great motivational presentation on critical needs of freshwater generation, so I will now focus more on the material aspect for atmosphere water harvesting technologies. So, currently, over 3 billion people worldwide suffered a water shortage. And our own various water purification technology exists from the reverse osmosis to thermo desalination, but they typically depend on natural water resources, and it's mainly feasible in coastal areas, and it typically involved high capital costs and significant infrastructure and energy requirements. And atmospheric water is actually very ubiquitous and present regardless of geological or hydrological conditions. So extracting the water from air is a promising method to provide portable family and community access, off-grid access to safe drinkable water, especially for developing countries, and, currently, there are three main methods for atmospheric water harvesting, so fog harvesting, and dewing, and moisture capturing. And so for fog harvesting, typically we use large meshes or nets to capture the small water droplets suspended in the air, and the dewing is refrigerating the air below the dew points to the condensed water vapor. So both fog harvesting and dewing have geographical and climate restrictions. But in contrast, the moisture harvesting is very promising and for a wider applicablity because moisture is everywhere on the Earth. So I'm going to focus on this sorption-based moisture harvesting today. So let's start with the mechanism first. So the sorption-based moisture harvesting typically involves two steps. One is at least water vapor is being taken up by the solvents either through the adsorptions or absorptions. And the second stage is desorption. So the sorbent will be isolated from the ambient, and the heat is applied to the solvents to release the water vapor and then condense to liquid. So adsorption is actually more molecules to stick to the surfaces of your absorbent either through the physical or chemical absorptions. But in contrast, absorption is actually the incorporation of water molecules into the bulk volume of your absorption, for example, for water harvesting with the hygroscopic materials, so they involve these hydration reactions. And then for absorption, so they require the material to have a high surface area to be able to serve as absorption sites. A second step, desorption, really requires heat, a lot of energy involved. So to overcome this absorption enthalpy and to reach [INAUDIBLE] temperature and to sufficiently lower relative humidity in the material to release vapor from the absorbent. So if you look at the traditional desiccants for these moisture harvesting. So they are silica gels, zeolite, or hygroscopic salts. So silical gel is one of the most commonly used materials for moisture capturing. So they have these polar hydroxy group as the sorption center to form hydrogen bonds with the water molecule [INAUDIBLE].. And the zeolite is-- now why do we use solids for moisture harvesting? So they have this 3D network composed of silica and aluminum that contain alkali metals too. So aluminum metal is the sorption site that has the coordination with the water molecule. And the polar structures of the zeolite determine the water harvesting capacity. However, these two a commonly used materials have limited capture capacities, generally around 0.3 to 0.5 kilograms of water per kilogram of absorbent. And a high water affinity also make this water release process very difficult. It requires a lot of energy. And hygroscopic materials such as lithium chloride or calcium chloride or the liquids in a liquid sorbents can harvest the water by these hydration reactions and then can actually have a high water uptake, even at a low relative humidity, while they have the problem of particle accumulation during the hydration, and that will reduce the ability of water vapor and decrease the sorption capability. And then MOFs are actually a novel class of materials. So they are crystalline porous composed of metal-containing organic building centers and organic liquids. So it is coordination bonds into a 3D interconnected networks. So they are highly porous, highly tunable, and provide numerous sorption sites and by tailoring their structures in a composition, so relevant properties such as hydrophilicity, pore size, and volume can be tuned for desired absorption/resorption behaviors. But there is a general limitation for these materials is this desorption process requires significant energy for water release. So if you look at this one example, this slide shows one of the first MOF-based water harvesting devices by Omar Yaghi from Berkeley and Evelyn Wang from MIT, so you can see here this water absorption isotherms for is zirconium-based MOF, MOF A01, So at least at a temperature of about 25, they have this rapid and step-wise increases for water sorption capacity with relatively small and relative humidities. And the MOF A01, so as far as different temperature, 25 and 65. So we can see if a temperature swings between 25 and 65. So it's about a quarter of a liter of water per kilogram of MOF that can actually be generated. And they demonstrated a very promising prototype of devices. So this is a device picture showing the MOF layers, condensers, and also with heat sink. To the right is this droplet growth inflammation as a function of time-- a function of time and also as the functional temperature for this MOF layers. So this actual device is a completely passive, only requires sunlight as low-grade heat to dissolve and to condense a collection of water. And the bottom right actually shows some representative temperatures for these different layers as the function of time of day. So in optimized conditions, so this device is capable of harvesting about 2.8 liters of the water per kilogram of MOF daily at a relative humidity around 20%. So it's a very promising step in the field. And another class of materials, actually, is composites. So this is typically involving hygroscopic salts incorporating into the porous solid matrix. So this is to avoid these particle accumulations for better cycle instability, for better yield. So this slide showcases several examples. So, for example, this is hollow carbon spheres incorporating lithium chloride from [INAUDIBLE] group's work and [INAUDIBLE] hard template method. So you have this hygroscopic lithium carbide as the core and you have this porous, hollow carbon shell as the photostimulators so they can enable these multi cycles every day for efficient water capture and release. And the lithium carbide has the hygroscopic materials, so they can also be incorporated into MOF materials. So this is a case using chromium-based MOF. So they can provide larger contact areas and also suitable pore diameter for nanoscale crystallization of lithium carbide. So this is also a promising design incorporating the lithium carbide into the MOF. And the last example is [INAUDIBLE] redesign. So you have these polyacramide as the hydrogel with good chemical stability and the water retaining ability. And you have a carbon nanotube as photothermal to generate heat. And calcium chloride is actually used as hygroscopic to take in the water vapor from ambient airs. But, generally, as I mentioned early on, so one big challenge is the desorption process requires a lot of energy, but if you think creatively, so one can actually integrate hydroscopic materials with this hydrophilicity switch both polymers at a molecular level. So this is the idea that the water release process actually can be achieved instead of conventional ways, so you have this liquid-liquid phase separation process to reduce the energy needed. And then this actually can be serving as hydrophilic polymers serving as water reservoir, and it can be controllably switched to the hydrophobic state at a mild temperature and then release the water without the energy intensive process. So if you think about what materials you can use, so the IPN, Interpenetrating Polymer Network is at least a new class of promising materials that you can actually combine these two networks with different functions. So, for example, one network for hygroscopic to take the water from the air, and the second is actually is for hydrophilicity, switchable, so to switch the state from hydrophilic to hydrophobic and then to release water without this energy intensive process. And so these slides really shows our molecular design published last year. So this design composed of hygroscopic polypyrrole chloride, so this is hygroscopic materials and then penetrating into the somewhat responsive the poly NIPAM material. So this synergestic effect can actually happen with this molecular-level integration of this hygroscopic with the similar responsive gels, and this also shows, SEM shows, the porous structures for this hydrogels with an IPN networks. So this slide quickly shows you some of this comparison. If you look at this map materials, combining these two polypyrrole chloride and the NIPAM, so you can see at various relative humidity So they can take in water efficiently, so for relative humidity 90%, they can take up to about 7 gram per gram of your dry materials. And this, like, photograph shows you the dry state versus your swollen states. But if you compare it to the polypyrrole chloride, one component only, so this molecule dynamic simulation shows that this water clustered in this pyrrole centers, and it's experimental and simulation data shows they have limited water uptake, and, also, another component, poly NIPAM, work alone. So they are good water absorbent, liquid water, but they are not good moisture harvesting at the relative humidity and even 90%, so barely can absorb, like, kind of water vapor. So you can really see that SMAG, high performance of moisture capturing of SMAG, is coming from synergistic effect of hygroscopic had hydrophilic. So, basically, this water can quickly liquify on the surface of SMAG and then transferred to-- this molecule transferred to the NIPAM as a water reservoir and that's swollen to take more water in. And if you look at another key feature for this design is water release step. So this one scheme shows you that we found these two modes during the water release. So for the high water uptake, there is the express mode initially. So this just means that the gel, when you heat it up, mildly heat up to about 40 degrees C. So this is their lower critical solution temperature so they can switch from hydrophilic, water like, to water dislike, hydrophobic, and release water efficiently. And then as you move on further, so they can still have this normal mode using this evaporation and condensation. So you can see this is where for high water uptake, you can really take advantage of the express mode. So this is really coming from this molecular configuration change for your NIPAMs that is at a temperature around your lower critical solution temperature. And then given this efficient water capturing and then water release, so we designed these 24 hours multi-cycle water release and water capture and release at a relatively humidity of 90 and 60. So you can see the optimized conditions, one hour as one cycle, 50 minutes for absorption and capturing and then 10 minutes for release. So each cycle is going on. So you have 24 cycles a day. So, basically, you can release about 20 or like about 50 liters of the water per kilogram for your material used. And this photograph shows how much water they can actually take in in the swelling. And we also shows these outdoor water harvesting behavior studies in the natural environment. So you can see we use this mesh bags design. So in a dry state it's xerogels and, once swollen, a hydrogel at these early morning hours so they can take in water significantly, and then once it's subject to the solar heat, so over time, so they can release water efficiently. So this really shows you this new design of hydroscopic plus some more responsive polymers. So it can actually do a good job in both processes. So I already summarize some of these exciting developments for all the materials innovation for atmosphere water harvesting technology, and then I think it's very important to re-emphasize the design principle for the next generation of materials. So they need to have this strong interaction with water to enable operation at even lower relative humidity or high-temperature conditions, and you also want to design a dedicated design molecule-level water management to realize water will release efficiently. And for a long-term operation, both the chemical and the structural stability are quite important. And for better, higher flux of air passing through the sorbent for better yield. So you can also optimize micro or nano structure of your gel materials, and, also, you need to design fast resorption-desorption kinetics to achieve the higher production capacity, and as we recently wrote a mini review for this field. So if you are interested, please read our reference just come out actually earlier this week. Thank you. So let me stop sharing and then turn to the next speaker. Thank you, Guihua. OK, thank you for sharing the insight into this technology, particularly from materials point of view, OK? So next speaker, we have Professor Peng Wang from Hong Kong and the KAUST post, OK? Peng, it's your turn. OK, go ahead. Please share your slides. Professor Peng, please share your screen. OK. Can you see mine? Yes, it's OK now. Please. OK, all right, thank you, TJ. So after Guihua's talk on material innovation, my part will be on practical side. In this part of my talk, I will share with you or show some of our all-in-one, easy-to-assemble device. I'll show you some of the nanodesign we designed to enhance the sorption-desorption kinetics and also application of AWH to PV panel coating. To start, I still have to introduce you one material, one absorbent material, which my research has used a lot as a reference benchmark. I believe we actually briefly touched upon this material in one of his slides. Now the material here is composite hydrogel of PAM, calcium chloride, and the carbon nanotube. And you can see from this figure, it has good cyclability but a very slow sorption-desorption kinetics. It takes this material 14 hours to reach its vapor absorption equilibrium. Nevertheless, we put this material inside a very easy-to-assemble, inexpensive, all-in-one device, and you can see on the bottom right, due to the slow absorption kinetics of the solvent, this device only allow us to do one cycle of sorption and desorption within one day. With that, 1 kilogram of the sorbent would give us only 1 liter of fresh water within a one-day period. Now in order to have multiple sorption-desorption cycle, kinetics has to be further enhanced. One of our designs is to have desiccant in nanocontainer. The example here is that we have lithium chloride as desiccant, and we have nano hollow carbon sphere as our nanocontainer. Now with this material, you can see on the left-hand side of this video shows that upon illumination, there is a very quick release of water vapor, indicating that the solvent material has a very fast water vapor desorption kinetics. It takes this material now only three hours to reach its vapor absorption equilibrium in comparison to 14 hours in the previous case. We then put this material into another down-to-earth, very simple device to test its performance. With this system, we were able to do three sorption-desorption cycle within one day. With this, we were able to get three kg off fresh water out of one kg of the absorbant material. But since we have been this far off having multiple cycles within one day, why not one step further? So we are currently working on a continuous AWH device I'm showing in this video here. For the sake of time, I'll skips the detail and just let you know this is work in early progress. I hope I will have some update to share with you soon. Now I want to very quickly switch gears to something everyone knows very well, PV panels. The global PV installation capacity is currently at around 600 gigawatts. And it's all a very fast rise. The reason I talk about this is because PV has a serious problem. It's very hot, especially in arid and semi-arid regions during the daytime. So in one of our project, we combine a double edge with PV panel to offer some cooling power from the AWH design. Now the design is presented here. Basically, we have AWH sorbent that absorbs water vapor at night. During the daytime when the PV panel is heated up, the heat of the PV panel will be used to drive water to evaporate out of the sorbent material here. That leads to, in fact, to PV panel cooling. To test this design, we use, again, the same composite hydrogel material we worked before. And you can see from these two figures on the right-hand side with the AWH-assisted cooling, you have the same PV panel at much lower temperature than the one without. And in our field outdoor test, the same PV panel with the cooling design was able to produce 13% to 19% more electricity than those without this cooling device. So this is all I have. To end my part, I really want to echo the message Jean conveying to all of us in the very beginning. There are currently about 8 million people in the world who just don't have daily access to clean drinking water. Now this leads to, very sadly, about 200 million hours, human hours, spent, majorly by women and the girls, just to fetch water for their family. If and when we make AWH able to give them the amount of water they fetch every day, this amount of human hours will be saved. And this time can be spent on much more productive activities-- education, skill training, manufacturing, you name it. So this is one motivation that everyone should work hard, should continue our work on this topic and everyone in the audience, you know, if you are interested in joining this great effort. With that, I would like to thank you for your time and your attention. I'll pass the mic to another Professor Wang. Thank you, Peng. Yeah, thank you for sharing very exciting devices. Now we would like to invite Professor Wang, Ruzhu to show the progress at the system and process level. Thank you. Professor Ruzhu, please share your slides. Go ahead. Yeah. Start from the beginning. I'm sorry. Just a moment. I needed to-- So thanks for the invitation from Professor [INAUDIBLE] from MIT to give me this opportunity to talk something about extracting water from air, and my topic will be energy, water, air, nexus. So fresh water scarcity, that's a global challenge, and you could see that many people in sub-Sahara desert area there that take hours to collect to drinking water every day. So there are so many people that are lack of fresh water. And but water is everywhere, especially in the air. So here we could show that there's over 6 times of the amount of water in the vapor than actually on the Earth. So it's actually now in the air. So we need some technology to try to get water condensed and then we get condensed water to drink. So now there is some machines are available. This is one example to take water from the air, and you get potable drinking water or some kind of facilities in the desert area to fetch water from the air. So what water in air, so 1 cubic meter, how many grams of water in the air? There's only 4 to 25 grams. So if we want to collect 1 kilogram of water, so you may [INAUDIBLE] about 80 to 500 cubic meters air. So this is based upon having a 50% uptake efficiency. So in this case, you need to consume energy. And, currently, if we have a look, so there are several types of air water harvesting technology. The most popular is dew water collection by [INAUDIBLE] regulation effect. But, also, now we are talking about absorption based, so this is depending on the relative humidity. When relative humidity is 100%, you could use this kind of foggy fix. But when the humidity is very low, only the absorption-based is a solution. So this is just shows that if we have the air, 20 degrees, 65% the level the humidity, so with the humidity, 9.5 grams. So then if you wanted to get 5 grams down and you need cooling to the dew point in a day, cooling down again. And in this case, the temperature would be about 2.3 degrees centigrade. And you need the cooling source maybe minus 2.6, or even lower, to get it condensing. And in that case, it consumes energy. So you need to consume electricity. But if we have an absorbent, [INAUDIBLE] absorbent, we just try to heat it up. And then when you heat it, the water absorbs away the [INAUDIBLE] at high pressure into the case. And then you find the dew point may be high, for example, here, that's 32 or 34 degrees centigrade. And so in this case, if we go through this process, and you need about 30 degrees here, and in this case because the heat sink is about 20 degrees, so you have 10 degrees temperature difference. So in this case, we need some [INAUDIBLE] temperature, maybe 10 degrees higher, for example, 50 degrees. So in this case, it's possible that you get condensing at the heat sink of the room temperature. So we made an evaluation maybe the humidity of air, 10 grams, could be the critical point for the selection of a dew conversation or absorption. So if it's higher than 10 grams, maybe vapor completion system is very efficient. But we need something lower than that, the absorption system should be used. So the humidity of air at a water-deficient region are low. So in this case, we need to consider absorption-based AWH systems for the humidity below 10 grams per kilogram air. And we made an investigation, typically in Egypt, Iran, and Australia and the China some desert area, and we find during the night normally the humidity, so increased and the temperature is down. But in some island conditions, so the humidity is high. So in this case, for the arid, for the dry air, sorption-based is a good technology. So Professor Guihua Yu and also Professor Peng Wang had already a lot of discussion for the sorbent design and to realize highly-efficient AWH. So I just tried to escape to use MOF materials or some hygroscopical hydrogels or some thermo-responsive composite hydrogens. That's [INAUDIBLE] so reported by that two professors before, and, also, hygroscopic salt confined into some porous matrix to use some calcium chloride or litihum chloride and combine it together with some porous materials. And there are already some models to show some discontinuous working devices to capture water at night, and they release water in the daytime by sunshine, so this is reported by MIT and the cost and, also, some other facilities. And by Professor Yaghi, for example, also. So there are many of these kind of researchers. But in consolation, for materials to commercial system there is some programs. The first is scale-up absorbent. So, normally, for some test of materials, you only test several grams, but you need kilograms or a larger scale, and, also, you need in low cost to get stable materials. And, also, for the system level, you need to scale up these devices from a very small quantity, less than 1 liter, you need 10 liter or 500 liters or more. So in this case, you need to consider the heat and mass transfer of the design. Also, the costs are very important. A lot of MOF materials and then is made from the raw materials, and we found it a sorbent could be very expensive. But if we use the normal silica gel or zeolite, and so they are very cheap. So in the case, how to reduce the cost of the sorbent. And, also, if you get the material optimized, you need the system optimization to get solar water-heating powered AWH. So it's by [INAUDIBLE]. So the system design, you need very good heat and mass transfer, and, also, the waste heat should be [INAUDIBLE]. In this case [INAUDIBLE] to get a high efficient AWH system or even to use a solar PV driven system for the combined with heat pump to get a more high efficient. So in Shanghai Jiao Tong University, we had a demonstration for 50 liters per day elaborate AWH system just from one cycle, and during the night, we get the air. So absorption, actually, moisture stored in the [INAUDIBLE]. And during the day, it's heated by the solar energy, and then it encloses these two baths and then make it a circulation, and then you get air heated in a day, and you get a high-humidity air and then a condensed liquid in the condenser, and then you will see the water collected. So this is the four system of 50 liters capacity. Actually, we did some tests. We used ACF combined together with lithium chloride. So it tried to use a commercial available absorbent, and it's a mixture of liquid and a solid, and this is testing at a different temperature levels and for the absorption, that changes with relative humidity. And then we build the system. It's running. And we take absorbent, about 70 kilograms, so one day, so we take three conditions. And still they are inspired [INAUDIBLE] when this is kind of running, and she said my mommy, actually, so it's for the-- she is very inspired for that achievement. So then we did some test typical conditions for this kind of facility. And, also, we made some evaluations. So this is real test for the wrong, and the energy evaluation is nearly 2.3 kilowatt hour per liter of water. So we made an evaluation for the vapor completion dew water collection. That's an electrical consumption. So we assume that it's reasonable to make completions with a vapor completion system or dew water collection. So besides AWH, I take very quickly to say something energy, water, and air nexus. So we did some research of electronic cooling by AWH by absorbing water to the MOF materials, but for the electronic heating, we heat it so without heat, without MOF material, and with MOF material. Due to the desorption, you get a temperature down, 7 or 8 degrees for the electronic cooling. We invented also air humidity pump to pump water humidity from low environment humidity to high humidity. And, also, we tried to use wind solar radiation for the heating and by photo similar effect to generate evaporation and then to create concentration gradient around this panel and then [INAUDIBLE] to resorb the moisture. In this case, you get dehumidification of the indoor. And, also, we create. so-called a thermal battery by air humidity assisted absorption. So by this a kind of absorption of air humidity, you get resorption. You get air heating. In this case, this could be used for heating, but in the night, you could use electricity for the regeneration. So in his case, this is kind of new, high-density thermal storage devices, but you need to keep the output of temperature and so power couldn't be controlled. In several hours, you need. And, also, we did some work to consider sustainable agriculture for water-saving greenhouses. So we tried to absorb water during the wintertime and then by absorption for heating, but water collected could be used for the [INAUDIBLE] of this kind of plant. So in this case, we could get a water recovery, more than 70%, and to get energy saving and water saving. So this is new research for the agriculture, and, also, we have a [INAUDIBLE] desert blooms with draught planting use hydrogels like this. So we do not want to use this, and we would like to use polymers, PNIPAM. And the this case, actually, the plant actually were just to go through the connections and not free water, but what contained the polymers. So, in this case, to save the water for this kind of agriculture. And, also, the last slide is just to show we invented a next-generation room air conditioner, which that's going to heat exchanges. So this is the design, and we increased the normal room air conditioner COP from 3,2 to 6.2 because 40% of cooling load for dehumifidication is handled by desiccant. And this desiccant actually that's generator by the waste created from condense effect. So in this case, we enlarged COP. Fortunately, now we had the contract with a train vehicle air conditioner manufacturer. We tried to use this for the train vehicles, not only for the metro, but also for super high-speed train. So we hope in the next year, we could at least this kind of system. Now it's already same thing to the testing of the laboratory. So the outlook and perspective for AWH, I think, we need the absorbent design, device construction, system optimization, and, also, cost reduction. But, also, beyond AWH, we need also some more could be expected based on innovations. So that's all for my talk. So this is all the student that's involved, and we are called ITEWA, that's Innovative Team Energy, Water, and Air. So thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, Rhuzhu. OK, I think it's a very exciting talk and put a lot of aspect together in an integrated way. And, also, we can look forward to the future. Thank you all for the presentations and also for the participants. I think with this year, unfortunately, we had this COVID-19 pandemic. So it's really changed our life. I know, even for myself, I was thinking about why before we take everything for granted like food, water, energy, everything like for free, right? It's like everything at hand. Now like water is now clean water, particularly not for United States. I mean, for other countries like me, I'm in the Middle East, it's difficult to get clean water, right, and then with the very low cost. And, also, many think we should think about decentralized water production, one of the most exciting technologies from atmosphere we can harvest the water. Right, so many issues I think we should discuss through this panel discussion. And before that, I would like to also launch another poll, because, as Professor Peng Wang mentioned, there are many other technologies available for standalone operation. So I would like to launch another poll just to get interaction from our team, OK? So let me just launch that again. So the second poll is basically, which of the following water production technology sounds more promising for people live off the grid island, people like me, OK? So first of all, is PV [INAUDIBLE],, the reverse osmosis membrane, second one is solar thermal distillation like [INAUDIBLE] people solar direct solar vapor generation technology, and, also, the last one is atmospheric water harvesting. So just put your case over there. There is no open solution for this, OK? We just think about the political future based on your own kind of experience, OK? So the poll is coming, OK, more than 40% voted. Good. Wow! [LAUGHTER] Many people are convinced atmospheric water harvesting is most promising. We did a great job today. [LAUGHTER] OK. OK, very good, very interesting, very interesting, OK. OK. OK, good. So nobody-- not too many people vote PV, OK? Is that because PV cannot work during night. Maybe that is the reason, right? OK, sounds good. We have more than 70% of those already. So now let me just end the poll right now. Let's do it for 75%. It just requires all the participants to submit to your votes as soon as possible, OK? So just give a few seconds. So I think it's almost there, OK? So good. Yeah, it's good. Let's end the polling. So now let me read the results, OK? 23% of people vote PV power, the reverse osmosis membrane is more interesting, more promising. And 24%, OK, slightly larger than the first one, is a vote for solar thermal distillation, and the last one, more people, more than 50% of people voted atmospheric water harvesting. So Jean, are you happy with this poll? OK. I think it definitely all the other speakers are very happy because right, we promoted the technology very well today, OK. Very good. OK, thank you. We got multiple questions from the participants. I think let's have some interaction section and mark a few questions here. So the first question I'm going to read is silica gel usually needs around 1 kilowatt hour for dissolving 1 kg of water. By how much is the desorption energy reduced in IP and hydrogel composites compared to silica gel. Who is going to answer the question? Definitely from technical side. So maybe I can add some thoughts. So like the silica gel is in this conventional moisture harvester. So they typically need to have these high-energy to reach regeneration temperature and the absorption enthalpy to overcome, I think, compared to IPM, which is actually going through liquid phase separation. So we cannot do a calculation comparison actually, but the enthalpy involved in change for a phase is liquid-liquid thermal base-- thermal responsive hydrogel to change from hydrophilic to hydrophobic is about one or two orders lower than is conventional evaporation condensation in the desorption process. So that actually really makes the process less energy intense. So I think that's my input. Great. Thank you. Another question from Mike Levinson, OK, so the question is, how resistant to microbiome growth are the water harvesting materials? And also for some other question are talking about contaminants in the water. So maybe Jean, you want to address this briefly? And all other speakers, clean water. Yeah, it sounds like a technical question in terms of the separation of the technology from microorganisms. Yeah, OK. So from technical side, Peng Wang maybe you can address this. Yeah, so I feel most of the material that we have been working on are microbial activity resistance in the polymers or, you know, the liquid sort or, you know, some other solid materials in the gel. So the second part is on the-- can I repeat the second part of the-- Contaminants from water. Well, if you only talk about the air pollutant, I would typically say that the water issue would be less when you're compared to fog harvesting. And why is this? So the reason, I believe, is that, firstly, the contaminant concentration is sure to be much lower because we are, in this case, talk about molecular-level contaminant as, you know, gas molecules in the air. So there may be. So far, we haven't, or nobody else have done, long-term performance evaluation. There may be potential microbial contamination within the produced water by sorbent-based water harvesting, but so far, I haven't seen, or at least we haven't done, any long-term experiment to evaluate this. OK, thank you. Yeah, so there is another question from [INAUDIBLE],, OK, to equate value. So a very interesting temperature response material for water extraction, and where is energy from for heating and cooling your device? If we use a portable device, what would be a good source to get as energy for the Guihua. It's a question for Guihua. Go ahead. Yeah, so in the demo for indoor and also outdoor using our SMAG, Super Moisture Absorbing Gels, so, basically, the idea we want to promote is because the thermal responsivity of this gel is only required mild heat, so the he can come in from the solar heating, mild solar heating, so once the temperature reached to about this LCST 37 to 40 DBC so they can switch from hydrophilic to hydrophobic release of water. So that solar can be one source for energy needed and, also, if you Have any of [INAUDIBLE] involved, so then the hot plate heating in a lab is also more efficient to release of water. And for portable device, I think it is really needed for kind of take advantage of a solar-powered design. So that's the whole, I think perspective Professor Rhuzhu Wang promoted using the solar-powered AWH as the greater kind of promise compared to PV and compared to other electricity involved process. Maybe Professor Rhuzhu Wang can also comment on this since you have been in working in the field for a few decades now. So I think the most important thing for the energy consumption, so I think as Guihua introduced that we're using this kind of temperature responsible materials, normally, for an absorbance, we need the generation temperature, and maybe you need the 60 or 70 degrees centigrade, but for this kind of hydrogel, we need only 40-something. So in this case, so the energy consumption could be very small. So I really wanted that the invention of Guihua, actually, would be a very, very efficient because for the absorption AWH systems, now what I considered and had to compare with the vapor [INAUDIBLE] system, I made some calculations, maybe say 10 gram per cubic meters for the air. This kind of dryness maybe below that is suitable for an absorption system. But if we use this kind of hydrogel, temperature responsive hydrogel, then the energy consumption could be much lower. I think it's a very good basis to use solar energy being very, very easy. Thank you. Thank you both. Another question from Yousef we're having. So the question for Professor Peng Wang. So the question is radiative fog is very common or the Arabian Peninsula, especially around the wintertime with the high near-surface relative humidity. How does your absorption-based design work during fog conditions, Professor [INAUDIBLE],, since you have been working in Saudi for a long time? Well, that's a very good question, unexpected. This is true. I have been in Saudi Arabia for the past 10 years. But I remember, you know, in the place where I work, there was only a couple of days of very heavy fog in the past 10 years. Regarding how this material works during foggy day, well, if you talk about hydrogel or you talk about some solid-based sorbent, they will be saturated with the liquid water droplet very quickly. And the rest of the process will be the same as the vapor-based water sorption and desorption. You have to have the energy to drive the one water out. In our case, it's [INAUDIBLE] the phase change. There will be a significant amount incoming energy during the whole phase change process to release the vapor back and then condense the vapor to get the liquid water. OK, great, so now I have another interesting question, OK? The question is is the use of AWH on planet other than Earth is being investigated. So, basically, are we considering using technology. They say Mars moons they have water over there underneath, right? So Jean maybe you can put some perspective here? I can't imagine on another planet what's going on. I think that just to come back again to one of the most unique things about atmospheric water harvesting is being able to produce the water where you need it, and if we can get the volumes up, I think one of the unfortunate use of terms in defining sustainable development goal has been calling it drinking water. And it really should be called domestic use water because I've noticed in many a literature on atmospheric water harvesting, engineers are thinking about how many glasses of drinking water can their technology produce. And what we really need to be talking about is how many liters of water can be produced at the place where it's needed, whether it's in a mud hut in Africa or whether it's in a station on Mars because most of the water that's needed is actually not for drinking, but for hygiene. And that water is what is really, right now, causing us to lose so many IQ points in human populations. I see. OK, then now what we also need the opinion, right, the recommendation from our engineers. So how about other speakers? You can comment on this. I agree with what Jean just said. However, one of the signature of AWH is that it produces very clean water. If you do the whole process right, the water produced by this process is typically much cleaner than drinking water produced by conventional procedures, either for mostly for the central [INAUDIBLE] drinking water treatment. So if we can think about where do we put this precious clean water into a good use, drinking is, of course, our first priority. Drinking, cooking, you know, those are the activities that make you survive. There is 3 liters of minimum drinking water demand for a typical adult. First, to have the AWH to meet these basic essential needs for everybody, then we can move on to push this water to other use. I'm not expert on personal hygiene, but maybe I put this on my second priority list. It's just my personal take on this. It's very clean water. That's a fact. OK. It definitely is. I think just not to lose sight of the need for volume in terms of maintaining IQ, in terms of maintaining brain function of young children. And so once the first need is met for drinking and cooking, then other uses are deprioritized by families. Mothers, if they have to walk a long way to get water, they'll drink and cook with what they get, and hygiene will be deprioritized, and that's right now where we're losing human capital. So it's just to keep that at-- to keep that in your thinking of, yes, quality is super important. Quantity is also very important. Right. Right. Thank you. OK, great. Let's take another question. This is from David Walsinger. So a question for the panelists, all the panelists, OK, so what are the cost figures today for each of the leading water vapor harvesting technologies, for example, in dollar per liter, OK? And, also, where do you see each of the most compelling ones going in the next 10 years? So this is like a practical, I think, question, OK? Any comments from panelists? What I have read from some literature for vapor completion system for the dew collection, so they reported that its energy consumption is somehow between 1 to 6 kilowatt hour per liter of water. So this is actually the cost of energy actually, so not including the equipment, but, usually, this equipment is a long life for the devices. But for the sorption-based technologies, to produce 1 liter, so if it's not by Guihua's and what our facility did, you need 1 liter. You need about a 2 kilowatt hour heating. So it's not that much, but it's less than electricity price. And if Guihua's material is used, you could reduce a lot. I think this is actually [INAUDIBLE] with the cost. But I think Peng Wang, he had already listed his cost. Well, it was a very rough estimation. I have to emphasize that for our cost estimation in one of the slide, because you guys saw the material we use, you know, large box, glass, aluminum foil, copper foil. Those are typical supermarket materials, and we consider the cost of the chemicals that we use to make the hydrogen. What we did not consider was the-- we don't have a very reliable data on how long those [INAUDIBLE] stays stable because it is known that all of the polymers will gradually degrade under solar irradiation. So, you know, this is like the context of our rough cost estimation. But I want to say that the system can be very simple, easy to assemble, easy to make [INAUDIBLE].. So it's suitable if you have available land. It's suitable at small-to-medium scale, you know, a household to a small community with, you know, a few hundred people. And if you do the operation, if we can first, you know, if we can scale up for testing materials and large scale with reasonable cost, it's reliable, you know? And there is no consumable typically during this whole process. So unless you make the system or the material stable for a long period of time, the cost can be reduced significantly. That's my personal opinion on this. Yeah, so maybe I think just add very quick point to Peng and Rhuzhu's comments on the costs. I think it's very important questions to look at fuller in terms of from what we can do as a scientist and engineer to estimate the material costs and for a system level how you build a system with different components and how long it can work. So it really kind of next step we need to look into and, also, for all of these groups working on this field, to think about is how competitive with rows and numbers from the industry. I think it is extremely important question to look into here. Thank you all. Let's take the another question. Last one, OK? So this is from Pablo L. So the question is, could it have become dangerous for biological processes if we extract too much water from air? [LAUGHTER] So this is a controversial question. OK, go ahead. Yeah, from our speakers, any comments on this? Do you think we can extract too much water from air? [LAUGHTER] [INAUDIBLE] [INAUDIBLE] If we successfully scale up this whole process, it will be-- I feel it will be a contribution to climate change because we are giving water back to, you know, from air to the ground. I don't think that we can-- you know, with the human activity at the current stage, you know, if we scale this up at the scale we need, the amount of water coming down from the air is still very, very small compared to what we have in, you know, in [INAUDIBLE]. OK, good. So [INAUDIBLE] time is like very limited. Now let me just thank you very much, all the panelists, OK? So I think this is a great session today I know. So thank you all for the contribution. So I just want to mention a few things here. So next seminar, as about [INAUDIBLE] will be held on July 22. The topic, it will be high-thermal conductivity materials, so I can have another four speakers plus one panelist, OK, moderator. OK? That's one announcement. So, also, I want to remind all the participants. So in the future, we have multiple events. August 5 we have a hydrogen energy and also August 19 are some management of electrical vehicles and also September 2, we are going to have another kind of seminar on Earth's energy balance. That will be very exciting to me also, OK? So that's all for today. So we're just on time. So if not, if you have other questions, let's just finish today's curriculum, OK? Thank you very much. Thank you all for being here today, OK? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Bye, bye. Bye. 