 [LISA] Welcome to Stories from the NNI. I'm Lisa Friederdorf, Director of the National Nanotechnology Coordination Office. Today it's my pleasure to welcome Markita Landry, Assistant Professor of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at the University of California, Berkeley. Markita, thank you so much for joining us today. To give us started, can you tell us a little bit about yourself and how you first got involved in nanotechnology? [MARKITA] My interest in nanotechnology started during my postdoctoral training, so relatively late in my career. And my interest in nanotechnology was in kind of thinking of matter as having almost like a third dimension. If we think of the periodic table as classifying matter based on matter properties or material properties, nanoscale materials are almost like constructing that periodic table down into a third dimension which is size. And I thought it was fascinating that when matter is miniaturized down to the nanoscale it can take on unique properties that are not observable at the macroscale. And so the lab that I run today is one that exploits some of these unique properties of materials at the nanoscale and applies them to the study of biological systems. [LISA] Well can you tell us a little bit more about your work that's looking at the intersection between nanotechnology and biological systems? [MARKITA] Yeah, so two of the features of this nanoscale matter that I think are most exciting are first the unique optical properties that nanomaterials can take on at the nanoscale. And so my lab uses optically active nanomaterials, so carbon-based materials that become fluorescent at the nanoscale to learn more about biological systems. And the way that we do that is by functionalizing these carbon nano materials in a way such that they change color or change intensity in the presence of biologically relevant molecules. So for example we can develop neurotransmitter sensors based on these nanomaterials that will turn on in the presence of neurotransmitters such as dopamine, which is a chemical in the brain that's responsible for motivation, for learning and for reward. And so by developing these sensors we can then implant them into the brains of rodent models and animals and learn more about how brain chemistry dictates things like mood and behavior. Another feature of nanomaterials that I think is fascinating is, again at the nanoscale, nanomaterials can take on really unique tensile strengths or stiffnesses that are not observable at the macroscal. Aand because the size scale of nanomaterials is very similar to the building blocks of life, so cells and subcellular structures, it becomes possible to tune nanomaterials in a way that they can kind of slip through biological barriers. And so for this part of the lab or this area of our research, we're interested in exploiting some of these properties of nanomaterials pertinent to their tensile strength to be able to deliver biological molecules into cells that are usually very difficult to penetrate, such as plant cells. So in this space, the lab is interested in developing nanomaterials for the delivery of genetic engineering materials to plants and to help expedite the production of genetically modified crops. [LISA] Well that's really fascinating. I want to go back to the optically active carbon nanomaterials you mentioned. What type of carbon nanomaterials, are these nanotubes or fluorines or graphene? what type of materials are you looking at? [MARKITA] Well the types of materials that we use for our imaging or for our brain imaging applications are single-walled carbon nanotubes and even more specifically the semiconducting varietal of single walled carbon nanotubes. These are materials that have a band gap structure, which means that we can take a high-energy beam of photons such as a laser and excite these materials across that bandgap. And what will happen is that this excitation will create something called an exciton, which is conceptually like an electron hole pair that will have an attraction for itself, recombine, and shoot out a photon of light. What we especially like about semiconducting single walled carbon nanotubes is that their fluorescence output, or their bandgap is in the infrared, which is a range of the electromagnetic spectrum that is very difficult to tune to for most other fluorophores. And the reason that these infrared wavelengths are important especially for brain imaging is that they're maximally transparent to biological tissues such as bone and brain tissue. So what that means is that if we develop, for example, dopamine nanosensors based on these semiconducting single-walled carbon nanotubes we have an optical signal telling us about the presence or absence of dopamine that can go through tissue and bone. And so that would allow us to perform some of these studies to monitor dopamine modulation in the brain without having to, for example remove the cranium. [LISA] You mentioned being able to determine the absence or presence, can you also detect levels? I mean is it a yes/no, or is there actually a gradient that you're able to measure with these optical sensors? [MARKITA] We can definitely measure gradients. And so that's part of the questions that we're trying to answer is not just kind of where dopamine is, but how long dopamine resides in certain parts of tissues, how individual cells are releasing dopamine, and how that changes throughout the course of perturbations such as neurodegenerative disease or under exposure of different drugs. For example, drugs of addiction. So it's really fascinating to see how these dopamine signals and brain tissue can be very sensitive to these external perturbations such as disease or drugs. [LISA] With respect to the optically active materials and you already clarified that you're using single walled semiconducting carbon nanotubes in order to get the fluorescence in the wavelength it has the greatest penetration through biological materials, could you compare and contrast maybe a little bit some of the semiconducting quantum dots that are used for imaging in some cases. Do the semiconducting quantum dots typically result in fluorescence in different wavelengths? [MARKITA] So semiconducting quantum dots are, I would say a more tunable class of materials, while I think carbon nanotubes are synthesized through chemical vapor deposition and result in a mixture of different band gaps or mixture different chiralities including metallic tubes that don't have a bandgap. The synthesis of semiconducting nanocrystals or quantum dots can be done in a much more tunable fashion and these materials can also be tuned to extend their fluorescence outputs into the infrared. There are certainly advantages and disadvantages of carbon nanotubes and quantum dots specific to, for example, how easy it is to modify surfaces of these materials for adsorption of different biological cargoes. I would opine that it is much more simple to attach DNA or RNA cargos to carbon nanotubes than it is to semiconducting quantum dots. And it is also, at least for applications in plant science and brain science from what we've seen, a little easier to make carbon nanotubes biocompatible. That being said quantum dots can be much more tunable, so having a very specific excitation and very specific emission wavelength that can be tuned into IR is certainly a very big selling point, especially for applications that require a narrow spectral bandwidth for signals that are clearly emitting in a specific wavelength range. [LISA] I want to switch gears a little bit and maybe talk about interdisciplinarity. How do you see the intersection of nanotechnology across disciplines in your work? [MARKITA] Really, nanotechnology is a very broad field that has many different spaces of applications. And in all cases it's almost like thinking of Venn diagrams where nanotechnology is at the center and is influencing energy research, materials science, and certainly biological sciences as well. I can certainly say that as a kind of a classically trained physicist, it's taken some additional reading and learning on my part to get up to speed on the biology that is needed to bring these tools from more of a microscopy and chemistry bench into, for example, the field or a neurobiologist rig. [LISA] I want to get your perspective as someone who's applying nanotechnology. Where do you think nanotechnology will have the most significant impact in the future? [MARKITA] Certainly I'm biased working at the intersection of nanotechnology and biology to say that nanotechnology is making some significant impacts in biology. And the reasons for that, at least from my perspective, are in the similarity in size scales, length scales and time scales that biology and nanotechnology work at. And so if we think about the size of a protein versus the size of a standard carbon nanotube or gold particle, they're quite similar. And one is a completely synthetic, man-made material and the other is a biologically-evolved material. And it becomes, therefore, I think, straightforward to use the synthetic material to learn more about the biological material or to develop tools for the biological material. [LISA] Do you have any advice for students who are interested in in pursuing research in this area? [MARKITA] Yeah, I think my greatest advice is to get involved. And that sounds like such a generic piece of advice, but I became interested in biological sciences and biological science research four years ago when I started my lab as a professor, so don't ever think that it's too late for you to get involved in a new field of research as well, because I did it well into my career. And I won't say that it's been easy, but I will say that it's been extraordinarily rewarding. [LISA] Markita, thank you for taking the time to talk with us today. I've really enjoyed our conversation and want to ask, do you have any closing thoughts that you'd like to share with our listeners? [MARKITA] Yeah just in terms of closing thoughts, the field of nanotechnology, as I mentioned being very broad and then seeing applications that are originating in nanotechnology and going into a myriad of different other research fields, but it extends beyond research. So the applications of nanotechnology are now routinely used in, for example, cosmetics, in sports equipment, vehicles, and the more that we use nanomaterials, especially in these more applied settings, I think it becomes important to understand the impact of nanomaterials in the settings in which they're being used. Especially if there's a potential for sample escape into the environment or perhaps interference with animals or humans. So I think this is an area of research that's really important, specifically looking into the compatibility of materials for using in a day to day setting. Thank you for joining us today for Stories from the NNI. If you would like to learn more about nanotechnology, please visit nano.gov or email us at info@nnco.nano gov and check back here for more stories. 