 - Next up, Pedro Arias-Monje on plastic fibers, carbon nanotubes and Spider-Man. (audience laughs) - Pop quiz. What is the material of Spider-Man's webs? Oh, right, but still let me walk you through the answer, because this is something that will help all of us, not only to jump from building to building, but also to build better cars, planes, and spacecraft. So, hang in there and let's challenge Spider-Man. But don't get me wrong; I'm not a villain. I'm a material scientist. I know, Spider-man, save that vase from falling 100 feet. Now, spider silk won't do. It's just not strong enough. Instead, Spidey will need to use steel wire, the same type that construction cranes use. The catch? Those are really heavy. Just to save that vase, he will need 22 pounds. A lot. Spidey should use instead carbon nanotubes, the ultimate hero of materials. They are so strong that he could save two vases at the same time with a carbon nanotube wire of just five ounces. There is a catch as well, and it's that producing that long and strong pure nanotube wire is practically impossible, because carbon nanotubes are 10,000 times thinner than the human hair. Imagine building something that long with something that thin. That is why I propose to Spidey something else. Let's mix plastic materials and short carbon nanotubes that are easier to produce and to use. Because of the plastic, we can have long and light fibers and because of the carbon nanotubes, they can be strong. My goal is to put as many carbon nanotubes as possible to make these fibers as strong as possible. There was one catch, was. And it's because carbon nanotubes are also like tiny little magnets that once they are close to each other they just clump together and created lumps, and those were difficult to mix with the plastic. And as I wanted to add more carbon nanotubes, well the final plastic was not strong. I solved this by covering each carbon nanotube, such that they can't clump together. My results show that by following this approach the carbon nanotubes are easier to mix with the plastic and we can produce light and strong fibers. They are already lighter than steel wire, though not quite as strong, yet. I need to keep adding more carbon nanotubes. By following this we will get better cars, planes, and spacecraft because they will be faster, more fuel efficient, and safer. Lighter and stronger. We will be building with superhero fibers. Thank you. (audience applauds) 