 Hi, everyone. Thanks for joining us today at another professional development seminar. Today's talk is about advanced manufacturing of multifunctional polymer nanocomposites. Our presenter is joining us from UMass Lowell but he was an assistant professor at the School of Mechanical and Materials Engineering Washington State University. Dr. Ameli has joined UMass Lowell recently. Dr. Ameli received his PhD from the University of Toronto and has more than 140 journal and conference papers so we're very excited for your talk and thanks for joining us today. ... for the nice introduction- can you hear me?- okay good so thanks for the invitation and thank you for the nice introduction so today as you just mentioned I'm going to talk about multifunctional polymer composites from the manufacturing perspective as well as some of the functionalities Some of the work actually has been conducted the University of Toronto and some of the Washington State University so I just recently joined UMass Lowell so the work that I'm going to present has been produced in the previous institutions so today I'm going to talk about two processes: one injection molding and the other one fused filament fabrication or 3D printing. On injection molding I'll talk about the conductive polymer composite foams and on the fused filament fabrication two projects one on the printed sensors and one on the adhesion and the fracture resistance of printed polymers and composites. So first about the injection molding. What do you see in this is slide? Slide number three is basically an overview of foam injection molding process. So injection molding in general has two major units. So we have the plastic aiding an injection unit and to the left is the mold unit so the polymer is fed from the left from the hopper side where the motor is located and then a reciprocating screw moves the polymer forward and heats... so the heat and the pressure is controlled and at the downstream somewhere around the middle a gas is injected inside the polymer in the foaming process. So the screw, and barrel, and the pressure, and temperature they all are designed in a way that we are able to dissolve the gas which is usually a carbon dioxide or nitrogen to obtain a solution of polymer gas right before the injection and then usually in some designs we use gear pumps and reservoirs to make sure that a homogeneous high-pressure melt gas solution is preserved and then it is injected to the mold cavity. So the actual foaming process or the generation of the cellular structure is created at the time of injection where the pressure drop happens. So essentially by the drop in the pressure a thermodynamic instability is occurring the solution and that causes the nucleation of cells and eventually the growth of cells due to the excess of the gas that is dissolved in the polymer and that's basically an overview of how a cellular structure is created using a foam injection molding machine. The moving to the next slide on next slide number four shows an overview of foaming process. So usually as I mentioned gas which at the given process condition is usually under critical fluid condition is mixed with the polymer so there is a lot meaning to the design of the process and design of the machinery how to mix the polymer with gas and how to disperse eventually to get to the solution and then once a uniform solution is obtained by a rapid pressure drop the nucleation is occurring and is followed by a cell growth and eventually a cellular heart is created. So a little bit of introduction on the conductive polymer composite. So that's on the foaming side so in this work basically we try to see how we can take some benefits of foaming by introducing to the conductive polymer composites. So here by conductive I mean electrically conductive polymer composites which usually are achieved by mixing a conductive filler such as carbon fiber or carbon nanotubes or a stainless steel fiber. So any kind of fiber that has the high electrical conductivity could be considered. So these kind of composites they show as we calculate their behavior meaning that at some point the fibers, the conductive fibers, start to form an internal three-dimensional network where the conductivity.... *audio cuts out* insulating materials as we continue using the conductive filler into the system by adding the filler loading at some point this percolative network is created and you see a rapid jump in the conductivity: the transition S-shaped curve. And then once that network is formed by further addition of the filler we were able to still to increase the conductivity but at a slower rate and then I also have a typical example of conductive polymer composites at different range of conductivity values here so at the very low levels of conductivity usually they're used for anti-static protection and then if the conductivity is designed to have a little bit higher value could be used for electrostatic discharge as well as charge storage and dielectric applications in the range around 10 to negative 2 to 10 to positive 2 Siemens per centimeter it's good for the electromagnetic shielding as well as a taser resistant applications and if to the high end if you're able to increase the conductivity to high values close to what metals show they have potential applications in bipolar plates of different kind of fuel cells. So in this talk I'll touch on two applications one is the electromagnetic shielding another one is charge storage. So now: how foaming can actually help in having better conductivity in conductive polymer composites. So in looking at again at the percolative curve that I just showed so here what we have in the regular conductive process where there is no foaming so we have to at the start of the process we have to add the filler to the extent that is already *cuts out* pass the threshold.... Because as we keep increasing the solid filler load that increases the viscosity of the compound and it becomes more difficult to process. And the second challenge is once it is already percolated during that process inside the barrel a lot of shear forces are applied during the process and that since they are already interconnected that causes excessive fiber breakage during the process which is detrimental to both electrical as well as mechanical properties. And then the third one of course is we use more fiber and that comes at a cost. But now if you look at the the green shape down there if we can start with lower carbon fiber concentration for example, so if within the process the fibers are not percolated then they're not really interconnected that heavily so that eases the process because of the reduction in the viscosity and also since there are not a lot of physical interconnection that reduces the fiber breakage and of course since we're using this fiber it can translate in cost-saving. So this is overall basically the hypothesis now we'll go over to see whether this is actually happening. So what I have here in slide number 7 shows the conductivity results of a carbon nanotube and polypropylene composite on the left. So the blue one down is the solid injection-molded composites so there's no foaming there. Just a regular injection molding and the green one is the composites where we have introduced the foaming to this structure. So as you see there is a clear percolation and transition from installation to conduction in the case of foaming as opposed to the solid one where a conductivity gradually increases but even at 2.5 volume percent of CNT concentration it's still insulated material while the deformed one has a relatively high conductivity. Another figure to the right at the bottom is another example with carbon fiber so not an entirely different filler in terms of the size and dimensions or carbon nanotubes and nano material. Carbon fiber is like three orders of magnitude bigger but it's still in the carbon fiber system also we see similar trend where the percolation starts to occur much earlier in terms of the carbon fiber concentration. And then the ACMs at the at the top right showing the morphology of the solid injection-molded sample as well as the foam injection molded samples so you see the kind of cellular structure that has been introduced through the injection molding process. So now coming back to the question of why this conductivity enhancement should happen. So at the microscopic level we're inducing voids and they're supposed to actually decrease the conductivity but why the conductivities enhanced? So we looked at the possible mechanisms. So here on the slide number eight what you see is looking into the orientation of fiber so this is an example of carbon fiber. On the left optical microscopy you see the orientation of carbon fibers in the solid sample and to its right is the orientation of carbon fibers in a cellular sample and then down below the optical images I've tried to schematically show what's happening in terms of the fiber orientation so as the cell, a three-dimensional, spherical shape, starts to expand and grow the fibers are on the cell which are in a viscoelastic medium as the cell is growing. So they're on... they experience a biaxial stretching and that eventually forces the fibers to change their orientation around the interface of the fiber. Sorry, interface of the cell. And this could eventually disrupt the orientation of solid sample. So in the regular injection-molded samples due to the significant shear stress that we have in the mold filling stage any solid article that is in the polymer tends to orient in the machine direction because of the shear stresses and this orientation causes basically a very severely oriented structure where it can decrease the electrical conductivity especially if they're looking at that through a plane direction. And on the right you see another optical microscopy image of a cell and the fibers around the cells that have been kind of become tangential after sufficient growth of the cell. So this... we identified this fiber orientation as one of the mechanisms that could contribute to the enhancement of conductivity when the cellular structures *audio cuts out* use the quantification so here basically the orientation of fibers are characterized by measuring the three angles- two angles- and then from there calculating the characteristic values in the length, width, and thickness direction. So a completely isotropic orientation fibers would result in equal characteristic numbers of FLW and T but once we once the fibers are oriented in one direction that direction tends to show higher orientation factor. So now by characterizing the orientation factor in the solid samples and deformed samples here you see that for example if you look at the upper figure where we have looked at the core of the sample where the cells are so you see that at the FT where the orientation of fibers in the thickness direction is described. So by introducing foaming which is the red bar as opposed to the blue bar which is a solid you see that the orientation in the thickness direction significantly increases. This brings the overall orientation toward more isotropic condition rather than preferential orientation in the linear direction. Then moving to the next slide aon slide number 10; so, we tried to actually model and visualize the cell and fiber interaction. So the simple model that you see on the left is so we basically assume a growing bubble that is neighboring a carbon fiber with a predetermined size and location and angle with respect to the direction of growth. And then we try to expand the cell to see how that expansion is going to cause any displacement or rotation in the fiber. And then... so down below you see the final angle in the figure at the left final angle change with respect to the initial angle, then you see that depending on where the fiber is in terms of the distance from the center of the cell... *audio cuts out* ... the final angle changes are not within the scholastic media. Yeah. And then we also tried to visualize this in actual injection molding process so I have a little movie here I hope that's going to play. The now top right with the red arrow a movie which shows the visualization of fibers and cell but the idea here is try to basically observe as the cell is growing what happens to the neighboring fibers. And then the snapshots below show the time sequence of a particular case example. I've highlighted the cell of it is the small blue circle and a typical neighboring fiber with a red line. So as you look at the time sequence from zero second to twenty second you see that eventually as the cell is growing if it's grown to enough size finally the fiber becomes tangential to the surface meaning that effectively the fiber is rotating as the cell is growing. So moving to the next slide: so another mechanism that we identified that helps in improving the conductivity as we introduce foaming is related to the skin layer. So again in the injection molding process no matter how we do the processes there is a skin layer here which is caused by the rapid solidification of the melt as it touches the cold surface of the mold. So since at this region, which is shown by the orange rectangles in the figure, so the skin region is cooled down way faster than the core region and since the viscosity is a strong function of temperature as the temperature is rapidly decreasing the viscosity is rapidly increasing and that causes a lot of shear on the fibers that are... *audio cuts out* ... skin region and that brings a severe... observed when we introduce gas into the polymer system the size of this skin layer actually decreases. So the figure on the right shows the skin thickness for both solvent and foam samples. Skin thickness measured at three different locations near the end, middle, and end of the article that has been injection molded. In all three cases you see that in the foamed case the skin layer thickness is decreasing. And then that actually is related to the fact that the gas, once it is dissolved in the polymer at significant in the effective viscoelastic behavior of the polymer and then decreases the viscosity and then that results in faster mold filling or shorter cycle time as we call... meaning that we can fill up the cavity at shorter time and that decreases the the level of cooling at the skin and eventually we end up having smaller thickness sizes for this skin. So the third mechanism that we've observed that contributes is the fiber breakage. So this one is an example from stainless steel fiber with polypropylene. So what do you see the optical images on the left, the top one is the stainless steel fibers that have been extracted after the sample is molded and then below is similar but for the foam injection molded part. So this is clearly seen by visual observation that the maintained length of the fiber in the case of form injection mobile samples are longer and then to quantify that looking into the frequency distribution on the top right for both solid and foam, the blue ones... the blue is a histogram of the frequency for solid samples and the green one is for the foam samples and then you see that clearly the size or the peak at the size shifts to the right indicating that the retained fiber links is higher in the case of foaming. And then it is very well proven that the conductivity has actually a very strong correlation, a logarithmic correlation, with the aspect ratio. So the figure in the middle you see down is the relationship between the percolation threshold and aspect ratio. So this is also a result of another work that we did the modeling on it so in the 2D and 3D. So you see that in the log scale the threshold decreases with the aspect ratio. In other words as we're increasing the length of the fiber we're increasing the aspect ratio of the fiber and that helps in creating the threshold... sorry, creating the percolative structure at much smaller loadings and that's another factor that helps to enhance the conductivity. Why the fiber is breaking less? That's also related... that's not related to the actual cell growth phenomenon but rather the fact that the gas is dissolved inside the polymer during the process that decreases the viscosity and consequently decreases the degree of stresses that are applied on the fiber during the process and that decreases the severity of fiber breakage. So now with that... so I'd like to talk a little bit about the applications. So now we've observed that by introducing the foaming into conductive composites the conductivity is enhanced so now let's look at some of the applications you see. In the applications also we observe the enhanced performance. So one of the applications that I'm going to talk is electromagnetic interference shielding. So as you see on the top right for electromagnetic wave just like the optical wave which is part of a e/m electromagnetic waves but once the wave is hitting a shield or any substance so it could either be reflected or transmitted and then once it is transmitted inside the shield... so we in general we have some absorption inside the shield and then eventually some of the waves are transmitted through. So when we're talking about the electromagnetic interference shield ideally we would like to have a complete absorption inside the shield meaning that once the electromagnetic wave hits the shield we want to minimize the reflection and we want to minimize the transmission because reflection could be detrimental and transmission could be detrimental in terms of the interference and it has been shown that this interference, EM interference, could have potential health risks and reportedly causes device malfunction. That's why the right now there are a lot of EM compatibility regulations and standards that any electronic device that is made have to comply with the electromagnetic compatibility codes and regulations. So now, right now, most of the shield that are being industrially used are actually metallic shields and the reason for that is simply because the metallic shields... the metals have very high conductivity so they have a good electromagnetic wave absorption. But there are challenges with the metallic shields so if we want to compare with the composites so usually they're much much denser so they end up to be heavier and then they're again more expensive compared to polymer reinforced composites and they are difficult to manufacture especially in the context of flexible electronics or stretchable electronics, confirmed electronics, and so on. So because of these reasons actually conductive polymer composites have have become a focus of interest for this application. So now when we look at some of the foam samples that we made this one is an example of polypropylene stainless steel fiber composite. So the the figure shows the EMI shielding effectiveness which is essentially a  measure of transmitted power over the incident power in a log scale. So now looking into the solid sample, which is a red one, the red one is a solid injection molded sample and you see that how the EMI shielding increases with the the fiber loading content. So as we increase the fiber loading content the conductivity of the shield increases and that contributes the more absorption of the wave and eventually the EMI shielding increases and then the other three curves are actually formed samples with different degrees of forming. The green one has 15% foam the blue one has 25% and the purple one 35% foam structure. So as you see by increasing in the foam structure actually the shielding effectiveness increases so we can at look at this in two ways: one way is, for example, if you look at one volume percent of stainless steel fiber content at one volume percent fiber how much shielding we can get? If you look at the solid one that is 3D for decibel as opposed to the 35 percent foam which gives 48 decibel of shielding. Another way of looking at it  is at a given level of decibel, for example, if you're shooting at 40 decibel of shielding we can get that in the solid case with 1.5 percent loading as opposed to just less than half of it if he's doing the foaming. And also on the right in the table it compares *audio cuts out* ... this reported value you see materials with graphene, carbon nanotubes, and even like a graphene that has been decorated with iron oxide, and if you look at the filler loadings but they're talking about 30 weight-percent graphene or 10 weight-percent carbon nanotubes and this special polymer is pretty expensive polymer PI or fluorocarbons so this work is a simple polypropylene and an inexpensive in assisting fiber but is still looking at the performance, the EMI shielding performance, which has been normalized with the density of the material, it's actually higher than some of the very advanced materials and very complicated fabrication processes. So now I'm moving to the next slide on the slide number 15. So now the question is what's really happening that causes this effectiveness or enhancement in shielding. So of course one reason is the increasing conductivity that we've already seen. So as we're introducing the cellular structure the conductivity is increasing and that increase in conductivity directly translates to more absorption but there is actually more to it so there is another mechanism that we have identified that helps in better absorption so if you look at the figure on the top right where not we have decoupled the overall shielding effectiveness into the absorption and reflection. So you see that the graphs where they go up to about 5 decibel they are actually the reflection but the other ones that go to about 40 decibel they are absorption. So what we can see from this result is that once we introduce the foaming the reflection does not change much but rather the absorption which is an internal wave absorption within the shield or within the material that is the one that is improving so the shielding by reflection does not change which is mostly a surface dependent phenomenon and the surface does not change much as we introduce foaming but internally... so if you look at the schematics that I have and tried to compare the solid and foam... so in a solid case we have a matrix the wave once it penetrates inside then there is not much of an internal reflection it just goes directly all the way to the other side of the shield and the end transmits. But now imagine that within that thickness we have thousands of very small cells then each time that any of these wave beams hits this interface between the gas and the polymer there is an internal reflection happening there. So this internal reflection noting that we have many number of cells so it's actually increases the path significantly the path of the wave that needs to travel before it exits from the other side of the surface. In other words hypothetically we increase the size of the shield or basically the imaginary path that the wave needs to travel increased significantly and that helps in the further attenuation of the wave. So that's about EMI shielding another application that we looked in is the dielectric materials. So high dielectric materials have applications in batteries, super capacitors so they basically can store electrical energy. In this application we're essentially looking at a high permittivity with a low dielectric loss. So the permittivity is basically a a measure of how much polarization can happen within the material or how much charge the material can store and the loss that the dielectric loss is a measure of how fast this stored charge is going to be lost. So if we have a very high permittivity that's very good but if that is coupled with a high dielectric loss it means that even though we are able to store a large amount of charge within the dielectric but if the loss is high that's going to be lost in a much shorter time meaning that the overall resultant is not going to be an effective charge storage material. So from that perspective for a high dielectric material for charge storage application we're looking into a combination of high permittivity and low dielectric loss. So coming back to the polymer nano composites how they could potentially be used as charge storage dielectric materials... so again when it's in the insulated range it has a pretty low permittivity value so in general polymers, most of the regular polymers, have very low permittivity values, around two three four. But also they have relatively low dielectric loss as well so their dielectric loss is good but their permittivity is not high enough to be used as a very effective dielectric material. So once we add conductive materials like carbon nanotube or graphene or carbon fiber so the this percolative behavior of the system causes the permittivity to significantly increase when we are getting closer to the threshold which is a good thing because we want to increase the permittivity as much as we can but at the same time... so since this enhancement in permittivity is coupled with the enhancement of the interconnections with the conductive fillers... so once those interconnections are established that's going to make the material lossy or conductive meaning that the dielectric loss is going to significantly increase too. So now this is, even though there is a good promise for the nanocomposites to be used as high dielectric materials, but this is basically the challenge: how we can introduce the nano materials to have a high permittivity but at the same time maintain the dielectric constant low. So now we looked at the foaming process to see whether that could help in this regard. So now what you see on slide 25 on the left is the permittivity versus the carbon nanotube concentration in a polypropylene carbon nanotube material system. So I have three sets of curves here. So the first one, the upper one, is solid compression molded samples and the lower one which is blue is solid injection-molded sample. So first of all you see that there is a huge difference in the permittivity of the two samples indicating that just by changing the process the permittivity could change by more than one order of magnitude and this is basically related to the orientation of nanomaterials that I talked about. In compression molding we don't have a significant flow of the material so essentially in the compression molding we melt the material and then we compress and form the shape but in injection molding it goes through the barrel and screw, there is a lot of shear that is applied and also it is injected with a relatively high velocity and high shear rate which caused a lot of orientation. So now in the middle of the two is the green which is actually the injection molded samples that have been foamed but now if you look at the the third point on there, where I have identified the diamond, has roughly about 1.1 or 1.2 percent of carbon nanotube and it's permittivity reaches to about hundred as opposed to the permittivity of 2 or 2.5 for the pure polypropylene. So now let's see how that is coupled with the dialectic clause which is the graph on the right. So on the right if you look at the again compression molding which is the red graph you see that as soon as the percolation happens or as soon as there is a rise in the permittivity under on the left graph there is even further rise in dielectric loss. So if you look at the compression molded sample there is about four orders of magnitude increase in dielectric loss as opposed to about four orders of magnitude increase in the permittivity so which essentially renders this material useless as a dielectric because even though the permittivity is high but it's essentially a loss in material so then the loss of charge is much faster than the storage ring. Looking at the injection-molded samples: injection-molded samples actually have relatively low dielectric loss which is a good thing but they don't actually offer a very high permittivity but now looking at the green which is foamed sample in the middle so you see that the dielectric loss is maintained relatively low close to those of the injection-molded solid samples but the permittivity has been increased to close to compression molded samples. So looking into the mechanism of what's really happening... so why introducing the cells actually helping in getting a better combination of permittivity and dielectric loss so in order to answer that we looked at the microstructure we did some some TM and see how is the orientation of the carbon nanotubes when the compression molding, as I just mentioned, there is not much of a flow so the orientation of carbon nanotubes that's basically the first TM on the top left. So you see that the carbon nanotubes are quite randomly oriented in the injection molding so there is a severe machine direction orientation as a consequence of the nature of the process. Well when we look at the foaming actually foaming first of all, as we saw in the mechanisms, as the cells are growing they disturb this severe preferential orientation of the nanotubes in the machine direction and secondly since their size relative to carbon nanotube is quite big so this relative size eventually pushes all the carbon nanotubes to be tangential to the cells which I was schematically shown at the bottom left where we have a cell and around the cell we have the carbon nanotubes that have been tangentially oriented around the cells and then as the cell is growing the cell is actually pushing the material between the two cells so we have the uniaxial compression and biaxial stretching and that eventually causes the carbon nanotubes to become more parallel to one another and become closer to one another as a consequence of compressive force in the cell wall. So now, with that, using the Nano-capacitor model we could explain how this kind of structure can help to have a better capacitor so the capacitance of a capacitor is a function of two major components: one is the common surface area between the two electrodes and the second one is their distance. So now if we consider every two neighboring carbon nanotubes as one nano-capacitor where the polymer in between is the dielectric... so in the case of foam samples these nano capacitors are more in parallel, so they have larger common surface area, and they're closer to one another, meaning that the distance between them is increased and the capacitance is inversely proportionally relate to the distance. So with this is kind of explained that how the introduction of or the growth of these cells during a foaming process could result in a special kind of carbon nanotube arrangement that can enhance the dielectric performance. So how much time I have? Okay. And that includes the question and answer or...? Okay then I'll stop here and then I think we will have 15 minutes for question and answer. How's that sound? Okay. What are some examples of products where this foam polymer might be useful? So in terms of the imaging application... so all of the housings and framing electronics that are plastics like housing for computers, laptops, monitors, even cell phones today they all have to have some EMC compatibility, electromagnetic wave compatibility, so right now of course some of these are metallic especially for the high end like a very high shielding agency applications like military applications these frames are metallic. In the more regular applications they're from composites so usually carbon fiber is added in the plastics to enhance the shielding efficiency and most of these frames and housings are actually injection molded if they're plastic. So the foam injection molding could be derated into the manufacturing of such chips. Have you ever seen any applications to energy systems? Yeah so for energy systems so the high dielectric materials so they could they could potentially have applications in super capacitors because of the fact that they actually offer a quite high dielectric permittivity and low loss. I don't think anything has been commercialized yet but... so the solid ones, the solid nano composites have already been tried in in some of these capacitor applications but foamed ones they're pretty early. But as we have observed it actually enhances some of the charge storage capabilities so there might be potential costumer market there as well. Thank you. Are there different- excuse me- are there different polymers that are used here? What kind of polymers are being foamed? Is that varied as well? So for this particular work- I don't mean to interrupt but would you be able to repeat the question for our online folks? Okay, sure, so the question is what type of polymer has been tried in this work and whether we have tried different polymers. So in this work with the carbon fiber stainless steel fiber and carbon nanotube we have tried polypropylene. Polypropylene is again... so one of the reasons that we've tried polypropylene is because it has already applications in electronics and commodity so there is basically chance of better being integrated into the existing product but we have tried with other other polymers as well which are not in the presentation. We have tried foaming with like, biodegradable materials, like polylactic acid. We have tried with a bit flexible polymer that contain no plastic. Elastomers which like I could not get to the second part of the presentation where I was going to talk about in a plastic polytube and carbon nanotube composites where we're trying to look into this searchability and being able to before sensing the application or contact sensing yet so long. So in terms of the foaming, yeah. Over the literature you can find many different types of polymers but conductive people have been fighting for foamed. Of course each material, each polymer, has its own challenges when it comes to foaming and not every polymer has a unique processing solution. There's no more questions so please join me in thanking Dr. Ameli. Thank you so much for joining us today. Yeah, thank you for the invitation and have a good afternoon. 