 It's part of the GSEA Project. And I'll be talking with you today about both of those things, what they are, how they work, and our efforts to continually improve them. So, CA is an analysis method for gene expression data that digs down beyond single gene differential expression by using the prior knowledge of over a decade of results from high throughput biological experiments. What you're seeing here is our page where we explain just a little bit about our method and our release notes. Unfortunately, this wasn't updated to our newest release, which is out as of a few weeks ago, MSigDB7. The 15 years, or the 14 plus years that MSigDB has been around or used has exploded with between 500 and 700 new users coming to us every week with over 175,000 total registered users, resulting in 15,000 citations of our methodology all over the world, including a large project in China, which recently published a large cancer study that used our resource extensively. After 14 years, GSEA is still widely considered the standard for this sort of analysis, including by some of our competitors that provide services that are paid to use, like Advaita Bioinformatics made to the statement that GSEA as a method is unbelievably unbiased and it gives you the best results that you can get if you are not willing to pay for their pathway database. And unlike these paid services, including ingenuity and Advaita GSEA is completely open source, as well as MSigDB, completely free and publicly available. And that's really thanks to the ITCR project continuing to find us. So, what is this method that is the gold standard in enrichment analysis? So, GSEA aims to answer the question, what are the gene sets enriched in my data? And how enriched are they? Are the genes involved in a biological process or event in a particular phenotype? And how might I use that data downstream? GSEA was originally developed for microarray data and has expanded far [ Inaudible ] So, the outline of a GSEA procedure is to take your expression data from your groups, whatever types you're interested in, be those two different types of [inaudible] study or there are some users that use it for enrichment of ChIP seqs or just basically any type of high throughput data where you can express your data set as a gene to sample relationship. Then you take that and you pair it against a defined group of genes to determine whether they are differentially expressed as a set rather than individual genes. Those sets can either be enriched in one phenotype or the other or not enriched. And then GSEA scrambles all of that data to construct a null distribution to test for false discoveries and determine the significance of the findings in a given data set. So, unlike a standard differential expression analysis, we don't use any kind of differentials to determine what the top and bottom significance genes are. By ranking all the genes in the data set, we can extract information from the combined perturbations genes that may not be individually significant. And then we compare that to the inter gene relationships extracted from the prior knowledge databases. The default way that it does this was originally, like I said, developed for microarrays using the signal to noise ratio to score all the genes in the gene set. And this scales the difference of the two phenotypes by their standard deviations and push the genes that are different between the two phenotypes to the top and bottoms of the list respectively. This isn't the only way that you can rank genes. Math heavy or detail heavy slide, so I won't get into it too much, but we offer several methods ranking genes, depending on, you know, data sets you have. And we are also able to analyze continuous phenotypes, like time course data, look for enrichment along the time course using the Pearson correlation. Our collaborators in the Tamayo Lab are continuing to develop new methods for ranking genes, including if theoretic methods that will be in future release of GSEA. These methods might, might be better [inaudible] data, but the current methods that we have seem to work reasonably well. So, one of the [inaudible] of GSEA is that it accepts any kind of arbitrary gene set or source of annotation, so any type of study that you do in your own labs and want to follow up on, you can construct it as a gene set, drop it into GSEA in addition to anything you produced and run it as part of our analysis. Like I mentioned before, GSEA doesn't use any kind of filtering or [inaudible] with some small exceptions [inaudible] that I'll get into a little bit later. But generally it extracts the maximum amount of information possible from your data set without regard for what individual genes are [inaudible]. And then it uses an empirical false discovery rate where it constructs the null distributions of data based on your actual data itself. So, that, that eliminates the need to take the top and bottom genes and do just kind of the standard overlap analysis that tools like David do, which are obviously unreliable to do to the gene universe background, which is an arbitrary number for the [inaudible] in the case of GSEA is extracted directly from your data set, because it knows what genes were expressed in the entire experiment. So, [inaudible]. The way that GSEA does this is through the Kolmogorov Smirnoff statistic. And it uses a special modified version that you [inaudible] in our original publication, where it ranks genes by their correlation with the class of interest. First, phenotype A, and then phenotype B, and it does those independently. And it tests if those are differentially enriched on each side of the distribution. So, the way this works is that every hit, every gene that is in the set on one [inaudible] adds a weight to the score equal to its magnitude of the enrichment statistic that you use. And every gene that is not in the gene set subtracts. And so this results in this nice mountain plot where you have a maximum enrichment score. I misspoke. Every gene that is on the other side of the distribution in the gene set subtracts from the score. So, it misses. So, this gives you an enrichment score that is the maximum height of this [inaudible]. [ Inaudible ] And so unenriched gene sets from roughly As. Or as they oscillate between genes that are on either side of the distribution and not [inaudible]. So, the significance of this weighting is to take the genes that would be considered the most significant and weight them the most in the distribution. So, that accounts for standard significance analysis that is normally done. So, the full result of this is the enrichment score, which reflects the degree to which a gene size overrepresented at the top or the bottom of the rank list of gene. And like I mentioned, GSEA calculates significance within your data set. So, it shuffles all of the phenotype to sample assignments. And then it calculates everything all over again to see if these gene sets are being falsely enriched, just as a result of some underlying structure. And that results in this empirical null distribution score for each gene where gene sets that are enriched are very highly skewed towards one of the distribution. The standard method that this is done is through permuting the sample to phenotype relationships. But GSEA has an additional method for small ends, because in order to get a valid null distribution, you need a fairly large sample, typically on the order of a minimum of six phenotype, which is very large, or most generation sequencing studies. But to get around this, we offer a gene set permutation method where the gene to gene set membership relationships are scrambled. And that tells you if a gene set of that size would be falsely discovered in your data set. That doesn't break the, the phenotype structure, so it's not a true null distribution. So, the values of that kind of [inaudible] slightly inflated. But it is a way to work around the small sample problem. And then this gives you a final result of a list of gene sets that are enriched in your samples, both phenotypes are significant by a false discovery rate testing. The last step of the standard GSEA procedure is to perform what we call leading edge analysis. This [inaudible] the genes that are the subcomponent of the enrichment mountain plot that are prior to its maximum score. So, the genes that are the off edge, the leading edge of this result. And so this lets you take your GSEA result and go back to the single gene level, look for [inaudible] genes that are being found multiple times in multiple, in multiple pathways. These might be the [inaudible] genes for driving the underlying phenotype. You can see here that there are clusters of gene sets that share large number of genes that are found as enriched in all of the sets. And so in this case, you can dig down into that and see that this block pathways are all expressing this block of genes, and therefore those particular genes might be particularly important in driving the [inaudible]. That was the standard GSEA procedure. A couple modifications that need to take place for RNSSeq because this was originally derived for microarrays. And the most important is that genes that are not expressed in the data set, so extremely low count genes, do need to be removed. This is because of that gene universe problem. Those zero expressing genes are present in the data set, it inflates that constant. Also, because of sequencing depth issues across platforms, you know, across lanes, experiment these data sets do need to be normalized for the standard between sample normalization procedures. And in our gene pattern tool, we offer modules in this, including standard leam [phonetic] of loom procedure. We have a normalized module, which outputs a count table that is able to be used directly in GSEA, as well as a modification to the DeSeq2 module, which outputs its normalized count table, which is also able to be used directly for GSEA. So, these normalizations correct for the different expectations between microarray data and RNA sequence to allow our method to apply to RNA sequence. But like I said before, what if you only have a few samples? Well, you'll want to do something slightly different like project your samples at an individual sample level into the pathway space. So, what are all the pathways in which in each of your individual samples? To do that, we offer two modification GSEA method; preranked GSEA and single sample GSEA. I'll talk about those a little bit. GSEA preranked doesn't require any minimum number of samples at all. It can be used with any of our preranking metric. And it's useful for non expression data sets, like we've had users with ChIP seq data sets where they have a relationship between [inaudible] that are enriched in certain genes and they want to know what the targets are and what the gene sets that might be enriched within those ChIP seq targets. The issue is that we do not provide the ranking metrics for a particular type of GSEA, which means that if a user wants to use it, then they have to come with their own method. There have been some publications on how to do that, like taking the long twofold change and multiply the negative long 10 of your p value to get a rank metric. That was a simple concept to our signal to noise ratio where you push the genes that are most significant to the top of the list. And the ones that are not significant get down to the middle. They also offer this newer method, single sample GSEA that is [inaudible] in the gene pattern modules, which creates a matrix of pathways by samples one sample at a time. This is an information theoretic enrichment method where any genes that can be used as a pathway, and this creates enrichment scores as kind of a heat map for each sample by a pathway matrix. So, that's the concept of GSEA. All of this available through our website on our downloads page where we offer applications for Mac and Windows, as well as Linux and the command line module so that you can automate this procedure. We also offer a [inaudible] our, our library so that you can, if, you know, from the choice, you can use GSEA there as well. In addition, we maintain an extensive archive all of our previous versions. So, if you have issues with one of the procedural change be made in our release, you can always go back and perform your analysis exactly as you may have done before. We also offer a browser for the molecular signatures database, which allows you to explore all of our gene sets. And then like I mentioned, we offer GSEA as part of the gene pattern platform where we offer both the standard GSEA and GSEA preranked modules, as well as this new single sample GSEA projection rule, as well as our GSEA leading edge viewer, which lets you view the leading edge analysis for one [inaudible]. So, I've talked a lot about enrichment using gene sets. I've talked about what our gene sets are. Gene sets are any group of genes, a pathway, a network, a list of over or under genes from a location, clusters of genes from the same chromosome. Basically, any kind of representation of genes that have some biological relationship can be structured as a gene. We don't need the order, so we don't need to know if it was twice as highly expressed in sample A or B. We just need to know the identity of the genes. And we don't record any of the relationships between them. So, over the 14 years of the project, we've created quite a large collection. This is the molecular signatures database, which I'm responsible for. This consists of seven, eight canonical collections, or hallmarks collection, which is a [inaudible] amalgamation of all of our other collections to determine distinct biological signatures with minimal [inaudible] across the sets. And this is where we generally recommend people start with their analysis. It's 50 sets. Each of them that are very clearly defined. And then digging into those, if you get a significant result, you can see what all of the individual sets from all of the collection went into building that hallmark. But if you don't trust us, we also offer canonical pathways from Reactome and BioCarta, as well as GO ontology, or gene ontology, GO. We also offer, like I mentioned, genomic regions if you're interested in looking at things like chromosomal amplifications within the gene set [inaudible] as well as computational sequence motif targets, like what microRNAs target which transcripts, which transcription factors target which gene clusters. Signatures from cancer modules and neighborhoods. So, which genes are highly expressed or lowly expressed in given cancer phenotypes, as well as our collection of the immunological states, what genes are activated in response to a T cell receptor being stimulated, or LPS, or 4,800 other immunological perturbations across [inaudible] studies. So, we've been maintaining this database for 15 years. We'll be working to update and overhaul these. What each gene set looks like is when you navigate through our [inaudible], you pick a gene set and can see all of the members that go into the genes, what they were originally represented as in the study. In the case of this Reactome set, all of the genes are represented as an ensemble of gene IDs, as well as what genes they translate when the NCBI on trade gene ID identifiers and their gene symbols [inaudible] GNC. This platform, or these gene sets, part pages, also give you access to a number of additional tools that we offer through our website. And these are all our online tools, including a standard overlap statistic analysis that we would get with the David tool, but performed amongst MSigDB gene sets. You can also plot overlaps between the gene set much like a leading edge analysis by with whatever [inaudible] as your leading edge. Then we also offer the ability to project these gene sets [inaudible] into large sequencing studies like the NCI 60 cell lines, or various other tissue expression databases so that you can look at where these genes might be expressed in a given cancer cell or in a given tissue to see if the result that you're getting from GS extends from the perspective of the whole tissue expression of your data set. But as we continually strive to update MSigDB so that it's the best resource that it can be for thousands and thousands of users, and our most recent release was at the end of August with MSigDB7. This release brought with it a major overhaul to our curated data from Reactome. We've worked extensively with them to cover much, much more of their database than we had before, representing over 1,500 more pathways and 4,700 more genes. This also allowed our update to, the new [inaudible] identifiers when they started using several releases ago allowing us to deep link from those genes that cards pages into any level of hierarchy. And then in order to make this more useful for users that have small data, small ends. We performed a redundancy filtering procedure based on [inaudible] card coefficients to enable these to give more realistic enrichment scores using gene set permutation testing. We did the same thing with our gene ontology collection, bringing in over 4,000 new gene sets, bringing us to nearly 10,000 total. That's from gene ontology. Covering all three ontologies, biological process, molecular function, and cellular component. These are similarly filtered using Jaccard coefficients to minimize redundancy and maximize their utility in all of the types of GSEA that we offer. We also started including even the smallest ontologies down to five members to capture more of the cutting edge fine grained biology that's just starting to be defined. This really is a substantial increase to the depth of the canonical pathway resources assembled for using GSEA. And these GO and Reactome analyses complement each other extremely well. Reactome gives you the protein level reactions within a set, whereas GO, you get a broader overview to show the way that the different sets regulate each other. Some of this was lost in the [inaudible] we had handled these gene sets. So, if you used our GO and Reactome sets in GSEA before, we highly recommend you give them another shot. They are more extensive than they used to be. Another major change that we made with MSIGDB7 is that we overhauled the way we handle our platform annotations and our gene symbol representations. Previously, we relied on the original [inaudible] provide genes and curated them exactly as they were. We have completely rebuilt our [inaudible] to be reliant on ENSEMBL's gene annotations. So, we're no longer using Affymetrix's old [inaudible] directly or Illumina iGenomes, or whatever arbitrary symbols were used in a given publication or study. We continually roll these up to the current release of ENSEMBL. Our current release is ENSEMBL97, which was just last week's supplanted by ENSEMBL98 and will be adjusting for that release as well. As part of this, we were able to streamline our orthology conversion and expand our support from those. So, we have a full set of conversion files to support mouse and rats, as well as instructions for building orthology conversion in a consistent manner for any arbitrary [inaudible] that ENSEMBL supports, allow you to convert those into the name space that GSEA and MSigDB use. The reason this was such an important thing to do is that symbols change constantly as each GNA refines their annotation procedures. In two different studies done even a year apart, you might get two different representations for the same gene. By unifying it on the ENSEMBL97 consensus, we've, we've made it so that it's possible to rely [inaudible] use any data set deposited in GO in anytime in the past and convert it into the name space that MSigDB uses without any loans. And the way we've done that is by enable some new features in our GSEA application that will allow you to take our chip files that we've deposited in our resource. You can click this expand button to see that full list in the application and then either remap those using the chip files in the one mapping procedures, or if you're using transcript level data, to collapse those, or transcript level data, or microarray data with multiple probes per gene. You collapse those from their microarray or transcript identifiers to gene level doing a mathematical collapse where we offer the following options, including some of probes, which will be released GSEA 4.0.2 any day now as we're finishing our quality control testing. That's some of probes. Each are standard TX import pipeline math to some genes from transfer level to gene level for [inaudible]. We're also working with the Jackson Lab to further refine orthology process for mouse to the best possible orthology mapping tables for all of the many users rely on model organisms for their studies and can't use human tissue directly. In addition with this most recent release, we made available a set of single cell signatures consisting of 250 human cell signatures curated from single cell RNA sequencing publications. All of these are defining cell types from normal human primary tissue. So, not cell lines, not studies. Normal human primary tissues. We're still working on expanding this database. This is an initial, for example, we don't have cell type signatures for muscle, lung, skin, productive organs. Limited to fetal and adult tissue separately for several different organ system. We're working on expanding this as rapidly as we can. We think that this will be a very [inaudible] or helping to interpret single cell RNA seq studies, for example, from organoid to where it is an ongoing issue, determining how well these organoids differentiate into the tissue desired. By having these signature collections of what these tissues should be, you can do, for example, single sample GSEA projections to see what type of cell in each cell in your sequenced organoid is turning into. This will be a very useful resource, and has already been pretty popular among the single cell RNA sequencing seem to be this particular project is not ITCR funded. It was part of the [inaudible] initiative as part of the Human Cell Atlas Project. That's the current state of MSigDB. We're also working on adding new resources to this database continually and refining the collections that we already [inaudible]. The first thing that we're looking to add is to our collection one, which is currently the chromosomal cytogenetic bands collection is useful for, like I had mentioned, looking [inaudible] chromosomal amplifications [inaudible] et cetera. We're looking on having a collaborate of topologically associated domains, a functional unit of chromosome organization, initially with the set of cell topologically associated domains from the Ren Lab here at UCSD. This is a collection that will help explore how genes, how genes on a chromosome are regulated as groups. If you're not familiar with topologically associated domains, it's been found that chromatin, as it's being expressed, forms loops that are anchored together, and these genes are expressed as part of a concern program by enabling analysis of expression data in terms of these tabs. We hope that [inaudible] the way that regulation changes across the genome in response to various perturbations. We're also looking to overhaul our collection three, which is our motifs target gene sets. And I'll get into these a little bit more. But we're replacing our microRNA and transcription factor target data sets with new resources. We're also adding new canonical pathway resources from the small molecules pathway database. And we're working with WikiPathways on their analysis subset to include [inaudible]. So, our current release of microRNA targets in MSigDB is fairly old and small. It only contains 200ish microRNA targets, targeting about 7,600 genes. In the decade plus that microRNA research has been ongoing, we know that microRNAs regulate basically every gene that's expressed, and we don't capture that well currently. We are working with mIRBase and miR RBase, or sorry, miRRDB, to expand this to a new collection of over 2,000 microRNAs with both separate sets for the 5P and 3P arms since those are processed separately, to target over 16,700 genes with high confidence microRNA transcript interactions. This is over 120% increase in our genomic coverage from the [inaudible] database. And we'll very much expand the utility of this collection to the research community. As microRNAs are deeply involved in regulation of a number of biological processes and are being actively explored as therapeutic targets with lock and clay [inaudible] you can target these existing pathways to modulate gene expression to treat diseases. So, we hope that by making this available to study what gene microRNA clusters are perturbed in data sets, you can pick out what might be candidate microRNAs [inaudible] targeting. The second part of this [inaudible] is our transcription factor targets database. In collaboration with the gene transcription regulation database, the GTRD, they are completely overhauling this to a completely different methodology. Our current database is small [inaudible] transcription factor targets over 615 computationally derived motifs that are [inaudible] regions. And this was annotated using TransFac data, which is unfortunately no longer published. So, by [inaudible] to using this GTRD resource, we are able to massively [inaudible] make available and switch this from being a computational prediction to being one that's based on experimental biology. GTRD has curated over 400 billion mapped ChIP seq reads for 852 human transcription factors. So, rather than focusing on computationally derived motifs, like we did with our old database [inaudible] focused on the biology of transcription factors and what chromatin they actually bind [inaudible]. So, we hope to know more in our MSigDB7.1 release later this year. And then the last [inaudible] of this resource is the small molecules pathway database. This is, again, focused on improving the MSigDB for studying drug target actions. So, small molecules pathway database, we were able to curate 400 compatible pathways that encompassed drug action, metabolic pathway, transduction pathways, annotated. Unlike all of our other canonical resources, not just for proteins, but also for the small molecules target in these pathways. And then also we can deep link into these interactive pathway diagrams from our website. One additional perk of integrating with small molecules pathway database is that our additional collaborator index, which is also an ITCR funded project, has an index is a repository of public networks, including a large number of gene expression networks, rather like MSigDB. And they've recently added this small molecules pathway database [inaudible] drug action pathways. So, by integrating MSigDB with both the small molecules pathway database, as well as index, we can plug into this resource. We've been actively working to integrate the MSigDB website with the index resource. This isn't quite live yet, but you will be able to take whatever sets you've discovered are enriched in your gene, in your expression dataset, or in any arbitrary collection of, for example, a leading edge analysis, and then send those into index where you'll be able to save them as a network or a [inaudible] analysis or explore them with other index connected tools. So, just in summary, GSEA is a great tool for interpreting your gene expression data of any [inaudible]. We very much hope you'll use it. With our new release of MSigDB7, we're now linked to ENSEMBL released versions. So, if you use either an ENSEMBL or gen code genome for your analysis, we're perfectly compatible with those symbols. If you use older versions, we're able to roll those up to the current released versions of all the annotations so that you'll never get dropouts just because you used an old gene symbol. We've also rolled up all externally sourced gene sets, including our Reactome and GO updates, and have new orthology files for mouse. And we have extensive future plans for improving this resource even further. Some have been mentioned, some of which I have not. But, in general, we strive to represent as much of the current knowledge of biology as possible and make it available fob enrichment analysis. So, here are the links to our website where you can download these tools. Both the MSigDB GSEA [inaudible], as well as gene pattern, where all of these tools are also available, as well as the modules to preprocess your RNA seq, as well as our help form where if you have any questions about anything I've said today, you can reach out to us and we'll get back to you with, as quickly, as quick a turnaround as we can manage. So, I'd like to thank our collaborators and [inaudible] Jill Mesirov and Pablo Tamayo, who are the leaders of this project, as well as both of our team members, members from both of our labs, our external collaborators for the NDEx and the Jackson Lab. So, thank you for your time. And, again, our URLs. And I'll take any questions that you have.  Okay, and thank you so much, Dr. Castanza. And to ask a question, please quick the unmute icon to the right of your name or raise your hand and I can unmute you as well. Okay, I'm not seeing any questions. So, at this time, I'd just like to, again, thank you, Dr. Castanza, for your time. And thank you, everyone, for joining us for this webinar today. If you do have any questions that you can think of later on, please e mail them to myself, Melissa Nisonger, or e mail [inaudible] informatics and IT training and we will try to forward them along to Dr. Castanza. Thank you so much for attending. I'm going to go ahead and end the webinar. Thank you.  Thanks. 