 The diseases and functions results show you which biological processes diseases or toxicological functions are predicted to increase or decrease based on the information in your data set. IPA users often use these results to identify biomarkers associated with specific diseases and biological processes as well as for assay design and target safety assessment. This color-coded heat map allows you to easily visualize and explore the functional hierarchy of the QIAGEN knowledge base because it organizes diseases and functions by category so that those that are related are grouped together in the bigger quadrants. for example in this data set of gym-fibrosal-treated rats a number of diseases and functions in the category of vitamin and mineral metabolism are mostly activated specifically there is an increase in the production and metabolism of lipids. By default the heat map is colored based on the z-score. This coloring reflects the direction of change for the biological process or disease. Orange coloring represents a positive z-score meaning that there is a trend toward the biological process or disease being increased while Blue represents a negative z-score indicating a trend of a decrease in activity. z-scores greater than or equal to 2 represent a statistically significant increase and z-scores less than or equal to -2 represent a statistically significant decrease. Each rectangle in this heat map represents a functional category. By default their size reflects the p-value's significance. In other words, the most significantly enriched categories have the largest rectangles. However you can use this drop-down menu to change the sizes of the rectangles to reflect either z-scores or the number of genes in your analyzed data set that are associated with a particular biological process or disease you can use this drop-down menu to base the coloring on p-values or the number of genes. These options change the coloring to purple and white. This color scale adjusts the intensity of the heat map coloring which can be helpful when you want to standardize coloring across different analyses there are three levels of hierarchy within these sets of rectangles. Clicking on rectangles enables you to access different layers of information of these functions and categories when you click on the third level on the hierarchy you will see a table showing you the evidence for why predictions of activity were made for a disease or biological function. The table at the bottom allows you to view the annotations for each disease or biological function the molecules from your analyzed data set p-values and z-scores. You can also view this data in a bar chart by selecting the bar chart button. This graph shows the highest level categories in the Ingenuity ontology that are enriched in your data set on the x-axis and the y-axis shows the negative log of the p-value of overlap the taller the bar the more significant the category This orange line represents the p-value significance threshold of 0.05 the bar chart can be customized using the customize chart option you can modify which diseases and functions you would like to view change the statistical threshold values change how the graph is structured and adjust the p-value of overlap to use the Benjamini Hochberg correction method the talks functions results is structured the same way as the diseases in biofunctions view only the functions have been sorted into specific talks lists if you run a talks analysis you will see this view when you first open your analysis and the diseases and bio functions will be located in the other tab for more information about diseases and functions results you can go to the help menu to access our online help manual or watch our video tutorials and webinars 