 - [Kristin] We've learned before that all of the information we know, or all of the individual concepts we have in our memory, are stored into categories. And we know that which category we think about is influenced by what schema is activated or what situation we find ourselves in. A final term that we need to consider is semantic networks. A semantic network is taking all of those concepts that are in those categories, and putting them together in one large network or system in your memory. For example, if I ask you about the concept of dog, that might automatically activate, or get you to think about related concepts such as bark or cat. You might think about the name of your own dog or you might create the mental image of a dog. By using that one word, dog, I have activated all of those related concepts. That is your semantic network; the organization and activation of all of those ideas or all of those concepts in your memory. The reason this matters is because we have so many concepts stored in our memory, we want to make sure that they are organized in an efficient and reasonable manner. In other words, you want to be able to take full advantage of this giant semantic network to find that information later. You can think of the semantic network as kind of like a roadmap. Just as a roadmap shows you not only where locations are in your town, but it shows you the relationship between the roads and it gives you a roadmap to follow to get to your destination. You should think of the semantic network in your memory as being similar. It not only has all of the concepts, but it gives you a sense of how they are connected and it helps you find those concepts later. When you're using your semantic network, you can use it to access all of the concepts that you have stored before. Just as if you were going to save a file on your computer, you wouldn't save it in any old place. You would would have a logical place that you would store it so that you could find it later. The same thing is true for storing concepts in your semantic network. The more relationships or the more connections you can make between concepts in your semantic network, the better luck you're going to have retrieving or accessing that concept later. So, imagine that you have one idea stored in your memory. All of the connections that you can make to different concepts serve as retrieval pathways. That way, if you forget one piece of information or one connection, that's okay. You've got many other ways that you can access that information later. Vizi Online Texts are a new kind of textbook built with the help of great subject matter experts these new learning resources have already helped thousands of students succeed. Our original content uses animations, simulations, video, and graphics self-assessments, exercises, and review materials to engage students in their study. Our approach is proven to improve learning outcomes and that's why Vizi exists, to transform lives by making education more engaging. 