 Jennifer: Welcome and thank you for joining us today for the Pre-Application Webinar on Optimizing the Management and Outcomes for Cancer Survivors Transitioning to Follow-up Care. My name is Jennifer and I will be your WebEx host. Before I turn over today’s presentation I’d like to share a few housekeeping items. All attendees have been muted upon entry and will remain muted for the duration of the webinar. Please submit your questions throughout the presentation in the Q&A or chat panel and select all panelists from the dropdown. We will ask these questions on your behalf during the Q&A portion of the webinar. Questions about specific aims will not be addressed during the Q&A. If you need to view live closed captioning, please refer to the link that will appear in the chat box. This webinar is being recorded and will be posted online at a later date. And with that, I’d like to turn it over to Dr. Michelle Mollica. Michelle: Thanks very much, Jennifer. So my name is Michelle Mollica and I am joined by NCI program director Lisa Gallicchio, who will be facilitating our question and answer session, as well as other NCI colleagues in the room here today. I would also like to acknowledge that this RFA concept has been developed in collaboration with several colleagues from NCI’s Division of Cancer Control and Population Sciences. In today’s webinar we will provide a background of the gap in survivorship care that has created the impotence for this RFA. We will discuss the goals for this Request for Applications as well as application requirements, and we’ll also take your questions. We’ll start with a brief overview. NCI recognizes a definition of the cancer survivor from the time of diagnosis through the end of his or her life. The Institute of Medicine, now the National Academy of Medicine, identified the transition from acute treatment to post-treatment follow-up care as a critical period for cancer survivors. It’s during this time that treatment ends and survivors often experience a loss of their safety net as they’re faced with life after cancer. Survivorship care after treatment should be comprehensive, and the Institute of Medicine recommends that it include prevention and surveillance of recurrence and new cancer, surveillance and management of the effects of cancer and its treatment, as well as health promotion and preventive care. These complex needs necessitate the delivery of comprehensive coordinated care after the completion of treatment, often involving multiple providers. The term model of survivorship care has been used to describe the process for the delivery of follow-up care, including what type of care is delivered, when, and by whom. Some examples include the widely used oncology-led model where oncologists or another oncology healthcare provider follows survivors for prolonged periods of time after treatment ends. This oncology-led model of survivorship care, however, is not appropriate for all survivors, and it’s not sustainable given the mismatch between the growing number of survivors and the overburdened oncology workforce. Many stakeholders have recommended team-based continuing care that promotes cross-specialty provider collaboration. And two examples of this are the multidisciplinary survivorship clinic where care is provided through a specialized team in a separate clinical area. This occurs most often in high resource settings and is beneficial for higher risk survivors, as well as the shared care model where follow-up care occurs with a partnership between oncology specialists, primary care providers, and other specialists. Although models of care may vary based on resources and population, there are challenges to successful follow-up care. First, it is unclear who is responsible for which aspect of survivorship care, and this is further complicated by the lack of communication and coordination between oncology specialists, primary care providers, and other providers and the fact that it is often difficult to engage PCPs who have not often been involved with patients during treatment. It is also necessary to make sure that providers not involved in active treatment have adequate ongoing education and knowledge to deal with the advances in cancer treatment. And the survivorship care plan, which provides a summary of cancer diagnosis and treatment information as well as recommendations for follow-up care was originally envisioned as a tool to deal with some of these issues. Unfortunately, there is limited evidence that survivorship care plans alone improve survivor outcome. As a result, many stakeholders are focused on the delivery of coordinated comprehensive survivorship care. Overall the lack of a clear survivorship care pathway leads to under and over utilization of care, poorly managed cancer and treatment-related symptoms, and burden on the patient and care delivery system. To address these issues we have been fortunate to fund this RFA through Cancer Moonshot funds. The Beau Viden cancer Moonshot Initiative was funded as part of the 21st Century Cures Act and was designed to accelerate efforts to prevent, diagnose, and treat cancer and achieve 10 years of progress in 5 years. We’ll now go through the goals for this RFA. The purpose of this RFA is to solicit applications that develop and test models of care for adult survivors of cancer who are transitioning from active treatment to follow-up care. The purpose here is to support interventions that focus on enhancing communication, collaboration, and coordination among oncology and non oncology providers. This RFA will fund R01 grants, which most of you are familiar with as it’s one of our more commonly used grant mechanisms. You can see detailed information about R01s here. In order to be considered responsive, applications should focus on patients with adult-onset cancers who have completed active treatment. Active treatment includes but is not limited to chemotherapy, radiation therapy, surgery, and biotherapy. This may or may not include survivors who are receiving long-term adjuvant hormonal therapy. In addition, applications should focus on patients whose follow-up care at least in part can be transitioned to providers other than those who provide active treatment. For example, primary care providers, advanced practice providers, and other specialty providers. Intervention should also sponsor collaboration among oncology and non-oncology providers and focus on more than one domain of follow up care that you see here. And interventions should be multi-level and include at least two of these levels: patient, provider, and practice or organization. Interventions should occur during the period following completion of active treatment. They can begin earlier and extend later than this time point. In addition, applicants should address the potential for future scalability and sustainability in the development, design, and testing of proposed intervention. And applications should be multidisciplinary with the co-investigator team including oncology and non-oncology providers. Endpoints should be based on the application itself, but we suggest meaningful endpoints such as the following areas: patient-centered outcomes, including patient experiences, symptom burden, and health-related quality of life; healthcare utilization, for example visits with providers, avoidance of unplanned hospitalizations and ED visits; care quality, including receipt of recommended follow-up care, and receipt of appropriate preventive care; and cost of care. In addition, through this RFA, NCI seeks to fund applications that represent a broad spectrum of cancer survivors and care delivery settings. Applications are strongly encouraged but not required to focus on the needs of minority or medically underserved survivors and/or those receiving care in community settings. Applications are also strongly encouraged to include samples of survivors that include more than one cancer type. Applications will be considered non-responsive if they propose observational research only, are focused only on the patients or survivor or focuses on cancer patients on chronic long-term therapies or advanced cancer patients or those with metastatic disease, applications that propose program evaluations of existing models of care or provision of a survivorship care plan only, and applications that focus on pediatric cancer survivor populations. We ask that you refer to this RFA number for an RFA focused explicitly on pediatric and AYA cancer survivors. The receipt date for this RFA is June 28, 2019, with a letter of intent due one month prior. Applications will be reviewed by a Special Emphasis Panel. And in addition to standard review criteria, please note and address the following special criteria. How strong is the team in terms of representation of oncology specialty providers and other healthcare professionals and how well has the applicant addressed the potential for scalability and sustainability in the development, design, and testing of the proposed intervention? And this RFA is clinical trials required. Please note the updated NIH requirements for clinical trials research applications. The link at the bottom of this slide has very useful information about these requirements. In terms of budget, as with any grant application, the budget should reflect the actual needs of the proposed project. For this RFA, budgets may not exceed $500,000 in direct costs per year. Additionally, although each R01 award will be based on an independent project, awardees will be expected to participate in an annual investigator meeting to share knowledge, progress, and findings with other awardees. Finally, please review the following resources. We ask that you read the RFA carefully and refer to the access and data sharing plans that are required for projects funded as part of the Cancer Moonshot. This webinar and frequently asked questions will also be posted on our website. And finally, please connect with us early to discuss your project’s aims and questions. And at this time I will turn things over to Lisa Gallicchio, who will be facilitating our question and answer session. Lisa: Thank you, Michelle. We have allotted time for questions so please type in your questions in the question and answer box on the Web-Ex screen. Michelle, the first question that came in is what should be included in the letter of intent? Michelle: That’s a great question. So letters of intent assist NCI in identifying expert reviewers without conflicts of interest, and they are due a month prior to the June 28th due date. They should include a descriptive title of the activity, specific aims, the name and contact information for the PIs, names of other key personnel and participating institutions as well as referencing this RFA number. Lisa: Great. So regarding data that is needed for this application, how much pilot or preliminary data are needed for the application? Michelle: Sure. So reviewers will evaluate the application for scientific merit, and that includes an assessment of the rigor of prior research that supports the scientific premise for the proposed project. So preliminary data should be sufficient to support any gaps in the premise of the proposed project and/or demonstrate that the proposed research is appropriate and potentially promising, rigorous, and feasible given the team and environment. Lisa: Will there be a second receipt date for solicitation issues for this RFA? Currently there’s only one. Michelle: So at this time there is only one receipt date planned, the June 28th receipt date. Lisa: Okay. Are adolescents and young adult cancer survivors included in this RFA or adult survivors of pediatric cancer? Michelle: Sure. So this RFA focuses on survivors of adult onset cancers. So it does not include adult survivors of childhood cancers. In terms of adolescent and young adult cancer survivors, we’re focused here more on adult onset. So the population could include younger adults but those with adult-onset cancers. Lisa: Okay. Budget. Is an awaiting receipt of application or ARA required for budgets that exceed $500,000 in direct costs in any of the grant years? Michelle: Sure. So application budgets for this RFA may not exceed $500,000 in direct costs. So the ARA policy does not apply. Lisa: Are multiple PI submissions possible and are they encouraged?’ Michelle: So multiple PI submissions are acceptable but not required. There is a requirement to include both oncology and non-oncology providers on the co investigator team, but this does not necessarily need to be as a multiple PI submission. Lisa: Let’s talk about sustainability and scalability, which is included in the RFA. Do we have to or the grantees have to submit an implementation science application? Michelle: Sure. So the RFA requires applicants to address the potential for an intervention to be scaled and sustained. We are not requiring applicants to submit an explicitly implementation science application, but applicants should design their intervention keeping in mind potential for scalability and sustainability. Lisa: Great. Are applicants required to include specific outcomes, measures, or levels such as patient provider and system in their applications? Michelle: So we encourage investigators to consider meaningful end points, and we’ve suggested some in the talk here today in the areas of patient-centered outcomes, healthcare utilization, care quality, and cost of care, but there is no specific requirement for common data elements, measures, or levels. Lisa: A Web-Ex participant said they would like to use the NCI Community Oncology Research Program or NCOR network to conduct a clinical trial and response to this funding announcement. Is there anything special that this person needs to do if they are going to use the NCOR network? Michelle: Sure. So there are additional steps that you need to take if you’re proposing to use the NCOR network to conduct your study. And this process does take additional time so you will need to speak with NCI NCOR staff prior to submitting your letter of intent and proposing a study that is in NCOR. So I would email me as the program director to put you in contact with that NCI NCOR staff. Lisa: How many years can this R01 be funded for? Michelle: So the scope of the proposed project should determine the project period, but the maximum period is up to five years. Lisa: Does the application need to include a data sharing plan? Michelle: So yes, all applications regardless of the amount of direct cost requested for anyone should address a data sharing plan. Lisa: There’s a number of questions about the multiple sites for the study. Should applications include multiple sites or will single-institution applications be considered competitive? Michelle: Great question. So there is not a requirement to do a multi site application. So that really depends on the scope of your proposed project. So it is not a requirement. So single institutions and the multi site applications are allowed. Lisa: Is it acceptable for a trial intervention to be delivered within one healthcare system that includes different hospitals? Michelle: That would be acceptable based on the scope of the proposed project. Lisa: Okay. How many projects does the NCI intend to fund under this RFA? Michelle: So contingent on funds and meritorious applications, NCI intends to fund up to six awards, corresponding to a total of $5 million for fiscal year 2020. Lisa: Great. There are also several questions about the clinical trials definition. How can applicants be sure that their study meets the definition of a clinical trial? Are there specific guidelines on the design of a clinical trial? Michelle: Sure. So, NCI and NIH have a wealth of resources on their website that can give you tools to help determine if your study meets the definition, NIH’s definition of a clinical trial but also how to submit your forms for a clinical trial. So I would suggest referring to those websites for more information. Lisa: You mentioned that health disparity research is included, that it’s encouraged. What is the priority here in this RFA for health disparity research? Michelle: Sure. So we are strongly encouraging but not requiring applicants to focus on the needs of minority and medically underserved populations, which means that we would like to fund a breadth of cancer survivor applications. It does not mean that there’s a requirement to explicitly focus on the needs of health disparities in these populations, but it’s definitely strongly encouraged to focus on multiple populations. Lisa: Now, the specific timeline of interest for this RFA from active treatment to survivorship care [inaudible]. Can you provide more information about this specific period of time in the cancer continuum that you’re interested in? Michelle: Sure. So there’s a real need to focus on this sort of active treatment transition to post-treatment follow up care in that many survivors experience both a loss of follow-up care or inefficient care. And so there’s a need to really maximize this transition and the outcome for survivors, which is why we explicitly included that transition after the completion of active treatment. We realize at the same time that it’s not always possible to transition survivors completely away from their oncology provider at the end of treatment, nor do we suggest that it’s appropriate to do so. But depending on the application, we’re proposing that survivors included in the application be appropriate for at least part of their follow-up care to be transitioned outside of the oncology team. Lisa: And again, applicants can contact you if they have questions about specifics regarding our interest. Michelle: Absolutely. And I would request or I would suggest doing that early. Lisa: There are also a number of questions about addressing multiple cancer sites versus only one. Would an application that only focuses on one cancer site be considered responsive? Michelle: Sure. So we’re hoping to fund a breadth of different types of cancer sites. We’re strongly encouraging applications to focus on more than one cancer type, but it is not required. So if an applicant comes in focusing on a single cancer site, that would not be considered nonresponsive. Lisa: And I assume there’s no number of optimal cancers? Michelle: No. I really think it depends on the application itself, and this would be another instance where I would suggest contacting us early to discuss [inaudible]. Lisa: And also there are no specific types of cancer [inaudible] what you’re proposing and – Michelle: Correct. So any type of cancer site would be responsive to this. Lisa: Okay. So there is a question. I’m still confused on what we will be submitting. Are we submitting for a project for survivorship needs and does the RFA spell it out? Michelle: Sure. So I would suggest reading the RFA very carefully. It focuses explicitly on intervention that maximizes survivorship care delivery and then I would suggest contacting us very early so that we can discuss your project idea. Lisa: Okay. In terms of the requirement around multilevel interventions, is the idea that the intervention must intervene upon multiple levels or that it must have the potential outcome to have multiple levels? Michelle: So there should be an intervention that focuses on multiple levels: patient, provider, and practice or organization, at least two of those. The outcomes really depend on  the application itself and should be appropriate based on what the intervention and needs are. Lisa: You may have addressed this in a previous answer, but can the application be designed as an implementation science research project? Michelle: Sure. So it definitely can be, but it’s not a requirement. So the requirement is to address potential for future sustainability and scalability in the design and development of the intervention. Lisa: And again you may have addressed this one before as well. When are the intents [phonetic] required? Michelle: It is required one month prior to the receipt date of June 28th. Lisa: And I think you went through this in your slide, but again does one of the investigators need to be a non oncology provider? Michelle: Sure. So part of the co-investigator team does need to include both an oncology and non-oncology provider. And we’ve defined that pretty broadly within the RFA. So that could include primary care providers, advanced practice practitioners, or other specialty providers. Lisa: Those are all the questions we have currently. If others would like to ask questions, please do so now. We have time. Jennifer: So while we wait for any final questions to come in, I do want to remind everybody that this webinar is being recorded and will be posted online at a later date, which will include the recording, this presentation, as well as FAQ from today’s webinar as well as those received before and after today. It looks like the questions have slowed down, but I will leave the chat box open as we wrap up. I just want to thank Michelle for a great presentation and  all of our participants for the questions that they’ve submitted. Again, you can email Michelle any additional questions regarding specific aims or if you had follow-up questions to any of  the answers from today’s webinar. And  with that, thank you. [END OF FILE] 