 Lymba can extract knowledge from text but what about the tables? Tables are in financials, tech specs, presentations and so on. A table is a great way to communicate information, but if we can't find it, then it won't be doing anyone any good. Now, this is possible with table extraction with Lymba. This begins in the document pre-processing step of the NLP pipeline with basic layout recognition. Layout recognition determines the characteristics of the file: What the header is, where the footer is, its margins, etc. It is then represented into RDF triples, which can be integrated into your graph database. From there, you can query it using Lymba's natural language query tools. There are so many possibilities with table extraction in your use case. Here's just one of our many examples from Lymba. A multinational aerospace company needed to reduce maintenance costs and improve serve quality the clients technicians needed access to technical specifications and multiple tables with complex structures that were in PDF documents. Lymba's solution was to extract that information and give them tools to be able to query it we automatically recognized the table structures within their documents of content and represent them in RDF triples then given a technician's natural language question the tool automatically generated that into a formal SPARQL query and we retrieved the data. Table extraction and querying turned the company's basic documents into actionable knowledge, Here's a demo on table distraction with Lymba. Let's say that we want to find a table in that technical manual. Let's say for this demo we're looking for... Extract. You scroll down we see a table which relates to our query and above we see the answers for our particular query so this torque value diamtere code 4 under c1 return to values 10 6 8 2 9 4 for the maximum and nominal amounts. Hopefully now you have a good understanding about how table extraction can be utilized in your use case. Thanks for watching from Lymba, please reach out to us with any questions or for help on your next project. 