Risk Factors."  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.The functional currency for all of our operations is the U.S. dollar.  As a result of our foreign operations, we incur costs and carry assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies.  The substantial majority of our revenues are transacted in the U.S. dollar; however, significant amounts of our operating expenditures and capital purchases are incurred in or exposed to other currencies, primarily the euro, the shekel, the yen and the yuan.  We have established currency risk management programs for our operating expenditures and capital purchases to hedge against fluctuations in fair value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in exchange rates.  We utilize currency forward and option contracts in these hedging programs.  Our hedging programs reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements.  We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.To hedge our exposure to changes in currency exchange rates from our monetary assets and liabilities, we utilize a rolling hedge strategy with currency forward contracts that generally mature within 35 days.  Based on our foreign currency exposures from monetary assets and liabilities, offset by balance sheet hedges, we estimate that a 10% adverse change in exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar would result in losses of approximately U.S. $8 million as of August 30, 2012 and U.S. $9 million as of September 1, 2011.  To hedge the exposure of changes in cash flows from changes in currency exchange rates for certain capital expenditures and forecasted operating cash flows, we utilize currency forward contracts that generally mature within 12 months and currency options that generally mature from 12 to 18 months.  42In connection with the Elpida Sponsor Agreement and Rexchip share purchase agreement, we may be required to make aggregate payments of 200 billion yen and approximately 10 billion New Taiwan dollars.  Of the aggregate amount, 60 billion yen and approximately 10 billion New Taiwan dollars will be due at the closing of the transactions and the remaining 140 billion yen amounts will be made by the Elpida Companies in annual installments from 2014 through 2019.  (See "Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Elpida Memory, Inc.”)  These payments are contingent upon the closing of the transaction and are therefore not recorded on our balance sheet as of August 30, 2012.  Changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the yen and the New Taiwan dollar could have a significant impact on our financial statements if the transactions are consummated.To mitigate the risk that increases in exchange rates have on our planned yen and New Taiwan dollar payments, we entered into currency option transactions.  These currency options did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and are marked-to-market at the end of each reporting period and realized and unrealized gains and losses are included in other operating income (loss).  (See "Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Derivative Financial Instruments.”)  We estimate that, as of August 30, 2012, a 10% decrease in exchange rates for the yen and New Taiwan dollar compared with U.S. dollar would result in losses of approximately U.S. $108 million for these currency options.  Additionally, we estimate that, as of August 30, 2012, a 10% decrease in exchange rates for the yen and New Taiwan dollar compared with U.S. dollar would result in a decrease of U.S. $239 million of our planned payments under the Elpida Sponsor Agreement and Rexchip share purchase agreement.43