 Neuralink is a neurotechnology company co-founded by Elon Musk in 2016 for developing implantable brain–computer interfaces. Elon Musk and the Neuralink Team did a presentation at the California Academy of Sciences to share what they have been working on for the last two years. Elon Musk said that the main purpose of the presentation is recruitment. Neuralink is planning to hire people for various positions. Brain-Machine interfaces are useful for the people who are affected with diseases like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. Apart from this short-term Goal, Elon Musk is willing to use them to allow the people to communicate with computers with much higher bandwidth and lower latency. For example, if you are writer, you will be thinking a lot of sentences in a few seconds, but it will be taking significant time to feed them into the computer because of many factors like keyboard typing time. Just imagine about the speed of writing, if you are allowed to transfer your thoughts directly to the computer without requiring keyboard, mouse or touch screen. Elon Musk is trying to achieve this with Neuralink. Currently Brain Interfaces use rigid electrodes which may damage the brain and only limited number of Electrodes can be used. Elon Musk presented the Neuralink's innovative Flexible Electrode Threads which are very small in size. Actually they are smaller than the size of the Hair. And, he told that Neuralink will use Robots for inserting these Threads into Brain so that more number of Threads can be put easily and quickly. These Threads will be connected to a chip implanted behind the ear. And, this chip will communicate with the mobile phones or computers wirelessly. Elon Musk told that this Brain-computer interface will be available for the Human use by the end of next year. And, he said that they already successfully tested with Monkeys. According to Elon Musk, a monkey has been able to control a computer with its brain. Though this technology is providing a lot of benefits, it may create privacy problems 