 Hi guys! This is Emily and welcome back to my channel! Today I'm going to be experimenting with a new type of video - it's called animation - if you enjoy it let me know down in the comments below - and if you don't like it tell me why and how I can improve!  I did a new brain-computer interface project! Why? Because I'm very bad at focusing (haha!). You might be able to tell by all this mumbo-jumbo of a script~ Anyway- this project uses a brain computer interface provided by Muse to calculate whether or not I'm focusing. Let's jump into the details! (Wait what the heck is a brain computer interface?) A brain computer interface is a device that measures our brains electrical activity. There are a few methods of doing this including an MRI scan. However the cheapest and least invasive method of measuring this is an EEG. This method works by placing electrodes on our scalp. A signal is then recorded on a computer screen. This signal can then be broken down EVEN FURTHER! ( :D) -There's more than just one type of wave. In the interest of time however, the only one you need to know about is the alpha wave. If you're interested in learning more about the other types there's a link down in the description below. Both beta and alpha waves have been linked to focusing! Project time! There are two sides that I had to work on: Python and C++. The SDK LibMuse is written in C++. On the SDK side I used UDP to send the value of the alpha absolute variable constantly. Next, I set up the receiver on the Python side. I collect an average of the waves over 30 seconds. After that, I collected the average again over 10 seconds and compared it to the average from before. Depending on my level of focus a notification will pop up saying either stop drifting into lala-land, get back to work or - Are You Dead?? ARE YOU DEAD!??? Of course I took video footage of me using it - enjoy! (Awkward Silence) If you liked this project, you would also like the other brain-computer interface project that I did using blinks to control Google's Dino game! You can get that video here. If you like this video, make sure you like and subscribe for more (notawkwardatall) content see you next time! (Proceed to awkwardly stare at the camera) BLOOPERS I guess or something.. 