 Hello Friends Welcome to our youtube channel Anokha Gyan I am your host manoj kumar Everyone loves to glimpse the future every human wants to know it. What our future will be like here we see some predictions reported by science figures here Those who tell us that after about 30 years from today how will our world be in 2050 Let's get started If you don't subscribe to my channel so, please subscribe And also press bell icon for getting notifications So, let's get started Prediction no. 1 By 2050, the world population will reach 9.5 billion Then the high-tech buildings touching the sky will be built and the cities will be settled up to 100 meters above the ground Roads will be made up to several floors up The buildings will be connected to the skywalk These buildings will be powered by computers There will be less greenery and instead of concrete forests Prediction no. 2 According to scientists, 2050 will be a challenge to the death The human body is not right, but the mind will definitely be safe In the future, the brain of humans can be connected to a computer and saved to hard disk and its data can be used as a file anytime. Prediction no. 3 During this time, there will be such a shortage of land that many story buildings will be built and cultivated to meet the food and drink needs Floating fields will be built between the river and the ocean Prediction no. 4 Many agencies of the world are engaged in contacting the aliens A project called SETI is studying signals coming from space with the help of thousands of computers Although we have not yet found solid evidence of aliens or UFOs many people and scientists have claimed to have seen them It is estimated that by 2050 Alien will be a friend and we will be able to find their planets Prediction no. 5 In this new era, the prevalence of flying cars will increase greatly There will also be no need for an airstrip to take them off All vehicles flying will be powered by computers In the event of a blockage the computer system will stop the vehicle before it collides Currently, such cars have been launched in Dubai Prediction no. 6 During this holiday destination will not be England, America or France, but planetary satellites like Mars and Moon Such fuel will be formed which will make it possible to go to other planets in less time and with less fuel Such settlements will be made on the moon and Mars where there will be trees and plants People will be able to easily travel to other planets for their adventure journey Programs are already being made about this Prediction no. 7 Continuous development of medicine will increase the death rate from 65 to 80 years Many of today's serious diseases will be eradicated due to technological development A single vaccine will be enough to prevent all diseases All the medical records will be recorded on the mobile and all the medical reports will come on that By sending it to the doctor it will be possible to cure the disease right of the home. Prediction no. 8 It is also possible to create things that come to mind in 3D printers Parts of any machine can be made from a 3D printer There is no need to go to any factory for this For this the CAD file of that part will have to be extracted from the Internet by the computer and in a while the part will be ready with the 3D printer This will also make the manufacture of weapons extremely easy Prediction no. 9 In 2050, supercomputers will be 1000 times faster than today Nanotechnology will create an artificial brain which will be greatly developed Through the brain-computer interface, the computer will be connected to the brain so that we will solve those problems in a pinch which is not possible to solve with the brain Prediction no. 10 By 2050 petroleum will cease to be used as a fuel Hydrogen will be used as a fuel instead Exploration is also on to use several other chemical elements as fuel Research is also being done on the use of wind and solar energy as a never-ending fuel. Prediction no. 11 In 2050, current TVs will disappear They will be replaced by 'Interactive Hologram TV' This hologram TV will appear as soon as you press the mobile button When you see this program with three-dimensional (3D) pictures you will get a real-world feel If a program contains flowers or fragrant things then its smell will also be realized through TV Prediction no. 12 By that time, the schools will be completely digital Children will not have heavy bags on their backs but they will have tablets or laptops in their hands which will store all their books Blackboards will also be digital The teacher will not have to use chalk to draw any diagram or picture Comment your opinions If you like this video then like, comment and share video with your friends and also subscribe to our youtube channel anokha gyan and like our facebook page Thank you very much Keep watching keep learning Jai hind Jai bharat 