 Hi everyone, today I'd like to speak with you about Neuralink. There was a lot to say about this and so I decided to do this in two parts, as a two-part video. So in this first video we'll talk about the technical features of Neuralink. We'll discuss it overall so just like an overall review. And then in part two of this video, we'll talk about all the, you know, the human side of it, so we'll cover the ethical and the behavioral implications of it, and we'll look at some future possible applications of Neuralink. So if you're new here, welcome, my name is Alentina and I'm a PhD candidate at the University of Cambridge researching artificial intelligence and organizational behavior. So in this video we'll discuss 1) what is Neuralink? 2) what are the recent updates from their most recent demo presentation? 3) what makes Neuralink special? Because we already have, you know, brain machine interface technology. And 4) what are some of the challenges that we foresee? So let's start with the first. What is Neuralink? Neuralink is a company co-founded by Elon Musk and they create devices, brain machine interface devices, to help solve neurological problems. The device is a tiny chip, about an inch in diameter, that's implanted into your brain to measure signals in the brain and to send and receive signals from the chip via bluetooth technology. How it works is they remove a part of your skull to insert the chip and then close it up with super glue. Then this chip, as you can see here, is attached to tiny wires. If you want to know how tiny, imagine a strand of your hair split into 20 parts. It's that thin. So as you can imagine, performing this kind of surgery would require high levels of precision. And that's why they're using robotics to perform the entire surgery. The robot uses imaging so that it knows to avoid veins and arteries. These tiny wires that are implanted into your brain will then pick up brain signals and transfer that data to the app that's connected to your phone, which will give you real-time data to what's going on in your brain. The battery life is said to last a full day and can be charged inductively, similar to how we charge our smartphones and smart watches. Now I'm not entirely sure how this will be done but I believe Elon Musk mentioned wearing a night cap to charge it. I don't know how safe that is because, you know, we're normally told to turn our phones off and put them away from us during sleep. So having to, you know, charge a brain chip for eight hours a day, every night, doesn't exactly sound safe or healthy to me. What Neuralink is trying to do is create a third layer of the brain. What does this even mean? We have the limbic system of the brain which is the innermost part of the brain, often called the mammalian brain, because it's the command center. It's responsible for our emotions and reactions, our fight or flight, our blood pressure and breathing, our pituitary gland, which regulates our hormones and growth and metabolism. So all that good stuff. Then the second layer of the brain is the cortex. So this is all the gray matter that hugs the limbic system. And the cortex is responsible for consciousness, language, attention, and memory. And the goal of Neuralink is to create a third layer, so one that would hug the cortex and this would be the artificial layer that would then interface with artificial intelligence. One might argue that we already have this with our phones because so many of us are glued to our phones all day, every day, but I'd argue that it's a bit different because we have the choice to, you know, put our phones away any time we want. Whereas if something is surgically implanted into your brain, you no longer have that freedom to leave it. It essentially, it becomes a part of you, a part of who you are. Elon Musk's goal is to merge our real neural networks, so our brain, to artificial neural networks, so artificial intelligence. And this is the long-term goal of merging us with AI and turning us into superhumans by enhancing our senses, whether that's, you know, having infrared vision or by enhancing our memory and intelligence. But the short-term goal, the immediate goal of Neuralink is to help with neurological problems and spinal injuries. And they can do this by looking at the neural activity to strengthen the lost or weak neural connections to help with movement after paralysis or to see for somebody who may be born blind. To understand this a bit better let's look at some of the updates from their most recent demo presentation. In this presentation, the Neuralink team brought the three little pigs that are part of the experimental study. One was the control pig, the one without the chip. The second was the pig with the brain chip. And the third was a pig who had had the chip but then had it removed so that they can understand if behavior changes from implanting the chip and then removing it two months later. Now if you ask me, two months is too short to assess behavioral and neurological changes and I was curious to know what the logic was behind these decisions but I couldn't find any academic papers on their work or public interviews answering these specific questions. If anyone watching this might know please do leave a comment below. The pig who had had the Neuralink was fed some snacks so that we can see some real-time signals like real-time data of the pig's neural activity. So if you'll see, all those white dots are the channels being picked up by the Neuralink and then displayed on this software that's connected to it. And these are all neural spikes so that we can understand how the neurons are firing. If you're familiar with brain computer interface technology then you'll know that Neuralink isn't the first or only product in market today. Research on the mind machine pathway began at UCLA in the 1970s. If you're interested, I'll link the 1973 research paper below. And if we're talking about the science of measuring brain activity then that goes all the way back to the 1920s with EEGs. So what makes Neuralink so special? Why all this excitement? Why all this hype? Let me preface this by saying that there are, there will be a lot of scientific and technical challenges ahead that we need to overcome. And not just challenges but really scientific and engineering breakthroughs to get it to the point that we're hyping it up to be. So let me explain. So first, let's talk about what makes Neuralink unique. The first reason is that this device contains 1024 electrode channels. The best we have in market today is only 100 channels and that's with the Utah Array. So this has 10 times more channels and of course with more channels we can pick up more signals, which without a doubt will improve our understanding of neural activity and our overall understanding of the brain. Another thing that makes Neuralink unique is that it can not only receive information from the brain but it can also provide neural stimulation, which is basically activating parts of the brain through electric currents. We already have technologies that do brain stimulation and we already have technology that does brain machine interface but what Neuralink does that's unique to it is that it combines both of these into one. And the third thing that makes neural links so special is Elon Musk himself. His celebrity status and ability to fund attracts, you know, the best engineers and scientists and he's essentially shortening this bridge between science and business, which is good on one hand for funding but not so good for academic research. And this difference in mindset has actually caused a bit of a chaotic culture at Neuralink because the scientists felt too rushed and you know science isn't one of those things where you can just throw a lot of money at it and expect it to work the way you want it to. And so this clash of mindset has led to several of the original scientists to leave Neuralink. Now that we know what Neuralink is, how it works, and what makes it so unique, let's talk about some of the challenges. So the first challenge is related to the hardware. We don't know how long the wires can stay implanted in the brain because the electrodes erode over time. The team still needs to figure out the right material or the right amount of insulation so that the wire can stay put in the brain and that it can still work so that it can still pick up and transfer these electrical signals. Another challenge that's related to the wires is we don't know what the brain's immune response will be to the wire. It may cause an inflammatory response or it may cause some tissue damage or tissue scarring maybe after let's say six months or a year or however long it may be. And so that's why I was so curious to know why they had only tested for two months on the pig and not longer and what the logic was behind these time frames. And so another challenge which is both technical but also ethical is, which of course we'll get into all the details of the ethics in part two, but is the transfer of information between the brain and the machine because the chip uses bluetooth technology to receive and transfer these data. So it's not exactly clear how they're going to do that especially if there are other signals in the areas, let's say wi-fi for example, or anything else. So how do you prevent picking up these, you know, external signals? And in line with this, what about the data? Where will these data be stored? Will it be locally on the device? Or will it be on a server? So if it's on a device then that means we would need a lot more storage space, and if it's you know externally on a server then we need to understand the safety measures that are taken for that because at the end of the day it's not just data, it's our neural data, it's our thought and brain data, and so that's very personal to us. So it's, again, it's not just a technical issue but really an ethical one as well. Considering the device can be controlled externally by you or maybe even by your physician, so that he or she can you know assess your activity, your results in real time, then some things we need to be wary of is, you know, how do we protect the device? How do we protect the software? So whether that's from hacks or from software malfunctions. Another challenge is related to surgery. So we know that Neuralink is going to use robotic surgery and it will be, you know, it is the most minimally invasive approach, but some things we don't know are how often do we need to do this surgery? So how many surgeries will we need to do over time? And the reason I say this is that, is because Elon Musk in his in the demo presentation mentioned that there will be upgrades. And so we need to ask how many upgrades, right? They compare it to Lasik surgery and talk about how, you know, quick and easy it'll be in and out the same day. And as someone who has had PRK surgery, I can say that if I had known that I would need to do the surgery every year or three years or five years or even 10 years, I possibly would have opted out and I would have just been okay with contact lenses and glasses. And so I think these are the same questions that we need to ask for Neuralink because, you know, will it be a yearly update like the iPhone? I doubt it, but still. Or will it be, you know, every three years or five years or even every decade? So these are questions to keep in mind. So this video covers all the technical features of Neuralink, of what it is, of what the most recent updates are, of what makes it unique, and of what the challenges are. And in part two of this video, we'll cover the human side of it, so we'll look at the ethical issues, ethical concerns related to Neuralink, we'll look at the behavioral implications of it, the long-term effect, and also possible future applications of Neuralink. Thank you again for spending a part of your day with me here, I hope that you found some value and you know whether it's for your work or for conversations with friends and family. And if you enjoy this content then please consider liking, subscribing, or sharing it with your friends to help spread the word. :) So thank you again and see you next time! Bye! 