 Unmute myself.  Okay, hello. Thank you. Let me just... Here it is. It's underneath. There we go. Okay, so my name is Amy Bastian, and I've had a long standing collaboration with Pablo Celnik. Our lab groups work together to try to understand how we can take advantage of different brain systems in order to most beneficially rehabilitate people. Now the title of my talk is really something that I think is important, and I'm gonna explain to you why motor learning is really not a muscle memory, it's in the brain, and how understanding those circuits and the behavioral driving of those circuits is important. So we think of muscle memory as being the ability to generate movement without really having to actively think much about it, and, in fact, it almost feels like your body is just solving the problem for you. And this kind of muscle memory, for those of you who used to dial telephones, you'd have to dial the phone in order to remember the phone number, for example. Something like that. Muscle memory though is really not in the muscle. Muscle memory relies on what I'll call subcortical networks in the brain. And so this is an image of the brain, and you can think about motor output coming from a concert of activities. One of these circuits that goes through the basal ganglia and related structures is a reward base or a reinforcement circuit, and I'm gonna describe exactly what I mean by that in just a minute in terms of behavior. But this circuit is sub-cortical, so it's one that you don't really think about that much. Another subcortical circuit that's important for this muscle memory is something that we call adaptation or an adaptation circuit. It involves the cerebellum, down here, which talks to the subcortical structures, like the brainstem, and also interacts with the cortex. So these two circuits, these two subcortical circuits, seem to be very important in this more automatic kind of learning. And it's very distinct from what we think of when we think of rehabilitation, which is telling people how to move, giving them movement strategies, trying to instruct them. And so in this talk, what I'd like to do is just share with you one very simple example of how we've leveraged this and show you some videos and some data to support this idea. Now there is another, well, there are many other learning mechanisms in the brain, but another one that affects movement is something that we call use-dependent learning. If you just do something again and again and again and again, and you're not necessarily reinforcing it, you can acquire movement skills that way as well. It's a concert between these different networks, that really is how we generate functional movement, but I am going to focus on some tricks that we hope are useful for rehabilitation. And before I show you that, I'm gonna show you on the next slide examples of what I mean by reinforcement learning, what I mean by adaptation, what I mean by instruction. So let's say you wanna learn how to bowl. Never touched a bowling ball in your life. This is Jason Belmonte, and he is the world's best bowler, and you might want to receive instruction from him, and he might tell you exactly how to bowl. This is exactly what you should do to bowl well. Well, as you and I both know, somebody can't just tell you how to bowl or tell you how to move. It doesn't work that way. And so what you have to do is go out there and try things. You have to explore motor patterns and look to see what the consequences of those motor patterns are. And this eventually leads you to a pattern that gets reinforced, and that pattern is what ends up becoming more automatic, more habitual, something that you don't really have to think about. And, in fact, when you do, you might screw it up. When you have a pattern like that then, once you've acquired it, you can adapt that pattern, and this is that cerebellar circuit that's important for this adaptation. And what it is is it's when you have a motor pattern that you've learned but that you need to adjust for a predictable demand. So if you went from a heavy bowling ball to a light bowling ball, you might have to make many errors with your bowl in order to be able to use that light bowling ball or heavy bowling ball in this context. And so this system is driven for learning not by exploration and reward, but instead by error, and the error is really a prediction between, or the difference between where you thought your movement would go and where it actually went. So what I'm gonna tell you now is that in stroke, we don't see that instruction necessarily work so well to get to learning a new pattern. And, in fact, we can hijack adaptation to do this job in a different way. So people who have suffered a stroke, as you know, this is one of the leading causes of disability in the United States, and walking control is one of the most important things that gets impacted. In fact, it's one of the predictors of mortality after a stroke, if you can walk or not. This is an example. It's a balloon guy, from somebody in my laboratory, walking on a treadmill. You can see the characteristic asymmetries in the walking. And, by the way, this is the head, the trunk, and the two legs. I animated it for motion capture because motion capture is the way that we analyze movements and because most people don't like us to videotape them wearing spandex and markers, so we animate them. But what you should have seen is that this person limps. They take a longer step and a shorter step. Longer step, shorter step. Longer steps, shorter step. And this is mechanically very inefficient and costs a lot of energy for people if they use this kind of a gait pattern. So what happens if we tell this person what to do? These are data from a postdoc that has been working with me and with Pablo Celnik, and here what I'm showing you is how different the two step lengths are. So that's the distance between the feet as they walk, and zero means that the steps are even in some metric, which is what we want. Well, these stroke survivors start just walking over the ground, and we measure their step sizes, and then we say, "Okay, make your steps even. Try to take even steps." And so we're invoking that more strategic part of the brain, the frontal lobe, to try to harness it to help them change their movement, and what you can see is the black lines, when they're instructed, don't change much from the red lines, and both are greatly asymmetric compared to baseline. A seven centimeter difference is really big in terms of energy cost. So then we took the same subjects, and we asked a different question. We said, "Okay, what if we give you good reinforcement and let you explore motor patterns?" And so this slide shows the same kind of graph. Here, again, on the y-axis is the asymmetry in stepping. Zero is symmetry. Same subjects. What we did is we had them walk on a treadmill before we started this, and I can explain why in just a minute, but then here, we gave them reinforcement signaling instead of instruction, and that way they could explore how they wanted to change their stepping. We would give them a happy beep whenever they took two steps that were even, and they got a less happy beep when they didn't take even steps. And the schedule of this reward was actually great, it actually changed over time, but the bottom line is that we couldn't get, we got them a little more symmetric, but we didn't get them up here where we want them, close to zero. And so this is walking on the ground, hundreds of steps, and reinforcement even can't do this job effectively. So the last thing I'll share with you is that we have found that if we use that adaptive circuit, the cerebellum-dependent circuit first, then we can actually change this behavior. And I'm gonna show you an example of how we do that. I'm gonna show you, actually, a child for this example, and then I'll come back to data that looked like this. So this is the most extreme kind of cerebral lesion you can have. It's a hemispherectomy. This child had a hemispherectomy. And what we do to adapt walking, in this case, is we have the child walk on a treadmill with two belts, and the belts can move independently, so we can make one leg go faster or slower than the other. Now if we do this and we actually make their limp worse during learning, during the adaptation, we can give them a quote, "after effect," where they express a nice motor pattern, and I'm gonna show you this now. So here's baseline walking. You can see this child, her bad leg is farther away from you. She kinda comes up on her toe in order to swing her bad leg through. Somebody blocking the camera, of course. So then we use the split belt to drive an adaptive learning process. You make it a little bit harder, so she's gonna stumble a little more because we've made the leg closer to us go fast, faster than the other leg. Once she does this and we remove the perturbation, the cerebellum-dependent system has learned this new calibration and expresses it, and what you see here is that now she walks with nice even steps. This is after about 10 minutes of adaptive training. Now this is temporary. It will wash away once she learns the new dynamics of the system; however, in our stroke population, if we bring the same people back, and we have them do a treadmill adaptation where we train them with the split belts and then take them off the treadmill and let them walk over ground with reinforcement, instead of being down here, you can see they start way up here. So they're close to where we want them. It decays as we expect for adaptation, but it doesn't decay all the way back down to their baseline, and it hangs on for a little while here. So while this might seem like a, perhaps you don't see this as a major effect, we cannot get people to do this through voluntary correction. We cannot have our... The same stroke subjects are unable to use correction, to use instruction, to make these corrections. So we think that the cerebellum-dependent system is actually being used to help. We're hijacking it to help them find a pattern that they are capable of producing, but that they can't access voluntarily. And so this sub-cortical network is important for leading them to this solution. Now we would never think that one session of 15 minutes of training would fix their problem, but we have shown that weeks of training can help with this adaptive learning component, and so we're now going to start to test whether layering adaptation and then reinforcement can help people over the long term. So we think that understanding how we can drive or bias the system for these networks, to rely on these networks, may help us to individualize rehabilitation. It also depends where in the brain the lesion is, and it depends on what the person's capabilities are. But in that group of 15 subjects I just showed you, 15 people with a stroke, they had strokes in all different parts of the brain, just not the cerebellum and not the basal ganglia. And so we think that understanding this will help us to develop the right techniques to individualize rehabilitation for hard to treat conditions. I am going to stop and just tell you that this is ongoing work that's been taking place for quite a long time in the lab. Kendra Cherry-Allen here did this example of using different learning mechanisms for rehabilitation. We have many other examples about to come out as well with different kinds of patient groups. And our funding is from NSF and NIH as well as some foundations. And, of course, Pablo Celnik, who you'll hear from in a minute, is my longterm collaborator and friend, and we worked together on some of these projects. Thank you for inviting me.  Moderator: Great. Thank you. Okay, Pablo, you're up next, and then we'll do a joint Q&A session.  Amy: Sounds good.  All right. So let me share my screen, and... Okay, so I guess by now you can see this, my screen, and thank you again for everyone for being here today and listen to these talks, and thank you, Amy, for the first talk. I will be talking a slightly different aspects of the work that we have been doing here in Hopkins, but also in the same line of trying to solve for motor disability problems. And maybe this is the type of work that is in the past we were thinking this more of a science fiction type of project, and now it's maybe closer to a science and technology reality. So I will talk about computer, brain computer interface work that we have been doing more recently here in the Department of Physical Management we have in Hopkins. And the concept of connecting the brain to computer or robots has been fantasized for quite some time, but only in the last a couple of decades. A decade or more than that, people have started to test this. And we think that the role of this type of technology or technological approach can help really solve for the most dramatic disability situations, and, in this case, for instance, spinal cord injury and tetraplegia, where people cannot move below the neck, for instance. Now previous work have shown that humans can control one prosthetic limb in a very consistent manner; however, most activities of daily living require bilateral arm use. For most of the time, we are using both arms even to do gestures or to engage with the environment. And also, most activities require some form of multitasking, and if you think about it, using both arms could be considered a very simple form of multitasking. In addition, to have proper motor control, you need to have good sensory feedback. It is very difficult to execute dexterous movements if we do not perceive where our hand is in space or what objects we are touching, especially if an object has been touched by a prosthetic artificial limb. Now in January of 2019, we implanted for the first time bilateral multi-electrode arrays, or MEAs, into a human participant with tetraplegia, and the goal of this surgery was to try to solve for these problems that I just mentioned, the issue of controlling two arms, two prosthetic limbs, simultaneously, as well as performing some form multitasking activity as you control the two arms, as well as being able to provide sensory feedback about what the limbs are doing. And I'm going to be taking you through a brief story of what happened with this line of work. So first our participant, we selected a person who has a spinal cord injury for the last 30 years with the C5-C6 incomplete tetraplegia. This means that this person can move the shoulders and elbows, but not below, a little bit the wrist, and can feel from the hands down but in a patchy and impartial way. Prior to the surgery, we perform a functional MRI, and this is just to ensure that we can dictate consistent activation on sensory and motor areas of the brain when this person was attempting to move or when we were touching the areas that he has still preservation sensation. And what we see here is a simple representation. We overlay their use of activity in this bright yellow in the motor areas and sensory area, so the dominant hemisphere and the nondominant hemisphere. And these little squares, white squares, represent the electrodes that we were going to implant on him. So this functional MRI allow us to identify a priority prior to the surgery, where in the brain we were going to be implanting these electrodes. And, again, we were going to do two motor electrodes on the dominant side, one motor electrode on the nondominant side, and two sensory electrodes in the dominant and one in the nondominant. So a total six MEAs, or multi-electrode arrays. So prior to the surgery, we had significant planning sessions with a very, very large team of individuals, but I just wanted to point out that one of the perhaps most interesting conversations was how we are gonna be implanting these pedestals, which is the portions of the system that are gonna be sticking out of the scalp. And we gave our subject options with our neuro plastic surgeon to determine what locations for these pedestals. And, of course, out of the six option we gave him, he chose a different one, which ended up being the one that we perform to please his aesthetics. So now I'm gonna show some pictures of the surgery, so I hope if somebody don't like to see blood or active neuro tissue, then you may wanna close your eyes. It's just only one slide. They do the surgery with entry from the scalp, two windows that were going to be open. So this is an example of one window where we expose the surface of the brain, and we apply echocardiography grades. And these two grades are to detect electrical activity of the brain as well as stimulating electrically the nerve terminals in the hands. These allow us to identify the representation of the hands directly on the brain as well as identify the central sulcus, what is the sensory cortex from the motor cortex, because, as you can see, it's very hard to detect what part of the brain you're actually looking just from looking at the brain, even though you have a beautiful functional MRI. So with this, we overlay what we have planned originally in terms of our electrodes. So here are the two motor electrodes, these are two sensory electrodes, and this is the central sulcus. We confirm this using this echocardiography, we lay our electrodes in this manner, and eventually we have two windows, one for the dominant side, one for the non-dominant side, where you can see here is a cortical representation where we are stimulating the fingers and which electrodes were activated of the different digits. And you can tell here that there is little rectangles that represent the sensory electrodes and the two motor electrodes in the dominant and the motor and the sensory electrode here on the non-dominant side. So some results. For the motor activity, we asked our participant to either move or attempt to move different muscle groups for the entire body, either going from the head all the way to the toes. Of course, he cannot execute movements in the lower limbs. He can execute partial movements or minimum movements in the hand, but he's able to move his shoulders and triceps and above. And with that, we look at the pattern of activity in the motor electrodes, and this is a representation of one motor electrode, sorry, motor electrode array. Each of these little squares represent one electrode and there are 100 electrodes here. And the sensory arrays have 33 electrodes for recording, also for stimulating. And what you can tell immediately is that we are able to detect motor activity in all these electrodes regardless of the part of the body, even though these electrodes were implanted on the hand representation. So we are able to consistently activate these motor and sensory electrodes. Now we train our subject and our computer system to identify specific neuronal firing patterns. We ask our subject to imagine this, executing these hand gestures, and each of the hand gestures will elicit specific motor neuronal activity. And we trained the computer to identify that motor neuronal activity, and each of those patterns will represent a specific action. So now I'm gonna show you a video of the subject training these gestures and executing both arms at once. So the subject is connected to these electrodes, it's in front of the prosthetic limbs, and we have virtual limbs. (electronic beeping)  All right, and point on the left and pinch on the right.  Pablo: And you can see how he's verbalizing what he's trying to do,  Come on, left. I'm not moving duck face.  Pablo: But it's not easy. He's trying to control both arms.  There we go. Nope. Pinch on the left, stop, and flex, flex, stop. All right, we're gonna flex on the right and pinch on the left. (electronic beeping) All right, try to do the duck face on the left. (electronic beeping)  Pablo: And you can hear in the background the team that is very excited because he's able to execute these motions. So this represents one training session where he's controlling the two arms. And now I would like to show you some of the activity, what we stimulate the sensory areas. Using intracortical microstimulation, we can elicit perceptions of sensory perceptions in both hands, in most of the digits, by stimulating these different electrodes. And, importantly, we were able to elicit sensations, even the fingertips and in the thumb, which in the past has been very, very difficult. And this is how he expressed the sensations.  Interviewer: Like, what of range of things have you felt?  Some of the, I mean, I felt anywhere from, and some of it's hard to explain, what it really feels like. Like, some of it is a pulse. Like you said, it kinda feels like you feel the blood pressure. The other one is the actual pressure, where it feels like somebody is grabbing your hand or your finger. Some of those are pins and needles, like when your arm falls asleep type thing. Even down to the best way I could describe it would be like somebody takes a pencil point, like a dull pencil point, and is touching me in certain spots.  Pablo: So we have had significant progress with this work, but there is much to be done in this type of technological approaches, especially when we're talking about bilateral control, multitasking, and sensory integration. So one of the first immediate steps that we'll continue to work is to improve the bilateral motor control when he's doing complex behaviors. The other aspect is to develop better biomimetic or naturally intuitive intracortical microstimulation. In the past, people have stimulated, and each time you stimulate, you may list different percepts. So to come up with the exact precise patterns of stimulation to elicit the right percept is work that we are currently doing. We also tried to close the loop between the sensory and motor activities, so we have done work where as he's moving, we are feeding back the sensation of the prosthetic limbs, which allows him to be more dextrous in the performance of the movements. And, finally, and very important for the field, is transforming these brain computer interface approaches to wireless and minimally invasive approaches. As you can see, our subject is tethered in the lab with all these cables in the head, but there is now new developments and potential to test wireless technology, where we can implant these micro-electrodes and the person execute these activities in more natural environments. But these are, again, future steps. And with that, I'd like to acknowledge a very large team of folks who have been involved in this from the Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Department, the Neurology and Neurosurgery Department of the School of Medicine, folks from the Applied Physics Laboratory at Johns Hopkins, and our research collaborator from the NIH, University of Chicago, Utrecht University in the Netherlands, and the funding and sponsoring institutions. And with that, thank you, and maybe we can take some questions between Amy and I.  Moderator: Okay, thank you very much. So, yes, we have time for a couple of questions. A few have come in. For Amy, regarding the treadmill example, when was this connection discovered? And when people are told what's happening, does this have a negative effect on their training?  Let me unmute myself. Good question. So when you get on the treadmill, and, first of all, the split belt treadmill has been used for experiments in animals since the '70s. We really have sort of pushed it into using it as a rehab and learning tool for training walking. And when you get on the split belt treadmill, and we change the belt speeds, you know the belt speeds are changing, but you don't know how you are changing your movement to account for that. And so in that sense, it's not an explicit thing. In fact, people are surprised when they start to walk more fluidly and learn that the belts are even very split anymore. So we think that these subcortical mechanisms are dominating the learning for a variety of reasons, lots of different patient groups we've studied, psychophysical studies we've done, and that even though you know you're being perturbed, you don't know how you're correcting it, and so that's a sub-cortical function.  Moderator: Okay, second question, again for Amy, so Sally Squires asked whether your procedure could also work for those who have joint problems from osteoarthritis.  So this is a good question. So I think when we're dealing with pain, that adds in another dimensionality. We can certainly manipulate the gait pattern through these subcortical, you know, by driving these subcortical networks, but if pain is involved, that tends to override things, and people revert back to a less painful gait. However, if you have a surgery where you correct the pain and then do the training, then I would think that these kinds of, this kind of more implicit training would potentially be useful.  Moderator: Thank you. Pablo, Peter Weiss asks, "When subject was discussing what he was feeling, he seemed to be using both arms pretty fluidly. Was that a capability he already had before this work or was he unable to use his hands that well prior to the implementation of the electrodes?"  So great question. So he has a C5-C6 incomplete tetraplegia. He's able to control pretty nicely his shoulder control abduction to this type of motion and the extension of the elbow. So he's able to... And he can do certain tricks that people with spinal cord injury learn to be able to move, elevate the arms, so he had that capability prior to surgery. He's not able to have fine dexterity with the hands. He cannot do a fist, he cannot point with one finger or open the hand, or make all these gestures that we are teaching with a hand. So, yes, he's able to move some but from the proximal upper extremities, but not from the distal upper extremities.  Okay. Thank you very much. All right, so that wraps up the Q&A for this particular presentation. And also that wraps up the first beginning, or the beginning of our afternoon session. So we're now going to break until three o'clock for the final part of our day, which will be two presentations and then a panel discussion. 