 Hello World. I'm Imagination. Today I'm going to talk about the Brain-Computer Interface. A brain-computer interface (B.C.I.), sometimes called a neural-control interface, mind-machine interface, direct neural interface, or a brain-machine interface, is a direct communication pathway between an enhanced or wired brain and an external device. B.C.I. differs from neuromodulation in that it allows for bidirectional information flow. B.C.I.s are often directed at researching, mapping, assisting, augmenting, or repairing human cognitive or sensory-motor functions. Research on B.C.I.s began in the 1970s at the University of California, Los Angeles under a grant from the National Science Foundation, followed by a contract from DARPA. The papers published after this research also mark the first appearance of the expression brain-computer interface in the scientific literature. Several laboratories have managed to record signals from monkey and rat cerebral cortices to operate B.C.I.s to move. Monkeys have navigated computer cursors on screen and commanded robotic arms to perform simple tasks simply by thinking about the task and seeing the visual feedback, but without any motor output. In May 2008 photographs that showed a monkey at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center operating a robotic arm by thinking were published in several well-known science journals and magazines. Neuralink, a neurotechnology firm co-founded by Elon in 2016, hopes to deliver on an even more grandiose pursuit. Alongside global warming and the possibility of human extinction, Musk is heavily concerned with another existential threat. The advancement of Artificial Intelligence. The specific objective of Neuralink is to develop ultra-high bandwidth brain-machine interfaces to connect humans and computers. Practically, this materializes as a chip that is implanted into the brain to achieve a “sort of symbiosis with artificial intelligence” that can significantly preserve and enhance our brains. While the company’s current focus with the early versions of this implant is to understand and treat brain injuries and disorders, Musk believes this technology is an important step to ensuring a well-aligned future alongside Artificial Intelligence. “With [any] A.I. scenario, we will be left behind. With a high bandwidth, brain-machine interface, we can go along for the ride.” Our brains function through a large network of neurons communicating through neurotransmitters at the connection points known as synapses. These neurotransmitters are released in response to electrical spikes called action potentials. Everything that we perceive, feel, hear and think are essentially these neural spikes. By inserting minuscule electrodes threads, Neuralink can detect and record the action potentials and selectively stimulate neurons across diverse brain areas. These threads will be applied delicately by robots to minimize damage to the brain and attached to sensors that, in their preliminary form, will be wirelessly connected via Bluetooth to a mobile app for self-sufficient usage. Musk claims, “humans are already partly cyborgs”. With our mass dependency on our phones and personal computers, the only difference between the current state and one with A.I.-symbiosis is that the “data rate” or “communication speed” between us and the electronics right now is extremely slow. By facilitating rapid information access and augmenting intellectual capacity, the Neuralink interface could enable users with substantial productivity growth, potentially “by a factor of ten”. The discussion also expanded to consider the possibility that this future technology could make verbal communication obsolete, giving a prospective timeline of five to ten years. Elon Musk’s brain-hacking startup Neuralink is gearing up for a long-awaited reveal on August 28. And Musk himself can’t seem to help himself from teasing the brain-computer interface. On Sunday afternoon, when computer scientist Austin Howard asked Musk on Twitter if we could one day listen to music directly through such an interface — streaming it directly into the brain, in other words, with no headphones needed — Musk replied with a curt “yes.” Imagine, You can download any language you wanted to learn directly into your brain. All the knowledge Humanity has ever discovered,Right into your brain. The Possibilities are Endless. That's all for today. Thanks for watching. 