 Welcome to the Brain Coffee Podcast, where Doctors Eric Leuthardt and Albert Kim unlock life’s little mysteries about health, wellness, entertainment, technology and how the brain makes sense of it all. Sit back, relax and open up your mind. How’s it going with the dog? Ah, she’s doing better. Yeah? She’s still a puppy though. You know, six months. Does she wake you up? Not as much. She can go on her own, but then she makes mistakes. But there are other reasons I’m not sleeping that much. Work and— My daughter just woke me up in the middle of the night because she had a nightmare. And so she needed some extra snuggles in the evening. I see, I see. It’s interesting about sleep. It’s also interesting when you think about like kids need so much more sleep than we do. Yeah, yeah, there are a lot of things going on when they sleep. They’re growing, they’re actually— Learning. Yeah, actually, this is a, I mean it’s interesting question, why, why sleep at all. What the purpose of sleep? It’s actually, it’s a fundamental question because everything in biology sleeps. Meaning from like yeast cells to fruit flies to rats to primates. Everything needs to sleep. Yeah, worms, yeah, exactly. Flies like you said. It’s interesting. I think that one of the fundamental kind of ideas is that if you’ve got a nervous system, basically, and that nervous system needs to learn, it has to sleep to reconsolidate the information and to just get rid of; we’ve talked about brain poop in the past. Yeah, right, right. We were on poop (?) with Dr. Holtzman, meaning that all the work that it does in managing that information creates a lot of, for lack of a better term— Toxins of wakefulness or something. Toxins, toxins of wakefulness, right, toxins, that it has to clear out. And if it doesn’t, bad things happen to the brain. Yeah, I know, we see it all the time like after operations or we have someone in the hospital in the ICU for a few days, they don’t sleep for three days, 100% of people go psychotic. Completely delirious. It’s called ICU, ICU syndrome. I mean it’s really funny, it’s interesting how sleep deprivation kind of plays a role in our lives. I just think about when we trained as residents. Oh, yeah. I mean, things are little different now. Like duty hours, we can only work 88 hours a week now. Which people laugh about it, you know what I mean? But it used to be that literally, we would be on call every other night, we wouldn’t sleep every other night for years. Yeah, I mean I would say probably, yeah I mean on average, probably 120 hours or so a week. Absolutely. Again, not anymore, but like when we were training for sure. What do you think it did to you, yeah? Well, it’s an interesting dynamic, because I remember, like there was, I would go, there’s a couple episodes where I went 36 or 40 hours without sleep. And I remember like walking outside and maybe seeing a few rainbows that weren’t there and a lot of weird, perturbed perceptions. So that’s clearly not in and of itself, healthy. But one of the things that I grapple with is, as people try to constrain work hours and with the reason being, is that they want people to get more sleep. That’s a safety thing for physicians and training physicians. The flip side, although I think it’s also interesting, is that when you work as intensely like we did two, three, four years in a row like that, the amount of experience you get both from kind of clinical exposure and clinical training, but also, you learn to be tired and basically be able to be tired and still effective. Yeah, it’s important actually. In fact, to this day, you and I, we have cases that are 12 hours sometimes. That’s right. I’m tired. But you need to, you need to make— But you know how to deal with that physiology. Exactly. And you have to do a perfect job still, right, for that patient. Still, right. And if you’re never exposed to that, I think you completely fall apart. And kind of our boss, Ralph Dacey, he often talks about this idea of psycho-motor endurance. Just as you learn to develop endurance when you’re running or learn to develop various types of endurance through repetitious training, that sometimes that sleep deprivation, you’re essentially training your brain how to endure that better than if you had never done it before. Like again, we talked about kind of the toxins of wakefulness. But as an analogy, we have toxins of physical activity. Lactic acid. If you’ve never trained for a marathon and somebody put a gun to your head and said OK, go run that marathon, your lactic acid’s going to go crazy. Yeah, your body can’t take it. Your body will fall apart. You’ll collapse, exactly. And but when you train, you body can deal with those toxins and that lactic acid and process it in a much more efficient fashion. Yes. And I think the same is true for training in sleep deprivation. That I think you become trained to handle those toxins better, is my opinion. Yeah, no, I agree. There’s also probably an individual aspect of it. I mean, probably there’s probably some self-selection about who wants to be the type of physicians we are. People who can probably take sleep deprivation a little more. That’s right. I remember seeing, I think there are genetic variants where certain people need more or less sleep. So you’re exactly right. Yeah, that’s definitely true. There may be some self-selection there. No, but I absolutely agree. There’s some training involved. The debate ongoing now is yeah, sure, we get a little more sleep now with our training because of duty hours, but then what do you, what do you sacrifice? What do you lose? Do you get a better or worse surgeon at the end of it? Right, right. And that’s a really hotly debated active topic. Exactly. So I mean, what we got to do is, we have to develop some pill to get rid of the toxins and then you can get as much experience as you can. You don’t have to sleep, you don’t have to see any bad effects of sleeplessness. I feel like that was a movie. Maybe not. But like, surely there are pills out there, but yeah, it was for fighter pilots, too. Yeah, right. So there are vigilance drugs that don’t really make you hyper, they just keep you alert and awake. Exactly. That’s right. For long periods of time. I don’t know. I don’t know if it gets rid of the toxins all by itself. Yeah, I don’t think it gets rid of the toxins, but it just keeps you awake. Yeah, that’s right. There are definitely some bad effects of not sleeping. That’s absolutely right. Despite our having to train to sort of get used to a little of that at least. But are there other things that sleep might be doing? And I think people are really interested in knowing these things. Well, remember, when we interviewed David Holtzman, he talked about how sleep deprivation increases the deposition of beta amyloid, one of the proteins involved with Alzheimer’s. So he is very meticulous about getting good sleep these days as essentially a kind of healthy lifestyle as a preventative for Alzheimer’s. Right, right. Certainly, one of the things we know, and this is one of the things we published in my lab, is that sleep is really important for the consolidation of memories. Meaning that when you’re awake, the covering portion of your brain, the cortex, is communicating with the main memory organ of your brain, the hippocampus. And basically, signals are going from the cortex to the hippocampus while you’re awake. But then when you’re asleep, that flow of information reverses. And the hippocampus then is communicating with the cortex. And I think that that’s a long-term encoding of that information you picked up during the course of the day. So this is in humans. In humans, that’s right. That’s so cool. One of my buddies has a very similar finding in mice. So he basically makes these mice go through a maze and he listens to the neurons in the hippocampus and then he has them sleep. And the pattern of neurons firing when the mouse is going through the maze is exactly recapitulated when they’re sleeping, but at a compressed timeframe. It’s almost like they’re memorizing the maze when they’re sleeping. Right, right, no, that’s exactly right. And the fact that it’s compressed, I wonder if it’s why our dreams are so weird. Oh, yeah, yeah. You know that we are to some degree experiencing these things, but they’re in a compression format. You know what I mean? Like we got to— Zip. Zip format. Yeah, it’s a zip format for our memories. And so basically, we experience these things in some type of way that’s being organized, but it’s not experiential. Right? You know? Like that’s why I kind of, you see your aunt with an astronaut and a hippopotamus and they’re all kind of melded together, you know. And that represents more kind of the process of the memories being embedded. No, you’re right. It’s rather interesting aspects about what you just said that I mean, we think that we take in all the information in our environment in 100% sort of uncompressed way. Do you know what I mean? I know exactly what you mean. Like let’s take vision. So let’s take vision. We see a car, we see a field, we see a store. We think it goes through our eyes, 100% of that information. 100% of that information goes through the wiring and then it goes back to the cortex. But like, how much of it is actually getting to your cortex? Actually, and people have looked at this. So much of the world we experience is actually just being created by our brain itself. Our brain essentially creates models of what the world does and then makes predictions on that. And we occasionally tweak it and update it with the actual information that’s coming in. Even though the extraordinary capacity of our brain and all the interconnections, is that the speed at which it would take to recreate each moment by moment— Each pixel, each sound. Each pixel, is not possible. So basically, what our brain does is it creates models of what it’s expecting to see, and then it confirms it with the sensory stimuli. So much of the world we live in is what our brain creates for us. Which is kind of Matrix-like. So only a fraction of the information comes in, and then we impose some kind of worldview on it, right? Exactly. That’s right, that’s right. So about the memories, I mean maybe with the zip format, you’re only encoding sort of the major, most fundamental aspects of that memory. You’re modifying the models. Yeah, yeah. It’s not the entire memory you’re encoding when you’re sleeping. Exactly right. It’s only just keeping the important stuff. Yeah, that’s interesting. The subtle differences. I actually think that that really plays into some interesting things. For instance, if we live in the world our brain creates for us, that gives us a lot of power and it’s empowering. I think that’s why, for instance, if you’re depressed, the world’s a bad place. If you’re an optimist or you know, or that how you affect your perspective that the world’s a good place. And so that’s I think that’s why it’s so interesting how so much of reality is really in our head. Yeah, no, no, I mean, I can think of some legal implications. I mean, you have witnesses looking at the same thing and it’s completely understandable that they really will think they saw different things, because you’re filtering so many things. And each individual has different filters. And people have looked at this, like literally, people who are witnesses, truly think that they’ve seen something, and it’s completely different. Right, right. Or I think a classic example of kind of like this disconnection between kind of the model your brain builds and reality, I don’t know if you’ve ever been in a situation where you think you recognize somebody. And you’re sure it’s that person. Exactly. And then you go up to that person to say, hey John, and they turn around or they, and it’s not that person. And suddenly you had this bizarre internal frame shift, like it was literally where reality shifts, you know? Actually, I did it, I thought it was my dad and it was this random Asian guy. How could I make that mistake? Right, right, right. But again, it’s your brain imposing on the world that you’re living in. Right, right. I think that’s really fascinating. Interesting. So we’re sleeping, we’re making models of our memories, models of the world. Well, sleep certainly is important for I think general consolidation of your metabolism (?). So if you don’t sleep, your immune system doesn’t work as well. Stress levels are higher. Right, yeah, right. I mean, it’s not going to make you have a cold, but if there’s a virus around, you’re definitely more susceptible to it. I totally agree with that. I think it may just have to do with energy allocation, meaning that if you don’t get sleep, your brain and your body have to work so much harder to do what it needs to do to kind of function in the setting of all those various toxins, right? And if it’s got more work to do, then that’s less energy it’s allocating to the immune system and various kind of things to basically cause your body to heal and grow. Yeah, that’s definitely true. I mean, this is a bit off topic maybe, but I mean, another reason people think we sleep besides memory consolidation and some good things and the toxin removal is during evolution and sort of early stages of man, no electricity, maybe no fire. So it’s darkness in the middle of the night. So— Why waste resources? Exactly. Maybe you should sleep so you don’t jump off a cliff by accident or walk off a cliff, you know what I mean? Oh, that’s interesting. What do you think about that? Um, I think it’s interesting. It makes a lot of sense. Although I wonder, maybe even getting a little more, the thing is, worms sleep, fruit flies sleep. Yeah, circadian rhythms, rhythms and stuff. It’s so fundamental. I actually wonder, while I think, yes, that’s true, I actually wonder if it has to do with really the fundamental dynamics of the earth. Meaning like because the world rotates at a certain cycle, and because you’ve got wave cycles, meaning that like because the moon is causing wave cycles in the oceans, that those fundamental physical rhythms have affected our biology since we were monocellular organisms. Yeah, no, I think, I think that’s right. I mean, not that our reason and will can’t overcome our sleep drives and stuff like that or make light. But I think you’re right. I think there are a bunch of genes, clock genes, right? Circadian genes. And they are universal. Yeah, yeah, down to sort of single cell organisms. And like, why do they need clock genes? I think it was for feeding and things like that, right? Well, like for instance, feeding when again, there’s a light cycle and a dark cycle. Exactly. Right? I mean at the light cycle, maybe photosynthesis is happening. That’s how it’s time to eat. Yeah, there’s more food in a certain area, exactly. And then when there’s not, then you might as well be quiescent, you know? Yeah, exactly. And so this is still also in our genes, although in different ways. Yeah, but I think this rhythmicity to biology is a really fascinating thing. I was actually just a couple weeks ago I was in Florida with my daughter and my son— Ergo, the tan. The tan, that’s right, exactly. I remember my kids are just so overjoyed to be in the ocean. And there’s something fundamentally relaxing about those waves. Oh, yeah, I agree. And I, and this is the geek in me, but I started to calculate— What's the frequency of those waves? You know what I mean? Like, and it’s around three hertz, right? Three, OK, OK. Three to five hertz. And what’s interesting from a brain rhythm standpoint, is three to five hertz is a theta rhythm, which is associated with mediation and relaxation. The engineering term for the sound of waves when you hear them in the ocean is pink noise. Like it’s noisy, but there’s a structure to it. Theta rhythm, interesting. And I think the fact that you’ve got these waves, that theta rhythms, is creating these rhythms in your perception, which is creating rhythms in your brain that’s fundamentally relaxing. So it’s interesting how these core rhythms of nature I think are fundamentally affecting our biology really probably from the time we were, we started as organisms to even now in like sitting on the beach. Yeah, yeah, that’s interesting. It just reminds me of the stages of sleep, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So awake is zero, and one is things are just starting to change. Two, you’re starting to really enter sleep. And then the slow wave stage is three and four. That reminds me of these slow hertz waves. That’s exactly right. Like the water. And basically, that’s when you really, these large waves in the brain that are essentially cancelling out everything else. And that’s when you’re in very, very deep sleep. Right, right. And then, but then we dream in the— In REM. Right, in the subsequent. And ironically, REM looks like you’re awake in some— Exactly. Right? It’s very disorganized and— Yeah, REM, yeah, it’s a fascinating thing is that while, when you look at your brain rhythms, again, you mentioned, like there’s these multiple stages. The deep stages, slow wave sleep, again, the brain rhythm is just this, it looks like shark tooth. Right? You’re kind of getting to the absolute most simplest kind of cortical physiology that you have. And then basically, once you go to REM, the physiology and the signals, they look very much like the awake state, but you’re not awake. And the thing is, I guess you’re in a certain sort of sense, conscious, but you don’t remember it, right? And people are really studying this phenomenology so deeply right now. Because it’s fascinating. It’s these alternate states of consciousness that are critically important for our biology. And in many ways, they still remain mysteries to us. Yeah, no, they really are. I mean, just REM sleep generally is so fascinating. People have disturbances in REM. I mean, people have probably felt this, right, when you’re dreaming, you try to run away from some ghost or monster and then your legs won’t, you know, it feels like you’re going through molasses. You can’t run fast enough. I mean, you’re probably, and you remember that part of the dream. You’re probably waking up a little, and you know, during REM, your body’s paralyzed. That’s right, that’s right. Yeah. And so probably it’s a real physical perception of what’s going on. I don’t know if you’ve ever had this experience, it’s not exactly a night terror, but basically when you wake up and you’re having a dream, but you, you, the physiology of the associated with the paralysis is still present. Yeah, exactly. And so you wake up and you quite literally can’t move your arms and legs and are experiencing something that’s both physical wakefulness and the dream. And it is a terrifying, it happened to me I think like once or twice when I was a teenager, and it was terrifying. I still remember it. Yeah, I know, I can imagine. I also think that’s the reason you can’t run away from the monster. Right, right. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Because you feel that paralysis that your brain in imposing on you during REM. Interesting. Fascinating. I have a patient the other day who came in after a trauma, this was about two days ago. Still isn’t awake. It was a bad car crash. But it’s, I just don’t know, as you see— Whether they’ll wake up, right? Yeah, exactly, whether they’re going to wake up. There’s a significant amount of damage in the brain and so they’re in a coma. It’s interesting how people, when we use the term coma, when we want people to wake up from their coma, it’s probably actually not an accurate description. In many ways, that, when you think about-- Oh, yeah, wake up might not be the right verb. You’re absolutely right, yeah. Because when you’re asleep, and when you wake up from sleep, sleep is a really active process. Even though your body’s laying there still, your brain is doing a lot of work to again, as we said, consolidate memories and reorganize and clearing waste. When you’re in a coma, your brain’s injured, and it’s not doing either of those things. Yeah, it’s not organized enough to be doing sleep. Sleep is an important cognitive function. That’s actually one of the things we’re looking at in my laboratory, how, we’re actually looking at the differences between certainly sleep and awake. Actually, for a brain-computer interface, so that a brain-computer interface can know if you’ve got, imagine if you’ve got thought control device. It should know that you’re awake or asleep, so that for instance, if you’re dreaming, it’s not randomly controlling something in a weird way. I see. You’re not driving while you’re sleeping, for instance. Exactly. But we’re also extending these applications to coma. And as it turns out, there’s a lot of really different frequency interactions that happen in your rhythms when you’re asleep, that don’t happen when you’re in a coma. I see. And so again, those frequency interactions are different neural circuits interacting, again, likely for consolidation of information, which you just simply don’t see. Which also means, when you think about that from a coma standpoint, that means that your brain isn’t doing the necessary things to consolidate memory. It’s not doing the necessary things to clear toxins. It’s not doing all the necessary things for brain health. And that’s why I think when coma goes on for a longer and longer duration, that’s why it necessarily means it’s worse and worse for that person’s brain. Yeah, no, I agree. It’s interesting. I was just thinking about it when you were talking about how wake up is the wrong thing to really, the wrong way to think about it. I mean, maybe it’s kind of like a TV. So when everything’s working, you see a picture. You shake up the TV, kind of like in an accident, a few of the wires are broken. Over time, one of those wires get repaired, and another one, but you still can’t turn on the TV. Right, right, right, right, that’s right. It’s only when all those wires are put together, the whole thing is working order, then the TV turns on. That’s right, that’s right, yeah. So I think it’s a very similar thing happens during the reparative process, if you’re going to wake up in coma. Yeah, so I guess, what is the correct term for recovering from a coma? Is it restoring from a coma? Is it recovering from a coma? Repairing. Repairing from a coma? Resetting from a coma? But it is actually not wake up, because you’re not sleeping during coma. Because I think a lot of people, and it’s understandable, when you see a person in a coma, you think they must be asleep. Right, right. But they’re not asleep. They’re turned off. Exactly. Their brain is turned off. And that’s not good for the body and the brain. Right. This is a little non sequitur, but it reminds me of induced coma. I mean, maybe it’s more like induced sleep. I was just, we saw this movie a long ago. It was the “Alien Covenant.” Oh, yeah, yeah. I just saw it the other day again on HBO. That’s a good movie, by the way. A little scary, but. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But they’re in these pods and they’re in, they called it induced coma or something. I mean, it’s not a coma. Your brain’s not injured. But you’re sleeping for a long time to get somewhere in space. Yeah, by the way, what I think is always interesting about that, they’re always kind of laying down in this bed, in some pillowed bed. And we know from experience, people who are in intensive care or in comas, they rapidly lose muscle mass. Oh, yeah. And so if you’re in bed for two weeks, you’re going to have trouble walking in the hallway after that. Exactly, exactly. And so these people who are in induced comas or like the science fiction pods in these, and then they just kind of like open their eyes and just walk out, that’s, that ain’t happening, ever. Right? Exactly. You’d really have to do something like would like, stimulated their muscles on a consistent basis throughout the course of that. They would almost have to like be in a coma, but have a robotic exoskeleton constantly moving them around. Yeah, yeah, in a physiologic way, too. Because then like it’s not like you can just stimulate randomly the muscles. You’ll just get up, open your eyes and then suddenly you’ll be flexing everything at the same time. Exactly, exactly. That’s not very useful. Right, right, right, right. You’re right. What they should show in like, like in the Matrix or Alien Covenant, any of these space things, they should wake up. And I guess they do it right. In Matrix, the guy does fall. I mean, he collapses because he doesn’t have any muscle. That is true. You know what? Matrix is on. But that’s right. The level of motor tone and muscle atrophy would be extraordinary, if you did it for 100 years. Right, right. You’d probably just be a brain and a skull. Yeah, just skin and bone. Skin and bones. Yeah, exactly. And a bunch of ulcers. Right, right, right, absolutely. I mean, yeah, like in ICU, they’re turning our patients, right, like every hour or something like that. Even more than that. And you have special beds that are kind of like, have these air-filled pockets that kind of move and pulsate. As I think about it, yeah, we would wake up, we would open our eyes, we can’t get up. Skin and bones and one big blood clot. Right, yeah, right. In our, in our veins. Yeah, because all, there’s no movement of the blood. Yeah, that’s exactly right. It actually does, it does create an interesting question. For long-term space travel, where perhaps putting into some type of induced suspended state is the way to go, because you’re in a small enclosure for; just to get to Mars it takes six to eight months. Yeah. Right? What would you have to do to that person to really make that work? Yeah, right, no, I agree. And actually, just speculating, maybe actually when we think about the space pods and going to Mars and what you’d have to do for that, maybe it actually does make sense for kind of ICU patients. So for instance, should be put electrodes on all their muscles just to stimulate them? That’s an interesting question. Maybe by, kind of, I mean nerding out, so to speak, about these space pods, you improve ICU care. ICU care, yeah. I like this idea about the muscle stimulation. Actually, you put a bunch of muscle stimulators on them and at the very least, they don’t lose some tone and muscle mass over an extended period of time. I mean, that actually, space pods may actually help the ICU patients. That’s interesting. Huh, there must be other things that they could do that would be similar. Because it’s just such a huge problem. I guess in space they would just have to thin your blood then. I mean, taking a page from the ICU, if you’re going to be lying around, you get blood thinner, you know, every day. I mean you literally have to be in a robotic, I think you’re right. A robotic exoskeleton. But actually, that would be to kind of make sure your muscles don’t tense up. Right, right. But then you would also have to be stimulating the muscles, to make sure that you don’t lose muscle mass. Oh, yeah, yeah, right. The exoskeleton would only give you range of motion, you’re right, to prevent contraction. You need the stimulation for the muscle, you’re right, you’re right. It’s complicated. And the other way to do it quite honestly, and this is completely separate, is just live out the generations, the 10 years it takes you to get to Alpha Centauri or whatever. I’ve actually, there’s some good books about that. Like I actually have read a bunch of science fiction books about it. And how kind of like the, again, the culture and everything changes over time. Maybe the tenth generation doesn’t want to go to Alpha Centauri. You know what I mean? That’s true. They get there, tenth generation is like turn around. That’s what this book’s about, right? Exactly. So basically, they get there and actually it’s a hostile and unfriendly environment. And then they have to turn around. Go back to Earth? Exactly. Like, how much of a bummer is that? They have the freedom to choose. That's right. It’s like “National Lampoon” when they get to Walley World. And it’s closed. Now you got to go home. 