 [Music] The rollout of 5g technology has already commenced in many parts of the world and should get completed by the end of 2021. However given the demand for automation and ever increasing need of bandwidth the existing capacity is anticipated to run out of steam by 2030. The global mobile penetration is expected to grow up to 700 times if we compare data of 2010 with the anticipated demand by 2030. Thus scientists have already started working on 6g which is expected to revolutionize the digital world. The aim of this video is to have a peep into the future of wireless communication and its associated technologies. We are moving towards a fully networked society wherein many of the civic and human functions would be automated with the help of intelligent machines and processes. 6g would provide the canvas over which complex processes and interfaces would seamlessly operate with minimum human interface. Some of the key technologies likely to be fielded on 6g enable networks would be artificial intelligence, virtual reality, improved system capacity, higher data rate, ultra reliable low latency networks, massive machine type communication, and enhanced data security and user experience. The other associated technologies are smart wearable devices, space and underwater communication, medical implants, self-driven vehicles and drones. The virtual reality-based devices will need an assured data transfer of up to 10 gbps. It is estimated that the 6g system driven wireless connectivity would be up to 1000 times more efficient than 5g. All this would lead to a smart configured society environment monitoring and protection disaster mitigation and management. Let us briefly analyze the exciting possibilities [Music] Wireless brain computer interface (BCI) applications involve smart wearable headsets embedded devices and body implants. Using BCI technology the human brain will be able to communicate with external devices which in turn will analyze and translate brain signals. 6g will facilitate the information transfer of the five human senses in order to smartly and remotely interact with the environment. In 6g we are moving towards battery-less devices wherein they will be remotely and intelligently powered by the network itself thus removing the need of battery packs. In various devices, extended reality or xr to include virtual, augmented and mixed reality would be made available commercially. It will essentially be a computer generated reality experience. Gps would be incorporated to create an interactive environment. XR would essentially be a combination of real and virtual world. Virtual reality will provide a 3d experience which will enable advanced gaming, simulation and many other such applications. Self-driven vehicles will be supported by technologies such as audio-visual sensors radars gps and sonar. Similarly uavs will be exploited in a big way supporting military reconnaissance, agriculture, law and order, product delivery, aerial photography and disaster management. [Music] Artificial intelligence would facilitate intelligent learning ability of machines many processes would run in the background with minimum human interference. This is likely to be widely applied in many fields like law and order and surveillance. AI will simplify and improve the transmission of data seamlessly. It will be supported by meta-materials, intelligent networks, self-sustaining wireless networks and inbuilt machine learning. In the healthcare sector, remote surgeries will be possible using robots and AI. THz bandwidth will support the development of nano sensors thus allowing nano devices to operate inside human body on smart and remote commands. Although 6g offers very exciting prospects yet the scientists the world over will have to overcome a few challenges in the next 5 to 10 years. Because of broad bandwidth new multiple channel models need to be developed to overcome the problem of frequency dispersion. New modulation and coding techniques would need to be developed. High power and frequencies will have associated health issues as well. Compatible devices will need to be developed to support AR and XR. Integration of terrestrial satellite and airborne networks into a uniform wireless system will also be an essential prerequisite prior to launch of 6g services.­ 6g will connect smartphones devices used in automation, artificial intelligence, extended reality smart cities, drones and satellites. All this will call for new security techniques with innovative cryptographic methods to ensure foolproof cyber security. The internet of everything will have the requisite network intelligence to bind all people, data processes and physical objects into one system. This will indeed translate into a smart society. Thanks for watching and if you did enjoy hit the like button and feel free to subscribe if you haven't already. See you soon for more interesting videos and facts, till then bye bye. 