 What’s up you guys, it’s Emile Ennis Jr. here with Clevver News and did Rihanna just reveal some new information regarding ‘R9’ in addition to trolling herself? Fans who are thirsty for Rihanna’s 9th album have been waiting patiently; however, their patience is running thin and Rihanna is feeling the heat! Rihanna has had fans at her throat for months, wait, let’s change that to YEARS as her last album release came back in 2016. Rihanna is obviously one of the most famous singers on the planet, and she’s well known for her beauty and her looks. Over the years, there have been some decent doppelgangers and lookalikes of RiRi, including this young lookalike. She’s adorable, but she’s gonna have to move over because there’s a new doppelganger in town, and Rihanna herself is asking this woman for ‘R9.’ 28-year-old Priscila Beatrice looks so much like Rihanna. Like look at her! Priscilla’s TikTok is FILLED with videos of her singing and dancing along to RiRi’s greatest hits, all while looking EXACTLY like her. It didn’t take long for the queen herself, Rihanna, to take notice of Priscilla. The Shade Room posted one of Priscila’s TikTok’s on their grid, and Bad Girl RiRi herself left a fun, trolling comment that read, QUOTE; “Where the album sis? #R9” That’s right, Rihanna not only paid respect to her doppleganger, but she literally TROLLED HERSELF and joined the rest of her fans in asking WHERE THE HELL IS THE ALBUM?!?!?! Having some fun, RiRi turned it back on her fans by sounding just like them. Well done queen! We are not worthy. Priscila of course saw Rihanna leave that comment and responded with a post of her own, saying, QUOTE; “I still can't believe it !!! The page @theshaderoom shared my video on their profile and THE OWN RIHANNA @badgalriri saw my video and commented !!!! Do you know what I'm feeling right now ??? I can't stop crying with emotion !!!! Of happiness!!!!! It is a dream!!! God is so wonderful !!!!!” Let’s hope this isn’t the end of what is clearly a budding friendship between Rihanna and Priscila. They have to do a zoom or something next, right? Speaking of Rihanna, she recently talked to ET about her music and how she was going to release new music on her time, saying, QUOTE; “I am always working on music and when I am ready to put it out in the way that I feel fit, it's gonna come out. And you're not going to be disappointed when it happens. It's going to be worth it. I'm not just gonna put it out just because people are waiting. It's taken this long, I'm gonna make it worth it." So keep complaining all you want NAVY, Rihanna is going to do her and release her music when she’s ready. In the meantime cop some Fenty Skin and enjoy the ride. For more on Rihanna, check out our video on who she fired from Fenty by clicking right over here; What do you think of Rihanna’s lookalike? Let us know below in the comments section. I’m Emile Ennis jr., bye guys! 