 Looking at my son and how he is kicking his legs over gives me so much joy that is all I wanted Kenyans have provided her with milk she is feeding so well, she is full I am grateful This is my son who's unable to stand He is not able to stand up properly as you can see I have been taking him for therapy and I can see a change at the moment at least he can now move unlike how it used to be previously My name is Kennedy Mwangi Wachira I want to thank Kenyans for the support they have given me things have changed I received diapers I took my son for therapy We are doing good. I received a gas cooker I moved into a new house as well Things are okay The situation is a little bit better unlike how things were initially I heard you also got new seats? Yes, I did received seats from a good Samaritan who lives in Kibera There's another one who gave me a gas cooker Food and others supported me financially I received so many calls Everyone was asking how the children are doing and I told them they are fine It was an amazing feeling People were calling in from Mombasa another from the USA I spoke to so many people It was so encouraging and I am really grateful I felt that I was not alone in this I am so grateful for the assistance I received and I can be able to take my child to the hospital He has begun his therapy sessions From St. Joseph I went to St. and that is where he has been undergoing therapy He goes for like 3 to 4 sessions and we are still going for more This is my son who's unable to stand He is not able to stand properly as you can see I have been taking him for therapy and I can see a change at the moment at least he can now move unlike how it used to be Initially he could not move at all he could not even kick his legs but I can see an improvement I was told the therapy will go for a month and a half if he will be having 3 sessions a week by the end of a month or 2 he will be fine My heart if filled with joy just seeing him jovial, initially he could just sit there and not move at all but he keeps improving eat day I have heard rumors saying that these are not my children but that's not true, I have all the documents to prove I am their father my name is on their birth certificates Their mother is called Ann Wanjiku Mwangi Our eldest son is Erick Mburu here is his original birth certificate I haven't received his younger sisters' certificate but this is her waiting card these are the therapy documents from the hospital It is wrong for people to spread propaganda these are my children and I have the documents to prove it What were the challenges you and your wife were experiencing? What pushed her into drinking? There must be a reason? She started drinking alcohol almost 2 years after we got our first child She would spend money meant for food on alcohol and have the children sleep on empty stomachs The moment I started cautioning her, she decided to leave and that's how I have been surviving alone with the children Life has been so hard but God came through For men out there, even when you are left alone with the children, just learn to take care of them the best way you know how Never abandon them You might miss out on blessings in the future You see these children as a blessing? a big blessing they have made me famous I never thought some day I would be seen on TV but it happened through these children and I know so many Kenyans are watching me What is that one thing you love about Mburu? Looking at my son and how he is kicking his legs over gives me so much joy that is exactly what I wanted What about Wairimu? Kenyans have provided her with milk she is feeding so well, she is full I am grateful there's a lot of milk.. Yes, we received a lot from good Samaritans and they sleep comfortably? Yes, they received a bed does Mburu sleep here? No I spend with him on my bed because he cries a lot What of Wairimu? She spends here alone. She is a calm child as long as she is well fed I will use the cash donations I received for my sons treatment as well as start a small business here so that I can be closer to my children I am fine Where do you live? there's something I wanted to give you where exactly are you? at Kinyanjui road Let me know when you arrive at Kinyanjui Primary then I will pick you from there I am already there as we speak Okay I will be there shortly these items are from Nairobi Sacco You were supposed to pick them earlier but you said you were held up when you were called Thank you so much and you are always welcome Great! Where did you first watch his story? My name is Winfred Maina Rukwaro to distribute to the needy sent me a video and said that one of us should locate this man the condition of his son and because he was in need of therapy So we organized and begun our search for Kennedy just persevere the biggest challenge is you have been left on your own and you have to play the role of both a father and a mother to these children but chances are their mother might want to come back home some day never lock the door on her give her a second chance however long it will take, 20 years or 30 years, the children will some day ask you where their mother is Don't shut the door on her to the extend of telling the children that their mother was a bad woman I want to thank Kenyans and what can you tell God? Thank you for changing my life I am not where I used to be Do you still carry them along when going to work? I stay at home taking care of them I am planning to get a house help if their mother won't come back home It is my wish that my wife comes back home So that we can raise our children together I have completely forgiven her If she is watching I want her to know that I will be glad to have her back so that I can also get a chance to do my job I have nothing against her I chose to forget about the past and focus on the future I advice married men and women to learn how to solve their differences in the house because one party might leave and the other is left alone with children to look after It is not good, our children suffer the most We should stick together and build one another what is he saying? he is pointing at that helmet what is your parting shot to Kenyans? Thank you Kenyans. Let us always remain united as a country 