 Can you disown your brother? Even if you don't look alike? this disease has really messed me up, I lost my job brother.. this pandemic has been a real disaster there's one thing I always tell people, calling me Uhunye doesn't mean I am Uhuru when are you going to lift the lock down? Hey Uhunye, what's the plan for today? You should give us something man... at the moment my pockets are dry my friend but you actually know how to interact with people man.. Uhunye must give you guys something.. True..Uhunye they are saying you must look for your brother man.. hey brother.. hey how's your morning? fine are you okay? Yes Today we are seated here with Mr. President himself how have you been? is it a B or an A? So you told me this is where you live Sure, this is home I see for how long have you lived here? Uhunye... this is Uhunye... yes, he is our very own guy from the estate he resembles that other guy in every way which guy are you talking about? Uhuru himself, the president but this one here is our own from the estate even the other one is also from the hood.. Sure but he is our own but you understand he is in town now, actually he needs to visit us and meet his look alike, we have so much we need to tell him he needs to meet the youth, see what they are doing and basically just talk to them We are the youth here in the estate together with our own Uhunye, by the way my name is Kevo I am Kevo too great, such a big name sure amazing, let me have a chat with Uhunye here I was born in South B and when was that? 24th Feb 1982 24th Feb 1982 During the coup what about your parents? my parents were police officers police officers? both your mum and dad Yes were you living with them in South B? yes but in most cases I was always in the company of my father, whenever he is transferred I would go with him what of your mom, you mentioned she lived in Gatundu Yes, she was based in Gatundu but she comes from Nyeri You mean she was based in Gatundu working as a police officer? Yes, she used to show me her photos with dad but I was always with my father, whenever he would get a transfer they would even change my school was your mom working in Gatundu police station or where in particular? she worked as an Administration Officer, the ones that put on dotted kind of attires my dad passed on while I was 7 years old My mum passed on while I was in class 8 and I begun working in construction sites were you working in South B not really just in Nairobi and I did not proceed to High School, I was the bread winner in our family so you are here? hi oh yes I am fine but you really our president's look alike, what have people been telling you about that? a lot of people have been calling me Uhunye for how long now? it's been long even before Uhuru became the president, when Kibaki was actually in power and especially when I became a mature man how does it feel when people call you Uhuru? those who believe I am actually Uhuru always want me to give them something when we meet you must give something? yes, and it's even difficult walking away just like that but personally how do you feel about the whole thing? I feel happy and I have accepted that and have you even tried to find out perhaps why you resemble him this much I have never had that interest anyway but I have accepted the fact that we just resemble the way people are saying Do you feel like just maybe you might be his relative? there's one thing I always tell people, calling me Uhunye doesn't mean I am Uhuru Yes I am the Uhuru in the estate and we are all brothers you are the Uhuru of the estate why do you refer to yourself like that? it's because people call me Uhunye but I tell them I am not the Uhunye the president you know some things are not to be taken just lightly? do you have brothers and sisters? Yes, I do have them why are you insisting that much? because it's true I have siblings how many? 8 both brothers and sisters? we are 8 in number, 4 brothers and 4 sisters do you resemble each other? no we don't does it concern them that you guys don't resemble? it does concern them but they have accepted it that way, that I am their blood brother can you disown your brother? even if you don't look a like? so they still regard you as their brother even though you don't resemble? Yes what did brabd of beer do you like? Tusker you feel nice once you take a bottle or two Sure, in fact 3 but why 3, you know the President put restrictions and it's not a joke it's true and in fact I own a club by the way this is the club? it's closed I don't even have the key here I would have opened it for you to see it clearly You also mentioned you are a family man Yes how many children? three this is my first born and second born, but my girl is not here where is she daddy where is your sister she went to the village the president too has 2 boys and a girl, what a coincidence? Okay, let's leave all that to God once we leave everything to him, he knows best do you have githeri? please serve us this is where you get to eat your githeri I will pay later, taking this on loan we need cash there's no money at the moment sure, let's have the meal we shall see what to do later I want to have what Uhunye is having as well You mentioned earlier that you had a good life, what changed? this disease has really messed me up, I lost my job brother...this pandemic has been a real disaster you know people are actually sleeping hungry out here if you meet someone and they ask you to buy some food for them, don't assume and leave buy him that food with corona people have to keep social distance, in fact I will remind these guys here about that when are you going to lift the lock down? I don't have the powers you said you don't have the powers what message would you like to tell Kenyans? that we should all adhere to what the Ministry of Heath is telling us our doctors stay safe avoid crowds and stay in doors if you have to, don't travel aimlessly stay at home absolutely ensure you have a mask sure I can see you have yours too Yes, here is mine okay I have known Uhunye for quite sometime, we both live in East lands, he is my friend and we hang out together so many people have refereed to him as Uhunye whenever we are hanging out there because of his resemblance to the president that's why I have been calling him Uhunye as well I just want him to meet the real Uhunye and and take a photo with him on that day they should actually put on an African attire then just take the photo together that would be really amazing let me open the door for you Uhunye the leader himself alright 