 - This is, just you get ready, 'cause this is crazy. I'm kinda angry inside, I needed a minute. I was like, I didn't believe it was real. But you have to take a look at these two ladies. So pretty, right? I mean, next level. Pretty isn't even, yeah, whatever. They look like they're best friends, right? Or sisters, perhaps cousins. Nope. These two recently went viral because this one is 20. She's 20 year old college student, Meilani. Look at her living her best life, being all fantastic, and this one, this one's gonna... You know what? Get ready, y'all. This is her mom, a 43 year old teacher. She's 43! (audience cheers) - [Woman] What? - I'm 38! Like (laughs) I'm like what? Like she looks like she could be my daughter. I'm angry about it. Jessie, she's slowly dying over there. We don't understand what's happening. I mean, together they have nearly a million followers on TikTok and Instagram combined. But this is such a fun mother daughter story, and they're here to tell us more. Say hello to Meilani and her mom Joleen! (audience cheering) Okay you guys. - Hi. I'm gonna be honest with you. When I first read this story, I was like that's a lie. That's not her mom. I was like there's no way that's her mom, and then I proceeded to feel pretty poorly about myself. I was like, well. - Oh my God. - You're gorgeous! You're gorgeous. - Yeah, well. - Yeah. - (laughs) So Meilani and Joleen, first of all, which one of you is which? It is hard to decipher, and that's what makes me the most angry. - Okay, I'm Joleen, mom. - [Kelly] Oh my God! - Hi, I'm Meilani, the daughter. (laughs) - Oh my God, it's actually insane. So okay, Meilani, besides looking like sisters, are you as close as sisters too? - I would say that I'm really close with my mom. I look at my friends' relationships that they have with their mom and I do see a difference. It's always fun, 'cause we do like sisterly activities together and we shop at the same stores, but at the end of the day, she is my mom, and she still gets mad at me for things that moms might get mad at their daughters for doing, but I'm just really happy that I feel so comfortable sharing information with her and asking for advice about things that maybe daughters wouldn't feel comfortable sharing with their mom. I am just lucky. (laughs) - Oh my God. So Joleen, you are unbelievably good looking, and you're a nice person? This is just getting worse. This is just- (audience laughs) I mean, on behalf of every woman watching right now, where is the fountain? Like did you find it, of youth? Like did you find it, are you hiding it? Like what do you do? - Well, I've always lived a pretty healthy lifestyle in taking care of myself. I rarely ever drink alcohol and I don't smoke, so and when Mei was younger, she was a competitive gymnast, and that really really motivated me to working out and taking care of myself. As far as my skin goes, I've always been acne-prone, and so since I was about 12 or 13 I was always messing around with my mom's skincare, and so since my 20s, the three things I've always used is glycolic acid, vitamin C and retinol. I don't know if you've heard of those. But retinol is great 'cause I do feel like it's helped with my lines and hyperpigmentation and just like the glow of my skin. - Oh my gosh, I'm buying it all now. I think it might be too late for me, but it's fine. Who was that guy walking behind you? Is he related? Does he look as young as you? - You know, - I'm gonna be honest because you're being candid, that was pretty annoying because I told everyone in the house stay off the WiFi and like seriously. - Oh my God! - He just walks up as I'm just... (all laughing) - Oh my gosh! Welcome to 2020 via television and doing shows. 