 The drawing that the children are drawing diligently is a future city in their imagination. It's very diverse, from future buildings to dome that can block fine dust. A robot will do it because it's difficult for people to do all of it directly. While children are imagining future, some people are already making the future. We will ride this electric car because the environment shouldn't be more in danger Environment-friendly automatic car using electricity is doing a domestic test run from two years ago. A world in which everything moves. We will face a reality which will be more like a movie than an actual movie. The starting point of that is digital twin. Digital twin is a digital replica of a city. It means it's a complete virtual environment in 3D. We can solve (city problems) more easily and it's a technology that has the advantage that we can analyze the prediction through computer simulation. Digital twin, a core technology for a smart city. Within that technology, we can live in advance and react to the issues that can occur in advance. [MBC docu prime - a future which we live in advance, digital twin] What kind of things are happening in digital twin? Barcelona, a representative city of Spain that once constructed an empire in which the sun would never set. Every November, attention of the entire world focuses to this city. [2019 smart city expo world congress - the world's largest international smart city event held every November in Barcelona] It is because of the world's biggest smart city exhibition. In this exhibition which is the 9th this year more than 700 cities over 146 countries had a neck-to-neck competition for three days. [Maikel Donaldson - chairperson of Barcelona digital innovation committee] In order to respond and solve various issues of the city, all the big cities worldwide need to challenge against them together. The biggest star of the exhibition is definitely AI robots. This robot which was made to show the way is a work by the host country Spain. [Alexander Sanders - Spain robot business researcher] There are sensors on the chest and head for movement. For example, if there is a citizen who is looking for a public institution, it can guide that person to the destination. This robot which is glittering its cute eyes while mixing in naturally within people can have conversations thanks to its voice recognition function. - I will do anything for you. - Okay, let me take a picture. Two things are possible. I can take it for you or we can take it together if you stand (next to me). Everyday life in future cities which will change our lives surprisingly. - Would you like me to send it to your email? - Yes, sure. If you tell me your email address, I will send it to you. Technology of future cities is facing towards us. Recently in many countries around the world, people have started to give attention to the basis of future city technology. It's digital twin which moves an actual city as it is to a virtual world. [Felix Roberts - Switzerland digital business researcher] This is an example of a city in Switzerland. You can see how we put the digital imagery on top of the 3D model of the city. This is the digital copy of the city, the digital twin. The start was the U.S. space agency, they did a model experiment of issues that a lunar landing module would face in space within a virtual space. [Digital twin - a technology that duplicates the data in 3D digital within a computer by gathering detailed data on actual world's objects, buildings, etc.] This technology that manipulates in a virtual world which is the same as the actual world in advance and predicts what will happen in reality is utilized as the rough draft of the future city that is currently developing. [Goddard Rafael - Switzerland digital business researcher] If you are building a construction and you want to study what would be the impact of this construction over the pedestrian's safety, doing that in a virtual environment is without price. Even Shanghai, the center of China's econmy started to combine digital twin technology with cities from 2 years ago. [Yonglu - Shanghai digital representative] We are planning to install 200,000 more sensors in the city. It is to prepare for all the situations that may occur. It is said that digital plays the role of safety guide in times of emergency. Not only does it find the escape when a fire occurs but it also tells the path of the fire truck in advance by identifying the road situation. Now, we can change the way we manage the city borrowing the power of technology. Thanks to digital twin, cities are moving toward a safer future. [Jeonju-si Jeollabuk-do Province] On December 4th, there was a special event held by an enterprise. Exclamations that are continued from everywhere. Wow~ Hey, it seems like Ki Hyuk is proposing. It's a propose. Hey, where are you going? The child who is wearing exclusive translucent glasses is looking at our land Dokdo. [MR (Mixed Reality) - A technology that gives shape to digital twin and with which people can more realistically experience various digital information by combining reality with virtual world through 3D] By mixing actual Dokdo with virtual information it showed an educational content. It's MR, which is one level advanced digital twin. Wow, it feels like I am really at Dokdo. [Kim Tae Rin] I have never been to Dokdo but I think I can find out in detail what kind of place it is. Then how was MR made? [Dokdo - Ulleung-gun Gyeongsangbuk-do Province] People are standing in that starting point. Researchers who are visiting the oldest volcanic island in the Korean peninsula for the 5th time already. Head, head, head! The reason why they don't say no to climbing and going down this steep rock island several times is to do a more accurate geographical survey. [Yang Hui-dong - Korea Land and Geospatial Informatix Corporation National land information business team] We are trying to do a 3D modeling with the drone videos we filmed and to give shape to Dokdo. This equipment that receives signals with the satellite is a high-tech device for surveying accurate location. By using GNSS devices, we are trying to acquire the coordinates of the location we are currently standing on and we are doing this work to match these points on the photo later. The things these people need to do today is checking the location of 8 base points that they have decided in advance and grasping the different image of Dokdo due to the change of seasons. They say that there is not much of a difference due to the season to this rock that looks like an elephant. But the researchers are suddenly running toward the rocks on the seashore. We come out after calculating where we should place the survey base points but in case of islands like this, there can be some more variables. After checking the places where it's hard to reach, the survey is complete. All the information that has been collected in detail like this is 3,455. This information meet in the virtual world inside computers and it took 5 months to gain the shape of Dokdo. [Choi Dae Han - Korea Land and Geospatial Informatix Corporation platform development researcher] I think that it's important to think first what we will do by utilizing this digital twin and construct digital twin by focusing on that. Recently, digital twin has surpassed the level of simulation testing and is stretching itself as the next-generation technology that expresses various information by visualizing it. Click! Click! Press first! Click! [Singapore] Singapore is a city country located at the very end of the Malay peninsula. Singapore has skyscrapers close together and it has the third highest population density in the world. However in 1965 when it achieved independence from Malaysia this place was a wasteland in which people cannot live. [Joe Foon - President of Singapore digital construction business] (For initial Singapore) Government tried to solve two things. One was unemployment and two was housing. They only thought about rational plans on space by building houses in the past but currently, it's not simply about building houses but through many plans and systems so that it's maintained well. Last 2015 in which they welcomed the 50th anniversary of their independence Singapore took its first step towards the future city. [Virtual Singapore - A plan to make every event predictable and a sustainable country by making the entire city into digital twin] It started to move its entire national territory into the virtual world as a whole in order to verify the effect of city planning in advance. It was complete in 2018 in three years. It is utilized in various fields not only in building management but also transportation, environment, etc. [Wong Haeng Pying - President of Singapore's digital construction business] It is to make all the (city) systems and services be integrated and monitored on a common platform. One can monitor the efficiency as well as we are able to run maintenance tests. In Singapore, digital twin is used not only in public areas of the city but also from construction planning to its completion. Unlike other construction sites, this place uses drones. Drone plays an important role in constructions utilizing digital twin. It reports the information on the site in real time to the person in charge right away. Through this, they can solve the issue immediately without actually going to the site. Through drones, we can acquire information of the work site in real time and judge what kind of decision to make for the site and planning. If we have digital twin, we no longer need paper blueprint. We can experience it directly at the virtual world and revise right away. I think we should cut it more because a structure is blocking it. Please show it to me closely by going going nearer. Thanks to this university building that was built first in virtual world they were actually able to find problems in advance during the construction and quick revision and supplementation took place. Information data has to be provided seamlessly to the next stage. Data that was accumulated like that could be sent to the prior stage. We should be able to proofread the design continuously through circulations like that. Changi international airport which has shown a remarkable development since its opening in 1981. This place which was picked as the world's best airport since 2012 made a garden with an artificial waterfall inside the airport last April. Of course, they utilized virtual Singapore at this time. This is not the end. They maintain and manage the airport through this bar code which is attached in different locations of the airport. Digital twin technology is hiding here too. Chavina Tan Heixin - Changi airport management employee] Bar codes are everywhere in the airport so we can report things right away on the site if problems occur to the facility. Satya Marlina, an airport facility management employee found a broken light bulb while inspecting the restroom. [Satya Marlina - Changi airport management employee] I am trying to report it through my phone because the light bulb is off. When he takes a picture of the site and send it with the bar code his work is done. If I scan this location's bar code with the smart phone, a technical personnel would come through the app. Information that is uploaded within the digital twin like this is directly reported to the technical personnel and problem can be solved quickly. Of course, completion report will be done in the same way. 16,036 bar codes that are installed in every corner are playing each of their role in maintaining a pleasant airport environment. Without this reporting system, we would have to contact the supervisor when the problem occurs and they would have to deliver it again to the technicians but with this system it's efficient because we don't need to go through many levels of communication. Connecting various locations of a big airport in real time is also the power of digital twin. This place with a beautiful night view is a hotel in Singapore. The kitchen is busy with the preparation for customers' meals. One employee is packing a lunch box. Where is he going to deliver it to? The place he stopped by is robot Jeno. It is a robot responsible for room service. [Daniel - hotel employee] It is a big help to reduce the manpower. When he puts in the room number and requested dish, his work is complete. Now, it's completely up to Jeno. Jeno avoids people so that it won't bump into anyone and it gets on the elevator on its own well. [Heading to floor 17] How is all of this possible? [Jackie - robot technician] Sensors at various places are operating so that there wouldn't be any accidents although it moves from place to place. The secret is at digital twin. Inside Jeno's head, there is an input of the hotel in digital information. Also through various sensors installed on Jeno's body it makes accurate decisions by receiving information that changes moment by moment. Jeno arrived accurately at the destination within 3 minutes from its departure. [I'm heading home] Were you satisfied at Jeno's room service? [Niki - hotel client] I am quite fascinated by the robot. It's a very special experience that you can try out at this hotel. [Need anything?] This special experience will be an everyday service in the future city which is about to come. This is Marina Bay, Singapore's representative city. Due to population and close-set buildings Singapore is famous for its urban heat island in which the downtown's temperature rises rapidly. It is an exception for Marina Bay which is located in the southern coast of Singapore. [Ka Kien - a university student in Singapore] It's a perfect place to fly kites because it's windy, it's good to view the city too. Ka Kien who turned 19 this year visits this place often to take a walk. The wind speed now is 9.1mph. It's more windy than other places. People like wind because Singapore is a hot country. This place which has cool wind for all year round is an attraction for flying kites which is rare in Singapore. There is a reason why it is so windy like this. [Ella - a university student in Singapore] It's very nice, it's always windy. It is because they made a wind path utilizing virtual Singapore. They predicted the flow of air in order to have wind and located buildings and made parks while reflecting those results and had the entire location get draft well. South Korea's representative traditional city, Jeonju. [2019 Jeonju smart city & digital twin conference] Last July, Korea's first digital twin city was presented. [Kim Seung-soo - Mayor of Jeonju, Jeollabuk-do Province] Let's make the most high-tech smart city within a traditional city. In order to solve city problems, Jeonju-si first started with virtual Jeonju project and partially copied 4km2 of Hyoja-dong in virtual space. We can even closely check underground facilities such as water pipes. [Standard vehicle - A vehicle to acquire surrounding environment information and 3D space information] This vehicle which is called standard vehicle goes around the Jeonju city once a month. It is to gather changed recent information of the city within virtual Jeonju. [Jo Guk - Korea Land and Geospatial Informatix Corporation space information researcher] In case of digital twin, it is important to make the originally existing information into virtual reality but it is also important to collect and record information that is changing moment by moment that exist in the virtual reality. 20 sensors that are installed in and outside of the car including GPS and environmental sensors collect various information. This recent information adds new life to the virtual city. Reflecting the reality that is actually moving is called 'renewal of maintenance.' I think how fast we do the 'renewal of maintenance' is important. Drones are also as useful in collecting information of the city as the standard vehicle. It is an essential task in order for digital twin to become 3D. [Choi Dae Han - Korea Land and Geospatial Informatix Corporation platform development researcher] We use drones because they can quickly collect data. We make a 3D model and through a 3D process in more detail it goes through a process in which we make a model that is exactly the same as the actual city. Last December, a pine tree planting even was held in Gyo-dong area of Jeonju-si. There was a definite reason why they picked this location. According to the result of simulation experiment of digital twin if they plant 40 pine trees in the Gyo-dong area which is one of the crossroads of making a wind road it has been predicted that it would be effective in lowering fine dust level by reducing 200kg of carbon dioxide each year. [Cha Kyung Hoon - Jeonju-si 100,000 tree planting project leader] We will proceed with projects that expand (digital twin) to the entire district of Jeonju-si. We think that once it is constructed, it would be very helpful in solving environment or city problems. Children are helping with their tiny hands in order to reduce fine dust. [Moon Yoo Hyun - a child who participating in the tree planting event] Trees will grow and make cool shades so it feels good to plant trees today because they protect us from the storms. Based on the children's hope, these pines will grow healthily. One of the city problems that Jeonju-si is focusing on as much as fine dust is empty housing that is abandoned in the old urban area. [Lee Won Hyeong - Korea Land and Geospatial Informatix Corporation smart city regeneration council] There were cases in which criminals escaped the police dragnet by hiding in empty housing. There is the problem of the area becoming a slum through the influence of continuous increase of empty housing Mr. Won Hyeong deals with empty housing survey from one company. His work procedure became very simple due to the appearance of digital twin. Until now, I proceeded by drawing pictures on a paper by making a plan but now, I can actually upload it on digital twin and I can check in real time how much satisfaction would increase and what kind of change would occur to the flow of traffic if we demolish all this area and make a parking lot. There were total of 1961 empty houses that were surveyed for the last 4 months. Soon, it will be turned into public parking lots or vegetable gardens and vitalize the declining urban area. How would digital twin, a city problem fixer, change our lives? Let's take a look at Mr. Won Hyeong's day. 8:20 am, on his way to work. It's not an easy thing to find an empty parking space in the middle of closely parked cars. There is no place to park. (The parking lot) is full of cars. At this time, Mr. Won Hyeong is looking at the company's parking lot within digital twin. He can quickly find a parking space with one search of the digital twin without wasting time or fuel. [12:10 pm, visits Jeonbuk Provincial Government Office] Mr. Won Hyeong visited the government office for an afternoon civil complaint work. He visits the civil complaint center which is his destination within the government office's digital twin in advance. For people who came from a different country can get confused because it's their first visit. I think that (this digital twin) can be very helpful for those people. Mr. Won Hyeong found the civil affairs office at once easily. It only took 5 minutes to register for the issue of the passport. The time was shortened because he didn't lose his way, right? In his 9th year of marriage, today's dinner duty is Mr. Won Hyeong's turn. [6:00 pm, making a meal full of love for his wife] It is because his wife who is a private instructor works later than him. As for the ingredients, he looked at the actual image of the products that is uploaded in real time in the virtual mart and purchased them in advance. Today's menu is vegetable pancake and tasty clam soup. Uhm, it's good. For some time past, the couple are looking at some property with interest in digital twin. It is for his wife to manage the academy personally. You can check the sun coming in like this - Oh through the shadow like this? - Yes, the sunlight will come in like this. We can make about 3 lecture rooms and by dividing like this, we can make the office and about three lecture rooms. [6:30 pm, exercise and a small date at the nearby Jeonjucheon!] Whenever they have time, they take a walk at the Jeonjucheon which was maintained as an ecological stream. This stream which had sewage only in the 1990s is picked as a model example of ecological restoration. In digital twin, we can check the stream's quantity and quality of water. It is for continuous management and supervision. [Song Mi Young - wife] I think it's convenient because we can check right away and take action. Once digital twin becomes more sophisticated, I think it will be more convenient when we plan and take action. Quick, easy, and convenient life it's the happiness that digital twin will bring. Virtual Jeonju project researchers who are working hard for a happy future of the people. Through the effort of these people, virtual Jeonju is in the process of completion. [Choi Chang-Hak - CEO of Korea Land and Geospatial Informatix Corporation] Numerous sensors can connect information in the reality world to this digital twin so it's possible to have a real time operating system between the reality world and digital twin. [Barcelona] Barcelona, a city of arts which produced the genius architect Antonio Gaudi. We can easily meet Gaudi's work around the city. [Sagrada familia - A church in Barcelona, Spain designed by Gaudi. The construction which started in 1882 is currently ongoing for 137 years with its goal for completion in 2026] Among them, the most famous structure is the Sagrada familia. Regarding this place which is visited by 4.5 million tourists each year [Antonio Gaudi (1852 - 1926) A genius Spanish architect who used curves more than straight lines and sophisticated decoration and color. 8 of his structure work was chosen as the world's cultural heritage] it is said that Gaudi who loved the natural lines started to build it by using organic curves. It is being built for 137 years until now since 1882. Inside the cathedral, things about the Jesus Christ's life is expressed in sculptures. His birth, death, and even the most important revival. Inside the cathedral which is picked as Gaudi's last masterpiece, light comes in through the stained glass and it's like sunlight coming in through the leaves. Under the steeple over 100m, artistic sculpture of hardship is displayed. [Janet Blackbird - tourist] I am very amazed how that kind of ornament is inside the cathedral. How did he start building something like that? Barcelona is planning to complete the cathedral until 2026 which is the 100th anniversary of Gaudi's death. [Building Information Model (BIM) - A system that plans, designs, and manages the building by collecting detailed data from the construction to the tearing down of the building] By giving shape with virtual reality through 3D planning program called BIM they prepared to the problems in advance and reduced the cost and time of construction. [Mare Jean Yeves - President of France beam company] It is easier for technicians to construct, the quality of service can improve, and we can reduce the cost a lot too. Through this digital twin data it is planned that not only the construction but also maintenance, repair, and management will be operated more efficiently for the cathedral. [Maria Pascal - A researcher of Spain beam company] If we make the current image of one building in detail through digital twin for repair, management, and future we can obtain the history of one building. Digital twin is playing a big role in preserving old things. Even in Barcelona where culture is alive, there was a big issue. [Barcelona's level of air pollution is over 10 times of the recommended level by the EU as of 2014] It was because of air pollution which was twice higher than the level recommended by WHO. The main culprit was car. The answer to the issue of air pollution was quite simple. They minimized the number of cars entering downtown by blocking roads. The program that found this answer was Living lab. [Living lab - A lab of everyday life. A citizen participatory program in which citizens participate directly and solve issues when city problems arise] It was from a gathering in which citizens think about the city problems personally and find solutions. In one of the 100 living labs operated in Barcelona special 48 hours were given to the citytone participants. [Daniel Sera - Planner of Living lab] Today is an event with the students and we have to come up with ideas We have to come up with ideas and develop technical solutions. These two people became a team through the Living lab 6 months ago. Their research field is water pollution issue. What they are making in the given 48 hours is a portable water quality check device that lets you now the information on water quality conveniently. [Saulo Jark - Living lab participant] We will collect real time data on water quality and use it for smart city. Welcoming visitors came to the Living lab which is open to anyone. The computer system judges the traffic condition on its own and changes the traffic signals in a smart way. If there are more people than the number of cars when you are about to cross, then it allows the people to cross first. These children will grow up to become smart citizens of future city. We visited the home of two sisters who have been working in the Living lab for two years. The sisters are thinking about the local issues together. Home is another laboratory to these people. [Irene Garcia - A university student in Barcelona] I think it would be interesting to actually participate in various works of our neighborhood. The sisters have left their home to go to the older urban area of Barcelona. The first thing they check as soon as they get in the car is the parking situation of the destination. All the information on parking is here. Not only the price but we can look at the chart to see how long we can park the car. Due to the inconvenient parking situation, only Irene has decided to go to the downtown. Instead, her sister sends her off to a location where there are other means of transportation. Bye. Instead of prohibiting the entrance of cars into the city Barcelona expanded its public bicycle service. You can use it right away by taking a picture of the tag with an app and acquiring a permission. Both the government and citizens are putting up with the inconvenience of transportation and chose the quality of life. Currently in Barcelona, more than 6,000 public bicycles are in operation. The connection between means of public transportation is really good. The subway which has 12 lines connects all the corners of Barcelona. If Irene uses the public transportation from her home to triumphal arc located in downtown she can arrive 30 minutes earlier compared to the car on average. One of the things that was made to reduce the transportation time of citizens was this smart elevator. It is a customized elevator that moves automatically by understanding the boarding and stopping information. There are many elevators but not all of them are on the first floor. It checks the number of people and it comes down according to that number. Although it is not shown to our eyes, virtual subway station is collecting and using all information. In a small plaza over the triumphal arc which was built in 1888 a smart future technology is hidden. This is a smart streetlamp with sensors. About 1,500 of these LED streetlamps which are installed in about 50 streets of Barcelona adjust the brightness of the light by identifying movement. Thanks to these lamps, the city reduced 30% of the electricity consumption. There is another reason why these streetlamps are smart. Through the sensor, they not only collect the surrounding air quality but also other information such as noise or humidity. This information becomes the base of solving city problems. Recently, Barcelona is doing an experiment where they give back the roads to the citizens. This is called super block. It was made to reduce the amount of traffic as a city plan. [Super block - Installing playgrounds or benches for people in space where there were originally cars. They are expected to build 495 super blocks in the future continuing with their first demonstration project in 2016] In this experimental space which started in 2016, they blocked the entrance of cars in ares where noise and air pollution is serious. There are 33 super blocks within Barcelona and it is consisting 21% of the city area. [Maikel Donalson - Chairperson of Barcelona digital innovation committee] Future city of Barcelona is more centered on its citizens than technology. In order to solve the issues of sustainable city, citizens must be the main agent that solves and enjoys it. The future city that Barcelona seeks for. That is basically giving back the city to the citizens who were the owner of the city. [Jeollabuk-do Province Jeonju-si] Last November, a movement in which citizens, the owners of the city, tried to solve the city problems directly started in Jeonju too. In order to make a safe and happy city, 200 citizens regardless of gender and age held a heated debate. [Kim Chae Yeon - a high school student in Jeonju-si] Global warming has been an issue these days and regarding that I have a lot of interest in what kind of change Jeonju is facing. From 4 years ago, 120 middle and high school students of Jeonju district like Miss Chae Yeon accumulated data by measuring the temperature at the designated location once a month. Since 4 years have passed, I can definitely feel that the temperature has risen. I think I can feel 'It has become serious.' All data is new resource to future city. This data came together and became basis of digital twin and virtual Jeonju. On this day, the city problem that was mentioned the most in Jeonju Living lab was regarding a safe way home. The suggested solution was installing CCTV. A few days later, under the cooperation of the police and along with CCTV survey high quality security CCTVs were installed in crime-ridden areas. Through this, smarter CCTVs are keeping the safety of the citizens for 24 hours in 3,000 locations of Jeonju. Things such as climbing over a wall or violent actions [Ahn Eun Young - Jeonju city hall CCTV integrated control center] we are planning to introduce a system in which CCTVs can analyze these things on its own and notify us. Various information that is accumulated here such as crime-ridden areas will be once again used for a safer city within digital twin. There should be no alienated people in future city. Mr. Ahn Jo Nam has been living on his own for 7 years. [Ahn Jo Nam - uses emergency safety system] This doesn't film anywhere else and only looks towards the gas. If there is a fire, it just sends the signal to the 119. Information collected by 5 sensors which are installed in the house is accumulated after it is moved to digital twin. If there is no movement for a long time or in case of emergency it is reported to the local welfare center for the elderly. [Seo Yang Yeol - Director of Keumam welfare for the elderly] Regarding care, parts such as AI robots have developed very much in specific so I think that emergency safety system would probably extend to those fields. A smart future city digital twin in which everyone including the elderly and children could enjoy the benefits of the city. Those who complete that city are citizens, who think about the problems of where we live, share the solutions, and move towards that dream together, it's us. [Yoo Eun Jeong - Yonsei University industry-academia cooperation research professor] A world in which everyone becomes the consumer and producer of data will come. If that happens, the divide between digital and reality world could disappear. Once that happens, digital twin could become stronger. 