 you provide for your wife, you pay rent then you come to my house to sleep with me hi hi social media is on fire not that much though you got this courage that I have never witnessed before some people have misinterpreted your story some are saying you are playing victim, others are like you are simply seeking attention others even said you should die already, what are you waiting for kindly take us through your story right from childhood to date our 3rd born died during birth after the still birth my sister got pregnant while in High School she had to stay home after giving birth, after that baby came my mum and I were very close before my sister gave birth so after the baby was born because we grew up together, she would ask for something but it would not be given to her tables then turned, my sister was being favored then I was now being hated on it was painful, I never went to the village when my mom was in Kenya my sister would go to upcountry and I would go with mum to Village market after travelling from the village we don't see eye to eye how exactly was mum reacting when my sister makes a mistake she would receive a through beating mum once knocked her head on the wall I told mum to let us leave in peace if she did not want to see us she was violent? Yes to my sister I used to tell her to allow us to go and leave the house if she did not want us so after her grandchild was born, life changed Yes, the hate turned on me and my sister was now being favoured at what point did your life turn into a disaster? when mum left where did she go to? to the USA, when she left there was no way I could stay in the house without food I used to live with my sister's child, my aunt who is mentally ill my sister was at her boyfriends house, how were we going to stay hungry? at times we did not have cooking oil, tomatoes yet at that time mum was in the USA, my aunt was being given money for food but his hate for me was on another level My family hates me so much why did mum leave for the USA? She went to work so she was not sending you guys money? I assume she was sending the money to my aunt but she never bothered to check on us maybe she would have heard our side of the story I sunk into prostitution in order to get money to feed my family how old were you? how did you know that by doing that you will get money? through watching programs on TV, I would also learn from my mums relationships I used to see her and his man friend so you were exposed to relationships and sex at a tender age he signaled me and called me I went and we had a word and because there was no food at home I said why not go out and eat that is how I started a relationship with the sugar daddies after I got a man of my age, I broke up with the old man were you still in school at that time or you dropped out? I dropped out when I attempted suicide then you reached 18 years I was still engaging in illicit affairs, anyone who says hi and offers something to me mum was abroad and I need clothes and my neighbors knew mum was abroad but why were you not asking for help from your grandparents, auntie or uncles? we were left under the care of an aunt who was mistreating us what about your grandparents? that is why I said I have no idea why my family hates me I need my audience to understand one thing, what was the main reason why you did not seek help from other family members? I wouldn't rush to them when they were not well off while she was abroad during those first days before she was told I am into prostitution then she would be informed of my activities interesting talking to her and even right now I would rather she sends me money for the ticket other than coming to see me because if she comes we won't agree so that we can go out to eat, my sister, her child and I we were supposed to split that money so that my uncle could use KSh 500 for fuel then we use the remaining amount her hatred towards us is just on another level, unless she tells us because I don't understand her hatred and mistreatment as in you can't even understand like my barber shop when i started it she did not buy for me Lynn I got assistance from a sugar daddy, mum knew well I am HIV+ and I am still giving myself out there to make a living and where is your dad? so you grew up without his presence in your life before we get deep to your story, you said you dropped out of school because I was my mother's child the house at least she would buy me a loaf of bread because things were not okay at that time apart from when I sunk into prostitution because to engage in such an activity you must have a carefree attitude years back I was actually laughing while doing that test why did you take the test? were you suspicious that you might have contracted the disease? an uncle to my uncles wife came invited us to Serena Beach Mombasa for lunch while there he was encouraging and giving me hope about life and going back to school in the process the wife to my uncle asked him to take me for a test I did not even wait for him to take me there, I took myself to the VCT the counselor was encouraging me and telling me there is life after the test for anyone who goes for a test and it turns out +ve you took a rest, composed yourself after reality hit you I was just there, I did not start taking medicine immediately in between I visited the village then came back to Nairobi i attempted suicide while at my uncles place so I was taken to Metropolitan I know right now you are 36 years it's God's grace between 18 and 36 what has been happening in between? just struggles, prostitution, I used to both my front and backside or clients were demanding? some clients wanted both the virginal and anal sex because that meant more money, I wanted money so I gave in It was even difficult going for a long call I had to eat, I needed clothes I would do it with someone I am dating perhaps if he leaves I begin a relationship with another I was not doing it with multiple partners do you have someone you are talking to about what you went through or what are people saying about you? I have received both negative and positive comments and other people are congratulating me for being a strong woman some are telling me I have killed people out there because I have been spreading the disease but at the end of the day I did not pick it from nowhere, I got it through a sexual act at that time were you telling your clients you were +ve before sleeping with them? why? because he wanted us to take a test, so he came with test kits and a condom we took the test, his turned -ve while mine was +ve I was praying deep that mine turns -ve at least in front of this man, but that was not the case and not in bad faith have you slept with unprotected? not many I have a Nigerian friend, he's at home I told him it's by God's grace you might have a disease that you can't transmit, maybe you contract it so that you can change your ways You told me the reason why you want this interview is to inform men about your status and ask them not to approach you, why that? I have a problem in my private parts, I sold myself to men while dry I had to use lubricants, even with the man who opened a barber shop for me because I do not have the urge like normal women from the time I broke my virginity I have been bleeding even today morning when I went to the washroom I had stains of blood have you ever gone to the hospital? What did the doctors say? I was there recently and the doctor said there was nothing so medical reports show that you are okay? the doctor who examined me said I was okay, I don't have any growth or anything I know you run a business and you are open to say a sugar daddy opened it for you and why did you break up after I opened a barber shop I wanted to advance it to a spa then suddenly he started to change I had a target to open a spa because but he was not happy because when we were dating he was still paying for my bills both in the barber shop and at home but it reached a point and he started asking me for money but when I did my calculations I noticed I had given him close to KSh 600,000 and I wondered if the man wanted to bring down my business and I was the one giving him money so I decided to end the relationship when you guys were in that relationship did he know about your status? he told me he doesn't want to have a child with me why didn't you disclose your status for the 3 years you guys were together? I was scared he might leave, like the prominent guy whom after finding out about my status lied he would send some money for shopping there's another one from Afghanistan when he came I opened up to him because I did not want to spoil his life yet he is a foreigner with a family he took the PrEPs do you feel men are using you? are both of you are benefiting from each other? back then I would say they were using me you provide for your wife but you come to sleep with me in my own house yes we have used protection but at the end of the day I need to hustle to settle my bills and what does she say? I believe when things are that bad a mum is someone you can open up to because there's that relationship have you tried to talk to your mum about your situation? because I was battling depression, my business was not doing well and I was having my personal issues too she has never replied to you? my mum is a difficult case, when she decides to insult you, you will end up regretting I totally broke down on 13th June it was on a Sunday, I had worked for the entire week and no one had wronged me when she heard me crying, she told me I have enough on my table I have never called her whenever I told her I got myself a sugar dad we would talk very well you tell your mum that you have sugar dad? she never cautions me or the dangers that might arise if the man finds out about my status she neither offers any advice concerning my problem, so at the end of the day I will date that old man some people might say you are brave enough to come out, while others will say what do you think? what I can say is and infected myself that is why I said people should use a condom or do a test before engaging in a sexual activity personally some people do not have the courage to come out and declare their status like you did what do you think would be the outcome after this interview and what do you wish happens after? before coming out publicly I used to hide while taking the tabs, I wanted to be free when we get to have a small misunderstanding, she insults me on how my work is just to spread the disease, tell me what will it do to me? so you would rather put it in the open do you have friends? why? they all kept off at my lowest point when I broke down and wrote all those things on Facebook I just needed to let it out and see if I could find help I will not lie to you Lynn a day before 13th I had not contemplated on it well it's just a thought that run through my mind once if I had poison at that time and even now even right now given a chance I wouldn't mind resting please don't go that root I blocked myself while doing it, but right now it's really affecting me so you are still feeling pain even at the moment I mean the scars of what I went through, I abused bhang it gave me the courage to undergo such pain what else were using apart from bhang? just cigarettes, I have never done alcohol or cocaine just bhang because it's also a drug but it kind of relives you you drink alcohol to help you forget about your problems so that was what gave you comfort I assume, have you stopped smoking? yes you will die and be buried with a paper bag telling your child you will be buried with a paper bag our entire family is confused, I don't know if it's witchcraft we are deeply divided, an example myself, mum and my sister other family members you don't talk? she has made me go through hill she's older than you? Yes I was accused of stealing her wedding photos, my mother insulted me properly I slept on pillows they accused you of stealing photos photos, just papers anal sex and maybe just selling my body and wait to see what God has in store for me mind going around to talk to girls and when they are given pads they also receive condoms because as a parent you don't know whether this child is sexually active or not as a parent there should be a condom do you wish someone would have talked to you about sex? if she would have told me I would know the use of a condom although at that tender age it's easy for someone to lure you not to use a condom maybe by offering say KSh 10,000 with such an amount you know you will have niece clothes, you will eat well what message do you have for men who go round sleeping with women carelessly? use protection and again prostitution doesn't pay women vary maybe I am curvier than so and so how's business now? have you faced stigma and lost clients after coming out or everything is still the same? business went down after the COVID-19 out break I don't have much psych to go to work I can still manage to pay their commissions even when I am at home the same way I used to pay them when I was going to work I try so much, yes we do make jokes but at the end of it I have to take care of my business, it's like my baby how many people have you employed? where exactly can people find you should they want to give you support? you can as well give contacts where people ca reach you on google just search Serene Barber Shop and Spa, you will find me if you were to talk to mum now, because when I sit on this seat there is a genesis to this story, you guys not being in good terms, mums absence and the feeling that one is more favored than the other i know mum has her side of the story too, but what ca you tell her? I just want to know why she hates me this much just recently I asked he to lend me some money I wanted to pay rent for my shop I begged her to lend me KSh 50,000 she did not help me while I started my business, I have not been asking her for money except during this pandemic it's because things are not okay how much is rent? KSh 40,000 do you want to talk to your sister? I can't say I know you that much because of the conversation we just had the same way you have decided to come out and speak, do it and pray hard because you feel you wouldn't have gone through all this if someone was there for you but until you forgive you will not have that space in your heart to welcome new things life is hard and forgiveness is not just a one time decision what is that we have left out that you want to talk about? I want to tell our president and his deputy that we no longer have septrine at Coptic Hospital the ones I was buying from outside begun to react with my body so I had to stop using them when I turned +ve that is what I was taking at first before my lymph nodes begun swelling so when I started taking ARV's they went back to normal so they have run out of stock? yes, they are not on the shelves at the hospital for those I hurt and for those who love me, I am grateful there's someone who's HIV+ status is on their forehead just like she said I have tried is it okay? 