 - Now we don't know which way these werewolves are coming from, which is why we need look outs on the rooftops of these well known Connor Creek landmarks. School gymnasium, Ed's Marionette Theater, Old Green Barn. - Armed guard? Sheriff, is this really necessary? - I don't even know if I have the inventory to, uh, you know equipped a whole task force properly. - Olivia, you own the ammo shop! - Yes, but I take special care of making my artillery very special. Huh? Each one is different. Beautiful in its own way like a snowflake. If you're gonna shoot something, you're not just gonna put any ol' slug in the chamber, cock it and blast it away. (Agnes snickering) - Okay, hi, sweetie. That is what a bullet is, right? And if it's supply you're worried about, I say we buy in bulk. Now I have scouted Sam's Clubs here, here, and here. Now the closest one is 450 miles away, but if we leave, uh, well now then we'll have enough time to stock up before we all die. (door opens) - Madison, let's talk werewolves. Why did you do that? - Cause it was cool. (dramatic theme music) - Hey, where ya- She knows where she's going. (Garmen sighs) - Did we serve a purpose? - If we got to blow the whole place, we blow the whole place. - No, no, no no. - What? - Cliff for Torsen! We got a bogie flying in, copy that? - Hey, this is Rocky. I got eyes on Ms. Schue-Horyn as well. - Alright, halt, halt! I said halt okay, access denied. - I have an appointment. - [All] Oh! - Well, if she had an appointment. - Skipping town so soon, Silas? Just when things are starting to get interesting around here. - Lady host. You know, honestly, I can't stand this place anymore. I'm sorry, wait, did you say that things were actually starting to get interesting around these parts now? - Depends. Do corporate dealings in the blackmail and murder of small town dissenters count? - Oh, again with the Serial and the S- town. We get it. You want to blow this thing wide open but there is nothing else to blow, except- (Silas sneers) - Who the hell do you think you are man? I'm on the side of good here. - Why is this town so obsessed with sides? Just pick one. I am on the side of making money. You should be too. - Are you trying to bribe me? - No, God no, no, no- I'm just trying to make a point. Would you put that thing away? Just put it away. Get that thing out of my face. - I'm going to nail you for these crimes Torsen. - Look, you are barking up the wrong tree, sweetheart. Do...do you really think that I killed those people? L-O-L. Too many liabilities. I'm much more of a white collar kind of criminal myself. - Admit it. You have been killing off the opposition for political and financial gain by masquerading as a werewolf. Oh my God! Oh my God! You have been using the silver to manipulate the werewolves to do your bidding you sick son of a bitch! - Damn. Do you hear yourself? You sound even crazier than that Reynold's boy. - You know the, the, okay, so some people in town, might have powers- (Helen clears throat) Yeah. (Helen whispering) Okay, sorry. Powers, that's weird and dumb. What I meant to say was more like there are some people with special abilities? Yeah! And they would, uh, never hurt anybody. - Paul, are you talking about the werewolves? - No, no, no ma'am. I am not talking about werewolves. This is hard, do you understand? What I'm talking about is- - So the city boy is one of us? - It's as we suspected. He's turning. - What should we do? Does he know I'm a wolf? - They're werewolves. - Breaking news everybody? Hey y'all, guess who's on hold with Edwards Air Force Base? This gal. Now, I told them put me in touch with the commander in chief, right at the top of the ladder, so we can get this here living nightmare declared a state of emergency, or at least get some ground support. Now the officer on the other end of the line gave me a very encouraging laugh and put me right on hold, so just a few minutes, all right? Okay, peace and love y'all. All right, be right back. (Paul inhales) - So, it's kinda like a hairy man, but hairier than a normal man- - Okay. - Or a woman. - We have to tell Madison the truth. - Absolutely not. I heard their plans. They'll slaughter us. - It's true. We will. - We're outnumbered. - Do you have a better plan? - Yes. - What, are you are going to tell em' you're a werewolf? - [Paul] I can draw it. - I'm a werewolf. - Me too. - [Paul] Uh, what? Uh, okay. So, this is what we're doing now? Um, and so am I, I'm a werewolf. I'm a- well, I'm half a wolf. I'm a boy wolf. - What? - All right, hey y'all, hey y'all. - Quick update cause I know you're waiting with bated breath. So, it sounded like someone finally picked up the phone. The music stopped and all, so I said, "Hello, hello", into the phone, but I just heard some breathing. And that was it, so I'm not sure if they transferred my call or, you know, changed the hold music or just hung up on me but all I'm hearing is static right now so just treading water over here, okay? Fingers crossed, alright. Be right- I'll see, I'll see you in a little bit all right? - Are you guys messing with me right now? It has been a really rough day. - Afraid not. It seems old great grandpa, demented Dockweiler was right. The hooey was true-y. - Madison we took an enormous risk telling you this. - And you have to believe us when we say that we are not the enemy here. - Well, how can I? If this is true then you've been lying to me my entire life. - Wait, hold on a second. Before you found out they were werewolves, they were also your friends Madison, okay? Remember that for once! How, how old are you guys anyway? I mean beca- I'm sorry, you know what, forget that. You know, that doesn't matter. Hey uh, you get what I mean? - Maybe this will make it easier for you to trust us. To show that we trust you. - [Paul] Of course, a silver bullet. (Olivia's skin sizzling) (Olivia yells) - Ow, ow, ow, ow it burns! - A little insurance. Ow! - Oh, hey y'all, bad news. The government did in fact hang up on me. But good news, kitchen at the Dead Canary's still open and guess who ordered takeout? We had a good run, we had a good run! - Hey, hey, hey, don't be sad. I like you, so I'm just trying to save you the embarrassment of taking this conversation and calling it journalism. Silas for Cliff. (walkie crackling) Has my ride arrived yet? - You think I'm going to sacrifice all my integrity and hard work because I'm afraid you think I'm crazy? - No, I think you'll do it because you're afraid of everyone else thinking that you're crazy. Your boss, your colleagues, all the devoted listeners at APN. - Well facts are facts. - Hmm. And your facts involve taking advantage of all these nice folks of Connor Creek, putting their dirty laundry just on display, But that's a different conversation for a different day. Cliff? (walkie crackling) Cliff? (walkie crackling) Damn it, Cliff! Cliff, where the hell is my ride at? (woman screaming) - A wolf! A big white wolf, it just came out of nowhere! It-it killed them! It tore the Irons to pieces, even the little girl. - I should call Sherrif Reynolds. (skin ripping) (Artemis gasps) (blood gushing) (Truman laughs) (heart beating) - Oh, Miss Schue-Horyn! I don't actually think we've been properly introduced. The name's Truman MacMahon. (dramatic music) 