 Are they relaxing and comforting or are they restraining and dangerous? I'm talking about weighted blankets. Are they what the hype has said that they are? Are they helpful for things like restless leg and anxiety, calming people down and giving them better sleep? Or are they something that is just a lot of hype and trendy and they aren't really worth anything? And how safe are weighted blankets for seniors? Are they actually a restraint? Is it something that grandma could suffocate under? We don't want to have that, so we're gonna do a deep dive into weighted blankets to see how good they really are. Hi, I'm Robin from SeniorSafetyAdvice.com and, as I said, we're talking about weighted blankets. So my first question to you is - have you used a weighted blanket? What do you think about them? Have they helped you at all? Please put your answers in the comments below because everybody's going to be interested to know what you think about them. So while you're down there leaving your comments in the section below, don't forget to hit the subscribe button in the corner and also that notification bell so that you'll be sent an alert every time we release a new video. We put out a video every Friday on senior safety tips and advice to help keep your aging loved ones safe as they age in place. So, weighted blankets come in a weight range anywhere from three to twenty pounds. This particular blanket happens to be 20 pounds. I bought it because my husband has periodic limb movement disorder when he sleeps at night and I was hoping that maybe this would help him. So it's a little heavier than I would get for myself, but the 20 pounds, again, was for him. For me right now, I find it difficult to move it around. It's not like I'm weak but 20 pounds is a lot. You can't just fluff it out like you can a regular blanket, so that's something to keep in mind if you're purchasing a weighted blanket for a frail senior. So weighted blankets are filled with either glass or plastic beads or pellets. You want to get a weighted blanket that has got little compartments on the inside. If you feel it - you can't see it on here - but that way, the blanket, the pellets don't shift around when you're sleeping. So the theory behind weighted blankets is that they work to help calm down the autonomic nervous system, kind of like what a hug does. So the idea is like a thunder shirt for a dog that can help to calm them down in a storm or with fireworks. it gives you this hug and compresses around your body and makes you feel like you're safe and secure. Weighted blankets can be used for things like insomnia, for restless leg syndrome, for people who have a nighttime anxiety. They sometimes have a use in people who have Parkinson's because of the fact that Parkinson's patients can have anxiety. They may have a little use for people who have arthritis, although the jury is still out on that one. The Journal of Sleep Medicine and Disorders reported that dementia patients who used a weighted blanket had a better quality of sleep, they fell asleep faster, and they felt more rested once they woke up. Also weighted blankets are used in behavioral disorders and things like autism because, again, the weight of the blanket can help stimulate that autonomic nervous system and calm you down. So I purchased this weighted blanket because my husband suffers from periodic limb movement disorder when he sleeps, so I was hoping that maybe the weight of the blanket would calm his movements in the night, like it's supposed to help with restless leg syndrome. In our case it didn't seem to work so well. You need to be sure, first of all, when you use a weighted blanket, that you use it for at least 7 to 10 days, which we did do, but it takes a while for the person to get used to having the weighted blanket on them and sleeping under it. In the case of this blanket... it's not very wide. It's about body width, I guess, maybe a little more than that - maybe twin bed size, but I don't even think quite that wide. So the problem that my husband had was that when he slept under it, in the night, as you move around back and forth, slowly the blanket worked its way off of his body and it ended up on the floor every night. So we switched the blanket around and instead of using it long ways on his body, we put it across the foot of the bed, width wise, so it was across my legs and also his legs, thinking because at least the weight of it would be on his legs and maybe that would also help him. The problem with that was, these are supposed to have a cooling feature to them. I don't know what's the deal with this blanket but it did not have a cooling feature! This thing is hot. It's hot as I'm sitting here and talking to you right now. So for me - I kept kicking it off, and he ended up kicking it off, too, and given the fact that these blankets range anywhere in price from say middle $50 to about a $125 (which is what I paid for this one), it, for us, was just too much of an investment that just wasn't worth it. But you may have a different result, so I would encourage you to try it. Just make sure that you can take the blanket back - that you only have... you know, you use it for 30 days or whatever and then take it back if it doesn't work for you. One thing about weighted blankets - sometimes people want to know, is this really a restraint? Technically it's not considered a restraint because the person can get out from underneath it, but you need to be aware that with a frail senior or a child, it could be a restraint even if it isn't technically one. You cannot use one or should never use one on a child who's under three years old. There have been reports of deaths with weighted blankets in children under age three. The same thing, in my opinion, goes for a frail senior. If you have somebody who cannot lift this and they have to get up in the middle of the night to use the bathroom or they have to get a drink or whatever, and they have trouble getting out from under this blanket, they're gonna consider it a restraint, even if it technically is not one. So that brings me to: how heavy should a weighted blanket be? Experts recommend that it should be about 10 percent of the person's body weight, to be right for that person. So in other words (sorry, told you it was hot!), in other words, if you're somebody who weighs about 120 pounds, you're gonna want a 10 to 12 pound blanket. If you're somebody who weighs 180, 190 pounds, you're gonna want probably a 20 pound blanket like this one is. One other note on dangers that I forgot to mention was that Harvard Medical School did a small study and they suggest that you not use a weighted blanket for anybody who has sleep apnea, for anybody who has a respiratory disorder - think about asthma - this may be too heavy for somebody who can't breathe - COPD, a respiratory thing like that, and also for somebody who has certain sleep disorders. So the next question seniors probably are gonna want to know is, does Medicare pay for a weighted blanket? All right, I'm not quite sure how to tell you about that - whether they do or they don't - because they do consider blankets, themselves, to be durable medical equipment, and so they often will pay for certain types of blankets. But a weighted blanket? I don't know if that's gonna fall underneath that category, so my suggestion to you is to call 1-800-Medicare or your own Medicare representative, if you have one, and ask them specifically whether you can get a weighted blanket covered under Medicare. The other thing to remember is, if you're trying to get it covered under Medicare, if you have not met your deductible, you're still going to have to meet that before they will cover it, and if you have met your deductible, you're still going to be responsible for your 20% copay. So again, these range from say $50 to $125, so take that into consideration. Lastly, how do you care for... what are the care instructions for a weighted blanket? You can't put this puppy into the washing machine - I'm just saying. It's not gonna come out right. You just can't do it with the glass pellets - it's gonna be an issue, so what I would recommend to you if you're gonna buy one, is to either get a weighted blanket and then use a duvet cover or get one like this where it actually comes in a cover and you're able to unzip it, take the blanket out, and wash the cover. The blanket itself should only be spot cleaned. So this brings up an important point - don't get a weighted blanket for an incontinent senior, because you cannot put it in the washing machine and it's rapidly going to become an issue if it is used with somebody who has incontinence. So that wraps up my weighted blanket video. If you liked it, please give it a thumbs up. Also, don't forget to leave your comments below and while you're down there, hit that subscribe button and the notification bell so that you can see each video as they come out. We at SeniorSafetyAdvice.com, we release a video every Friday. We want to make sure that you and your senior loved ones know all you can about aging in place safely. Thanks for watching! Bye - see you in the next video! 