 Suzanne Schadl: Today is the final day of Hispanic Heritage Month, but here in the Hispanic Division at the Library of Congress, our work continues throughout the year. My name is Suzanne Schadl, and it is a privilege to work with a tremendous team of librarians, writers, researchers, and interns. Together, we work to improve access to diverse publications and conversations written and/or spoken in Spanish, Portuguese, English, and several indigenous languages. Welcome to Mendez, Hernandez, and Beyond: A Conversation on Latinx Civil Rights. It is a special honor for me to introduce two excellent Huntington Interns, Maria Guadalupe Partida, who joined our team from Texas, and Herman Luis Chavez who came to us from Colorado and later moved to California. Lupita and Herman imagined this event as well as the related research guide and all of the public relations. I encourage you to check out their guide at guides.loc.gov. Search Latinx civil rights. Lupita and Herman also implemented this event and the guide and the public relations in less than two months. Thanks in part to our distinguished scholars and authors Philippa Strum, Ignacio Garcia, Rachel Moran, and Elizabeth Gonzales Cardenas. We appreciate you sharing your research and wisdom with us. The help of our internal collaborators Danny Thurber, Liliana Lopez, Catalina Gomez, Darian Rivera, Donita Stunberg [assumed spelling], and a number of others working behind the scenes at the Library of Congress have been crucial as well. Of course, this village is most effective with focused and thoughtful leaderships, and it is important for me here to congratulate Lupita and Herman for leading us to this point. Without further ado, it is my pleasure to turn over the microphone, the camera, and control to Maria Guadalupe Partida and Herman Luis Chavez, your hosts and moderators. Thank you.  Herman Chavez: Thank you, Suzanne, for that wonderful introduction.  Maria Partida: Thank you for joining us today, and on behalf of the Library of Congress's Hispanic Division, we wish you a happy Hispanic Heritage Month.  Herman Chavez: This discussion accompanies a research guide crafted at the Hispanic Division at the Library of Congress. The guide provides resources for those interested in Latinx civil rights in the United States by focusing on 20th century court cases, legislation, and events that had important impacts on Latinx populations. Topics include a multitude of contemporary issues such as rights regarding search and seizure, legal representation, self-incrimination, medical care, and equal access to educational resources.  Maria Partida: We also wish to introduce this webcast to commemorate two 20th century landmark court cases, Mendez versus Westminster, a California school desegregation court case and Hernandez versus Texas, a Supreme Court case centered on jury representation. Both of these cases, along with other court cases, events, and laws are featured on the Latinx civil rights libguide. This afternoon, we will have a panel conversation with four scholars and historians who will discuss Mendez and Hernandez case, the history of Latina Latino civil rights experience and Latinx identity. In this panel, we will discuss two landmark court cases crucial to the history of Latinx civil rights. Dr. Philippa Strum, expert in Hernandez versus Westminster case and Dr. Ignacio Garcia, expert on the Hernandez versus Texas case will share their respective [inaudible] on these cases.  Herman Chavez: Thank you all so much for joining us. We'll begin by explaining the context that revolves around each of these two cases, and we will begin with Mendez v. Westminster. Professor Strum, what was going on in Hispanic communities preceding this case?  Philippa Strum: Well, we'll start with looking at southern California which is where Mendez versus Westminster takes place. About 80% of the crops that were picked in southern California and throughout the southwest were picked by Mexican immigrants or Mexican Americans. They constituted 3/4 of all California farm workers, and yet these people who were crucial to the economy of California and by extension to the rest of the nation, were confined to what were call colonias which were essentially ghettos, many of them made by the workers themselves, constructed of wooden houses, in areas where there was no sewer. There were no sidewalks. There were none of the amenities we're used to. There was no running water frequently. You had unpaved streets. The wages for which these people worked were approximately 1/3 of the average across the United States. This was essentially what one scholar has called a citrus society, with segregation every bit as great as it was in the American south during this period, and children of these workers who were so crucial were shoved into what were called Mexican schools. They were public schools, but they were segregated, and they were offered different curricula from the students in what were called the Anglo schools so that they were taught homemaking. They were taught carpentry. It wasn't [inaudible] teach them all [inaudible] that one needs to function as perhaps middle class Americans in our society. The schools themselves were described by outsiders as wooden fire hazards. The students got books that were handed down when the Anglo schools didn't want them anymore. The situation was really horrendous, and at the same time, I would be remiss if I didn't mention that there was a lot of organizing going on in the Mexican American communities, particularly labor organizing so that on one hand you had people who were being treated appallingly. On the other hand, you had people who were thinking more and more about what they could do to get themselves out of what they fully understand was a thoroughly unacceptable, unfair, and I dare say unAmerican situation.  Herman Chavez: Professor Strum, thank you again for providing that context. Can you explain how that context feeds into the structure of Mendez v. Westminster and how that case was approached?  Philippa Strum: Well, we have to start with the facts of the case which started in 1943 when Gonzalo and Felicitas Mendez took over a farm in Westminster that had been run by a Japanese American family who were taken off to one of the relocation camps to which too many Japanese Americans were confined during the Second World War. And, moving to Westminster, they, of course, wanted to enroll their children in the local public school. But, when the children were taken to the school, they were told, "Oh, no. You cannot go to this school. This school is for white children. You will have to go to the Mexican school." Now, understand that the so-called white school was right down the street from where the farm was located. The Mexican school, which was definitely inferior in every way that I just described the schools as being, was farther away. So, Gonzalo and Felicita said, "There's something wrong with this." And, eventually, they found a lawyer named David Marcus who was willing to bring a case arguing that the segregation of Mexican American students violated part of a 14th amendment to the American Constitution. And, that part of the amendment is called the Equal Protection Clause, and it say, "No state shall deny any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." Meaning that if people are similarly situated, you have to treat them equally. Well, David Marcus was a Jewish American who had been subject to prejudice himself. He was married to a Mexican American woman who had immigrated from Mexico, and he fully understood that there was something wrong with racial segregation. What she said to the Mendezes was your case would be stronger if we could prove that there was a conspiracy among school districts generally to segregate Mexican American children. And so, David Marcus and Gonzalo Mendez went looking in the nearby school districts to see if there were other parents who had been treated the same way or whose children had been treated the same way and who wanted to do something about it. And, sure enough, they managed to come up with four other families in El Modena, in Santa Ana, and Garden Grove. So, the Ramirez, the Estrada, the Guzman, and Palomino families joined with the Mendez families to go into court and argue that there was something wrong with this situation. Now, I have to tell you one little interesting thing about what David Marcus [inaudible] had to do. It was perfectly legal in California to segregate Asian students and to segregate Native American students under California law, but the law said nothing about Mexican students, Mexican American students. And, what David Marcus decided he would argue was not, "Oh, you didn't put us into this California law so you can't segregate us," but no, you're doing in violation of the 14th Amendment to the American Constitution is you're segregating among white students. And, the reason he said this was that according to the United States census, Mexican American citizens were white. The census recognized white people and it recognized African American people, and it simply did not recognize Hispanics. And so, the argument was you cannot segregate whites against whites or separately from whites. The other argument was given by a man called George Holden who was the Deputy Counsel of Orange County where all this took place. And, his argument was, "Oh, we're doing this for the well being of the Mexican American children. They don't speak any English. They come to school very unprepared. It's as a great favor to them to put them into separate schools." And, when the case actually went to trial, he brought in, George Holden brought in witnesses who testified Mexican American students do not speak English. Mexican American students come to school dirty. Mexican American students are biologically different from Anglo students. They are deficient mentally. Now, of course, none of the children had ever been given an English test, so how did they know that they didn't speak English. And so, what David Marcus did was he brought in students who showed, of course, that they spoke English perfectly well. And, with one witness after another, he countered all of the things that were being argued against the Mexican American students, and he also brought in, and this becomes very important looking at the future and Brown versus Board of Education. He brought in two witnesses who were well known educators, Ralph Beals and Marie Hughes, who argued that when you separate children according to their quote unquote "race" you give them a feeling of inferiority. And, a feeling of inferiority becomes an interference with their ability to learn. So, what you are doing is you are violating equal protection by not giving them an equal chance to learn. Now, the judge in the case was an Irish American named Paul McCormick who initially was very skeptical about the case. Gradually, he came convinced, and in 1946, he handed down a decision that became the first time a federal court in the United States ever said separate but equal is not equal. So, let me emphasize it. This is not an African American case. This is something that takes place eight years before Brown versus Board of Education, and it's significant because it does show, of course, that Mexican Americans and [inaudible] generally were not really piggybacking on the African American civil rights movement, but were very active in this sphere themselves. And, I'd like to read you this one paragraph of what Judge McCormick said because this is crucial to this case and to Brown versus Board of Education, but today, the systems in our public schools today. These get close a paramount requisite in the American system of public education is social equality, it must be open to all children by unified school association regardless of lineage. The evidence clearly shows that Spanish speaking children are retarded in learning English by lack of exposure to its use because of segregation. And, here comes the important part. And, that commingling of the entire student body instills and develops a common cultural attitude among the school children which is imperative for the perpetuation of American institutions and ideals. Segregation fosters antagonisms in children and suggests inferiority among them where none exists. And, that was something that Thurgood Marshall would pick up in his litigation that Brown versus Board of Education. In 1947, the case which had been appealed to the ninth circuit court in California agreed that the law should be overturned for different reasons. Essentially saying it violated California law because Mexican Americans hadn't been included in that law that allowed segregation of Asian Americans and Native Americans. At that point, the school districts caved, and so the case was never appealed to United States Supreme Court.  Herman Chavez: Thank you for explaining the details of the case, Professor Strum. We'll now shift our focus to the Hernandez v. Texas case. Professor Garcia, can you tell us a little bit about what was going on in Hispanic communities before and around Hernandez v. Texas?  Ignasio Garcia: You know, this was the post years, the post war years, and so Mexican Americans had sort of [inaudible] in great numbers. They came back to find that not many things had changed, even though there was [inaudible], a lot of Mexican Americans had trouble and difficulty, unable to acquire the benefits of the GI Bill. While they built VA hospitals to treat the wounded and those who still suffer from their injuries, they usually were very far away from Mexican American communities. At the time, particularly in Texas, there was a massive tuberculosis outbreak that was killing Mexican Americans at an extremely high rate. One of the reasons, of course, is that they didn't have any health services. They lived in poverty. They lived many to a room. There were many of them who were, of course, farm workers. At the time, Texas had the largest farm worker and migrant numbers in the country. In terms of education, Mexican American children were sort of getting about a second or third grade education for average. Few of them finished school which was normally the sixth grade, and so many of them were dropping out. Of course, economically, it was very difficult situation. Mexican Americans were struggling in the sense that over the years between the '20s and the '30s massive migration had come from Mexico. That is the companies that didn't want to pay even what the [inaudible] program which was that agreement between the U.S. and Mexico to bring in workers [inaudible] War World II, and then it continued on into especially up to 1964. So, these workers were brought in. Instead of hiring actually the Americans, they brought in workers from Mexico. Instead of paying them what the, you know, contract agreed on was, which was about $1.25 an hour, they were being paid about $.75 or less. And, what was happening was Mexican American workers were being pushed to go out into the Northwest, to California, to the Midwest, other places where they would find farmers and agribusiness willing to pay a little bit more. So, you had this massive movement of Mexican Americans at the same time that they had this large number of immigrants coming across the border to work. Many of them would eventually leave those farms because they were provided the services that they were told they would be provided for the money. And so, they started going out and working on their own, and in some ways, this is the beginning of the sort of the large undocumented reality of a lot of Mexican immigrants. They left the farms, the larger farms, and went to work somewhere willing to pay them a better wage. Poverty was incredible across Texas, not only in the rural areas, but also in the inner cities, in the west side of San Antonio and the south side of Houston and other places where the Mexican American community had no services, no sewage, no street lights, no policeman. They came, and as they to pick someone up or to intimidate, it used to be that four Mexican Americans in a street corner were considered a riot. And so, there was a lot of police sort of regulation monitoring sometimes when they consider aggression. But, one of the things that was happening, though, it was there was a lot of organizing. Unlike California, the organizing here was over civil rights rather than labor rights, while there were some efforts. It changed the situation of Mexican American workers. It was really based on the idea of citizenship, the ability to both be able to serve in the jury or to run for political office. And, you had, at the time, major organizations in Texas. You had the American GI Forum, which was founded 1947, I think it was, '48 by Hector P. Garcia who was a returning veteran. He was a medical doctor, a surgeon, and who began to, he was a doctor, and he went out and looked at the communities and saw people coming in with all of the diseases. He realized that part of it was failure of the healthcare system. So, the American GI Forum went after veterans. And, first it was let's get all the veterans organized. They went to war. They know how to fight. They're brave individuals, and they came back with the idea that things would be so much better if you fought for your country and if you gave your life for it. And, of course, Mexican Americans [inaudible] in terms of percentage wise per capita more Medal of Honors and medals than almost any other group except for Native Americans who were a smaller group who were also very valiant. Mexican American heroes were spread out through the war effort, and when they came back, they realized that they didn't have what they thought they could have. And so, the American GI Forum organized them and began to set up chapters in every little town, every city where Mexican Americans lived, and so Hector Garcia, the organizer coming to town. He'd look and ask around. "Who's a natural leader here? Who is a community leader?" [inaudible] And, he would contact them, give them bylaws, and give them a little hat, a veterans hat and a little American flag and say organize. Call me when you've got enough people, and I'll [inaudible]. The other organization was [inaudible] the League of United Latin American Citizens that had been founded in 1929, and during the war effort, it sort of kind of declined a bit, but after the veterans came back, they, too, began organizing the veterans. And, there, you see the organizations of the first Mexican American [inaudible], that is people who were going to college, business people, lawyers, doctors, pharmacists, dentists, [inaudible] small business people, and they were the ones who first organized. Which, of course, gives a whole different color to [inaudible] GI Forum and others, citizenship becomes extremely important, and what that does is that it divides the Mexican origin in the community between those who are citizens and those who are not, those who speak English and those who don't. And so, you see a tremendous effort by the individual, [inaudible] individuals who did not. One of the losses of this effort is a loss of the Mexican immigrant community. Even though on the local level those who were organizing did not differentiate one group from another, but as the state and then eventually natural [inaudible] was the separation and that one group became the citizens, and one who speaks English and the other one is the immigrant who doesn't speak the language. And so, Texas was ripe for organizing. Texas was involved in, you know, a lot of efforts to change things. But, still, we were there before the case sort of erupts, it was a very difficult situation, but Mexicans and Mexican Americans.  Herman Chavez: Thank you for explaining that context, Dr. Garcia. Can you talk about how that context that you just explained to us in Texas factors into the facts of the Hernandez v. Texas case and the details of the case?  Ignasio Garcia: Okay. When these, and this differentiates others from Mendez in Westminster and we'll talk about that a bit, but the case really involves working class Mexican Americans. There are no middle class individuals that participate in terms of the plaintiffs. What happens is there's this young farm worker, name of Hernandez, and Pete is a kind of a difficult young man who's angry with life. He had broken his leg, and instead of allowing it to heal, they were going to a dance, and so [inaudible] to the public, he became slightly disabled from that. And so, people would make fun of him. In the town of Edna, Texas where he picked cotton there was a lot of, of course, a lot of cotton pickers in that town, crop pickers, and there was a foreman and he had, he was [inaudible], very bright individual who was able to, he had a very good relationship with the Anglo farmers, ranchers who when they needed labor, they would call him. And, he would go out to the community and get laborers. But, it tended to be very difficult and very harsh and very dirty toward, you know, the other farm workers. And so, Pete Hernandez who tended to drink a lot went to the bar, after hopping several bars, he went there, and he started an argument with a drinking buddy. The owner of the tavern wanted him to leave and [inaudible] this foreman that I spoke about came and he dragged Pete out and basically threw him out, said a number of terrible things about him. And, of course, to Pete, he took $10 that Pete had in his pocket. Well, Pete Hernandez walks to his home, gets a rifle, a 22, comes back. He says he intends to scare [inaudible], but it gets out of hand, and he shoots and kills [inaudible], and of course, a whole riot erupts because when the sheriff comes in and people are trying to take the weapon away from Pete, you know, the sheriff comes in and they start getting every Mexican. As far as they're concerned, every Mexican is responsible, and there's another case of one Mexican killing another. And so, he is going to trial, and it's pretty cut and dry. Pete Hernandez has shot somebody in cold blood, and he's going to jail and has a very good chance of getting the death penalty. His mother believes that her son with all his difficulties, and only mothers can believe the best in us, right? Goes to San Antonio and goes to the office of Gus Garcia and Carlos Cadena, and she begs them to take the case. And, they're looking at the case, and they're saying, "This is a slam dunk case," but then, as they reflect on the case, they say, you know what. We have been trying to overturn this practice the federal practice of not allowing Mexican Americans on juries. Now, there's a long history of Mexican Americans and white voters trying to change the system in Texas, okay. But, it just doesn't seem to happen, and the case right before Pete Hernandez [inaudible] is the perfect case, and still the courts reject the argument that Mexicans were being treated differently and consequently they're being discriminated against by not being allowed to sit on a jury so that any person can have a jury of his peers. And, their argument is if there's no Mexicans in the county and the county is almost 25% Mexican and there's never been a Mexican served on the jury, that's discrimination. The argument in the county was, "Well, Mexican Americans are white." That's what the census is. That's what we're believed to be, and so these lawyers had to come up with a notion that yes, we are white, but we're a class apart, that we are different, and so we demand that we be included in the jury system. And, they have to navigate a very interesting thing because they have to, for their own membership, for their own politics because Mexican Americans are, as I mentioned to you a little [inaudible] citizenship. And citizenship really meant you were white, except unless you were African American because [inaudible]. And, consequently, they had to both promote the notion that they were white, but if they promoted the notion that they were white, then the judges [inaudible] said, "Well, then how is that being a jury of peers. There's 12 white men in the jury box." And so, the idea of coming up and Carlos Cardena would later become a federal judge and a great legal scholar came out with the notion of we are a class apart. And, it went, and of course, it was denied and denied and rejected until they got to the Supreme Court, and by that time, Brown versus Board of Education was being heard, and so Hernandez was heard right about the same time that Brown and Board of Education was heard. And so, there was a lot of cross currents there about the discussion of discrimination. By the way, Thurgood Marshall, who was the lead attorney for Brown versus Board of Education filed [inaudible] both in the Mendez case and in the Hernandez case realizing that if Hernandez could succeed because now you are taking segregation away not only from the school, but now you are seeing that they are used in other aspects, in other parts of society, right? And, even if it wasn't a rule that you have to exclude Mexican Americans, it was a practice, and it was a practice in 51 counties across Texas and New Mexico. And so, when the lawyers, Gus Garcia, probably the most brilliant lawyer ever, that we've ever had in Mexican American history and possibly Latino history, at least one of them. Carlos Cardena, probably one of the best legal minds of his generation. John J. Herrera who was probably more an organizer than a lawyer, President of LULAC, and so he brought in the politics. James deAnda who would become a federal judge who also, who wrote the brief on the Sanchez case that would be used in part to argue the case for Pete Hernandez. And then, of course, the GI Forum decides to help fund the case, LULAC. It becomes a community effort, and all of a sudden, everyone across the country, wherever those Mexican American, other Latinos where looking at this case, and it becomes a very important case that, of course, they went when the Supreme Court unanimously, and the vote originally was not unanimous. It was seven to two, but Earl Warren argued, because they were going to vote for Brown versus Board of Education possibly unanimously. So, he had, we got to start off with the right foot. So, he really pushed, pushed, and finally got everybody to say okay. The case itself is decided, and we'll probably talk about that later, was a victory Mexican Americans, but there were limitations to the case. The most important thing about Hernandez versus Texas, at least in my opinion as a historian, not a legal scholar, was a sense of identity. Because Mexican Americans were still fighting [inaudible] themselves as to what do they call themselves, who they were, how do they find themselves within American society, and that case in particular. If you read the briefs, a fascinating document discussing who are we, how should we be perceived in American society, where do we fit, what is our niche? And, in doing so, they had to take in the whole argument between the immigrant and the citizen and to try to find a niche that would sort of appease everyone while keeping them protected by being white. So, the victory, and of course, the court says because of the equal protection clause we can't [inaudible]. And so, that was a victory, but that battle, argument, that writing would help create and sort of foundation for where we come later in the Chicano movement which became a movement of identity. And so, Hernandez, if you connect it to the larger realm of Mexican American legal cases, segregation in housing, in swimming pools, in real estate, and all of these kind of things, Hernandez fits very much [inaudible]. And, I'll end just by saying that even though the case itself would not be used a lot, African Americans, interesting even though they had their own cases, very well [inaudible] cases on jury discrimination would use Hernandez versus Texas [inaudible]. And, we believe as close to 100 times was used in one form or another. And, by the way, the other thing, he great resolve Hernandez versus Texas that the [inaudible] state of Texas allowed women to serve in juries. And so, it was a great victory not only for Mexican [inaudible] but for women.  Herman Chavez: Thank you so much, Dr. Garcia.  Maria Partida: In this segment, we will consider the impact of the cases and how they relate to the overall history of Latinx civil rights. Dr. Strum, what was the immediate impact of Mendez versus Westminster, and what was the long term impact of the case?  Philippa Strum: The immediate impact, of course, was that the schools in Westminster were integrated, and so the Mendez children could go to the, what was formerly the Anglo school. I'm sorry. I hate to use these terms, but those were the terms that were used at the time. In addition, though, school districts all over California saw the handwriting on the wall, and they recognized that this was not going to apply only to Westminster. This was going to apply to them as well. So, some school districts simply said, "Okay, we will start integrating right away." Others are more recalcitrant, and of course, the Mexican American community, having won this one, said, "Okay. We're going to make sure that there is integration throughout California." And so, where there was recalcitrance, the Mexican American community simply went to the school boards, went to the mayor or whomever and said, "All right. We're going to bring a case against you if you don't stand down," and very quickly, many, many of the schools were integrated. When I was presenting the Mendez case out in Michigan a while ago, one of the other people on the panel was Judge Frederick Aguirre who was a Mexican American from northern California, and as a child, he had been slated to go to the Mexican school, but he was slated to go just at the time that Westminster, that the Mendez case was handed down. And, the school board there immediately collapsed, and that meant that Judge Aguirre got to go to the so called white school which at that point then became integrated. And, the result was he became a major judge. Now, obviously, the impact on children themselves having finally been able to go to schools where they could get a decent education was great. But, in addition, Earl Warren, who was then the governor of California, aware of this case, says, now, wait a minute. Here we've got this California law that allows us to segregate Asian American students and Native American students. If the judge says we're not supposed to be segregating students, maybe we should get rid of this law. And so, indeed, the state of California did get rid of the segregation law in education entirely. I'd like to pick up on something Dr. Garcia said because he mentioned Thurgood Marshall. Then [inaudible]. While Thurgood Marshall's name was at the top of the brief that was put in by the NAACP when the Mendez case went to the appeals court, he actually had nothing to do with it. It's very common for the head of a legal department to have his name go first on a brief. And so, I just want to give full kudos here to Robert Carter who was the person at the NAACP who actually wrote that brief and later became a federal court judge himself. And, I'd like to add because I think this gets to the point of the impact on communities beyond the Mexican American community that while the case was brought only by David Marcus in terms of the lawyers involved, when it was going to the appeals court, lawyers across the nation started hearing about this. And so, briefs were put in at the appeals court level by the Jewish American Congress, the Japanese American Citizens League, by the American Civil Liberties Union, and in fact, by the Attorney General of California himself. So, one of the impacts of the cases was groups that were not Mexican American across the country began to realize, you know, we're all in this together. We have to make common cause if we're going to get rid of segregation in the United States. And, of course, the decision generated a lot of organizing against Mexican, by Mexican Americans, sorry, in California, not only in the educational sphere, but just generally about all of the circumstances under which some of them were forced to lead their lives. So, long term, I would say I think this is really important. It just had a major impact on American history. I don't want to silo the case as saying, oh, yeah, Mendez versus Westminster was important to Latino history. It certainly was, but it was important to American history.  Maria Partida: [inaudible] Texas and what has been the long term impact of the case?  Ignasio Garcia: Well, the immediacy, of course, was Pete Hernandez is tried again, and he's found guilty. But, instead of going to the, for life imprisonment or the death penalty, he was, he served, I think, about seven years and left. I think there's a number of really important things. One, it created a whole new level of leadership among Mexican American communities. Gus Garcia became one of the most famous lawyers. He was engaged in a number of other cases. As I said, Carlos Cardena then becomes eventually a federal judge. So did James deAnda. And, that's extremely important because one of the things, I think you see this before, and even you see that with Mendez in the case, in the situation that there is no Mexican American lawyer. There's no Latino Latinx lawyer dealing with many of these cases. In Texas, you do, but this one sort of sets the standard that from now on we are going to litigate our own cases because we're going to be able to bring in the kind of understanding of the situation where people. And, that's why if you read the briefs, if you read through the arguments made, what you are seeing in the creation of a Mexican American identity that both fits in American society but is now opening the door for the community to begin to define itself. And, I think as legal scholars today in a lot of Latino Chicano scholars are, they are very much into the same notion of identity that community, you know, critical race theory. And, while the Hernandez case is not talked about per se, it is everything that just sort of oozes out is about race. And so, in that sense, it creates these individuals that will be very common. It allows the GI Forum, LULAC, to sort of become a mainstay in American civil life. One of the dilemmas, as I said earlier, about the case is, of course, Brown versus Board of Education, and in fact, in one of the discussions between the judges, and [inaudible] Judge [inaudible]. He says, "Look. This case could just blow the whole notion of segregation just out of the water." He said, "But, we've got a bigger case. Let's just wait until Brown versus Board of Education, then we'll say everything we want to say about Hernandez. We'll say it there." So, again, you know, Mexican Americans [inaudible] changed by what I call in my book "the white black binary" that is, and by the way, the courts dismissed, reject the argument that the 14th Amendment only has two classes, white and black. And, you have to understand that mixed immigrant lawyers in Hernandez were not only arguing against white racism. They were arguing against not framing civil rights only as a African American issue. Now, there was disunity. There was this understanding that both communities were under a very difficult situation, but Mexican Americans and Latinos, now say Latinx, have to be [inaudible] that though there is a lot of similarities in the way people are oppressed, people of color are oppressed, each community has its own uniqueness and that a community has to understand that you use that uniqueness to push against so that in essence, we create a much broader notion of what is equal rights, civil rights, and human rights. And, I think that Hernandez versus Texas is more important because of Brown, historically and in terms of how we'd interpret the notion of this people who have no voice, who are either dumped into, they're all white anyway, or they're somehow they're Mexicans and that means they're not Americans. Hernandez argues we are Mexican, but we are also American. And, I think that is the most important part of what Hernandez brings to the table.  Maria Partida: Thank you for offering your expertise on the subject, Dr. Garcia. What, although these two cases occur in two completely different states, California and Texas, why are both of these cases integral to the Latinx civil rights history?  Philippa Strum: You know, one of the things that intrigued me about Mendez versus Westminster is that I had never heard of it. I had taught Constitutional Law for 35 years, and there was no mention of the case in any of the case books that I use, and it wasn't until I saw a story in the Washington Post about a stamp that was being issued and that would be called Mendez versus Westminster that I said, "Hey, this is something that I really have to know something about." And, I looked for a book about the case. I couldn't find one, and ultimately, I decided to write one instead. But, the point of this story is that this was ignored, that this simply was not part of law school curricula. This was not part of the things that were covered when people talked about Constitutional Law and civil rights in the United States, and so I think one of the important things to learn, not only from the Mendez case but from the Hernandez case is, well, is that first of all, as Professor Garcia already has said. The 14th Amendment is constantly being updated. That's crucial to civil rights in the United States, and it's being extended to groups that you wouldn't think of necessary when we think of race and ethnicity. For example, gender equality in the United States. As we speak, we have just, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who used precisely that part of the 14th Amendment to argue that women had to be treated equally, too, and so I think for the two cases teach us is that the recognition that we are all equal and must be treated equally is a difficult one for an awful lot of Americans, and it's one that we have to keep pushing over and over and over again. I think the bottom line is democracy is not an end product. It's a process, and the fight for civil rights that were exemplified by these two cases is really important part of that process.  Ignasio Garcia: [inaudible] How do you define a space for everyone. And, as you know, you know, African Americans have fought tremendously successful. They have merited what they have gotten, but it's been so easy in American society to just have simple stories, right. African Americans had a problem, and they resolved it, and the reality only white and blacks matter. But, in reality,e very group has to find its moments in which it finds itself, it decides that it fights for some civil rights. The thing that the Latinos Latinx Chicanos Mexican Americans Mexicans can argue is that Hernandez was the first major case dealing with segregation, disrupting the whole notion of segregation. That's why the NAACP and others were really hopeful that that was a beginning victory. Hernandez is the first Supreme Court case, actually there's one before, but it's an immigration case, so it's ignored by Mexican American reformers. But, Hernandez is a case in which Mexican Americans chased their arguments of who they are, go to the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court agrees most, in most aspects agrees with their argument. And so, if people who need, in order to have a struggle, whether it's civil rights, whatever, we need a starting point. You need those iconic moments that says you know what, I am a people. We are a people, and consequently, we do not hang on somebody else's historical moment. Now, we can bring together, tying all these historical moments, women, African American, Native Americans, eventually Muslims, LGBTQ. All of these will come together, but each one of them, if you think about it. Each one of those movements has their iconic moments, and while there are other iconic moments in the Chicano movement where the young [inaudible] Puerto Ricans in New York and others, in terms of the legal, in terms of the more mainstream, Mendez and Hernandez are iconic moments, and people can look back and say, yes we do have a history, and we have not set on our hands all this time waiting for someone else to liberate us. But, in fact, in the history of Mexican Americans and Latinos, we have been fighting since the 1800s, arguing for citizenship, for rights, for education, and judicial fairness. And, I think for Latinos Latinx, this is a really important bit of information of their history. They then tie themselves to a very long struggle for civil rights and human rights without our community.  Maria Partida: Thank you both, Dr. Strum and Dr. Garcia. While forming a Latina or Latino identity, what are your thoughts on emerging trends such as Latinx?  Ignasio Garcia: Take that one on first? When I was going to college, a young Latino. Seems like such a long time ago. We developed our own identity in the Mexican American communities. We were Chicanos, and that happened at the university, but Chicano, which is slightly different from Latinx. So, bear with me. I'm not trying to disparage anything. Comes out of [inaudible]. I mean, Chicano is a term that was use disparagingly again. So, what Mexican Americans, students and young people and politicians and activists, they empower the word, right? And, sometimes, people of color who are oppressed, they have to find words to empower. And so, Chicano was an empowering word for many of us. Now, I see on the social media the argument between the old Chicanos who want to keep that term and young Latinos and Latinx. My view is that every generation finds its sense of identity. At one time was Mexican American. Believe me, the term Mexican American was very empowering. The term of [Spanish word] was very empowering. [Spanish word] was very empowering. And so, each generation has to find it. And so, I as an old Chicano [inaudible] as people say, have come to look at young people and say, "Go for it." In the end, the whole argument, of course, is that the community [inaudible]. That was a case that every group, Mexican Americans had to fight with the larger groups that really were Mexican, and the Chicanos had to fight. And, everybody said well Mexican Americans or Hispanics. And, Latinx we will find that others will say [inaudible] whatever. And, that's okay because it's that sense of identity that will drive your desires to do something for your community. And so, self-naming is very empowering. For us, it was Chicano. For other generations, it's something else, and that, if that's empowering, more power to you.  Philippa Strum: [inaudible] Professor Garcia has the last word on that one because he said it so beautifully.  Maria Partida: Sounds good. Thank you, Dr. Strum.  Herman Chavez: Thank you both so much for those perspectives. My colleague and I have the opportunity to explore some of your texts in preparing this webcast and for our research guide such as Dr. Garcia's "White but Not Equal: Mexican Americans, Jury Discrimination, and the Supreme Court" and Dr. Strum's "Mendez v. Westminster: School Desegregation and Mexican American Rights." We would love it if both of you would share how your scholarly works connect to these court cases and how they connect to the current state of Latinx civil rights.  Philippa Strum: My, the focus of all of my work is basically human rights, civil liberties and human rights, and obviously, the cases we've talked about today are central to that. If I may reiterate something I said earlier, I think Mendez and also the Hernandez case do demonstrate that democracy is a process, not an end result. And, I think that what they do is they emphasize to us the need to listen to those who have been marginalized or feel that they have been marginalized, which is essentially what my work is all about. I'm currently working on a book which may seem very divorced from this subject, but it's about Ruth Bader Ginsburg's gender equality litigation in the 1970s, and I see that very much as part of this whole process of teaching us to learn, and this is a lesson I think is really crucial for today, teaching us to understand a, that all human beings are indeed human beings, b, that all human beings have an absolute right to be treated equally. That certainly is not the case in the United States today, and I think that's something that we need to go on talking and writing about. I think also that these cases and current events show us the need for what I would call civic education, that we really need to understand what the basic values of the United States are and how important it is for citizens to be part of the fight to make those values a reality. If, in my scholarship, I can help demonstrate that, wow, I'll be very pleased with what I've done. I think that, unfortunately, racial and ethnic prejudice is a constant in the United States. It was at the time of those cases. It [inaudible] today, and what we learn, I think, is that's something we have to keep fighting about, fighting against. So, I can't think of anything that could be more timely to talk about than the Mendez and Hernandez cases.  Ignasio Garcia: [inaudible] an article on the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights Communities in San Antonio. The first time that the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights had a meeting to talk about the problems of the Mexican Americans, and one of the parts of the report. There was a number of things about what was wrong in the Mexican American community. One of them was jury discrimination. Sixteen years later, the Commission [inaudible] 1969, '68, something like that, and it was really struck me that [inaudible] because here's this incredible case and yet 16 years later, we're still dealing with that. And, I would say, you know, then 20 years later I think is another Hernandez case [inaudible] which dealt with the way juries are selected in [inaudible] lawyers and others find ways to eliminate people from serving. But, and so it is a process. It is something that we continue. Today, I am sure there are counties where Mexican Americans, Latinos, [inaudible] are having trouble getting on the juries, and once they're on the juries, then they're going to be intimidated. In fact, the case that I mentioned, [inaudible] the issue was that there were a number of Latino jury people, and so they brought an interpreter. And, the argument was you can't do that because then they will hear something that the white jurors wouldn't want there. Okay. That, at what level we're constantly fighting to get into the jury box, and we're still having troubles being able to represent ourselves. One of the things that, when I decided when I was young and I became a journalist and I became an activist. The one thing that I wanted to do was to prove that we were people. At that time, Mexican Americans. Today, it's Latinos Latinx. Is that they were people. [inaudible] group, they wouldn't have [inaudible]. They were not somebody trying to get in, but they were people, and to be people, they had to have their lawyers, their politicians, their poets, their writers, their, you know, drama people, their activists, everything. And so, I set out with my scholarship to prove, in the case that [inaudible] it applies I think [inaudible] that they're a people, that we have every element to be the people. We're not just a group that can be brought in and out whenever. We are not an addendum. We are not a sidebar in this country. We are fundamentally in this country along with every other group. And so, I set out, whether it was writing about basketball players or the [inaudible] Mexicans who won the state title. Whether it was about organizing in the fields, whether it was establishing your first [inaudible] political Latino party or [inaudible]. Whatever it was, to me, it wasn't just a reaction against the system, and I think we make a mistake when we see our fight for social justice as a reaction. No, it is, we are a people, and as a people, we deserve rights. We deserve the bounty and abundance of a nation. Everything that becomes law here has to deal with us because we are a people. And so, when we find ourselves encircled and eating like we don't have an opportunity to speak or to participate or to be part, we are a people. We have our community, and that serves as the great foundation for everything the Latino activists, Chicanos, [inaudible] whatever. All of them, if you notice, they all see themselves as a people, not as a minority group, but as a people. And so, when I look at Latino civil rights, when I look at my own scholarship, that's what I will die trying to prove, that we are a people.  Herman Chavez: Thank you both so much, not only for your amazing insights today, but also for [inaudible] that you provide and that we can take with us as we continue to understand Latinx civil rights in the 20th century and beyond. Thank you.  Maria Partida: Our second panel features Dr. Elizabeth Gonzales Cardenas and Professor Rachel Moran. Dr. Gonzales Cardenas is an Assistant Professor in Chicano Chicana studies at the University of New Mexico. She earned her Ph.D. in Education with an emphasis on race and ethnic studies from the University of California Los Angeles. As an interdisciplinary scholar, she incorporates history, sociology, and education to examine the efficiency of Chicana Chicano studies curriculum and pedagogy in higher education. Dr. Gonzales Cardenas has also published research on community based learning in Chicana Chicano studies. In addition to her research, Dr. Gonzales Cardenas has taught K through graduate school in California public schools. Rachel Moran is a Distinguished Professor of Law at the University of California at Irvine Law. Previously, Moran served as the Dean Emeritus and Distinguished Professor of Law at UCLA. She has also taught law at Harvard, UT Austin, and UC Berkeley. Professor Moran has written numerous articles and book chapters exploring bilingual education, desegregation, and affirmative action. One of her most recent works is titled "The Future of Latinos in the United States: Law, Opportunity, and Mobility." In 2011, she was selected by President Obama to serve on the Permanent Committee for the Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise.  Herman Chavez: We're going to begin discussing the Latinx identity. For you, what does it mean to be Latinx? Who uses the term, and how did it emerge?  Rachel Moran: Well, the term has actually been around for a while, but it really became more popularized in the wake of the Pulse shootings in Florida, and that was between the term was seen as one that would be gender neutral and LGBTQIA inclusive. And so, I think that is really what's behind the emergence of this new term. We've had a number of terms to refer to the Latinx community, but I think that's a big part of the history of this one.  Elizabeth Cardenas: I'd like to add how, you know, I'd like to argue that it's a kind of identifier as well, that it comes from this tradition of the term Latino Americano or Latin American, that, you know, at one point was used specifically, like, in South America to, you know, really challenge the colonial, you know, difficulties, right, at the time. And then, of course, we see the word Latino in the U.S. come later, right, in the 1990s, and you know, I think in the 2000s is really when we start seeing the x, right, to challenge these gender binaries, cis, heterosexual, or cis men cis women identities. There's a really good article by a colleague of mine, Rigoberto Marquez who's at Stanford. He has a small piece that's titled "What's the X in Latinx?" where essentially he's making some of these, you know, these, what he's talking about, you know, also challenging the cis dominant terms. I think that at the end, though, of the day, it's important that we all have our own terms to identify us, as long as they're terms that people are choosing for themselves.  Herman Chavez: So, in discussing who uses the term, are there any particular Latinx or other Latin communities in the United States that seem to use the term more? Is there any, like, nuance in the way that the term is presented in the country?  Rachel Moran: If you want to go ahead.  Elizabeth Cardenas: Okay. Thank you. I think I see it more in higher education, more around younger people, younger generations than, you know, like myself. I don't see it used so much outside of academic spaces, not yet, you know. Maybe if they're activist communities that are very much in touch, either with challenging gender binaries. I think those are the spaces where I'm seeing it used as well. So, again, like academic, but also very activist spaces in community, especially in trans communities as well.  Rachel Moran: And, there was actually a study done by the Pew Research Center which showed that a very tiny percentage of the community uses the term, but when you look at who uses it, younger people are more likely to use it than an older generation. Women are more likely to use it than men, and native born are more likely to use it than foreign born and English speakers than Spanish speakers. And so, what I think is very interesting is that the study didn't just look at whether you use the term but whether you had even heard of it. And, there were significant differences in who had heard of it and who hadn't, and to me, that's almost like a linguistic mapping of some of the divisions within the Latino community because if some people are using it and others have never even heard of it, it means they're not having much communication with each other, and so some of those boundaries of age and foreign born versus native born status and English versus Spanish speaking are real. And, I think this maps that out a little bit.  Elizabeth Cardenas: I'd like to add a little more to that. You know, there's 61, also from the Pew Research Center. There's 61 million Latin American, descendants of Latin America in the United States today, so it's bound to happen, right, to have these different types of identity problems and, you know, that's perfectly fine. I think a term that is more widely used is the term Hispanic, that comes out of like the '90s. The only issue with that word is that, you know, it's those who are in power [inaudible] control the narrative, that decide what, you know, the rest of the population is going to be called. And, I think that that's an important part of the word Latinx, right, the more people are using it because they've decided to use it, not because someone who's in power is using it to label them. So, again, I think it's really important that we all define our own selves when it comes to these identity terms.  Herman Chavez: Thank you so much for mentioning those important points. That same Pew Research Center study that you were referring to, I think it's really interesting how, although 25% of the community, about a quarter of the community has heard of the term, only about 3% of it use it. What do you believe is the cause of this discrepancy between those who are aware of the term and those who actually use it between those two percentages.  Rachel Moran: Well, it is relatively new, and I do think you hear of things and don't necessarily adopt them immediately. So, do think some of that is just the lag in the linguistic innovation, but I also think it's kind of a cumbersome term in some ways because, you know, you have to say Latinx, and it's just not necessarily something that comes naturally to people because it doesn't fit with the overall structure linguistically of the language. And, finally, I think some people have kind of wondered grammatically, you know, is it a singular, is it a plural. How do you, you know, fool with it. So, I do think it's new. It doesn't, it's kind of different from the rest of the linguistic structure, and therefore, there are also ambiguities about it. Plus, for some people, it may seem to signal certain political commitments, and they may not want to single those in their choices. So, I think all of those could contribute to that gap.  Herman Chavez: Thank you for sharing that. So, transitioning a little bit to our research guide. How does being Latinx in particular fit into our understanding of identity in civil rights movements in the United States.  Rachel Moran: I'm happy to go first on this one because I feel as though there's multiple issues at stake in these questions of identity, and so much of the focus has been on whether Latinx or Hispanic or Latino is a racial or ethnic identifier. So, some people say it's a panethnic category and therefore it has a tendency to racialize the community. Other people feel that it's panethnic, and so long as it isn't folded into other racial identities, it has an integrity of its own. Those debates are reflected in the census which has babbled over how to count Latinos, and we've presented a lot of problems for the Census Bureau because we don't conform to the traditional paradigms of identity. So, that's the first big issue, I think, but it leaves so much unaddressed because there's also the question of national origin identity and how that figures. Many people are more likely to use a national origin identifier than a panethnical racial identifier. Another thing is the distinction between race and ethnicity on the one hand and immigration on the other, and when you think about civil rights, I think that the necessary changes are so different. There are so many different issues for immigration which is legislatively driven, presidentially executed, requires political mobilization, and race and ethnicity which have often been dealt with through adversarial legalism in the courts, even when there's a statutory paradigm. And, finally, I think we have to come to grips with the emerging differences of class which are very real within the Latinx community. Some recent demographic research shows that, you know, we've traditionally been preoccupied with concentrations of poverty, but now what we're seeing in the Latino Latinx Hispanic community, whatever you want to call it, are concentrations of affluence so that we are beginning to look like the divided America, the two Americas divided by wealth and income that the rest of the country has seen for a long time. And so, I think we have only a partial understanding when we look at these labels of the very rich heterogeneity and the coming policy challenges that lie ahead for this community.  Elizabeth Cardenas: Yeah, those are some excellent points. You know, it made me think of how the civil rights movement was a little more aligned at times when it came to politics, right. Rather than the term or rather than identity. And, I mean, in, you know, political alliance came first, and then, you know, the identity was sort of the second part to it, and very significant. I don't necessarily think that, you know, identity needs to come first before the politics or vice versa, but I think that, you know, politically aligning ourselves and then, you know, no matter what our identity is, it's far more important, right, towards moving to equality of race, of class, of gender, but also accepting, right, that we're all going to have these different identities that can be based on family, right, where our family's from. You know, whether we're born here or not. I think it's a very complex question, and it varies, you know, depending, you know, we're talking about people that are on the East Coast, the Midwest, you know, the Southwest of the United States, and you know, we can even say internationally, right. But, it's definitely an important type of conversation to continue to have and also to accept, you know, other forms of whatever people want to identify themselves as.  Herman Chavez: Thank you both so much for sharing. It's important for us to understand this context around the term Latinx and around its relationship to civil rights, to not only understand the research guide that we are presenting with the Library, but also to understand how these civil rights movements are starting to change and how moving forward different communities that identify whether that'd be as Latino, as Latinx, Hispanic, or beyond, how they consider their identity to factor into the work that they are doing with civil rights. Thank you.  Maria Partida: That concludes our webcast.  Herman Chavez: We want to thank our panelists and the audience for joining us. Please look out for the Latinx Civil Rights Libguide which expands on the history and the context of what we have discussed today.  Maria Partida: We hope you will join the Hispanic Division at the Library of Congress in celebrating this webcast and other other Hispanic Heritage Month programming. Thank you. Adios. 