 Vikek Sharma: Dear friends, we sincerely thank everyone for joining our Responsible Data workshop on GAEN based contact tracing and challenges. First, let me share my screen. I'm Vik Sharma, a research scientist at MIT, Harvard, and KIT. So this is the agenda of our workshop today. Now we are going to start off our event with the opening session from David Kong and Ramesh Raskar. Okay, thank you so much, Vivek. And it's great to be here again with you all. My name is David Sun Kong. I direct the Community Biotechnology Initiative at the Media Lab at MIT. It's been a real pleasure and honor working with Vivek and Ramesh and all of the wonderful folks across MIT that are really trying to figure out these very, very difficult technology management problems that are connected to implementing these very promising digital technologies that hopefully can really make a strong role in helping to suppress the pandemic. And so, as we know, there are really significant challenges that are involved in trying to ultimately both develop and implement these technology solutions. And I think something we've seen over the past number of weeks is the diversity of different stakeholders that are involved, and in a way, the different challenges that we face in trying to bring all of these stakeholders together. And that is a function I think that we believe here at MIT. We can play a really critical role in helping to facilitate, helping to convene these thought leaders, and really learn from each other how to ultimately develop and manage these technology solutions. So we've been, over the past session or so, starting to frame this particular challenge around digital contact tracing and exposure notification as the quote, unquote, "Impossible App," given the real kind of array of challenges that we face from working with different stakeholders like public health officials, government officials, all of the key technology folks as well. And so today, we're really excited to have another wonderful session. There's going to be a number, again, of fantastic speakers and experts that are gonna address some of the latest issues in GAEN and in digital technologies related to contact tracing. So with that, I'll turn it over to Ramesh who has been, again, bringing together all of these wonderful forces from around the world, and the United States, and beyond. So, Ramesh, over to you. Thank you, David. What a pleasure. Thanks for the introduction. So yes, let's talk about the "Impossible App" for exposure notification and case management. And let's take a comparison with other crisis. Like a hurricane versus the current pandemics. If you think about the apps for the two, the National Weather Service, the National Hurricane Center uses two things. Live data from a bird, from a satellite with this birds-eye view, and then models of prior hurricanes. And those two things are critical to predict and intervene and help the population. And you can think of this as a very effective top-down solution. Pandemics, on the other hand, are innocent people infecting other innocent people. And so we want individuals as sensors. You know, we want people as sensors. And for this, we need a bottom-up solution to understand the social context. And of course, for that, smartphones can be great, if it can be privacy preserving. The good news is that 90% of the US population under the age 64 has a smartphone. So there's something we can do about it. So the Trust in Pandemic Tech program, you know, we're thinking of them as two stages. The first stage is to use smartphones, use Google-Apple Exposure Notification, and other case management apps for states. And within that are four main challenges. The complexity of the technology, the app, and the server. How do you preserve privacy? It's not just about the Bluetooth privacy, but many other respects. And also the perception of privacy. Adoption and trust, watch with the mechanisms, and algorithms and techniques, and social mechanisms. And also how does all of this actually help the public health, the verification server, closing the loop with tests, and so on? And so in stage one, what we're doing here is doing three things. Sharing the learnings by bringing all the stakeholders together. In terms of technology, bringing folks who are working on algorithms and standards and dataset on a common platform, and also conducting a lot of boot camps of how do you build the apps, how do you build a server, what does it mean to do adoption, and so on. And stage two is about modeling and data integration so that we are prepared and ready for a response. But for now it's all about stage one, about the technology complexity, the privacy, and so on. And what we have seen over time, as part of this Trust in Pandemic Tech, you can think of it as kind of below the operating system and above the operating system. Below the operating systems are all the shoes of, you know, the Bluetooth protocol making a decision on what is too close for too long, and so on. And our partners here at MIT and NEST have spoken and they'll continue to be engaged. If you think about above the OS then we also have in a lot of complexity. The experts that have spoken so far are from World Wide Web Consortium, who of course have maybe the most credibility in thinking about creating new digital ecosystems, a pass check foundation, explaining about the GAEN app and servers, APHL, and, national server. NSF talking about what they are doing to stimulate research in this space. MIT Technology Review, you can call them the new police for keeping track of this apps because MIT Technology Review has a very detailed analysis of what the apps are doing, are they open source, are they're adhering to protocols, and so on. MIT Isolat program, which is the data science program for COVID-19. And then a lot of other stakeholders in public health. Mayo Clinic experts are part of this effort. MIT GOV/LAB, NSF again, and also about 80, 400 companies at MIT Media Lab. So we are very honored to have all these folks as part of the expert panel for Trust in Pandemic Tech. So let's focus a little bit more on the app itself, which is the stage one. So as you know, exposure verification and case management is about using the smartphone for Bluetooth-based proximity. Stage two is notify if your cross sparked and give them an exposure notification. And then third is to create tools so that public health and businesses can make some sense of it. Honestly, at this stage, the Google-Apple based exposure notification, it's not clear if it's that useful for public health and businesses. So that still has to evolve as time goes on. So this Google-Apple Exposure Notification protocol, GAEN, which is what people are talking about today, is fantastic because it's privacy by design, it gives you a proximity based on Bluetooth. Unfortunately, you cannot use any other sensors or cannot extract other data that's already on your phone. So it presents its own challenges. So why are we calling this the "Impossible App"? Because it's an app that should have 60, 70% of the adoption in a state in a matter of days, and the benefits are weak for the person who's carrying it. There are benefits for people who are exposed, but the person who is going to submit the exposure case, the benefits to them are questionable. There are a lot of doubts about privacy. We do believe in privacy as geeks, but how to explain to individuals is challenging. By the way, such an app has to be deployed by not some crazy smart app developers and a startup, but should be deployed by public health, who have many other constraints. So how are we going to launch an app that has 60, 70% penetration with questionable benefits and infringes on beliefs of personal freedom, get it out there? That's the "Impossible App." Public health is busy enough, you know, dealing with all the other issues, and they can't have yet another challenging task at their hand. So that's why the Trust in Pandemic Tech program for this "Impossible App" and helping US states and nations. You know, how can we overcome privacy perceptions by using conversations with emphasis stakeholders? And also confrontational a lot of times. What should be the adoption strategies, messaging incentives engaging stakeholders. How can we reduce the cost, as in totally down to zero? 'Cause right now it can cost between a million to $10 million per state. But if you have open source and shared learnings, clearly the total cost should be zero. And how does it connect to public health, because any new digital innovation takes a very long time before it can be integrated into public health. And we're expecting something to happen in a matter of weeks. And closing the loop with tracing, whether manual contact tracing or PCR antigen testing is a big unknown here as well. So let's think about what are some good parameters for a smartphone solution within the three main things. One is it should be built by a nonprofit. And the reason for that is, in today's highly connected world, in the world of kind of surveillance capitalism, there's often misuse of data, and often it's not intentional. But the meta data from any app, any smartphone application is always leaking. It can be as simple as your IP address. It can be a brand of your phone. It could be which data plan you have. A whole bunch of data is getting leaked from the app to the server and everybody in between. So this can create a lot of challenge. And you would say, "Hey, that's happening with any app you use anyway?" The difference here is that very few apps have such a deep penetration from one single company. So if you take a state and you have 60% penetration, it creates an unprecedented view into that population. If you add any ad tech data from the same phone, so food delivery app, or a dating app, or a weather app, or financial transaction app, those apps are actually using some probes, some telemetry, that goes back to some companies, and that data is aggregated and sold to whoever needs it. So if you take the combination of the two, even if the global exposure protocol is private, the overlapping of this true data can create an unprecedented view. So a for-profit entity can run into a lot of trouble because there's a lot of temptation to use this data in unique ways. And you can try to do this by regulation, but that'll be too complicated. So the best way to deal with this is to have a charter for a nonprofit, and they will not use the data for anything else. Or have an organization that says that data will not be used for anything else, it is completely sandboxed. And treat this oppression as a utility for social good, just like any other utility can be audited at any point. And we think that can be achieved only for a nonprofit. If you just take the example of an IP address off an app, that IP address actually tell us quite a bit about what this app is doing. So for example, you know, imagine you have a sensitive individual. They work in a particular company. Let's say they work at a particular site. That IP address is known. And if they move from that site to somewhere else, that IP address is going to constantly be, the new IP address is constantly being linked. So it's possible to say, for a given app, which IP addresses did it. That allows you to create a time series of those IP addresses. And that can be used by a for-profit company in many ways. It's already getting used, so I'm not seeing anything new. The only difference is it's very rare for companies to have 60, 70% penetration. Even Facebook has only 60% penetration. And companies like Facebook have a lot of eyes looking over Facebook, and fortunately these companies are very open about what they do with this data. But if you have small companies proliferating and applying the solutions, that's going to be a lot of challenge. So it should be built by a nonprofit. Second, it should be open source so that the trust in the system can go up. But it's also very important that there is no lock on the vendor. A common challenge in choosing a for-profit company if they're not open source is that they will create a solution that's easy to go, but any maintenance, any new features, it'll be nearly impossible for that state to roll back the clock and say, "Oh, actually we don't like what you're doing, or you're overcharging us for what's going on, and we're going to roll back to some other solution." So the lock can be extremely problematic. Same thing with replication. If one state wants to collaborate with another state, they should be able to replicate everything they have if it's open source and move on. It's also very important to share those learnings, not just in discussion forums, but also share the learnings in terms of the code itself, core segment itself. If there's any clever mechanism one state has come up with, it should be possible for other states, especially in neighboring states to deploy them in the very next version. And also should be interoperable across state boundaries. And by that, I mean, I don't just mean interoperability of the Bluetooth keys, but also other interoperability. What if one state decides to use a particular type of a symptom check and they would like to make sure the neighboring states are also have access to this privacy-preserving data of symptoms. And right now electronic health records is already a big mess across state boundaries. We are talking about moving into a very innovative space here of personal data, although privacy-preserving. So unless the interoperability is in the ethos of the states, it will be very challenging. So again, if it's for-profit, closed source, it's like, too long for those two companies providing apps to those two states to talk to each other and start solving these problems. So nonprofit open source treated like an auditable entity. Now let's think about beyond exposure notification. You're going to see a lot of innovation in this space in the next few weeks, in the next few months. Especially as I said at the beginning, the connection to public health and manual contact tracing is an unsolved problem. As much as we love all the great work that Google and Apple are doing, this is a problem that will have to be solved by innovation ecosystems out there. Which also means the apps and the servers are all going to change very rapidly. Ideally, the manual contact tracing, which is an important piece of the puzzle, is very expensive. Some states cannot even afford it. Many international global locations cannot afford it. So maybe we should, until it is the cost of manual contract tracing while improving the efficiency of the systems. And one of the reasons we need manual contact tracing is being able to reach people who are actually underserved, often language issues, people who are distrustful of the government, and so on. So it's very critical to start thinking about solutions that are beyond exposure notification. And it goes back to the vendor lock issue. If you have a vendor lock, then you're dependent on the innovation rate of that particular vendor, as opposed to an open innovation, open standards ecosystem. And the calculations right now, we have a paper coming up, shows that the cost of a digital app, including OpEx and CapEx, is about 10 cents per person per year, including the app and the server. As opposed to that, so that would be about $700,000 for a state like Massachusetts. And again, this is starting from scratch. And importantly, as most starts adopting it, and if this is a membership-based model, then those costs as importantly will actually go to zero. So the parameters for a good smartphone solution, you know, Trust in Pandemic Tech program, we are proud of is, let's keep it nonprofit, let's keep it open source, and let's keep it ready for this very rapid innovation. And so we're very delighted to work with a whole range of partners who are a part of this conversation. And for the last point, going beyond exposure notification, this triage, this testing, the squadron team, this exit, this entry pass, there's a lot of innovation coming in the next few weeks, in the next two months. And this is kind of in the experience of the individual to discover that experience. Fortunately, they just get exposure notification and everything else is moot. But often they might have to go for a test, they might turn positive, they might have to quarantine. And creating an ecosystem that's open standards, open innovation, is very challenging. So the goal for us is to make sure this is all achieved in a privacy-preserving way. And same thing for businesses as well. As we think about lockdowns and we think about re-openings, it's a very complex decision the business has to take. And the exposure notification app should serve their purpose as well. They cannot be kept outside this circle of stakeholders. So that's why as part of the Trust in Pandemic Tech, we also have 80 member companies, 500 member companies at MIT, at MIT Media Lab, and also MIT ILP program. And we're engaging with many of them to make sure they also are at the discussion, on the table for this discussion. Okay, let's talk about some upcoming directions and also some challenges, as we're going to run into, as we think about exposure notification. So, you know, from my research group at MIT, we even published in a series of papers, that could talk about Bluetooth, but also other signals that we might start including. Including GPS, wifi, QR codes, and so on. And how does it actually start mapping into analytics and machine learning? So over the next few minutes, let me give you a flavor of upcoming innovations in this space. So, first of all, right now we have a problem. Public health is demanding that they would like to get more context for that exposure notification. The first version of this apps will, of course, have no context at all. The only thing you will know is exposure and the day of the exposure. That's it. And it's up to the individual to the talk on the phone with manual contact tracer to provide answers to all these questions. Where were you? What were you doing? Were you wearing a mask? Or do you shake hands, and so on? And it's going to create a lot of confusion or it could reduce trust in the system. So what public health officials have been telling us is they need much detailed tools to interview the person who was exposed, find heat maps of where the exposures are, and then to spread analysis, right? And this way, we won't get, you won't see kind of a societal challenge, even a civil unrest in some countries where minorities are blamed for. When somebody gets an exposure notification, an individual gets exposure notification, they may not understand why they got an exposure notification and they might start blaming people they like to blame. Often minorities, immigrants, people who are at the bottom of a socioeconomic predominate. And then that could lead to over-zealous enforcement, you know, strange lockdowns, and things like that. So clearly public health requires more than contact tracing, which goes well beyond exposure notification. So what can we do about this? Of course, in the first version of the GAEN apps, we cannot do this, but actually there are other solutions coming up. You can add to the Bluetooth broadcast. You can add some extra context. So that GPS is not used for logging, but it's used only for context. So it's not used for proximity or any kind of long-term logging, but it's encrypted with the diagnosis key and shared or broadcast over the Bluetooth channel so that the exposed person can only decrypt it. Can only decrypt the location and other context only, only, only if they get an exposure notification. So there's some great papers from my groups, other researchers coming up in this space. What about Wi-Fi? That seems very promising, especially indoor locations and if Bluetooth has been turned off, given that the Wi-Fi infrastructure is everywhere, at workplaces, and so on. And there are two ways to think about Wi-Fi. The first one is kind of phone-driven. So it's just an app that records the MAC addresses of all the access points and use that as, effectively, a colocation signal. But in reality, the MAC addresses are as bad as GPS in terms of being able to recover the exact location. So we're gonna go back to what I showed to the previous slide, which is either use an external server or use the Wi-Fi MAC address as a context that's transmitted over the Bluetooth channel so only the exposed person gets to know what happened. The other way to do this, is to not worry about smartphones at all, but use the access points and look at the log of the MAC addresses of smartphones and run a system along those lines. And for more privacy, you can add forwarding MAC addresses, and so on. The challenge here is the agency of the individual is lost. So everybody is being tracked. We don't be knowing about it because they don't even have to use a smartphone, they don't even have to download an app, and their smartphones are already being tracked. So the conclusion here is that there's no easy fully privacy-preserving Wi-Fi solution. In workplaces it may be okay, because you have different notions of privacy, but there's a lot of research that coming in this space. And then also there are other methods using secure multi-party computation that can also add a lot of privacy, a lot of encryption in this space. So my group and other groups have published kind of a two server solution. And I think it'll be fantastic with a first server that provides homomorphic encryption, and second server with agenda keys, very much like the existing Bluetooth protocol. So the conclusion here is that actually a GPS Wi-Fi based solution could give the country the best privacy for the healthy phones, but there'll be some leakage for the infected people, which could be, you know, 0.1% of the population, at any given moment. So for those 14 days, you know, some of the privacy could be challenged, but for healthy phones, actually the best privacy. I would even argue that because GPS and Wi-Fi can be accessed completely privately, for healthy people, it's even better privacy than Bluetooth. Because in Bluetooth, you have to constantly to transmit every 200 millisecond a random code. But the fact that you're transmitting something from your phone at all, it can be used in some scenarios if you have physical access to that environment. So I think there's some really great innovations coming. We'll also see when Google, Apple, and other stakeholders in this space will change the protocols. That could take weeks or months, or even a year. But it's very important for us to be ready for this innovation. And then finally, let me talk about machine learning. So we have this trade-off in this whole COVID-19 kind of crowdsensing, crowd participation, which is the trade-off between utility and privacy. On one hand, solutions like Google Maps, we give away all our privacy and we give our location to Google in real time. In return for that, we get fantastic benefits. Like we can see where the traffic is in peak hour traffic, When it comes to health data, we're kind of on the bottom right where everything is private, everything is siloed, and cannot be used for societal good. We cannot do analysis on this cellular data. So the goal here is, if we start including more operations in this GAEN apps, you know, whether there are questionnaires, or at some point we start using sensors for diagnostics, or there's existing data that's already on the phone, maybe in your health app, for example. If you were to start using that, how can we use that data to create global mechanisms, to create alerts, do analysis for COVID-19? The doubt, exchanging raw data on the phone in a privacy-preserving way. If you anonymize it, there's not much privacy. And we can talk about that later. You can obfuscate it with techniques like differential privacy. But then you can do inference, but not full-fledged machine learning. And for the best kind of privacy, is by using encryption. Like I said, homomorphic encryption. But then you cannot even do inference, only, you can do statistics and some analytics. So two things have emerged in the last few years. One is called Federated Learning from Google, and another one is called Split Learning from our group at MIT. And they allow you to smash the data in such a way that you can run full-fledged machine learning models. So we think innovations like this are going to be very critical as they try to go for COVID-19 solutions beyond exposure notification. So to conclude, we are here as the Trust in Pandemic Tech in stage one, focusing on helping states and nation launch their GAEN and case management apps, the complexity, privacy, adoption, and connection to public health. And you, I hope you'll join us every Thursday for shared learnings, algorithm standards, datasets, and boot camps. And we're very delighted to have many partners as part of this Trust in Pandemic Tech program. And we'll continue to engage more partners as time goes on. Thank you. Let me hand it over to Sam Zimmerman who's going to talk about how to build GAEN apps. Thanks, Ramesh. Can everyone see my screen? And also want to invite Lina, a member of our team as well. She'll be joining me in the conversation. Yeah, so I'm Sam Zimmerman. I'm the CTO of PathCheck. PathCheck is a community of tech entrepreneurs who have come together, technologists and tech entrepreneurs who have come together to build and expand the use of digital contact tracing technologies around the world. My talk today is gonna be, first, describe a bit more about the PathCheck Foundation, who we are, what we're about. We'll then explore a bit about the complications involved with building one protocol between two of the biggest tech companies in the world who have so far built their operating system broadly in isolation from one another. We'll then kind of discuss some of the gotchas and pitfalls that we've seen around our building of application, as well as some learnings from jurisdictions around the world. We'll also discuss the verification server, the part of this protocol that verifies that an individual is in fact COVID-19 positive. To quote the Swiss team, "it's secretly the most difficult part of launching an application," and we'll kind of highlight some of those complications and learnings. We'll then discuss the API program and our kind of current thinking on the matter. It's a really interesting and challenging problem, and there's a lot of kind of edge cases when you sit and look at these algorithms. And lastly, we'll reflect on the 1.5, the API version that Google was pushing out and that Apple will have a similar number of version coming soon, and how it changes things for the better. To go to kind of PathCheck, who we are and what we're about, we are a team of about 50 full-time individuals across all the domains you would see in a normal technology company. We have a large number of world class engineers. We have product design, user experience, marketing, security, compliance, all formed over the past couple of months by individuals who are interested and passionate about building technology to help combat COVID. Our repositories have over 100 unique contributors at this time. I started to count the countries, but determined that that would take a little too much time. But it is truly been a worldwide effort and something that, yeah, really is created and consistently recreated day over day. This number is actually a bit dated. We have 1,800 volunteers in our Slack group. So 1,800 volunteers who are engaged in some way, contributing in some capacity or listening to the Slack channels and contributing to the discussion. We are very fortunate. And I think one of our major, one of the things that I think we're doing relatively uniquely is we're launching jurisdictions around the world at the same time. I believe this number also is a bit dated, but we're launching in Europe, we're launching in Central America. We have states and territories engaged as well. So we get to see a lot of the challenges associated with various jurisdictions and then share them in a pretty expeditious manner by either embedding them in our product or sharing them with our implementation teams. And it's really resulting in a lot faster deployments. So, for instance, we're doing testing, beta testing of our build. And by doing that beta testing once, many jurisdictions can trust that that build kind of meets their needs. And similar things around making sure that credentials are set up, developing, marketing, and branding assets. We're really hoping to, and finding that by working with so many jurisdictions, we're able to share learnings, and, frankly, expedite timelines, which is really, really encouraging and important for this problem. Our jurisdictions represent over 50 million citizens. And as Ramesh was talking about earlier, the opportunity to be in front of, to have adoption, you know, at 60, 70%. Even 20% for 50 million citizens is the sort of thing that Googles and Apples think about. And the opportunity for a group of technologists to execute on that and have the app scale so quickly is a tremendous challenge and honor and one of the more exciting parts about the project for me. We've also been kind of co-creating this work. We're in constant conversation with Apple, constant conversation with Google, constant conversation with other teams and jurisdictions, and we're kind of helping to identify issues and triage them as we go. So I think it's been a real honor, and I think one that we've seen most in the server itself, the Google's open source server reference implementation, we're able to kind of be thought partners and catch this technology. It's still frankly hardening that it's not built in the classic way taking multiple years, but instead over the course of weeks. And as a result, there needs to be kind of community involvement and engagement in addressing those issues. Great, so now I'm just gonna switch my screen really quickly and give you a brief download of our demo. I'll highlight that this is actually kind of our bare bones offering. We actually have a pretty different offering for different jurisdictions and aren't gonna be sharing kind of that jurisdiction-specific build quite yet, hasn't been signed off on, but really we're hopefully just gonna walk through the major pieces of functionality and show you a bit about how that works. So I'm just gonna switch screens really quickly. Great. So if you see my phone, you'll see that I have multiple PathCheck applications. We actually customize the icons and the branding for each state, but in TestFlight where we're doing the beta testing, we're actually focused on just a PathCheck basic build. So you'll see here that I have two different apps that I can toggle between here. I can make sure that I enable exposure notifications for a given jurisdiction. You'll see that there's a set of exposure reports that allow me to drill down and see if there has in fact been a COVID-19 exposure with basic information and customization allowed. In this case, we're imagining that the state of Minnesota are kicking it off to their page to enable integration of our application into the manual contact tracing and public health workflows that Minnesota likes. Lastly, we have the ability to implement the major flows. So the COVID-19 positive flow. The individual who has a COVID-19 positive test, and once they submit their keys for that test. So we can walk through that quickly now. You'll see that there's a verification diagnosis code. I'm gonna switch screens really quickly and show you our implementation of the verification server which we'll be talking about in a bit. Let me just pull that up over here. Just give me one second. Great, so you'll see my screen here. This is our reference implementation of the verification server. So this is the service that validates an individual is in fact COVID-19 positive through integration with either a manual contact tracing flow or an automated messaging service. So you'll see that we support, this allows for three. We predominantly focus on the confirmed positive test results. We also allow for kind of a symptom onset date and can base our risk scoring off of that. So here, I'll note that the symptom onset was the 10th of August. And I have the ability to generate a code. That code which is generated either in a programmatic manner via API calls, or via in a manual manner, a manual contact tracer using this flow or a similar one to generate a code. And we'll talk about the trade-offs of doing that in a bit. We can take this code and enter that into the device here. So we go to Verify your diagnosis, we hit 31607387, and hit Submit. So this then asks the user explicitly. This is coming from the implementation. The APIs itself require this kind of OS level permission. You hit Share. The individual understands and consents, at which place those keys are then uploaded to our implementation of the Google-Apple Exposure Notification key server. This is responsible for taking those COVID-19 positive keys and pushing them out to allow other phones, phones all around the jurisdiction, to turn down those keys, pull down those keys, see if they've had a match. And if in the event they have had a match, allow them to walk through a post-exposure notification. And so this exposure history is our primary flow for whenever an individual has had an exposure. I actually just uninstalled and reinstalled and wiped my device, so I actually don't have any exposures now, but we are generating exposures and actually are in live tests with kind of multiple states and territories in the US in particular. So that's the application at a high level that we're building, and again, really intensely and thoughtfully skinning for jurisdictions around the world to make sure that they can drive adoption and keep the apps installed on their phone. So now I'm going to switch back to the demo. So next, we're gonna talk a little bit about the fact that there's gonna be one API implementation and some just subtle differences. And here I'll very much lean on Lina, so please do jump in whenever. Like, Lina is very much the domain expert in understanding many of, and helped unearth many of the things we'll be talking about in this conversation. So the first point to highlight at a high level is that you would think, and frankly, we thought when we started this that really the APIs would be pretty much exactly the same, that there would be, working in the Apple context, in the Google context, there would be, you know, exact similar names or exact similar out-of-the-box functions or objects to be called. And, in fact, that's not the case. This is not an exhaustive list. This is just a list that was assembled when trying to wrap our heads around the difficulties or the differences between them. You'll see that as the slide highlights there, there's differences particularly on several of the major objects. The exposure summary, exposure information, exposure consfig, and risk score. Some of them are small, like naming changes. Some are actually rather subtle. Like ways of making it easier to implement more subtle risk scoring metrics. And I think that this risk score, in particular one, has the ability, if not paying close attention, to implement kind of different risk scoring algorithms between the two implementations or APIs. So this is kind of, again, it's the high level of distinction between that these are two different APIs, not quite the same. Another really, really important thing, and I think this is gonna get even more important in time, is that they're deployed on two totally different operating systems. The Apple operating system requires a software update in order to enable the exposure notifications. And while Apple's has a tremendous amount of success in pushing operating system updates in classic pre-pandemic era. Getting 80 to 90% updates in six months is really, really, really astounding when you think of the Windows update problems of the early 2000s. With that said, in a pandemic, that's actually a pretty long time period. And so while pushing an operating system update and kind of expecting that update to only really surface in six months, you really need to be thoughtful about understanding what percent of the population is working on iOS, which percent has which versions of the operating system. And you can't automatically assume that a update, a software update, your population is gonna be working from it, particularly whenever we're talking days and weeks, and at most, months. Android, at least so far, we've really seen that Android was able to update and allow this exposure notification configuration via the Play Store. So not requiring an operating system update. And that's really, really an exceptional kind of achievement, in my opinion, of the Android approach. This entails you don't have this adoption problem of the actual protocol. Your adoption problems becomes an app adoption problem, or a marketing adoption problem, and you cannot be as concerned about the technology adoption problems. So this is just a really important subtle point. It's not particularly subtle. Most folks who work in mobile kind of immediately grok it, but for a lot of decision makers, thinking about the differences associated with this and thinking about your population and how your population might have more iOS or Android is really important in thinking about adoption. Another kind of simple thing that we've seen is that, you know, the actual data associated with these TEKs that are blasted out over the protocol, somewhat surprisingly, particularly when looking at the Apptuary app and our PathCheck app. We're seeing that there's a flags component or set of fields that are implemented in the iOS version at Apptuary and PathCheck that we're not seeing in the Android side. And so that could be, we're still trying to track down exactly kind of where that's coming from. It could be a developer error on our side or the Apptuary side. It could be a implementation, subtle implementation difference between Google and iOS. But you do notice that there's kind of four digits there that are missing and that are kind of a not particularly important part of the protocol, but nonetheless, we're seeing kind of across apps, some subtlety in the actual packet information itself. Lastly, and I think this really gets to there, the fact that Apple and Google are different organizations. And I have different approaches or philosophies and access to course location data. And so I think that they become much more important when we talk about the domains of interoperability, or if we're thinking about the issues around, you know, whenever this might go into the operating system level. But the two operating systems really have different philosophies around what developers of applications, what the sort of data they have can access to when building their apps. And so in the Apple case, they're really pretty adamant that users don't have access to, developers don't have access to the country that the phone is in without allowing, without explicit consent. Or the case they walk through as if a US citizen decided to go to Cuba whenever there was an embargo, the user might not want the developer to know that in fact that they have been to Cuba and as a result could be punished or face kind of legal concern. And so they don't allow developers to have access to the country that the phone is in without permission, while Google actually does allow that. Google permits developers to know the country that the phone is in in order to allow basic telecom information. There's kind of a number of practical reasons where that comes to play. And so as a result, I think that we're gonna to see that these kind of different approaches to what types of data the developer can have access to are gonna be reflected in kind of whenever we're thinking about what interoperability looks like. And so, in particular, I think this entails that we're going to be taking a least common denominator approach to privacy. So there'll always be parity. You'll always be able to implement this, you know, similar things in Google and Apple. And I think that you'll see that Google needs to make sure that they're able to support Apple's more stringent approach and respect that more stringent approach. So again, another kind of interesting diversion that I think you're gonna see continue to play out as this protocol expands and as the actual different OS's and their limitations have to navigate these different implementations. So that was a bit about the protocol and the APIs. Next we'll kind of go to a couple of gotchas and pitfalls. And, again, Lina here will correct me. She's very much the domain owner here. So one possibility to keep track of is that for early versions of GAEN applications, there is logic that cues off of the operating system, and there's logic that cues off of the application level around what counts as an exposure notification. And so there are cases where, and, you know, given the scale we're talking about, this isn't a primary concern, but it does highlight it is possible and it could be more substantial in certain use cases where a user could get a OS level update saying that there was an exposure based upon an OS level exposure notification logic, while they wouldn't, you know, correspond or wouldn't tie them to an app level exposure notification. And that just, it's predominantly a result of the flexibility in the scoring, what counts as an exposure, and where that logic can live. And we don't think it's gonna be a large issue, but we do think it is a possibility. I think that the second thing to highlight, it's Pandemic Tech, and I think it kind of goes without saying, but you know, this is a technology that was produced by Google and Apple, from design to implementation to release in eight weeks. And it's an astounding piece of technology. I think it's a really, really, really clever protocol in many, many ways. But writing this sort of technology to be deployed by nations and states and that is kind of full of all sorts of kind of complexity is means that there's, by working kind of on the later APIs, in particular, even in the V 1.1, for some time, you should really expect to be working with the protocol and with the developers of the protocol and lean on them to triage issues as much as possible, because there is a number of issues. For instance, we started with a Google reference server, key server, and verification server, and our development was actually kind of, we had to work around that for three to four days due to a simple kind of certificate verification issue. And we've also kind of... Oh, we haven't seen one recently, but in June and July, we were even seeing kind of breaking API changes on a regular basis. So no one understand that these technologies, while consolidation is valuable, understanding that you should bake in a good amount of time for the hiccups that will come with working with leading edge technology is highly recommended. I think another thing, we've thought a lot about this, and I think this is even a bit dated. We've learned even more from since when I made this slide. But when we originally approached this problem, we really assumed that we would have a date with a capital D, it would be kind of correspond to a user's local time and enable kind of a very natural unit of measure for an individual. And in the least, I would say it's not clear that that's the case. It's not clear that we can yet reason about a single day. Due to kind of the nature, the nature of the protocol and the precision allowed and several natural limitations, you should really think of the users knowing they have an exposure with an approximate time range and that will be kind of needing to message accordingly. So that's one that we learned and have continued to wrestle with and discuss internally for some time. Another thing is that we anticipate that, due to the different operating system level constraints, we do think that there's gonna be multiple versions of the e and config file as we update versions. So this is just based upon like, as new versions of the API come out, new site types of scoring and objects will come, but you're gonna need to support that older version of scoring for the users, particularly on iOS, you haven't updated. So when you're thinking about this is quickly getting, you know, exploding complexity as we deal with more and more devices and more and more operating systems, and more and more versions of the API. And any kind of implementation or architecture that doesn't natively support that, is gonna have a tough time keeping them. So do think thoughtfully about that. The last thing we had, you know, we're open source, which means that we try to work with the best. Like, we are learning from the German open source implementation, the Irish open source implementation. The Swiss are really wonderful thought partners for us. And I think that we originally thought like, oh, you could just, you know, bring this this whole API in very, very easily, or you could leverage this whole library of this project. What we're discovering is that, in the least, you know, the way in which these different open source implementations handle the dynamic nature of the technology, the way they handle scoring, where their logic lives for scoring, all of these things have subtle implementation changes. And when you're kind of deciding which projects to work with, particularly from an open source perspective, it's really worth it to look closely and look at several and be really careful to make sure that the open source approach is really well set up for later versions of the API, which add some important functionality. So with this, I'm gonna just totally hand it over to Lina. She actually coined the term notificationmageddon. And the information on the side might also, as all of this stuff, might be a bit dated. I made this a couple of days ago. Yeah, I think I'll kind of just start out talking not directly about notificationmageddon, just how we're thinking about what conditions you should have for giving the user a notification. So basically what everyone more or less does, including us, is to try to approximate where two users within two meters of each other for 15 minutes or more. But what that means in code, it's not specific enough. So, like, during what time period should you aggregate like, if you had multiple people that you were exposed to for shorter periods of time, should you aggregate that? If you meet three people for five minutes in a day that we're all infected, that should be the same as one person for 15 minutes probably, which is what we have arrived at. So we're trying to get to, did you have 15 minutes of exposure in a day? And possibly there'll be more evolutions of that, again, as we learn more, but that's basically what we're trying to do. And then we get to notification problems, which furthermore ties into the different versions for Google and Apple, to some extent. So we have an issue here in version one of the protocol, which actually means that I want us to have as many users as possible on the Version 1.5 version of the protocol that has exposure windows, which is currently available on Android and not yet on iOS. It'll come in the new operating system version, 14, which we would expect to come in mid to late September. But yeah, so I think the version one protocol, while I'm very grateful for this wonderful protocol that I think is very, very well designed, I think the version one of it has some problems here that makes it more difficult to use that are fixed in the next version, which I'm sure it's because we were all just kind of learning quickly. So the kind of root issue here is that if you want to know what day an exposure happened and so that you can aggregate by day, or if you want to, like, show in a calendar or whatever, like you were exposed on Tuesday, you have two different objects that you can get information from in the version one protocol. And it's exposure summary, and it's exposure information. Exposure summary is a summary of whatever data you got in the latest key bundle that you downloaded. And so that could contain data for up to the last 14 days. So we don't necessarily know when an exposure happened. If you try to use exposure information, there will be an OS level notification that you can't avoid. And the API documented, Google's API documentation says that the user will get a notification saying that we requested more information, which sounds a little creepy which is bad enough. But then when we actually look at it... I haven't seen anything about this in the iOS documentation, by the way. But as we have actually used it and looked at it, it doesn't just say that we requested more information, but it also tells the user they had a possible COVID-19 exposure. So we can't use that unless possibly we have decided already that, yes, they're going to get a notification, this does meet our threshold. But we just can't have the possible COVID-19 exposure notification and then say like, "No, you know, it wasn't significant enough. Don't worry about it." Like, might not go over too well with users. So basically, yeah. So basically what the Swiss did here is their key server bundles the temporary exposure keys such that they are day by day by exposure, and so they're actually able to tell using only exposure summary what day an exposure happened. So they can tell. They can aggregate by day. And we consider this, but I think we're in a different situation for many reasons. One being that, well, the Swiss were doing this work ahead of us. We never made our own. They have their own exposure notification service. We don't, because by the time we got to that point, Google had started making theirs. Well, it was pretty much ready to use, more or less, when I joined the project, actually. So we're using theirs. And as anyone that has developed software can say, like, if you have a thing that you can just not touch and just run versus modifying it and trying to merge things together and maintain that over time. Like, better to not touch it, if you can. And we will actually have some additional servers in our system, but we're able to keep those completely separate so the maintenance will be much easier. So, for us, basically, it would be more difficult to maintain to do that. But then the other thing was, well, we do have version 1.5 coming that's like farther along. And then recently Apple updated their documentation saying, like, "Yes, this is coming." And we now have like, an idea of when it is coming so we didn't think it would be worthwhile to do this implementation, even though I do think it's the better one if you have like, you know, infinite time and resources. So basically what we're trying to do instead is just to approximate. Like, do the best that we can with the information that we have in the exposure summary, which could be valid for up to 14 days of exposure. So we don't cross notifications. We want all users to be on the newer version of the protocol with exposure windows when we can where we no longer have this problem. But, yeah, I think there's basically a few things that you can look at in the exposure summary that allows you to figure out in a bit more detail. Like even if it were exposures from a single user in a single day, you actually will be able to know. So we're just kinda like trying to figure out a good approximation there. That won't be perfect in every single case. Of course, nor has any of this. It's not like you will automatically get infected if you're within two meters for 15 minutes but you won't if you're at 2.1 meters and like, 14 minutes. So, but, yeah. So we have a slight approximation there. I actually don't expect this case to be super common, especially as, you know, it'll be more the users that, when the new operating system is out, it'll be like the users that didn't upgrade their operating system on iOS. And then out of those, how many actually had, like, multiple exposures? It's kind of limited, but it's still kind of an important problem to solve. Go ahead, Sam. Cool. Thanks, Lina. Yeah, so we'll kind of dive into the verification server, another thing that we've been thinking a lot about, and we're gonna surface some of the challenges we're seeing. I'm really excited for the discussion later about how different states and nations that are navigating these trade-offs. The first to highlight is if you're going to be kind of integrating with the actual kind of user interface with the verification service, you really wanna make sure that your identity management integrates with whoever is going to be doing the actual transmission of code. So we're seeing in one state, they have a central state identity management system, but their manual contact tracing is actually done at a local level with a different identity management system. And so we're similarly seeing in another jurisdiction comparable fragmentation. So it's very important if you're going to be leveraging kind of a user flow to get a lay of the land for how existing manual contact tracers are working, what tools they're working in, and what in particular identity management is happening and occurring across the state or nation, because you're gonna need to integrate with a number of those solutions in order to get the scale effective. It's an issue too here of centralized versus decentralized. The kind of major challenges in testing and manual content tracing systems themselves mean that this isn't the sort of thing that you can kind of have the governor decree will be the case and it necessarily becomes the case immediately. Because there are so diffuse systems, often decentralized systems, can be really hard to instantiate the same script or the same communication standards around the state. And so be really careful and understanding and mapping out how testing and manual contact tracing both function, what institutions are involved, and be sure to kind of have both top-down buy-in for the approach. But also as much as possible bottoms-up buy-in as well, because ultimately it is manual contact tracers, many of which who have just been hired for this job and who are asked to do a number of things, who are gonna be needing to make sure to communicate this information and can speak to it confidently. And so starting with that user, making sure that there's buy-in there is really, really key. I think comparably to this, there's a interesting tension, not necessarily a trade-off, but certainly a tension between how quickly you can get the code sent to a user and the engagement associated with the user actually completing that. So by speed, we mean when it's really valuable to get these exposure notifications as quickly as possible, which means that you need to communicate the status or the testing status to an individual as quickly as possible as well. And so you might say, "Oh, we'll produce this automated system that sends out an SMS and that they'll engage with and they can upload it as quickly as possible." And I think that that really does optimize for getting that, you know, working further and further up the transmission history. But what we're finding is that actually high engagement, a discussion with the person explaining the code, explaining how the system works again, explaining how the contribution is valuable to the community at large, to that COVID-19 positive individual results in higher engagement. And so when thinking about your verification server, that verifying when an individual is in fact COVID-19 positive, you wanna work really quickly, but you also wanna keep a high touch. And so we have some learnings, and our approach really tries to blend those two constraints together, at least in some jurisdictions. But it's gonna be pretty dynamic and something that you'll want to be very thoughtful about if you want high engagement and early, early transmission of these exposure notifications. Two kind of quick things I know we're coming close on time, it's just that, understand that state resources are drastically overworked and have been scaled in some cases. So they're dealing with brand new technologies, multiple technology providers, were woefully understaffed before this, and are now having to modify really quickly. And so I think when you're working with a manual contact tracing flow, making sure that you're not anticipating that the user has education or context, but really providing as much as possible in that workflow is really, really essential to enabling it being completed well. These workforces are highly, highly pressed for time and highly recently scaled. Lastly, I think that our approach, which many of the European apps actually haven't taken is that, you know, the gathering that exposure notification feedback, and kind of being able to close the loop on what information the system is generating, what exposures are being sent is really, really, really important. I think it's important to think about what our exposure notification will be to start. It's important to think about what our offering will be to start, but all of this technology and all of these settings are likely to evolve as we learn more about the disease, and in different contexts, in different jurisdictions. And so making sure that you have a closed loop system that enables epidemiologists to understand, even in an aggregated and privacy-preserving way, what exposure notifications are being sent, and like, what features of those exposure notifications include will enable the whole system to evolve more quickly in this very dynamic environment. Just gonna skip this last thing. We only have two minutes left, so we'll pass this. A quick note, you know, our team is really quite blessed to have a lot of interesting research capacity as well. We're an MIT spinout and have a ton of really, really talented people who are thinking about what the future of this looks like. We are still number one on the NIST challenge. And I also condensed, have noted, some really interesting and powerful changes that Google has made in making sure that the RF calibration between devices is taken into account. So understand that there is sensor level and instrumentation level work going on by Apple-Google, and our honor to contribute to the effort in our way as well. I think I will quickly highlight that with the 1.5 coming, as Lina said, we really, really strongly advocate that to move there as quickly as possible and potentially even kind of deploy there, there is a number of important changes around symptoms, around infectiousness, around the notification issues that Lina highlighted, and some interesting challenges around federation that still needs to be knocked out. That's kind of the sharing of data between states. But on the whole, it addresses a number of gaps. I think my only small developer axe to grind is that I would not... They're calling it a negative test, and I would call that a revoked test. So the actual kind of semantics of a negative test is it takes down keys or it removes keys. But as most epidemiologists will tell you a negative test, positive test, and a negative test does not necessarily mean that the result is that you are in fact COVID-19 negative. And so really my only kind of encouragement is that we're communicating and explaining this protocol to help authorities to be very particular about that point. It's tripped a couple of folks up on our end. So with that, I'll stop. We're at time. It's been a whirlwind, and we're really here to work with any states. Some states have approached us to use our server. Some states have approached us to use our verification server. Some states want us to build everything. Some states want us to think alongside them. We are here to help. And we're really passionate and believe this technology can combat the pandemic, and I appreciate the teaching and learning from others around the nation and the world. Thanks much. Thank you, Sam. Thank you, Lina, for that wonderful tutorial on the app and the server. I'm going to invite Paresh Dave from Reuters who has been writing some really insightful articles on GAEN, it's an option, some of the pitfalls, and so on. And Paresh is going to invite a fantastic panel of states that are already in the GAEN game as we call it. Paresh. Great, thanks, Ramesh, and appreciate you having me. So I wanted to, you know, talk to a few states. We have Alabama and North Dakota, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Washington representatives here today, and I wanted to learn, you know, a little bit about the progress you guys have made, challenges you faced and what's next. So maybe first we can go... I'm getting a lot of echo on my end. But maybe we can go to Virginia first and hear a little bit about why GAEN, what the costs have been, and, you know, since you guys were the first state out with a statewide rollout, you know, how you were able to get there pretty quickly, and then we'll bounce around some of the other states as well. Sure, Paresh. Hi, Jeff Stover from Virginia. Pleasure to be here, thanks for having us. Yes, so we were first to release, you know. It wasn't a race on our end. It just so happened that we were ready to go. But I think we got there partly because we had been working on evaluating various developers and vendors who were coming out of the woodwork, as everyone knows, back in March and April, saying that, you know, they had these fantastic plans for apps. So we started doing a lot of evaluations on them back then. And during that same time, we also, you know, we had demos of very flashy apps that tracked location everywhere you went and they looked great, right? They were nice and shiny. But it really wasn't gonna be what was gonna take off. So as we evaluated lots of them, you know, Google and Apple were at the same time working on their framework. So by the time they released their framework, we had already come to the decision based on evaluation of lots of other apps or developer presentations of what avenue we wanted to go. So by the time that happened, we had decided that really focusing on an app that we can drive home the messages about public trust were gonna be critical. And that meant, you know, we're not tracking your location, we're not collecting your personal identifiable information. We can do this without collecting those things. That doesn't mean everyone's bought into it. There's lots of skeptics out there still. But it's part of our marketing campaign to be transparent about what we're doing, how we're doing it, and why we're doing it. So that's how we got where we were. And I think because we had done a lot of that evaluation up front, you know, we were in a good place to kick off with a developer. Pretty much as soon as the Google and Apple framework was out there, we already had laid all the groundwork and started on development pretty much straight away. And what the lessons been in the first week? So we've had, as of yesterday, we've had a little over 316,000 downloads. And, you know, if we look at that as a proportion of that certain population, you know, those that we think have mobile devices, 80% of those, et cetera, and use that as the denominator, we're looking at what we think is around 7.5% adoption at the moment as of the end of week one. So where does that put you, you know? That, according to what Google will tell you, that puts you on the low end of adoption, right? But we don't have anything to compare that to in the US. We have other countries that have different societal norms, et cetera, and some of them have had great adoption. That's wonderful. But we don't really know what our adoption rate looks like across the country yet. Maybe ours is in the middle of the road. Maybe it's good, maybe it's bad. We don't really know. So I think that's something just for us to keep an eye out on and see what's happening. I wouldn't say that, you know, a lesson, something that we're seeing occur is that we've had very good response across the state. There was a huge media blitz about this. I think, close to 1,300 media outlet coverages over the state and other parts of the country during the first, like, three days. It was blanketed pretty hard. But there's still a large proportion of people who don't know what it is or have different ideas of what they think it is. So we're finding, even though people have been very supportive as a general rule, there's always gonna be those pundits and a few skeptics, right? We've gotten a few of those comments too. But by and large, I'd say 95% of the comments we've gotten back had been very supportive. And, you know, I've downloaded it. I'm really proud to be a Virginian, that we were out in front, those kinds of things, right. But we're obviously figuring out that word of mouth is incredibly important here. Even though this is largely a digital marketing campaign because of what it is, word of mouth matters. As we talk to people on an individual basis, you know, we turn people from "I would never do that" into "Please send me the information," alright? So then they can go talk to their family and friends, right? But that's a slow process. So I think after your initial launch and you get whatever that bump is upfront, from there on, you know, it's gonna be incredibly important. It's gonna be a grassroots movement, in a sense, to continue to push that adoption forward. Thanks, Jeff. And, Sue, I think in Alabama, you're starting first with students and then going wider. Tell me a little bit more about that approach. And then, Taylor, if you wanna jump in with any sort of technical challenges that you've run in, you know, in the sort of initial trials with students. Sure. And thanks for having me here today. This is exciting to hear what everyone's doing and all the progress that's been made. We started a closed pilot last week of anyone with an .edu email address. So students, faculty, alums. And we have actually gotten some pretty good feedback. Most of the feedback so far has been around the difficulty downloading the app through the testing process. And so we expect all of that to go away once people can actually download it in a mechanism that they're used to downloading it through, like, you know, through the app markets. And so that's actually been really good and we're looking forward to going live statewide on Monday. And so that's what our plan is. So that's actually been going great. And I'm happy to comment on any other issues as well, if you would like me to. Mmhmm. Yeah, I mean, what sort of is changing from the .edu version to the statewide version? Are there any advancements and tweaks that you guys had to make? So it's not that there's a different version. What Apple and Google asked us to do was test more broadly than what we had tested previously. And so in order to do that, we had to figure out, well, how do we get a test base, and what would be a logical test base, and what did we think would be a test base that would be likely to test. Like, you know, who mostly has a tolerance for testing. And so we have been doing a big push to the school environment because of the GuideSafe platform under which this falls. And so because all of the schools know about the GuideSafe platform, we figured that would be a logical environment within which to launch a closed pilot. So we had a precedent last week and launched that through there. So nothing is changing, unless there were a little testing glitches that people noticed. Like there was a spacing issue on the Android. Those things are easy to fix. But in terms of other things, functionality and design, everything is all the same. The one thing that will actually be active that is not active in the test version, we have a link back to our GuideSafe HealthCheck that now will actually go to GuideSafe HealthCheck. It didn't actually go there 'cause we didn't have that page developed yet for all the different institutions across the state. But now we do. So come Monday, that will all be live. Mmhmm. And so, Sue or Taylor, are you finding sort of that it's working? Like, I mean, are exposure notifications going out? And then second, you know, now that there'll potentially be two states with apps out in the wild, do you plan to connect to a national server potentially run by the Association of Public Health Labs? And, you know, if a Virginian comes over to Alabama, will the apps communicate? Yeah, so we have definite plans to connect to the national server. We've been talking about it for a while. In fact, I will echo what Jeff said earlier in terms of our thought process and laying this out all the way from, you know, gee, how do we develop this? Who do we use? And then Apple-Google had their framework. It's like, okay, let's just go with that. We had all that laid out. We've been talking about how do we do this at a national level, certainly more broadly, since that point in time. So that would probably be early May, I think. And so we're excited about the national server. We're excited to be part of that. We think that there's a great need for these states to be able to communicate because, hopefully, before too long, we will be a mobile society once again. Right now we're kind of all, you know, relegated to staying at home. But in the educational environment, those students are gonna come and go. So those students are gonna go home to their home states. So let's take the example that you just gave. If we have Alabama students that go home to Virginia, and then they come back to Alabama, wouldn't it be nice if there were some communication and vice versa? You know, let's say we have somebody at VCU who lives in Birmingham. Wouldn't it be nice to be able to have that communication of exposure at a much greater level? And so we're definitely planning on that. We're definitely looking forward to that. And we think that we have a pretty unique and novel verification service that is different than other states, what they're employing. And we think that that can can help with using this nationwide. Okay. Anything you'd add, Taylor? Sue's covered it pretty well (laughs) the whole way through. I may talk a little bit about some of the challenges we faced along the way. We started on the project really early. We started back in the beginning of May, was the first conversation between MotionMobs and UAB to work on building the app. And at that point, things were still changing very quickly. (laughs) You know, we started building towards a certain API spec, and that was great. And then they changed a few things and we had to go back in and adapt to the changes along the way. And now we're seeing the ongoing changes we've talked a little bit about, that Sam and Lina talked a little bit about with version 1.5 and the incoming version 1.6. The changes will be necessary along the way there as well. It's rapidly changing. (laughs) And so those are the kind of the biggest challenges once we got started with everything. But otherwise it's been great to get to work on some significant project and be a part of this MotionMobs team. Just individually, it's made me incredibly proud. Okay. And I think the thing that I would add to what Taylor said is one of our biggest challenges was also one of our biggest successes. One of our biggest challenges was figuring out how to work within the processes that fit our current health department. So somebody said earlier that, you know, the health departments in the current state, they're overwhelmed, they're underwater, they can't even think about this. They just can't think. And they can't think about another thing. And so we had to work within those constraints and those processes. And so one of the things that we... And that was a challenge. And the verification service within that kind of as a subset of their processes became an additional challenge. And so then the question for our team became how do we take their processes and make them work for us without them having to actually do any work and actually augment their processes and help them be more efficient? And so what we started to look at is which of their processes are predictable and repeatable. And then we took those processes and said, alright, how can we develop to those predictable and repeatable processes? And one of those things, as I mentioned, was the verification service, which somebody had mentioned earlier. I think Sam mentioned earlier, you know, the sooner, the earlier you can get the notification, the better off you are for all the obvious reasons. And so initially our verification service with them was nightly. We got a nightly dump of data. And because that's what fit their process at the time. Then as their processes started to mature and they started to get more people on board, there became a window of opportunity for us to go back to them and say, "Now we would like to revisit with you how often we get the data." And so now we get those data hourly. And so our notifications are actually much, much faster than they were a week ago. And so that's some great news on our side and it's great news for people in our state, but it also shows how we were able to take something that was really a significant challenge at the very beginning and turn it into to a success and then how we ran with it. Thanks, Sue. And I know Bryant, you know, with Washington, you've also been doing a trial. And, you know, what have been some of the takeaways from that? And tell us a little bit more about that as well. Sure. We've been, in Washington State, we partnered with the University of Washington, the Paul Allen School of Computer Science, as well as volunteers from the School of Medicine, School of Public Health and the Global health Program. So a really diverse set and team helped develop an open source app that's called CommonCircle.us. And that team has piloted now successfully. We did a two week pilot in a group of essential workers. And a very, very key in the set, a key set of essential workers in the Labor and Delivery Unit at UW Medical Center. And we're still analyzing the data from the trial implementation, but it looks really promising. As you can imagine, it's a very intimate setting in labor and delivery so people are very close to each other. So we did successfully see a lot of exposure notifications. And the way we ran it as a trial, as we described it, a fight, we ran a two fire drills each day, artificially telling somebody, "For the purpose of this test implementation, you've been randomly selected to be our positive case for the day." And then see how that exposure notification propagated. And it's really fascinating. The labor and delivery and recovery are on two separate floors, and there's some interesting crossover personnel between the floors. So it's remarkable and really promising in the way that it helps people to... We compared it to the gold standard of recall for traditional contact tracing, and we're able to confirm our hypothesis is that people don't remember everybody that they were near during a given day. So really fascinating preliminary results we hope to be publishing soon with our UW colleagues. Do you think you had some false negatives as well, where the app wasn't picking up contacts that had actually happened? Or did you find it was pretty reliable? So that's a really good question. That's a hard question to answer and we don't have a true gold standard of, you know, cameras in the labor and delivery ward to monitor who people were actually near and for how long. I wish I could answer that in a true sense. But what we are seeing is that it is picking up cases of true exposure that we wouldn't have otherwise known about. And that's what we think will be the indication that this is worth doing. What does the timeline look from here to going statewide and what you still need to prove out or adjust in the app to get there? Yeah, so I think that that's where the charge that I have from the Secretary of Health and from the Governor's Office is to evaluate the technology and proceed with evidence before we move forward. And the body that's doing that assessment was formed as an independent oversight, and the advisory body pulled together so that we're evaluating the results of this trial. There'll be a hearing about that on Monday, and then giving advice to the Department of Health on the path forward. I think the University of Washington, independently from a statewide rollout, is evaluating the technology for their own purposes in terms of use on campus. So that is proceeding independently. But from a statewide standpoint, we're awaiting the results from this, as well as anxiously waiting to see what happens in other states that are proceeding ahead with statewide rollouts. Gotcha. Well, thanks, Bryant. And Vern and Tim out in North Dakota wanted to talk to you guys a bit about sort of the policy challenges as sort of Bryant alluded to with the advisory committee. You know, obviously North Dakota came out with one type of app and then decided to take advantage of the GAEN system as well. So what progress have you made there? And what sort of are you trying to navigate through to make sure that the public accepts this app, lawmakers except this app? You know, walk me through some of the thinking from the policy side, perhaps, Vern. Okay, I can talk a little bit about the policy side and I'm gonna leave the technology discussion to Tim. But from a policy side or standpoint, we've been very fortunate. And right at the outset, we had the support of our governor. Our governor gets the importance of this technology. We also had the support of our chief health officer who leads the Health Department. So those were two things right out of the chute that made it a little easier for us to navigate. Initially, you know, before the Apple-Google announcement, we elected to proceed with the location based, and that app has been released. It's been out there for several months and I'll let Tim talk about that. But when the Apple-Google announcement came out, we made a decision to not do an either/or, but do both, and leave it to the citizens as to which technology they preferred, which technology they felt would be more effective, and which they felt would be more comfortable. So that's the path we're going down. The reason that we're really excited about the Bluetooth technology, the proximity approach is... As you would imagine, the demographics of North Dakota would be very different than Virginia. In some places, GPS is probably more effective. But as we began working with our university system, a task force was established to kind of put our heads together from the university system realizing that in a typical contact tracing, the manual contact tracing mechanism that is in place and that we used extensively, the average positive case in North Dakota right now has between six and 10 contacts that are being traced. When we moved to a college setting, as you can imagine, that number increases a great deal. The test sites that we've looked at and the data that we're analyzing tell us that the contacts could really easily be 30 or 40 per positive case. So very early you start doing the math, and that is gonna bring, although the contact tracing infrastructure in North Dakota, they've stood up a new IT system, they have increased the number of tracers by 600% and are still hiring and training. But when you start looking at onboarding all of the college students basically within a couple of weeks timeframe into that environment, you know that that could get out of hand quite quickly. And so there was a real urgency on our part to make sure that this app was ready. And there's an extensive advertising campaign that actually begins today that says two things, "Get tested" and "Download the app." The Health Department has set up 64 static locations around the state where any citizen can go in, be tested. It's free. Symptomatic, asymptomatic, we're encouraging the students to be tested and get their results prior to arriving on campus. So if they have to quarantine, they do that at home rather than doing that on campus. So that is really kind of the strategy. And from the beginning, we tried to remove all the obstacles, and that, rather than universities negotiating individually with the developer, and early on, the Department of Health selected Proud Crowd and that has been a fantastic partnership, and Tim will speak to that, but we decided to take the approach where the Department of Health executed a single contract with ProudCrowd that covers all universities in the state. There's also discussions going on with the Department of Public Construction which includes all K-12. A little different situation. But basically, what the Governor and the Department of Health have done has cleared away all the obstacles. There's no charge. There's no contractual law obstacles by university. ProudCrowd has been really good in working with us in making that happen. So we're really excited to be at this point. We think that this technology is gonna be absolutely critical in all of these students returning to the classroom and keeping these classrooms open. We know that is bulletproof. Masks aren't, testing isn't, tracing isn't, technology isn't. But we look at this as one more layer of protection for our vulnerable population. In some cases, that's the professors in the classroom and also protecting our students and our citizens, their livelihood, and our ability to keep our economy open. Thank, Vern. And so, Tim, I mean, I'm curious to hear, as working on a GAEN app and a couple of non-GAEN apps, what are you sort of seeing as shortcomings still in the Google-Apple system? And are there any big asks that you have out to Apple and Google, you know, for additional flexibility, additional metadata that you can play around with? Yep. So first, first to make the announcement. Vern alluded to downloading the app, but today is launch day for Care19 Alert in North Dakota. And we are launching on the APHL key server. We are the first app to launch on a national key server. And in fact, we waited a bit so that we could launch on the key server. And so that's great news. We'll be launching in Wyoming tomorrow. And so we have North Dakota and Wyoming as clients. I think the interesting part around the technology part or the policy part with Apple and Google is Care19 is a platform. We have one app and it's completely data-driven. So to onboard a new state, we just can reconfigure our back end, and the very first screen on the app is a state picker. When you load the app, it'll say, "Please select your region," then you pick your state, and then the app configures to that state. Apple and Google are more than envisioning a one-app-for-one-state model. And so there's been occasions where we've had to work through some things, but, you know, we've gotten through that and that's been fine. Though, the other thing I'd like to touch on is Vern mentioned the universities and the education, and I'd like to just give some context to why that matters. I think as we went through the use cases, I mean, at some level it's really simple. The entire app pretty much exists to deliver a notification. And the notification, the value in that is the instructions you deliver. It's, like, kind of like, duh, it's all about the instructions. And it's harder than you think because you start out just thinking, "Oh, we'll load the standards that, you know, Department of Health state instructions into the app and we're good." But then I'm talking to the universities, trying to convince them to promote the app amongst their students. And I'm showing them demos and they look at the instructions, and they go, "Those are not the right instructions. Those are just instructions for a general citizen." If a student gets a notification, we want to tell them that they should go to the campus health center to get their COVID test 'cause it's free there, not the general instructions. We want to tell them return to class actions, right? That they should not attend class and that they should call dining services and we'll have meals delivered. And none of that information is in the standard state instructions. And so it's interesting 'cause it's completely aligned with privacy. A GAEN app can ask questions as long as they're voluntary. You can ask, for example, you can ask the user if they have diabetes or high blood pressure 'cause the instructions you might deliver might be different. Or what we did is we asked the user voluntarily, "Are you a student or faculty member?" And so, if you'll allow me, I'll share a screenshot, 'cause this visualization goes a long way. There is this screen in the app called Affiliates. And it defaults on the left to nothing, just explaining that you can select an affiliate. And if you select Select button, we have every higher education institution in North Dakota loaded into the app. And you can voluntarily just say "I am affiliated with North Dakota State University." "I am a student, faculty, or staff." That's not identifying information. You're just saying you're one of 15,000. And then once you pick an institution, we show this screen on the right, which says, this is what happens. If you choose to join this affiliate, first off, you get the middle instruction, custom return to class actions. That's where you're gonna get instructions that show you should go to the campus health center. The first one though, also usage monitoring. The state is choosing to go with the CDC sort of six feet for 15 minutes. But higher ed, in some cases, said, no, we also want a classroom environment setting where if it's a longer distance for a longer time 'cause kids have been in a classroom with each other, we'd also like that. And so if you join an affiliate, they can actually expand the state settings in a classroom environment to also have a longer distance setting. And then the university can also get aggregate usage monitoring. So they can actually get an idea of not only how many students and faculty are loading the app and using it, they can also get information on actually how many notifications they're getting across the campus. Again, just in aggregate form. And so then what happens is, is when you get, sorry, when you get an exposure on the left, you've been exposed to someone with COVID-19 recently, you get the instructions. If you just downloaded as a state citizen, you go straight to the state instructions. But if you've affiliated, you get the screen that says, "You have instructions from multiple institutions, please read them all." You always get the state instructions. I affiliated with North Dakota State so I can also see their instructions as well. And their instruction might say... Oops, I don't have it in here. But their instruction may say, oh, here you go. The campus health center offers free COVID testing. Alright, and I just set this up as an example. Again, it might be call dining services to get meals delivered to your dorm, you know, all the instructions that would be relevant to your affiliation. And so I think that's one of the things that really makes us unique is that being able to deliver really targeted and relevant instructions based on... And the affiliation doesn't have to be higher ed. It could be business. It could even be jurisdiction-based. If your different jurisdictions in your state have different policies, you could affiliate with the jurisdiction in your state as well. So we think this is really positive and it's just part of the Care19 platform. Great. I mean, that's a super instructive visual, Tim. Thank you. And then, Larry, thanks for your patience. I wanted to jump to Pennsylvania last. Tell me, you know, I'm less familiar with sort of Pennsylvania's plans and what's coming. Sort of give us an overview and tell us a little bit about some of the experience and lessons that you've gathered in Europe and what you're bringing over here to the US. Yeah, no problem. Thanks. So Larry Bean from NearForm. So as we're working with Pennsylvania in terms of their employment, we're also working with a number of other states and countries worldwide. So at this stage we've got either, I think we're up to now nine countries either in production and live and operational, or due to go live in the coming weeks. We set the first project live six, seven weeks ago now, so first country live. And we'll always continue to roll forwards on that. From a Pennsylvania point of view, their selection process. So they, you know, they did an extensive selection process and obviously went through quite a lot of understanding. And what we were able to do is bring folks from Pennsylvania and other interested parties together with those countries that are already a month or two ahead. So again, share those kinds of learning. So all the folks that have kind of gone before have talked about the level of testing and data protection and looking at all that kind of upside of it, which is of paramount importance. Because obviously we've been able to get these products out to the citizenry, you know, sort of two months ago, there's a lot of learnings already starting to come in from that. We've also had a lot of work done on the data protection. We've had a lot of universities involved in looking at the underlying, the code, the security mechanisms, and making sure that it is what we say it is, and therefore, from a data protection point of view and privacy point of view, it's relatively straightforward. One of the key pieces and one of the key attracting pieces is from the very first deployment in Europe, and obviously we'll continue that mandate going forwards, is we've published everything that we've found as we've gone through it with our clients. So again, made it open to all public, all parties, to actually come in and have a look at it, including the underlying code. So again, we've opened sourced all the code throughout, and, again, making sure everything was clearly available. So from that point of view, it's allowed Pennsylvania and other states to actually make a more informed decision about what it is they're actually getting, learning and leveraging some of the testing and experiences that they've had from those that have gone before them. And again, by getting into that sort of collaborative approach and discussion as, again, continuously building upon our foundation and sharing and improving. So that culminated in, you know, the COVID Green Project that we released out to the Linux Foundation Public Health. Again, making it available for anybody to come in and either use. And available, happy. Or for a lot of... And again, some of the speakers have talked about those people that have negative comments or criticism. What we've found with the deployments that we've done so far is those negative comments and criticism have kind of died away very quickly because it's beyond transparent. Obviously those folks have been able to come in and actually scrutinize every aspect of what's going on and are left with no areas that comes up privacy security. It is what it says it does. There are no risks and they're very comfortable with it. So that kind of makes it super fast. And, you know, the other key piece to it is it now allows us to spin up additional governments and states, you know, in sort of a four week window from a standing start, which just allows people to, again, continue to build on all the successes that have gone before them. And one specific question for you, Larry. I mean, in Ireland, you've released a lot of data, as you said, about sort of usage of the app and the notifications sent out. Should we expect that in Pennsylvania as well? Or will there be any big differences between the Irish version of the app and the Pennsylvania app? Yeah, so fundamentally, the fundamentals that sit underneath are obviously common, and that obviously gives that a shared experience and obviously that wealth of knowledge for going forwards. But we do build the apps on a state by state basis 'cause there are state nuances that obviously need to be factored in. They have their own policies and procedures. And again, we want them not just in the here and now, obviously, you know, expediency and gets marketed is super important, but obviously over the duration of these projects on COVID-19, we need them to have the flexibility to deal with their own citizens' needs. So they are individual. So there are some differences, but the fundamentals kind of are the same. And that's really important in terms of how we actually charge it forward. In terms of the open and transparency, yeah. All of our clients that are coming on board again have found that to be a real sort of bolster in terms of getting that level of adoption. So if we take the Republic or Ireland's launch, we saw within the first week sort of, we achieved in excess of 20% of the population adoption. We're now up above 40% adoption. We're seeing the similar interoperable with the very first country to go live. You know, Northern Ireland who went live last week, they're tracking on those similar kind of numbers. And we expect to sort of maintain that based on the fact that people can see, they understand what's underneath, and that gets rid of those concerns and skepticisms, which were one of the primary issues. Alright, thanks, Larry. And I wanted to kick it to Ramesh who I think had a couple of questions perhaps as well. Yeah, first of all, thank you all for joining. I think, Sam, do you want to say just a couple of sentences? I know we are almost out of time. Just your experiences and anything you want to respond to this. Yeah, it is wonderful to hear and see so many people thinking about so many different, very similar ideas and solving very similar problems. I think my only kind of comment or question just revolves around, I think one of the interesting tensions is kind of multi-state, single state. How do you deploy quickly? And in particular, understanding a bit about like legal constraints that vary across states and across nations, which I think can complicate these models and is an important discussion. Love to hear some, like, how that legal and compliance issue is explored, but maybe that's a conversation for another time. Yeah, just a quick one on that, Sam, and they are kind of good points. Again, the whole key to it, again, we've gone down that model of having a full standalone system for each state, but it is effectively, you know, regurgitation of what's gone before with some nuances. And that allows to facilitate the specific needs of each of those states as they go forward. Again, I'm bringing a lot of that research and investigation and those reports from, as we go through these deployments, as I say, we're now on number nine, obviously they're able to share that. They may not necessarily be relevant to the the state or the government that we're actually going live with, but it's a supporting piece of information. When we get to the whole interoperability, so again, from a NearForm point of view, we've obviously built full interoperability service. So if we look in Europe, we're already acting between different countries and we're facilitating that, but we also have the switches available to switch across to the European federation server. The same is happening over here in the US, is obviously we have interoperability already built into those systems that were just about to take live. But again, we'll bring in APHL and evolve that. So that piece is also being built. So it's about creating that flexibility, but within that single channel per state. Yeah, anybody else wants to respond to that comment? I think that just to emphasize the APHL is an organization that is already a well established and trusted third party with every state and territory in the US. So I think partnering with them as our hub for a key exchange between jurisdictions and between, you know, competing approaches, competing vendors, competing open source projects, we should not be competing on the key exchange methodology. And I think that that's where it'll become critical that we are interoperable between states. Assuming that our borders ever become fluid again, we'll need that capability. Yeah. If I could ask the question that Tim partially colored to Jeff in Virginia about how you're thinking about universities and other places and are they also stakeholders in Virginia. I think you're on mute, Jeff. I missed the first part of your question. Could you just repeat it for me? I was just asking, just as Tim was describing in North Dakota, are universities also stakeholders in the- Yeah. Yeah. So we did demos for all of our institutions in higher ed early on. When I say early on, it's when we had just started doing some beta testing. So they saw beta versions. We did a couple of those for all of our different higher ed institutions. And then we actually brought some of them on as well. We invited them to participate in our final third round of beta testing. So various IHEs got involved in that. And since then, you know, from a marketing standpoint, we're sending lots of things their way. We have different higher ed departments that have joined us that's supporters. If you went to our landing page, you'd see, you know, there's logos from different schools that are helping out. Some of them have incorporated this into their return to school plans. And one of them in particular, the University of Virginia, you know, well, pretty much every college has some kind of symptom tracking app that they're employing, right? So University of Virginia built their own and they've incorporated the link to COVIDWISE, which is our exposure notification app, right into their symptom tracker so that all of their students are required to have it, you know, can easily get to the app, and we're encouraging other universities to do the same. Fantastic. Alabama, of course, you're starting with a university. What's your thinking there? Yeah. So again, we're pretty much aligned with Jeff and the state of Virginia. Of course, the development started at the university, idea started at the university, and development and deployment all at the university level. So that has been our primary focus, but not our entire focus. We're getting ready to launch a statewide campaign, a communication campaign around this, and that will launch next week around getting people to download it and having them understand the value of using it. And in Alabama, one of the things that is of primary concern to the citizens is the privacy concerns. The perception is, is that their phone is tracking them. And what they fail to remember is that their phone is already tracking them. It's not this app that's doing it, but their phone is already tracking them. They're using maps and all kinds of things on their phone. And so we've had to do a lot of education around that because people just don't understand the nuances. And so we feel like that has been pretty successful so far. I mean, we'll see what broad adoption is like going forward. But so far, there's been a lot of excitement around it. Like Jeff mentioned with the University of Virginia, we also have built our own ongoing symptom and exposure monitoring application that has been out since mid March. And we have a kind of a circular link so that you can get from the exposure notification app into health checkers, it's called HealthCheck. And so there's definitely a way to communicate for the user between the two applications. Excellent. So I believe that the first time that the US teams had come on a common platform and in a public way. So I really want to thank everybody for, you know, sharing your very important learnings. And I think the most important lesson here is that all of us are here for a very important public cause. And it's just the beginning. It's very exciting to see Virginia, and I guess North Dakota and Alabama being innovative, being out there and sharing the learnings to everyone and others. Hopefully it will be out very soon. Sam, I know you have many of them coming out in the next couple of weeks as well. So thank you for sharing. You and Lina, thank you for sharing that tutorial on the app and the software as well. So our series will continue next Thursday for the Trust in Pandemic Tech at MIT and Berkeley in partnership with many of the organizations. And we are here to help states and nations in stage one launch their GAEN and case management apps. So thank you, everyone, and see you next Thursday. 