 OW! F**K! I'm here today working on my mom's 2010 Honda Crosstour. The liftgate arms on either side of this door have gone bad, After ten years, that's not so surprising. But you'll be surprised at how easy these are to replace. All right now, the first thing you're gonna need to do is find something that's gonna support this hood, so it doesn't come crashing down on you. Now we got a new set of these on Amazon for about 30 bucks. You've just got to make sure you're matching up the right model and make an ear of your car with the lift gate arms that you need. And also make sure that you're getting the rear and not the hood. As it turned out, I actually also have to replace the arms on the hood, which I will do later in this video. Now to get these off there's a little spot right here that you can put a small screwdriver and just kind of show that under there until that little bracket pops off. And then you just do the same thing for the one at the bottom. (wood falling to the floor) Whoops! Oh, my board fell! 'Uh oh! (laughing) Learn from my mistakes people! I switched out this board for a ladder, which is slightly taller. You really do need to make sure you get something that's right at about the right height, because as soon as you start pushing this thing up to get that old lift gate arm loose, it made my board fall, and then the thing came crashing down on me anyway. So... I mean if you have to, get a friend to come over and just hold it up for you. Now to put the new one in, you're gonna loosen up that same little bracket on the new one. And then also on the other end. Then just pop it on that little ball. Then the one at the top, as well. You may have to twist it a little bit down here at the bottom to get it to fit properly up here at the top. Ah, there we go. Then, you just move these little clips back into place. There we go! Then you're just going to do the same thing on the other side, and I actually did this once before on my Chrysler Town and Country minivan, so if you want to see that video you can go ahead and take a look at that. Although it is basically the exact same procedure. Ah! There we go! All right, let's see... Ta da! It works! Now, let's see... Pull it down... (trumpet fanfare) It works! This one also needs some new lift arms on either side. Luckily this one's a little bit lighter, but it's still kind of hazardous. Now to get these off you're gonna pry off these little covers here on the bottom and on the top as well. And it just comes right off. Same thing over here, move these clips out of the way. And it comes right off! Now the new lift gate arms for the hood cost us about 20 bucks for a set of two. They're a little cheaper than the rear because number one, this door or this hood is a lot lighter, and also it doesn't get opened as often. To put those on, you're just gonna loosen the clips They can be a little tricky....argggghhhh, okay! And then, just pop them right on there. Then just pop the clips back into place... And do the other one. Put the clips back in place. And let's go see! Worked! Yes! OW! Just stabbed my finger. That was really f**king dumb. (Extremely loud geese flying over) Those must have been really close out there. 