 Good morning. My name is Natasha Oyedele and I would like to welcome you to the NIH Office of Disease Prevention's Methods: Mind the Gap webinar series. This series explores research design, measurement, intervention, data analysis, and other methods of interest to prevention science. Our goal is to engage the prevention research community in thought-provoking discussions to promote the use of best available methods and to support the development of better methods. Before we begin I have some housekeeping items. You can submit questions during the webinar by clicking on the question mark in the WebEx toolbar. Please direct your questions to all panelists. We will open the floor to questions that have been submitted via WebEx at the conclusion of today's talk. The slides and video recording will be posted to our website prevention.nih.gov/mindthegap in approximately one week. You will receive an email when they are available. Lastly we would appreciate your feedback about today's webinar. Upon closing the WebEx meeting you'll be prompted to complete an evaluation. We would appreciate your feedback as it will help us improve this webinar series. At this time I'd like to introduce Dr. David M. Murray, Associate Director for Prevention and Director of the Office of Disease Prevention. Thank you, Natasha. Today's speaker is Dr. Harvey J. Miller. Dr. Miller is the Bob and Mary Reusche Chair in Geographic Information Science, the Director of the Center for Urban and Regional Analysis, and Professor of Geography at The Ohio State University. He is also a Courtesy Professor in the Department of City and Regional Planning, a member of the Faculty Advisory Board of the Sustainability Institute, and an Affiliated Faculty at the Translational Data Analytics Institute at Ohio State. Dr. Miller also chairs the Mapping Science Committee of the U.S. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, and as a member-at-large of the Data Section of the Transportation Research Board of the National Research Council. Dr. Miller's research and teaching interests are at the intersection between Geographic Information Science and transportation, in particular the analysis of human mobility within cities and regions. The main questions driving his research include sustainable transportation, livable cities, and the relationships between human mobility, health, and social equity. It's my pleasure to welcome Dr. Harvey Miller. Good morning and thank you for joining the seminar. What I'd like to talk about today is for me what I'd like to talk about today is how to use geospatial data to create healthy places,  how to instill environments for active living with GIScience. I'll talk about some research we've done in this respect looking at the impact of public transit on physical activity and then I'll generalize that and talk about the idea of opportunistic GIScience and how we can leverage events in the real world to form quasi or natural experiments that look at the impact of the built environment and other policies on physical activity and health. So what we mean by healthy places. Healthy places are places that encourage physical, mental, and social well-being. They facilitate physical activity and access to healthy food, minimize exposures to risks such as poor air quality, heat stress, and injuries, and our inclusive legible and convivial or friendly user friendly environments that maximize social interaction. Now a problem we have in the United States and increasingly elsewhere is that many places are unhealthy. We have created built environments that discourage physical activity. Physical activity is often unnecessary and often unpleasant, unsafe, and unhealthy, and as we know there are health consequences. We are seeing the rise of sedentary lifestyle diseases such as obesity, diabetes, health disease, and cancer. It's a leading risk factor for mortality in the United States, and it's a fourth leading risk factor globally, and this next slide shows how this is not just the problem in the United States and even parts of Europe but it's something that's occurring globally and even in the developing countries of the global south where our built environments that discourage physical activity are also being adopted in the global south and this is becoming a global health issue. Now one of the ways we can address this is through the idea of active living in healthy cities. So this is a concept that attempts to integrate planning and design with evidence-based health policy. These are separate areas; how we plan to design the built environment and health evidence-based health policy are now being integrated the idea is that we treat planning and design interventions as experimental interventions or changes in the environment, and we use data collection and evaluation to determine whether or not these works is the kind of successful interventions. And you'll see this under a number of science and policy initiatives. There's concepts such as healthy cities, active living research, the idea of Complete Streets, which I'll talk about a little bit later in my presentation, and the active design of building interiors to encourage physical activity. Now this is all well and good but there are some problems here. The problems are that human systems are complex. So when I see complex I don't mean complicated, I mean complexity theory. The fact that we have emergent properties as individuals, interact with each other, in the environment, and the things that occur at the aggregate level can be surprising from the complexity theory perspective and this means that policy interventions can have unclear and sometimes counter-intuitive outcomes. So the solutions I'd like to present this morning are an ecological approach that looks at the entire lifestyle of all facets of healthy living and also evidence-based policy. And the strategies I'll discuss are opportunistic GIScience and geographic information observatories, which are methods for facilitating opportunistic GIScience. And I will define these terms more precisely later in my presentation. So the remainder of this talk I'll first talk about healthy environments. Many people on this webinar may be familiar with this but just in case we'll review what we mean by healthy environments. We'll talk about design interventions and the ethological approach. I'll mention the real-world experiment we conducted the Moving Across Places Study in Salt Lake City. It answered the question "does public transit generate new physical activity?" And then I'm going to generalize this and talk about opportunistic GIScience and the use of geographic information observatories is to leverage real-world events so that these type of analyses that we saw on the map studies and you will see in this webinar are not one-off events but something that can be done on a continuous ongoing basis. So we talked about physical activity by design. One of the first places we start is the five D's of walkability. So these are the elements that must be in place for a neighborhood to be considered walkable. There's a diversity of activities or many things to do, not just residential, not just shopping, not just workplaces but all mixed together. There's a sufficient density in these neighborhoods. Distance the public transit is reasonable. There's easy access to destinations even beyond the public transit network such as walking and biking. And also street design. Street design is a very important part of this of the five D's it's the most difficult to quantify. The other four are very quantifiable. Design tends to be more qualitative and require some more in-depth exploration and deeper dives into what are the design features of the urban environment that can lead to physical activity. Now a concept is emerging in the last few years called Complete Streets and the idea is that streets are incomplete if they're only for automobiles. Roads should be habitats for all users: pedestrians, cyclists, and transit users. And on the right side of the screen you will see that there are two street, the same street scene in New York City before and after a Complete Streets intervention. Previously it was an environment that was conducive only to automobile traffic and all of their users were basically peripheral or denigrated but afterwards we could see some of the improvements. We see bike lanes, we see bus rapid transit or dedicated bus lanes, more clearly marked crosswalks, and these are the design features that help to improve walkability and give people a safe and convivial environment for conducting physical activity. Now this has also been brought into the interior buildings, something called active design. So these are urban design strategies that encourage walking, biking, active transportation, recreation, and building designs that promote active living where we work, play, and live through things such as the placement design of stairs, elevators, and indoor and outdoor spaces. So most of us are familiar with many buildings in the United States where you enter and the elevators are right in front but if you want to take the stairs it's often pushed into a corner, they're scary, isolated chambers you know or you wouldn't want to be alone too long. These are things that discourage physical activity within our buildings. So on the right side of the screen the lower half you'll see an example from China in Hangzhou where we have the escalator on one side but we also have these stairs with these very nice keyboards designed but then that stair is actually musical that when you walk up that stair it actually plays notes on the keyboard. And when they did this design intervention it led to more people taking the stairs from the subway station than taking the escalator. So this is all well and good. We see that sometimes the design interventions work quite well. However sometimes they don't. There's often unclear outcomes from these design interventions and on the screen I see several news articles and also a Transportation Research Board report that talks about these issues the fact that rich people walk and bike for different reasons and poor people. So how we would design a walking and biking environment for rich people and poor people needs to be different. There's evidence that you stand more at work you sit more at home. There's gender gaps and biking another physical activity. There's problems with air pollution where biking along busy traffic corridors can actually lead to more harm to your health than being physically inactive. Of course that's debatable but it does point out that there are some very complex things going on in urban environments that can make these design interventions the outcomes to be unexpected and not a straightforward as we thought. Now why would this occur? Well there's several reasons one is endogeneity. For example we talk about interventions like the police tree interventions is this attracting new physical activity or are we just providing complete streets for people who would walk anyways. Are people self selecting for walking neighborhoods and we're not really generating new physical activity. Context-dependence walkability in your home is very different than requirements for walkability in your work. Social factors, socioeconomic status, age, gender roles, these affect our activities over the course of the day our scheduling constraints and whether or not design interventions will actually be effective for these different social groups. Compensation effects I mentioned in the previous slide standing at work leads to more sitting at home. At least there's some preliminary evidence for that. And again unhealthy environments: air quality and urban canyons where pollution is concentrated. Heat stress, which is going to be more and more of a public health issue as climate change continues to make the world warmer including where I live in Columbus, Ohio. We've seen an increase in temperatures and there's concerns locally about cooling the city to encourage physical activity. And something called sick buildings these buildings that are sealed and only fed by HVAC and sometimes that can lead to poor air quality. As we make buildings more energy efficient, we can actually make the buildings less healthy for breathing and physical activity. Now this was described very well in a article in Nature in 2016 by Pollock and he talked about the problem with policy interventions and design interventions to address cities and obesity. He noted that there's multiple layers of feedback-- positive and negative loops-- that are feedback loops that are nested within each other that can make design interventions very, very difficult. So here no or I should say unclear outcomes and design interventions unclear. So these are the major processes that affect the relationship between individuals and obesity within urban environments. It's a matter of how much stress they feel, their normal levels of exercise, what kind of diet, what their commute is like, and someone an intervention and only one part of this can echo through these net positive and negative feedback loops and actually lead to unexpected outcomes including counterproductive outcomes from these design interventions. So we have to take into account the complex nature of the urban environment and the complex nature of human activities if we really want to get effective design interventions that will make our built environments healthier. So Sallis and his colleagues in recent years in 2026, excuse me in 2006, talked about this. The need that we need an ecological approach to creating active living communities. We can't think of things in piecemeal or isolated. What we need to do is think of the entire life of a person, the entire environment in which they operate. We need to think about their interpersonal characteristics the demographics, biological family situation, the perceived environment, the different act of living domains, recreation, commuting, household activities, occupation, embed this within behavioral settings including the physical setting in which these activities occur and finally what is the policy environment. What are the policy things that we're doing within a city that influences not only the built environment but other types of taxation subsidizing, certain types of transportation that all influence whether or not a design intervention will actually lead to individuals becoming more physically active. So it's a very complex multifaceted situation in which we're trying to intervene and make these environments healthier. So the ecological approach to healthy design looks at multiple levels of influence, personal characteristics, behavioral domains, physical settings, and policy environments. It's holistic. We look at all facets of active living and it also needs to be evidence-based. We want objective measures more than self reports. We want longitudinal studies rather than just a cross-section or a moment time and, of course, experiments are our gold standard for establishing causality. Now the trouble with doing this in the real world is that while it's difficult in the lab we can randomly sort participants between cases and controls and then we can see how an experimental condition leads to changes in behavior changes in outcome. Well the trouble is that the real world is not the lab and in the real world this can be infeasible and also can be unethical in some situations. We can't withhold, for example, you know healthy policies or interventions from some people just to see what will happen. So we still we can get beyond this problem by treating by forming quasi-, natural experiments in the real world. Quasi-experiments correspond the plan defense or interventions in the real world and natural experiments correspond to unplanned or natural somewhat random events in the real world, and I'm going to talk a bit about quasi-experiment in just a moment. An example of a natural experiment would be some disturbance that happens in an urban  environment. For example a few months ago in Columbus, we suddenly had hundreds of scooters drop in our city street. I know that's happened in other cities Washington DC, other places, and this had uncertain effects whether people this led people to drive less and walk, is it safe? These are things that just it just happened without any plan. This was something that was done by the private sector but it's something that could have been leveraged if we were ready to collect the data and see well what is the effect of this disruption on the physical activity and health of the residents of our city. So the experiment I want to highlight right now is the Moving Across Places Study or MAPS. I'd like to say I came up with this acronym for the study but one of the grad students did on this project who gets a gold star for that acronym. Being a geographer I love it. And this was a study of the impacts of Light Rail Transit and Complete Streets on physical activity in Salt Lake City, Utah where I used to live and I where it used to be a faculty member. And this is a quasi-experiment. So what happened was that we knew they were going to build this light rail line and they were going to build Complete Streets interventions- wider sidewalks, more vegetation, street furniture, along this light rail line. We knew this was coming. We applied for funding and got it, and we designed an experiment where we had the same participants before and after these planner inventions. And it's a quasi-experiment because we sorted people in the case and control depending upon where they live relative to the light rail line. So this will be a little clearer in this next slide. What you see here along the right here is the existing light rail line in downtown Salt Lake City and the dotted line right here with  the circles, that's the proposed new light rail line through this neighborhood. It connected downtown Salt Lake City to the International Airport. You see two lines on that on that map the blue line are the near group the people who live within one kilometer of a light rail stop those are the people who are likely to use light rail after this intervention. The red line becomes the control group. Those are people who lived in the same neighborhood but were not close enough to light rail that it was likely that they would use it. And the reason why those lines are jagged is because they're based upon walking distance along the sidewalk network. So the blue line is everyone who lives within one kilometer walking distance along the sidewalk network to one of those light rail stops. And the area between the blue line and the red line is people who live within farther than one kilometer but within two kilometers of one of the light rail stops. So what we did is we did some data collection. We did height and weight measurements of participants and also attitudinal surveys and then we gave them small GPS and accelerometers to wear for one week. This was different weeks over the course of the year before they built the light rail line in 2012 and then 2013 after. And we had 536 people complete both phases of the study. On the top part you see some of the height and weight measurements those are not participants those are some of our graduate students pretending to be participants. And what would happen is that the graduate students and research assistants would go and drop off the GPS and accelerometer and give an attitudinal survey and do these height and weight measurements and then they'd pick up the device a week later and while they were there they would plug in the GPS and accelerometer to a laptop and that was uploaded, fused and map-matched and then downloaded per participant review. So on the bottom of the screen here you see an example of the screen that we would present to participants and that by the way is not any participant data that is my bike ride to work when I used to live in Salt Lake City. My bike ride to work to the University of Utah. And we would if we detected a bout of physical activity we would ask people well do you recall this activity here's the date and time here's where it was. If they skipped yes there would be further screens asking them questions like did you feel safe?, was it convivial?, what was the purpose of this trip?, and things like that. Now the company we worked with Westat, we used their software, and this software was able to take the position from the GPS and also the accelerometer data, fuse it and do semi automated mode detection. We were able to detect from the GPS signature and the fused accelerometer literature or signature whether or not they were walking, biking, in a car, on a bus, or on the light rail system. It's semi automated because it did require interventions by research assistants to to manually flag some of it when they were border-lined cases but it most of the cases were handled automatically based on our review. Here's what the data looked like this is both time periods 2012 on the left screen and 2013 on the right screen and these are the GPS traces of the participants color-coded by whether they lived in the case region or the control region where they lived near light rail line or further away from the light rail line. And I like to say this is big Geographic data because it's the type of data where we just can't map it like I'm showing you here that doesn't really tell us anything we have to be a little more clever about how we dice and sort and analyze this in order to make sense of this really a large mass of a GPS and accelerometer data. Now the other thing we did is we did a walkability audit using the Irvine  Minnesota Inventory and this is a way of 160 attributes it's basic instrument for collecting data and we sent survey participants or excuse me recent research assistants into the neighborhood and they mapped every single block phase in 2012 and 2013 based upon these six dimensions of walkability. And we did a validation and we found that that we sent to different RAs down the same block and we check to make sure that their ratings were were consistent with each other and we had a good validation. So this is just map here is showing the neighborhood it's showing the attractiveness for walking and this corresponds to what we know about Salt Lake City because the green area to the north there in the center that's a residential neighborhood but the other areas that are red and yellow which are rated poor or attractive walking those are industrial areas and and other areas with high traffic. Now the major project aims and before I get in text that I should mention that we did this so that we were able to measure relationship between physical activity and and the built environment and also make sure there weren't changes in this built environment that beyond what money on the intervention I mentioned light rail and Complete Streets. Here are the major project aims the four major aims and you can see papers there that we published results from these aims. We saw increases in transit riders, cyclists, and pedestrians in this neighborhood. We saw that living proximal led to larger activity increases. Perceived attitudes of perceived walkability so people who think it's walkable and also our pro-neighborhood seem to have greater use of this intervention the Complete Streets and light rail intervention. And we saw that Complete Street users people who use this light rail line and walked on this Complete Street intervention that paralleled the light rail line and healthy physical activity and BMI changes. We also did some other studies where we looked at walking in the built environment and my PhD student Calvin Tribby who's doing a postdoc at NIH actually led these three studies that comprise his dissertation. We came up with ways of summarizing walkability and visualizing it. We assessed what are the appropriate geographic regions first for  analyzing walking trips and also looked at it on the predictors of walking a walking route choice through built environments. Another study we did is we found that the light rail line did not cannibalize bus ridership and that's something you hear sometimes about light rail you're just shifting people from cheap modes of public transportation to more expensive and we found that that wasn't the case. But the study I want to highlight right now is the question does public transit generate truly new physical activity? And you  may wonder why is that a question because we know that transit users are more active based on self reports and cross sectional analysis but this may not be new physical activity, which undermines the clean health benefits of public transit. Is this possibly not the new physical activity? There are confounding factors other non-transit factors such as density and activity mix in the neighborhood can influence that. And also a substitution effect. If people spend more time commuting to work in public transit they have may have less time for recreational walking. This is a matter of everyone has a limited time budget over the course of the day and we know that taking public transit takes more time than driving to work so people are just shifting their physical activity from recreational walks in the evening like with their dog or with their partner to commuting to work we haven't really generated new physical activity, we just shifted it. So what we did in this study is that we defined physical activity bouts as a minimum of five minutes with a minimum of a thousand accelerometer counts per minute and that's roughly moderate to vigorous physical activity. It's not a slow saunter but it's also not necessarily running. It's just walking with purpose I would describe it. And then looking through the data because we know the mode of every segment of these GPS trajectories because of the accelerometer data we divided physical activity into two categories: transit-related physical activity, which was physical activity within a trip that contains a bus or like light rail transit ride, non-physical activity was physical activity not use bus or light rail at some point during the episode. And then the two of them together is overall physical activity. And what we did is that we defined a public transit user objectively based upon the data we saw whether or not the participant rode bus or light rail at least once during the data collection week. And based upon that we divided people into four groups there was the never group the largest group that did not write public transit based on our observations either in 2012 or 2013 either before or after the new light rail. We had some people who continued their behavior who rode public transit before and rode after there's no intervention. We have a group that stopped riding public transit based upon our observation they rode in 2012 but stopped riding in 2013. And then we have new people. We have people who did not ride public transit in 2012 based upon our observations but after this new light rail line they started riding public transit. So these are the groups we're going to analyze I mean these are hypotheses. So there's two groups that did not change their behavior but never or continued growth. For never group we should see no change in physical activity based on our measurements because there's no change in other types of physical activity outside of light rail. They never rode on light rail mean we should see no other change in physical activity meaning that there's no confounding effects there wasn't some other change in the built environment that led them be more physically active. The continued group should see no change in a physical and other physical activity outside on light rail but they could have a change in their overall physical activity because perhaps now they're walking shorter distances to get to a light rail station. Now the other two groups that changed their behavior are the ones who we're really interested in here. The former group the people who stopped riding light rail we should see a decrease in physical activity overall and that should be totally related to decrease in physical activity related the transit with no increase in other physical activity. In other words the decrease we measure can be traced directly to the transit the new transit and not some other factor outside of the transit intervention. While the new people the people who started writing public transit we should see an increase in their total physical activity which is related entirely to increase in physical activity associated with transit with no other outside factor, no decrease, there's no substitution of trans-related physical activity or other physical activity I should say I'm on the former group as well we don't want to see a substitution effect in the other direction. The fact that they're spending less time in public transit doesn't mean they should up their physical activity outside of public transit. So here's the results we did in fact see no no significant change in the two groups that didn't change their public transit behavior never continued while the former group we saw this is near total physical activity time we saw a significant decrease in the amount of time they spent in physical activity this is normalized by 10 hours wear period. So the former group saw significant decrease in physical activity while the new group saw a significant increase in physical activity time. This is time by the way I should mention. This is related entirely to this is related to changes in physical activity associated with transit the former group saw decrease while the new groups new riders saw an increase in physical activity but there was no change in physical activity outside no significant change outside of transit so in other words there were no significant changes among the group it didn't change their behavior as well as the group that did which means there were no compounding effects in the environment that led to these observed changes in physical activity. And being a geographer I like the map thing so this is showing the GPS accelerometer points and what we're doing is we're using the GPS and accelerometer data to identify hotspots of physical activity. On the left side you see in 2012 the hot spots for physical activity and you can see that they're all clustered mostly on the existing light rail lines. I should mention by the way these little triangles here are bus stops so we're actually looking at all the public transit stuff, a light rail, and bus in this region. So this is 2012 on the left side of the screen. On the right side of screen you see 2013 and you can see that three of the five new light rail stations generated hot spots for physical activity. Why did the middle two not generate hot spots for physical activity? That's an industrial area and also the Utah State Fairgrounds are there so not many people are living there. It just shows that it's not just a design intervention but also the characteristics of the land uses around the design intervention, the light rail in this case that influenced some physical activity. This is showing people who continue riding public transit and on the left side in 2012 versus 2013 on the right side and here we see evidence that people who were  for public transit riders even before this intervention just for walking shorter distances to light rail stops and this is showing former versus new most of those people who stopped riding light rail or in the city center surrounding existing light rail stops we don't quite understand that yet. We've been looking into that and we could see here's the new the people who started riding public transit here on the right side of the screen and we could see that those three of the five light rail stops generated this new physical activity associated with transit. So to summarize we saw no change in the physical activity and the people who did not  change their public transit behavior. The people who stopped using public transit we saw a decrease in physical activity totally related to their transit behavior and the people who started using transit we saw an increase. Again completely related to their change in trans-related physical activity and not to some outside factor. We saw no confounding factors. We see no substitution for non-transit physical activity. Therefore we can conclude from this study that the transit physical activity is truly new physical activity and we can claim that public transit at least in this case had a positive impact on physical activity and health in this region. And I don't have this in the presentation but we actually measured BMI and we saw that the people who stopped using public transit had a significant decrease in BMI while people who started using public transit as significant increase in BMI not a large increase or decrease but a very tight low variance increase showing that even within a year we saw healthy changes and unhealthy changes among some in BMI. Now this was all well and good this was a great study enjoyed being part of it a very productive study in terms of publications but it was a one-off experimental one-off experiment with a limited study horizon. It was the anticipated event and we did a five-year study and we just didn't have the funding to do follow-up activity measurement. But what about unanticipated events and what about policies with complicated outcomes and time horizons? And I always like to go back to this example when was this? I think in 2016 or so when the DC metro shut down all day with one-day notice for emergency investigation or probably people living in the National Capital Region remember that day. When that happened I thought to myself, man, imagine if we had the apparatus set up so we could understand what were the impacts on activity daily activities people how they organized events and their physical activity. That would tell us a lot about the influence of public transit on physical activity and the impact of a catastrophic event such as shutting down an entire subway system for a city  on how people react to those type of major events. This leads to the idea of observatory science. Now what observatory science is ongoing data collection based on the favored view supported by technology and organizational processes such as this Observatory its astronomical observatory in in the picture there. We have a telescope. It's on a hilltop away from city lights and there's an organization of scientists and administrators to make sure that the data collection and analysis continues on an ongoing basis. Why do we do this? We do this to discover physical science we've done this to discover new and surprising hypotheses. We also want to understand complex multi-scale dynamics and we will also for monitoring policy. An example of that is volcano observatories. Most places in the world where there's an active volcano with population nearby there's a volcano observatory not only for science but also for reaction in case you know the volcano becomes active to warn people to get out of the way. And also a reason why we do observatory science or ongoing data collections because we're ready. We always have a baseline when something happens in the real world. Now we've seen observatory science for many, many years in astronomy. We've also seen in biology and physical sciences. We haven't seen as much with human sciences. We have seen some. There is a tradition of social observatories especially for public health where we collect and integrate data about a social phenomena focused on a particular place or region. But recently there's been the rise of something called web observatories and this is basically taking the web data out there collecting, sharing, and querying it to understand what is the information universe implied by the World Wide Web. So web observatory is basically a middleware for broad data all the complex data from diverse web sources and this showing you on the right side of the screen in architecture for a real-time web observatory. Don't worry about the details of that architecture. It's basically trying to highlight the fact that it's a combination of observatory portals, portfolio or portals excuse me data and visualization and analytical tools. So recent years there's been a constant relate to geographic information that's emerged called geographic information observatories. This is the idea of integrating and analyzing the broad geographic data associated with a place or region. We do this for one of two reasons. One is to actually observe the geographic information itself to explore and analyze the poorly understood geographic information universe-- the universe implied by our combined geographic information. But we also can use as a geographic observatory to study in the real world through the geographic information it produces and consumes and we all know that we live in a data world we're all walking around with supercomputers in our pockets. We're constantly ingesting information and then you know giving off information and what's called data exhaust from this as a byproduct of daily activities. Now this is something that's being worked on in several places. In the upper left there you see the Urban Observatory Project from ESRI and that is basically if you publish to their website you can see three different cities in this case I believe it's New York, London, and Berlin showing traffic at the same moment in time. So it's a way of comparing cities around the world. In the upper right you see POI Pulse which was from Grant McKenzie who did his PhD at UC Santa Barbara and he developed a basic observatory of the dynamics of Los Angeles based upon social media check-ins. And in the bottom left you see something we're working on here at Ohio State called the Columbus Urban and Regional Information Observatory which is a data dashboard integrating all the geographic information that's available publicly in Columbus, Ohio.It's actually live, you can play with it yourself. It's at curio.osu.edu and I encourage you to after I'm done speaking to login and check out some of the work we've done there to create a data dashboard to observe the geographic information in Columbus. So this idea of observatory and opportunistic GIScience basic culminates in geographic knowledge discovery, construction and use that leverages planned and unplanned events in the real world. And this is facilitated by our ability to collect geographic information persistently over time. There are three facets to this opportunistic observation, opportunistic experiments, and opportunistic decision-making. So as I mentioned one of the problems we're facing looking at human natural systems is that they're complex from a complexity theory point of view. We know that they're shaped very strongly by the context in which the interactions occur and also history, path dependence and lock it. So we're not going to be able to figure out like universals or general principles by just looking at one at one time especially when it comes to policy interventions. What we need to do is conduct ongoing parallel observations. We need to do is in different geographic context different cities and using the same data protocols and same measurements over time periods sufficient to lucidate a temporal dynamics whether they're short term medium term or long term and also having a baseline so that when something happens in the real world when they shut down your subway system with a day notice or when someone dumps  hundreds of scooters in your cities the baseline is there. We didn't know this is going to happen. It's an opportunity for a natural experiment. And some of these experiments we want to leverage geographic data. Again we always have that baseline measure of the mundane events. We can use these unplanned events as opportunities for natural experiments but also do it in a way that we can recognize complex policy of outcomes. The fact that for some policy outcomes there's non-binary outcome. Some people benefit some people don't benefit. The benefits can be uneven and this is also a way that we can tailor these interventions so that as we do small scale interventions and learn in a reflective way about who's winning, who's losing, who's benefiting, who's not, we can tailor these interventions as we scale them outward to other neighborhoods and to other cities. And also multiple time horizons as I mentioned before. So on the right side is screen, I'm this referencing a paper I wrote with Kristin Tolle at Microsoft Research. The idea of what type of spatial temporal data is available that allows us what the spatial temporal big data is available I should mentioned in other words data is available you know out there in cities that we can use that found data, this data exhaust in order to design healthy built environments in our cities. The other thing we want to do is not just collect data. We also want to do make our observatory into virtual laboratories. The reason is is that learning from evidence can be slow at complex systems. We know this from complexity theory. We can have lots of data and observe it over time but because of these things such as feedback loops, delays, nonlinearities, self-organization and path dependence. Now information knowledge comes out very slowly because of the nature of complex systems. So one of the things we'd like to do in these geographic information observatories is create virtual laboratories that involve simulation, agent-based modeling, geosimulation that integrate empirical and simulated data and allow us to perform experiments that are infeasible in the real world and also talking to make some predictions about what's going to happen in the future at least the range of possibilities based upon policy interventions in the present. I also encourage you to google the word 'digital twin' that's something that's come out of industry where they develop digital simulations of physical processes. This is something now you're starting to see with cities where people are talking about developing high fidelity, high-resolution simulations of cities and this idea actually has somewhat of a history. Back in 1993 David Gelernter, who's a Yale computer scientist, looked into the future and saw that all this data was going to be streaming into databases in the future. So he invented the concept of mirror world. The idea that we can create virtual reality that's tightly coupled to the real world via streaming data. A mirror world is a real-time, comprehensive, detailed interactive and discoverable portrayal of the real world system so the idea here is that with all this data coming in we can imagine it as a virtual reality but not a virtual reality that's separate from reality but a virtual reality that then mimics or mirrors the real world in a way that we're interacting in this virtual reality in the way we interact in the real world but in a much more controlled and also setting where we can perform some of these design changes and experiment some in a virtual laboratory. So this is a tool for investigating and managing reality, help scientists, leaders and citizens work together to understand these complex real-world systems including what makes a city healthy. And this is where we'll be going with this as we start to see continuing advances in virtual reality. So to conclude human systems are complex. We know that policy interventions can have unintended consequences. Designing healthy places is a good example. Geographic data collection has become much, much easier and there's opportunities for natural experiments that are happening all the time in our cities and in regions. So geographic information observatories are a way of going beyond these one-off experiments such as the map study and being able to do this on an ongoing basis not only for different new types of discovery in science but also for better policy and design interventions to make our cities healthier places. What are the concerns here? Well we have to worry about experimental ethics. They're the real world experiments are not always innocent. You can ask Facebook when they had you know they gave people happy versus sad news and and look at their reactions and it's led to a big outcry. We also of course have to worry about privacy and in the paper I discuss I mentioned earlier with Kristin Tolle we talked about how 3D urban models when there's major advances happening right now in 3D urban models that can be a mechanism for managing privacy in this very highly measured, high-resolution world. We also have to be careful about data hubris and I encourage you to read this article referencing here by Lazer et al. that was in Science in 2014 and they talk about the Google Flu phenomena where at first Google Flu you know looking at queries on Google for flu-like symptoms predicted CDC data really well and then after a year or so it started to overpredict and there were several reasons. One was that the people didn't understand the processes that generate the data turned out that Google engineers changed the search algorithm but also it led to a positive feedback loop, an echo chamber, as people heard about Google Flu predicting the flu they started googling Google Flu and that led to this bootstrapping where we began to wildly overpredict the actual cases of flu. So this means that we can't just take all this data and just think that you know it's the truth. We have to respect our theories and also remember that administrative or scientifically measured data and carefully measured data is as important as all this found data we can extract from the real world. So thank you very much for your attention this morning. There are three papers that are referenced explicitly in this talk and they're available at that website that you see on top of the screen. I also want to acknowledge funding from the National Cancer Institute for the MAPS Study. Thank you very much. I'll be here to entertain your questions. Thank you Dr. Miller a very interesting presentation both the specifics of the study that you described in detail and in the more general material. We have some questions from our audience. One question that came in early was whether the quasi-experiment that you described was making use of real-world participants and I think the answer to that question is absolutely yes. Yes. How did you find them? How did you sample them? This is neighborhood of Salt Lake City that had a lot of it's a it's a low-income neighborhood it's a lot of turnovers that was one issue. We had to recruit like a thousand people to get about 536. Most people who didn't drop out of the study but basically moved out of the neighborhood. it's near the international airport so again it's not a high-income neighborhood, But how do we recruit these people? It being Utah, we went through the local Mormon board system and actually recruited you know some religious leaders to announce this during their Sunday services. Did a lot of outreach in the community so basically we did a very I don't want to say aggressive, but a very proactive recruitment in the neighborhood in order to attract these participants. Another question has to do with comparability. So you didn't have the opportunity to randomize people to either live close to the transit line or sort of far away from it. And you certainly didn't randomize people to be former transit users, current transit users, new or so forth. So they're questions about comparability of the two geographic areas and they're questions about comparability of the study groups that you were comparing. How did you consider that? How did you take a look at that kind of comparability question? Well a very good question. Certainly the quasi-experiment is not as powerful as a fully randomized experiment there's no question about that there's going to be a little bit of noise in the system. What we did to kind of control that noise is that we chose the control group to be people outside the case group but within the same neighborhood. So the social economic characteristics of all our participants were the same. We looked based on our survey data and we asked people basic attitudinal questions. We collected social and economic data from them and we looked to see whether there was any difference between the case-control people we didn't see any significant difference. and we also look at our sample relative to census data and we didn't see any major differences from what the census data tells us about the neighborhood. So that's the way you look at that we couldn't really sort people, but we can do comparisons afterwards to see whether or not they truly are comparable groups. So you you knew from some data that the areas were similar. Did you have measures on individuals that you could include in the analyses to adjust for when you're looking at the outcomes? Oh yes of course yeah we gave these attitudinal surveys asked about pro-neighborhood and pro-walking questions. We asked for basic demographic data. Okay so yes we did have entry level data. Did I answer your question? That was very helpful. You showed effects within four groups and of course the number of people in each of those groups varied. I wondered about the net effect of adding the transit line. Did you consider whether there was a net effect in terms of more activity versus after the transit line went in overall. Because what we saw was some change in a good direction, in some folks and the change in the other direction and in other folks what was the net effect? Yeah right again most people didn't change their behavior at all. Of course in that neighborhood but we were worried being whether or not you know this had a positive net effect in the neighborhood overall. Well what we really did treat the people who changed their transit behavior as the experimental variable. And we wanted to know more people who changed their transit behavior whether or not whether or not this led to healthy increases in physical activity and whether this was new physical activity. But we did do some side studies looking at the impact on bus ridership and we didn't see any cannibalization of bus ridership. We did see increased usage of the street with the light rail and Complete Streets intervention so we saw more people afterwards walking down the streets now based on our observations in the neighborhood. So yeah the net affect we really don't know to be honest. We were just just concerned about the people who switched their public transit behavior whether or not this was this was healthy and led to healthier physically more physical activity. Well certainly it's very difficult to evaluate this kind of intervention and a randomized trial. Might even be impossible and the use of pre-, post-, quasi- experimental design with the measurement of potential confounders is another way to look at it and that's what you've done here. You've also hinted at a quite different method namely simulations and modeling probably agent-based modeling as a way to try to evaluate the impact of an intervention like this. Those kinds of methods work well if there's lots of data on the processes that are involved and the challenge is often getting the data so that you can put it into the computer program and then use it to look at things. Do you know of examples where those methods have been used to evaluate policy level or environment level interventions targeting physical activity? I'm not aware of physical activity [undiscernible] to help, but I am aware of these types of tools that are  becoming a standard in transportation planning. For example a number of years ago there was a software called Transcends that allows us to model traffic dynamics and travel dynamics in a city level for each individual person over the course of the day and what happens in these simulations that you take census data to time make sure that your aggregate outcomes are consistent with what you measured in the real world. And also you can collect data that relate people's social demographic characteristics with their likely activity patterns over the course of the day and then generate a synthetic population and use that to model the dynamics overall. There's  Transcends is one software. I just became aware of another one, Replica, that does that that's actually a commercial software that we're trying to sell the transportation planners that does what I described and basically ties down the simulation to tie down the simulation to census data and other data such that at least that when integrated you know that your simulation matches with the real world. Now of course when the things you're trying to simulate are things that are very difficult to measure correctly. We couldn't get those simulations by doing surveys and there are choice experiments that give us at least the rules that people use in order to make transportation decisions and then feed that into an agent based model. There's been a lot of work recently on using a machine learning you know there's a lot of work on machine learning in general everywhere but there's been some work on a machine learning where we can use like for example cell phone data and other types of data and activity patterns. Social media in order to infer what are the distribution of different activity schedules over the course of a typical day and then use that to feed into the rules for the simulation. We have a question of a different sort wondering whether we should change the design of our cities from car-centric to human-centric and wondering who's championing that kind of movement. I'm not sure that's a question you can answer but I thought I would share that one. It is a question. Me among many people yeah that's actually a big push now in transportation science and planning, the idea that we design cities for automobiles essentially and then what we have our cities that facilitate traffic and we have made you know other forms of transportation not only challenging but in some cases impossible. So there is a movement now towards planning cities around people. Complete Streets is one part of it but that's only one piece of it. Part of it is also on land use you can't really separate land use and transportation. So for example in my city in Columbus they just announced a new planning framework called Insights 2050 where they've chosen five corridors radiating out from downtown to the edge of the city where they're going to try to incentivize high density development and then provide those corridors with high-quality public transit and bike infrastructure. So this is what's happening now. This is the changing paradigm in transportation planning away from facilitating fast, free flowing traffic to thinking about people and how they interact in the city and planning our land use and transportation systems around around people not vehicles. Yes it seems like there would be opportunity for some natural experiments looking at neighborhoods that have been or even small communities that have been developed more recently with the goal of making them quite walkable and human-centric perhaps not whole cities but it at least sections or neighborhoods or small communities and comparing those to other areas that aren't using those methods and trying to get some sense of impact. Have you seen anything like that? In fact I have. There's there's something called new urbanist and new urbanist design. You can look that up. New Urbanism is basically old urbanism. It's kind of a misnomer. New Urbanism is trying to get cities back to the way they were before cars dominated cities. And there are a lot of design principles associated with new urbanist developments and new urbanist communities and there's been studies for that to show that neighborhoods that are designed along new urbanist lines lead to less traveling by car, more physical activity, more social cohesion, stronger social capital, people know their neighbors better, safer neighborhoods so that's basically the type of intervention that people are looking at you know to not car dominated neighborhoods versus New Urbanist communities and occasionally you know store-front neighborhoods which were originally designed to be walkable or at least they were designed in a preautomobile era so you are seeing some of these like I guess I'd call it case-control or least cross-comparisons between different types of neighborhoods. We have an observation from another listener that you had mentioned earlier in your remarks that travel by public transit always takes longer than car travel or something like that and her observation was that while that may very well be true and most or all of the U.S. there are other parts of the world where that isn't true and having just returned from Norway I can tell you that you can get from downtown Oslo to the airport in almost nothing flat on their wonderful train and I'm sure if I tried to drive it it would have taken much longer. Absolutely correct, I should have qualified that. In the United States in most cities it takes longer to use public transit than to drive. Not true in European cities which are denser, historic city corridors and also provided other ways to move around besides automobiles. I've spent plenty of time in Europe. I often lament the fact that I wasn't born Dutch. You know because I really like those type of cities that are very bike and pedestrian oriented but you know you're absolutely right. The reason why it takes longer in the United States is because we've designed cities that way. All right we are running out of time. Unfortunately because we still have other questions that we haven't gotten to but thank you very much for a terrific presentation. I'm going to turn this back to Natasha. Thank you Dr. Murray and thank you to everyone who participated in today's webinar. As I mentioned at the beginning of the webinar, we'll be posting the slides and recording of today's session on our website next week. You will receive an email with a link to the recording when it is available. Thank you. 