 Before Capdesk, we were using what every startup  I've ever worked at has used, and what I imagine most startups have always used, which is Excel. It's a great tool, very flexible, and you can do what you want with it. But therein lies the problem. It's all too easy to let an error slip in,  look at your data set in Excel and think is right. Every line of code in that Excel spreadsheet relates to an individual, more likely an employee, and that employee thinks they're getting a certain amount of equity. Your system says something different. At some point, you've got to square the circle,  and those cases are embarrassing and expensive, and they always come at the worst possible time. I'm Nick Pointon, CFO at Privitar.  I have over 20 years' experience in startups and I've been working at Privitar for over two years now. Privitar is a software company in the data privacy engineering space. We enable our customers to derive value from the secondary use of data while remaining compliant with various regulations, including GDPR. We are in our fifth year of trading,  our current headcount is about 80 and growing. We've just gone through a Series B fundraising,  raising over 40 million dollars from Axel amongst other investors. The real benefit of moving on to Capdesk from such an early stage in our development, when we were only at the time in the low 30's of employees, was that we could go in, get everything right from the start and then now you know that, whatever you're looking at, the data is right. When I've come across situations before  where we're fixing incorrect equity data , it's not so much to financial costs  - because those are very hard to separate out within a larger transaction; it's more the additional aggravation and time it takes. You're going through a transaction, someone's doing due diligence all over the the company's history, and you're busy enough anyway. You just don't need the additional aggravation. So if you can enter those kind of periods knowing that at least one thing is right, then you're going to be in a much better place and much more comfortable. My boss, the CEO, through his network came across Capdesk through some recommendation. He sent me a link, said 'have a look at this. What do you think?'. I had a look and I thought, 'Wow!', you know, 'Given the price point, this was something that we absolutely  should have'. The annual subscription fee that we pay Capdesk, or just paid at renewal, I estimate to be worth roughly four hours of a lawyer's time. So if you think that there was one error, let's say, in an Excel spreadsheet and it took your lawyer four hours to fix it, then Capdesk pays for itself  straight away from that first error. So if it's eliminating all errors,  the legal fees that you will save in the long run are huge. Using Capdesk for the first time was quite interesting because it's the first application of its type I'd ever used. There are certain features that we like to use a lot. What's interesting is  the the draft feature, which allows you effectively to report against things before they've been firmed up. It's actually quite handy to do some modelling and to  make sure that you've entered numbers correctly. We have been asking for new features,  and some pop up every so often. So I think, you know, as we grow together,  we'll be seeing our customer experience improving all the time. Every employee has  access to see their own equity schedules. We opened Capdesk up to all our investors too, so that they can see their own share holdings and that saves a lot of time. I very often get a question from investors saying, 'well, how many shares have I got?' and you just simply remind them they have access,  send them a new link, and they're in. They can answer their questions and they're very happy. Capdesk has helped our perception amongst our investors a great deal. I think it shows we've done this before,  we're not novices at this - running businesses with a view to  expanding them rapidly. The fact that we chose to move on to Capdesk at an early stage,  way before we desperately needed to, demonstrated to our investors that we knew where we were heading and it showed ambition. On a day to day basis, Capdesk has made running our equity something that is incredibly quick to address. I maybe get two or three questions a week from investors one way or another that require me to look at Capdesk, and I can log in - or even better give them a login - and answer questions quickly, accurately and get it right first time. In our last quarterly reporting to HMRC, we generated our EMI reporting from Capdesk,  which had the benefit of both being absolutely accurate and also looked good. if you can put in the work at a time when you are not horribly busy on a transaction and get your onboarding onto a platform like Capdesk done at a calm time, the investment will save you all the aggravation at a  time when you can least afford it: in the middle of a transaction, five minutes to your IPO. The sooner you can get off spreadsheets and onto a tool designed to store the data that you are trying to get stored, the better. An early investment today is going to save you a lot of pain tomorrow 