 But now, it's my pleasure to introduce  the next speaker, and we will actually dig-   -a lot deeper and leave no stone unturned-  -in the realm of information driven artificial intelligence- -and the power of data and algorithms. So our next speaker is Professor Mattias Ohlsson. He's professor of information technology at Halmstad University. He's also a professor in theoretical physics at Lund University- -with a specialization in machine learning for medical diagnostics- -and Mattias will lift the hood to shed some light on the practical challenges- -of implementing AI technology in real cases. Thank you very much for that nice introduction. I will talk about something called  federated learning today. That is... ... And marcus touched a little bit upon that- -it's a development that is needed in order to utilize data that is scattered- -all around us, and not being able to create one big data pot. But let's get started. You are all aware of the words AI and machine learning- -and you have seen the technology- -and for me this is a big revolution going on. And there will be major changes of how we live and how the future is evolving- -with this AI and technologies. Going back a little bit to the basics of AI- -many AI technologies today are  based on what is called machine learning. Machine learning needs data. And a traditional way of creating these machine learning tools- -is to collect data and start training models. And this has shown great advancements. We have reached human level performances- -in some areas, like image analysis and language technologies where- -machine learning techniques today   perform even better than humans do. But data can be tricky to collect, and to collect in one big data lake. Therefore we need techniques that can  take advantage of the fact that there are- -data scattered all over the world. So we need techniques that can work with... ...data that are not just in one place. So how do we create machine learning techniques- -or how do we create the machine learning tools- -when we have data that is scattered all over the place. And one can naively start to work with models that just collects data- -and take a little bit of data that is in one place, and we train the model- -and we take a little bit of of data that  is in another place, and we train the model. This is, of course, one thing that can be done- -but this is not the way we want to do it in federated learning. Because there is one thing important here, and that is that, typically, data is sensitive. So we cannot really share the data. And in many cases we are not allowed to share the data. So the data needs to stay in its local place. But we would still like to train machine learning models And then of course – how do we achieve that. Well, there are many different ways of doing that. Illustrated here, we train some machine learning model at one data place- -and we transfer that model to the next one- -keep on training it there, and we go round and round- -and eventually we are happy, and we have a machine learning tool. This approach may not at all be the most successful one- and for many, many  different reasons. So there is a huge field in federated learning trying to come up with technologies that- -enables creating machine learning methods when you have data scattered all over the place. And we know terms like swarm learning,  we know terms like edge computing- -and then we have federated learning. They all describe a lot of different techniques with the same aim. Now... there is one more thing- -and that is, when it comes to  federated learning and healthcare data- -we are very sensitive about- -that the data can never leave the place where it's stored. So we have this privacy wall. And we really need to be sure that when we do the federated learning- -when we come up with a tool  using data from many different places- -that we need technologies that- -do not allow any sensitive data  that goes away from the data itself. We talk about privacy preserving techniques,  and there is a number of different ways- -of doing that as well. We can have differential privacies, it's one of these topics. We can have encryption, we can have blockchain methods. It's really an active research field in trying to figure out- -how can we do this federated learning while preserving privacy. Now, let me move a little bit to the area of healthcare. Why do we want to have federated learning in healthcare. Well... ...we know that data machine learning can be very data hungry. So... ...it may not be enough to just take all the data that we have in region Halland. It may not cover all the variations  of the data that we would like to see. We have these concerns that a lot of the speakers have brought up here- -about ethical issues – biases in the data. It could be so that all the population  in region Halland does not represent- -the whole world population – of course it doesn't. So we need to collect more data. We need more variations of the data that we see. So just for that reason we need to expand and use healthcare data- -not only from  our local place. So for that reason federated learning is an important technique- when it comes to healthcare. Because we cannot really assemble all the healthcare data- -that we for instance have in Sweden into one common place. That is simply something that will be very, very tricky to achieve- -for many good reasons, as well. So federated learning is a technique that we really want to push- -when it comes to creating AI and machine learning tools in healthcare. So just how do we do it today. Well, in many regions I would say- -you have a procedure that you apply for ethical approval- -and you try to extract portions of medical data from the healthcare systems- -you anonymize it, you take it outside the system- -and then you train your machine learning tool. That extraction of data can be extremely slow and complicated. Here in region Halland there is another approach- -which is much, much more efficient- -when it comes to actually utilizing the healthcare data. It never leaves this privacy wall. instead you can work with all the data that you have collected- -and you can do machine learning within the privacy wall. And this is, of course, a much more efficient approach. However... ...at the moment, we cannot use other regions healthcare data- -when we want to do things here in region Halland. So the federated learning approach is really- -something that we need to move towards. What are the activities that we have here at the university- -when it comes to federated learning. We have activities in connection to  to this project that Markus mentioned- -the... ...project that was partly funded by the Vinnova information driven healthcare- -that is coordinated by AI Sweden- -where we... ... Well, the basic aim of that project is to spread the word of how things- -are done in region Halland, I would say. We have a couple of... ...work packages there. One is for... ...creating methods for federated learning. And another package that you will hear about in the afternoon- -is about the implementation of AI solutions. So what we really want to achieve  is to make a demonstrator where we want to- -evaluate how a federated learning technique- -can be implemented using the region Halland data. So we basically want to sit here at the university- -train machine learning models- -using the data inside region Halland,  or behind the privacy wall. This is what we aim for. And to see that this is achievable  with the technologies that exist today. Ideally... ... We'll see what happens, but it would also be  be very interesting to involve another region.  I call it X, because we don't really know which one it will be yet. But this will be the ideal demonstrator- -to actually use data from a couple of regions- -and see that we in an efficient and secure way- -can develop machine learning tools. We will work with a test case, which is a study that is something- -that was produced here using region Halland data. It is a 30-day mortality prediction tool, and we know all the results from that. So what we will try to do in the demonstrator- -is to see if we can achieve the same performance as they did- -but in a federated learning structure. We will evaluate the performance- -we will see how the computational efficiency  – see if we can maintain that- -and we will very, very closely monitor the privacy issues. Okay, I think I will stop there and say thank you. Thank you so much, Mattias. Wow. Federated learning for better healthcare. That's a new word for some of us, I guess. So, Mattias, one aspect of information driven healthcare- -here at Halmstad University is the Kaiser health platform. Can you tell us a little bit more about what that is- -and what it aspires to do. Okay, so Kaiser health platform is a research initiative. It's a collaboration between the region, the municipalities, the university- -and the industry- -in order to drive this  information driven care vision. And we want to work with the AI technologies in order to do what we call precision healthcare- -to make better diagnoses, better predictions and so on. We also want to see if we can move... Typically today when we do machine learning we work with data produced at the hospital. Can we also work with data that is produced outside the hospital- in a smart home environment. Can we empower patients with AI technologies- -so that they really don't need to go to the hospital. And the third leg in the Kaiser health research platform- -is about implementation. So, we really want to make a difference here. We really want to study how and show cases where- -we implement developed AI technologies. So I think the Kaiser health platform is really something that is aimed towards- the information driven care vision. Yes. Markus mentioned before that the last two steps of the innovation process- -were the hardest – really getting it out there and provide value. Do you agree, or do you think that, for example, the technological intricacies- of federated learning is trickier? I agree that that is true. I mean, you can just look at the amount of published papers- -on how you can use AI technologies on retrospective data- -and see that we can achieve better performances than physicians. There is a enormous amount of such promising papers- -promising technologies, and so on. But a very, very tiny fraction of all these are actually used. And this is where we we want to go. And just by the fact that there is a tiny fraction used- means that, of course, this is tricky, then. Yes, exactly. So, that's a scientific proof, that the last two steps are tricky- -my literature survey. 