 So the difference between virtual and augmented reality, there's starting to be a commonality in how its defined and so from an augmented-reality perspective think of this room as being the physical environment and there are digital objects that are overlaid in this physical environment and so people typically think of the famous Pokémon Go as an example of augmented reality. Virtual reality on the other hand is a more complete sense of immersion so if i put on a headset and I completely look around this room what I experience is very detailed, digitally-rendered. So a lot of places are looking at how it can be used in industry and how it can be used to control real-world devices. We're looking at it from more of a cognitive side, so how it can be used to actually retain knowledge and give people experiences they can't have in any other way. One of the things that were working on in the healthcare field is working on training applications for doctors and nurses for operating room environments. We're also looking at different kinds of surgical training and familiarization techniques for new doctors and nurses. For the immersive reality symposium we held at Penn State, I managed a group of undergrad students to develop some demonstrations to show off some of the VR hardware. I also provided some contacts and worked with some of the companies that came into this symposium to actually be represented there. October 31st turned out to be a great opportunity to showcase the virtual and augmented reality technology. So we were able to have a Halloween-themed dance performance that overlaid real dancers with digital dance characters. It was really exciting to attend the immersive reality symposium in the hub. There was so much excitement among the students and the companies that were visiting. I think the thing that caught me though is it's such an early technology as far as it's development. But you can see the promise. We had more than a 150 applicants. I think the final number was 170 attendees and we had a strong panelist group of individuals that included an astronaut from NASA, a colleague from Nvidia, Boeing and it's an excellent opportunity for industry and academic partners to collaborate on a common idea. And the common idea here is training and access to knowledge. The ultimate goal of our research is to expand the reach of knowledge across the typical boundaries that confine higher education and just training in general. I'm very interested in what he's doing in virtual reality cause our challenge with the world campus you're trying to create a place at a distance and so how do you make an experience for students who never come to Penn State where they really feel like they're part of the communities. So there's opportunity with virtual reality on a student engagement side but there's also opportunities in the classroom relative to labs and in various experiments that you can doing using virtual reality. There are numerous initiatives that have spun off from that. Our colleagues in communication arts, architecture. So I think it's fostered this community here that there are multiple individuals that are interested in conducting research in this space. 