 Augmented reality everyone has probably heard about it but not many of us know what that it is or its magnitude of its use.augmented reality is not to be confused with its cousin virtual reality.Augmented reality also known as mixed reality its purpose isnt to cut out the real world and trasfers you to another one but rather is an enhancement of your real world with a set of virtual objects in it. although aumented reality seems to be straight out of a science fiction,the truth is its here today and is easily accesible by anyone with a smartphone.like if you had played the game pokemon go or used snapchat than you have already used the primitive forms of augmented reality. so guys sit back as we are about to discuss on some interesting facts about Augmented reality. 9-The Museum of London The Museum overlays 400 years of historic images on todays city streets.Street Museum makes creative use of google maps and geotagging to show users how london used to look during the war,and one can also check out pictures and info about nearby locations,which gives a feel of a straughtforward walking tour at the midst of a battle. 8-Time saver in the recent years the android app market has seen a major breakthrough,with the new imerging ar apps. such an app named as 3D Tracking helps you to self-diagnose the issues with your car before even taking it to the mechanic. 7-The trend the ar has gained high grounds as Google announces shippment of google glass device for customers all over the world, thus spearheading the trend of wearable augmented reality for the first time. 6-The Impacts In July 2016, Pokémon Go,a game that reached a thershold of 45 million daily users. Nevertheless, this amount dropped to 30 million the following month and continued decreasing.The game was associated with numerous crimes inclusive of theft, assaults, bad driving and robberies. All of this signified the risks of merging the digital world with the real world. 5-the real game changer Microsoft HoloLens is the first self-contained, holographic computer, enabling you to engage with your digital content and also interact with the holograms in the realworld and this technology was only possible after microsoft purchasing Minecraft maker from a company named Mojang 2 years ago. for a estimated currency of $2.5 billion usd 4-Round the corner Augmented reality is the technology used for enhancing our real world with a composite view of layers in it,this very concept seemed to be out of a scince fictions few years back but now this user experience is easily acessible with a wide range of Augmented reality apps available these days in the android or ios market 3-Good for nasa Since it can augment the effectiveness of navigation devices, no wonder it was applied far wider than only for commercial purposes. In 1999, NASA’s x-38 was flown utilising a special AR dashboard by laying maps and instructions for navigation purposes. 2-Higer projections The AR Market is expected to grow up to $90 billion industry by 2020. Digi-Capital a tech journal insights that almost 50% of revenue to come from sales of Augmented reality is from its hardware. 1-Early bloomer Augmented reality has its roots back in the year 1968 when – an American computer scientist Ivan Sutherland created the first head-mounted display system at Harvard University.although It showed only simple wireframe drawings and computer-generated graphics it lays its foundations for the ar concept. 