 Hello friends back to JalanTikus video Oh, before starting this topic don’t forget to Subscribe and Like yeah Augmented Reality technology is growing very fast Augmented reality, or commonly abbreviated as AR is a technology that combines the two-dimensional or three-dimensional virtual objects into a real three-dimensional environment and then projecting the virtual objects in real time. This time we will give recommendations for Augmented Reality applications that you have to try. The first one is LAY AR LAY AR bridge the real world and the digital world This LAY AR is the Augmented Reality application that allows us to search the content of various media around us You just have to point your smartphone's camera at an object then a live content will appear and provide specific of information Like shopping catalog, movie posters with trailer and information anytime through and Geo Layers help you to find important places such as ATMs, restaurants, historic location, or anything of interest nearby Furthermore, we have Ingress Ingress is a game that combines Augmented Reality digital world and the real world. In the Ingress game you are required to walk and explore the area around it to be able to play. In the Ingress game there are only two camps: Enlightened and Resistance. Both sides will always compete to dominate the region. As more territory is dominated on one side, then the storyline will be influenced by it. Ingress from the beginning was created to encourage players to get outside, explore the historic sites and art called ‘portals’ in the game. Then there's the Star Walk Reach the beautiful stars in outer space in your smartphone Yes, Star Walk is the Augmented Reality app that lets you see the stars with more interactivity. With the Star Walk, you just point the camera to star, then use your existing sensor in your device to determine the point that you are looking for. Star Walk will show the layout of the stars and planets that are layered on your smartphone screen. Furthermore, there is iStaging  iStaging emerged as one of the demo applications, even so these applications can also work on smartphones in general. iStaging is available for Android and iOS devices, he took advantage of the camera to bring into the world of interior design Augmented Reality (AR). The last one is Augment - 3D Augmented Reality Application Augment - 3D Augmented Reality brings a lot of things in the real world to the digital world Through our smartphone cameras, you can discover a variety of unique characters and bring it right in front of you. Very fun right, now we can see things in a new way. Now that's 5 Augmented Reality applications on Android, which bridge the real world and the digital world. This technology is predicted to succeed, but until now there has been no significant development. Do you have any other recommendation? Please write down in the comment section right. Oh yea, as always do not forget to Like, Share and Subscribe. 