 Hello dear friends. I am pleased to present you the first sensible, at least in Russian-language YouTube, compilation applications implemented Augmented Technology reality. So put Like and arranges Sit back. Two things that need to be know about augmented reality on the iPhone and iPad. The first - AR Kit supports only iPhone Se, 6s, 7, 8, 10 and plus versions, All models pro ipad and ipad 2017 11 for iOS control. Second - yes, the battery charge out mercilessly. Well, we start. The developers of this app really deserve attention. Guys do not just use newfangled feature, and actualize its capacity by 100%. Tutorial clearly show and tell how It operates the transmission, battery It gives the charge, laser light, which consists of shares brain and much more. Firstly this is a good, detailed interactive. All you can rotate, zoom, touch the parts and get tips. Secondly, there is a turn-based obuchalka like teacher the book tells about those or other things. Third - this is not a one-off program, but an entire platform which will be loaded new sorted on unit categories. The app is free, but to my great regret in English. On the other hand - a good reason to pull a foreign language. JIG Space - this is probably the most useful, impressive and inspiring application from all available categories AR. This is it - the future of the system education. And many things are getting complicated a little easier. Due TapMeasure you can measure the length of objects, determine the deviation figures from a predetermined plane and even create a three-dimensional premises based plan Doors, windows and other surfaces. That will have an interactive a model which can be View all sizes. Very handy thing, especially when you need something, sketch or measure, and on hand no tape measure or laser. Of course, the accuracy of reserves much to be desired. Accuracy per meter can centimeter, and be more. But in the absence of any tools such decision It is still a way out. The guys from IKEA quickly picked up and have adopted ARKit making a cool addition to its catalog. Now many things Swedish furniture factory can enter in my room and look at how many good or not is will look. models vysokopoligonalnye and it looks very cool. There are two main complaints - there is no way to scale objects, just an app not always exactly matches the size, and lack of programs in the Russian App Store. The rest - keep it up. Add more stuff from the directory, tie to them all the characteristics and you will be happy, and we convenience of the sea. If you can not draw, then all is not lost. And for that, in the initial stage it is not necessary to go on the circle in the House of Culture. Sketch AR app helps you with this. Hovering preferably on sheet A4 scanner detects camera and it will show four dots which must be drawn. For the system, they will the count, then will project selected from the catalog image. Of course you can with one hand Keep it up, and the second outline picture, but it is better to fix Smartphone or tablet tripod. With SketchAR you easily get good and important proportional skeleton image. Then, already without left help finish the job. The main focus of this application It rests on the drawing drawing floor plans and Augmented reality in this great It helps. There is no need to draw each line - quickly went over the room pointing angles and a ready plan. Where necessary - corrected, where necessary - dorisovalizatem, add doors, windows and furniture of a structured catalog and now through 5 minutes you have prepared a great a sketch that is not ashamed show. During repairs this application It will be simply irreplaceable. Cool that then all premises can be obtained combined into one project and get an apartment, or house. One of the first test examples of augmented reality It was programm from Apple allows to arrange a couple of things furniture. Developers have developed Housecraft this idea and added a bunch and interactive elements housewares? Objects can be placed with high precision, rotate, scale and even placed virtual model of each to the friend. So furnish the room interior elements, let and virtual items, It is not difficult. Far from being a new application Night Sky after the recent apdeyt received two modes augmented reality - a classic, overlaying with starry sky and the solar reflection system. The truth is the last feature available by subscription only. Well that at least the first kneading fi free. So pamper, poizuchat sky and our system and This is enough. The guys from Yandex decided become pioneers in a world where cartography and augmented reality coexist. The pedestrian mode, the construction Route on the terrain will display and point the way To her. While this is all implemented very simply and practically It does not have any benefit, but it is a good example that in this direction you can work and it will be look organically. Left finished bind route, add to buildings online tablets and make sensible augmented reality glasses and tech future definitely will be a step closer. This app will tell and show routes and the status online flight of certain flights. If we discard pile of the main functions and navigate on augmented reality, the basis of its history, Flight time ever. Whether for a particular year program shows a three-dimensional ball all your flights and stranded mileage. Benefit from it a little, well, Of course you can stir nice frame in instagram. But if developers integrated flight flights in augmented reality online would be much steeper. And closes our list risovalka in AR. Nothing special there is no - choose color Tools or any effects and just indulge in, describing virtual environment. Why would you want in practice - I do not know. So still and developers provided only limited number of tools colors and features. For the rest of you please pay. Unfortunately, applications implemented with augmented reality in the App Store is negligible, and intelligent of them even less. With Google Play, such programs will start to appear a little later, because Google has tightened with the release of a package for developers. That's all. With you was Vadim Ishchenko on ProTech channel. See you soon. See you in the next video. Bye Bye. 