 Hello there my name is Mark Cundle and I'm the CEO and founder of Austella Austella is a 3D VR and AR development studio based in the UK. Austella for a number of years now has been developing applications both VR and AR for the industrial sector and we've seen that growth really explode over the past year and a half has both VR and AR Hardware becomes more accesfull. In virtual reality in particular what we initially saw as companies using VR for marketing awareness towards more than anything to showcase a new product launch or to showcase their brand but more what we're seeing now is using VR for education and that's education of both internal staff and customers. Moreover the emergence of social VR is now really starting to impact the industrial sector as design teams from across the globe can occupy that same virtual space and it retakes collaboration to the next step. In AR as an interesting subject. AR has perhaps not gone at the same level as marketing hype as VR, but certainly at Austella we see a far more numerous and wide-ranging number of applications in augmented reality. Google glass in particular, was saw much criticism when it launched to consumers three years ago. It's actually quietly being used under the radar by some the largest industrial companies in the world. What we're doing, Austella is really combining some of the AR technology with things like image recognition and for example where that could be used is in comparing a known perfect system with a system that you're working on an identifying bugs and issues in that design and manufacturing process stage. Often companies fall into two kind of categories. There are the followers and the leaders of the innovators. And I think the followers are still waiting for that that killer applications and of course much like tablets, when they launched eight, nine years ago now and everyone's waiting for that killer application that never came but tablets still took off and that was because the number of different and the variation of applications exists now for tablets is really what has catapulted that technology and the same will be true of VR and AR there won't be no single killer application but certainly from what we've seen so far there are many many different companies using that technology in lots of different ways 