 Augmented Reality enables a significant improvement and redesign of a large number of industrial application scenarios. These are digital manuals that are faded in directly into the user's field of view using data glasses. This makes work considerably easier, enables more efficient and thus cheaper maintenance processes and reduces the error rate. Creating such documentation for a concrete process is a complex and labor-intensive process with current methods. Linking the real environment to its digital representation requires expert knowledge in 3D image processing, making it difficult for the domain expert to handle the creation himself. To solve this problem, the previous approach has been extended to include methods of artificial intelligence. We call this combination cognitive AR. The creation process is carried out by the system as follows: The work process to be documented is carried out by a maintenance technician as normal. The biggest difference to his usual day-to-day business is that he records the process with head-mounded glasses. The resulting reference video is then processed by a wirelessly connected server. Our technology is able to interpret an in-situ recording, to recognize the individual work steps and to create an interactive documentation from the generated data. The result can be displayed in different output formats: For example, as a speach-controlled utility film, as an interactive Augmented Reality manual, or assistance system, or as printable HTMLdocument. Background information, texts and additional illustrations can be drawn directly into the sequence. The three-dimensional locating of the annotation is carried out fully automatically by the system. The software can be used with almost any device equipped with camera and display. From smartphones, tablets and laptops to special glasses worn on the head. So far, expertise in various technical areas such as 3D image processing, graphics and tracking technologies was a prerequisite. With the ioxp system, the domain expert himself is empowered to create interactive documentation himself for the first time. For further information, please visit www.ioxp.de 