 Welcome, this webinar is on using augmented reality in the classroom. I'm Elizabeth Stewart and I contract with STAR as an assistive technology specialist. I'll start by telling you a little bit about myself. I'm currently pursuing a PhD in special education at the University of Alabama while working as a graduate assistant. I'm an adjunct professor in the department of curriculum and instruction at the University of Alabama Birmingham as well as a contracted assistive technology specialist for STAR. I graduated from Auburn University in 2003 and started a 12-year career as a middle school special education teacher. While in the classroom I've developed an interest in assistive technology and have been working to develop my skills and expertise in this area. STAR is Alabama's state wide assistive technology resource. We provide on-site AT training, AT demonstrations, AT resources and referrals, conference presentations, as well as a lending library. Use the QR code below to learn more and check out our website. So, why are we here? Today we're going to talk a little bit about what augmented reality is, a specific augmented reality app called Aurasma, and then examples of how people are using Aurasma in their classrooms. So what is augmented reality? Augmented Reality or AR is a live direct or indirect view of physical real-world environment whose elements are augmented or supplemented by computer-generated sensory input such as sound, video, or graphics. Let's watch a video that tells us more about what augmented reality is. Unlike the full immersion of virtual reality augmented reality aims to make the world you already see so much cooler. Augmented reality is when digital information is overlaid onto the actual physical world. Your camera detects a target image and can figure out how close or far and at what angle the target image is from the camera using sensors. It then projects digital information onto that target image and voila, augmented reality! In fact snapchat has recently added augmented reality to their features with the new lens filters. Let's switch over to see exactly how this works. Ok, so here we are in snapchat and as you can see these snapchat uses facial recognition to create a target image of my face so now that it has something to track it can project digital information onto my face and that's the basics of augmented reality. Some of the earliest uses of augmented reality were the heads-up displays on fighter jets allowing pilots to see important information projected in front of them on their windshields. This technology eventually made its way to automobiles and even your eyeglasses with Google Glass. There are many apps you can download right now that utilize augmented reality. Yelp for instance has a feature called Monocle that lets you see restaurant reviews and information around you. The snap shop showroom app uses augmented reality to show you how furniture will look in your room before you buy and a our zombie's lets you shoot zombies around the office like your Rick from The Walking Dead. One of the most impressive uses of AR for gaming came with the announcement of the Microsoft Hololens. The Hololens uses advanced sensors and hardware to scan your room and creates images based on your physical space you can interact with these images and see them from different angles using the hololens headset so when real reality is not enough and virtual reality is too much augmented reality should be just right. As you saw in the video Snapchat is a popular form of augmented reality that's being used all over the world. Pokemon Go is another app you may have heard of. Let's see how Vespa is even using AR as a marketing tool. Pretty cool, huh? So now you've seen lots of ways that companies are using augmented reality for games or for marketing so how can we utilize augmented reality ourselves and in our classrooms. Aurasma is a free augmented reality app that I'm gonna be focusing on for the rest of this presentation. Just so you know, I'm not affiliated with Aurasma or an expert at Aurasma I just have enjoyed using it with my students. So who can download Aurasma? Aurasma is a free app and it can be downloaded from the App Store or Google Play onto iPhones and iPads and Android phones and tablets. Before we begin go ahead and download the Aurasma app. Once you downloaded the app you're gonna create a username and password and then you're gonna make sure that you're logged in you may want to pause this while you do that so you can participate Once you're logged in you will see a screen similar to the one pictured here there's gonna be a little purple button at the bottom if you're not if you do not see the dots then click the purple button and it will take you to this screen so you want to see the little white dots and they're going to be moving on your screen okay once you're there then you'll be able to activate an aura and I have some examples for you to try. So you're gonna hold your phone up to the screen a distance away that you can see the image, the twenty dollar bill, and your dots will be moving and once they activate you should see some really fun things going on with the twenty dollar bill. Now let's try another one. If you hold your phone over this image you should see your white dots moving, once you activate the image you should see a video of some hockey players. Now let's practice with some Star Wars poster when you hold your phone over the image you should see your white circles you're moving around on the screen once it's activated you see a cool video of some neat things going on with the star wars ships and logo okay now that we've seen some already created auras how do we create an aura of our own. Let's watch a with a step-by-step guide. After you open the app you'll see a camera screen tap the Aurasma logo at the bottom of the screen to go to the menu. Tap the icon of the person in the bottom right corner, then select the second option in the top menu bar called "My Auras" tap the plus icon on the right to create a new aura and select aura from the pop-up menu tap device in the bottom right corner and then press the plus again then select either camera or photo app depending on where you'd like your overlay to be from. Then choose whether you'd like a photo or a video. This is your overlay which will show up over the top of your real world image. Give it a name and tap finish. If you're asked to create an aura with your overlay fantastic say yes if not simply select your overlay from the menu and tap select this will take you to a camera screen to photograph your trigger image this is the image they are overlay will go on top of. Make sure that slider at the bottom of the screen is in the Green Zone this means the image will be easy to detect and the aura will work better once you are happy with the trigger image rotate and resize your overlay to ensure that fits well on your trigger and then tap the arrow to proceed once again name your image make sure the public is selected and it's added to your channel, then tap finish. This will take you back to the camera screen where you can test that your aura works hold the camera to your trigger image and there you go. You've just augmented reality using Aurasma. Well done! Okay to recap you're gonna pick your content from the Aurasma library or your device you're going to take a clear picture of your trigger remember, don't press the button until the bar goes green, and then also get your content into position and scale it. When you're ready, tap the arrow you can find more step-by-step directions on the Aurasma website if you follow the QR code link you can access the Aurasma.com site and they have lots of step-by-step directions as well as video tutorials that would help as you learn. We're now going to watch a couple of videos from other teachers that are using Aurasma in their classrooms or their schools, I encourage you to look online and research other ideas there's lots of really innovative things going on using this app and other augmented reality apps. But let's start by watching these two videos. Okay so let me show you Aurasma. Now I've downloaded it off of iTunes you can download this off of Google Play too and you're gonna notice it's gonna pop up here in a minute hit this little "A" and at the bottom you'll see a plus sign. So you hit the plus sign to get started and you're going to notice it has a library of different items so we have animations we have images and we have 3D images. So I'm gonna do vocabulary words today and you can take Aurasma and pretty much turn all kinds of things in your classroom alive. So I'm gonna do vocabulary words so I'm going to take playing so I just take some regular paper wrote playing down and I'm gonna pick my image here's Cherpi and he's playing with a ball and that's the image I'm gonna use so as he pops up he's like they're trying to find it there it is so turkey I'm gonna pick him and now that I have my image it's like okay what card do you want to make come alive what object so you're gonna notice something here I've got my card and I'm gonna take a picture of playing but there's a measurement or not measurement but a guide that says red yellow green. Red's not so good yellow is good and green is really good which is tracking you want it to track really well you can see it's red they're yellow so that's not good so I took the time to put a border and I added points and you're gonna notice augmented reality for tracking loves points and you can do this on a computer or just I did it by hand but you notice how my tracking went up to green so that's exactly what you want and when you get it just go ahead and hit the little picture of the camera and that's taking a picture there's Chirpy now I can I can make it bigger, see? Bigger. That's what I want I'm gonna hit that, finish. I created an aura and I've got to enter a name now so okay so playing is the name of my vocabulary card okay, finish. And now I've got my say I've got these cards on the table and the kid wants to see what is playing they'll just take this and there's Chirpy. You can watch him playing so it makes the card come alive it's really cool you can do this about almost anything in your classroom. So that's augmented reality with Aurasma. And here's another one. so here are some practical ways that you can use Aurasma and the the beauty of this app is that it can meet you where you are technology one is with your technology struggling or tread technology proficient Aurasma is definitely for you so what Jill and I did was we established this bulletin board around Bloom's taxonomy. So starting with the lowest of Bloom's taxonomy knowledge we've got triggered images and so you're going to need these images to trigger Aurasma to bring up websites videos so and so forth so here's an example. We've got the Charter image of some young ladies in choir and we overlaid a an actual video of them singing on top of the picture and so what you get is, *choir sings in AR video* And you can double tap to bring the image to the front imagine having 16 static images service your AP economics review in May. This is one of 16 that should be recognizable each image brings an edge creations overlay that explains what you should do and when you single tap it, it gives you more information and a question that you should be able to recognize as a review. Our math teachers want their static image to have the problem worked out for people who might not have access to technology but the beauty of having a math problem come to life and worked out for students. Great for parents and students and when you single tap it gives you more practice at the same time. Pre-linguistic vocalization is academic terminology that mine AP psychology students need to know so when we go through pre-linguistic vocalization, the word actually comes to life with what an example of what pre-linguistic vocalization is. When you single tap it we have further instruction for students to be able to evaluate what type of pre-linguistic vocalization that was an example of. School culture is important at Northwest High School students can take the Aurasma app can go over the green door sign for the Counseling Center single tap it and send an email through a Google Doc to sign up to see your counselor. A concern of all educators is how do we advertise our exemplar work from students how do we put our students word in the hallway and make it meaningful. Here we have a standards space bulletin board advertising student work on the 27 amendments of Constitution. One of the ways to make this come to life is to layer students talking about their own work and what they've learned from a project so in this case you can use Aurasma to show students telling anybody in the hallway what it is that they learned about this particular project, further, you can single tap the screen and it will take the viewer in the hallway to a Google Docs that then pulls the viewer into this formerly two-dimensional bulletin board and it makes it that much more interactive. Okay well I hope you got the basics of how to use augmented reality in your classrooms I'd love to hear your ideas so email me at elizabethwstewart@gmail.com 