 Umm... Mommy, there's a dinosaur on the table! Don't worry, I'll take care of it! Yahhh! *Splat* *Splat!* *Splat!* *Splat!* *Splat!* *Splat!* *Splat!* *Splat!* *Splat!* Okay, now it's dead! Hi everyone! Welcome to Keith's Toy Box! Get ready to bring dinosaurs to life with today's surprise toy! The Utopia 360 4D Dinosaur experience! Thanks to ReTrak for sending this to us! It's an augmented reality card set with a virtual reality headset! Just scan the cards and see the dinosaurs come to life in 3D! You can even take fun augmented reality pictures and immerse yourself in a 360 VR experience with the included headset So, let's open the box and check it out! Here's the deck of dinosaur cards! There's 20 of them We can scan them and watch the dinosaurs come to life in 3D and learn about each one of them! And here's the virtual reality headset! You can take a virtual tour with the dinosaurs and see them in their natural habitat! Looks cool! I can't wait to try it! Here's the user's manual Let's open the deck of dinosaur cards! Nice! There are 20 dinosaurs in all! Each one comes with a picture! We can scan each one to learn all about each of the dinosaurs! So let's start scanning! First, we'll need to download the Dinosaur 4D App on our tablet Just go to the App Store or Google Play Store and search for Dinosaur 4D Tap on the app to download! Then once it's done downloading, tap on the icon to launch! Awesome! It has information on each of the dinosaurs Dilophosaurus and you can zoom in or rotate the picture Giganotosaurus Kronosaurus Now, to scan the card, just put it in front of the camera Brachiosaurus Brachiosaurus Awesome! It's in 3D! And you can zoom it and rotate it! *Growl* So cool! You can make the dinosaur perform certain actions like roar or jump See fun facts about it or see its skeleton You can even make it walk around and control where it goes Hehehe...Nice! Pteranodon Tyrannosaurus Rex Ankylosaurus Now, let's try out the virtual reality headset! To make it work, just simply slip your phone into those headset! Adjust the headset and the straps for a comfortable hit and put it on! Oh... awesome! Oh my! It's an actual Triceratops right in front of me! So, that's Utopia 360 4D Dinosaur Experience! Thanks to ReTrak for sending this to us! Please like this video or tell us what you think in the comments below! Thanks for watching Keith's Toy Box and remember to subscribe for more videos! Remember, always be kind to others and share what you have! 