BusinessIntroductionSynopsys, Inc. is a global leader in providing software, intellectual property and services used to design integrated circuits and electronic systems. For more than 25 years, we have supplied the electronic design automation (EDA) software that engineers use to design and test integrated circuits (ICs), commonly called chips. We also provide intellectual property (IP) products, which are pre-designed circuits that engineers use as components of larger chip designs instead of designing those circuits themselves. We provide software and hardware used to develop the electronic systems that incorporate chips and the software that runs on them. To complement these product offerings, we provide technical services to support our solutions and help our customers develop chips and electronic systems. We are also a leading provider of software tools that developers use to improve the quality, security, and time-to-market of software code in a wide variety of industries, including electronics, financial services, energy, and industrials.Corporate InformationWe incorporated in 1986 in North Carolina and reincorporated in Delaware in 1987. Our headquarters are located at 700 East Middlefield Road, Mountain View, California 94043, and our telephone number there is (650) 584-5000. We expect that our headquarters will change to 690 East Middlefield Road, Mountain View, California 94043, in early 2015. We have approximately 98 offices worldwide.Our annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q (including related filings in XBRL format), current reports on Form 8-K, and Proxy Statements relating to our annual meetings of stockholders, including any amendments to these reports, as well as filings made by our executive officers and directors, are available through the Investor Relations page of our Internet website (www.synopsys.com) free of charge as soon as practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC (www.sec.gov). We use our Investor Relations page as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information. The contents of our website are not part of this Form 10-K.BackgroundRecent years have seen a remarkable proliferation of consumer and wireless electronic products, particularly mobile devices. The growth of the Internet and cloud computing has provided people with new ways to create, store and share information. At the same time, the increasing use of electronics in cars, buildings, and appliances and other consumer products is expanding the landscape of “smart” devices.These developments depend, in large part, on chips. It is common for a single chip to combine many components (processor, communications, memory, custom logic, input/output) into a single System-on-Chip (SoC), resulting in highly complex chip designs. The most complex chips today contain more than a billion transistors, the basic building blocks for integrated circuits, each of which may have features that are less than 1/1,000th the diameter of a human hair. At such small dimensions, the wavelength of light itself can become an obstacle to production, becoming too big to create such dense features and requiring creative and complicated new approaches from designers. Designers have turned to new manufacturing techniques, such as double patterning lithography and FinFET transistors, which introduce their own challenges in design and production.In addition, due to the popularity of mobile devices and other electronic products, there is increasing demand for integrated circuits and systems with greater functionality and performance, reduced size, and less power consumption. The designers of these products—our customers—are facing intense pressure to deliver innovative products at ever shorter times-to-market, as well as at lower prices. In other words, innovation in chip and system design often hinges on “better,” “sooner,” and “cheaper.”A similar dynamic is at work in the software industry, where the pace of innovation requires developers to deliver high quality software, which can include millions of lines of code, in increasingly shrinking release cycles. Bugs, defects, and security vulnerabilities in code can be difficult to detect and expensive to fix. But, at a time when software is prevalent in many industries and in an increasing array of smart devices, it can be crucial to do so.Synopsys is at the heart of accelerating innovation in the electronics industry. We provide the software tools, IP, hardware and other technologies that designers use to create chips and systems. We also provide the software tools that software developers use to detect critical flaws in their code.  2Table of ContentsThe task of the chip and system designer is to determine how best to locate and connect the building blocks of chips, verifying that the resulting design behaves as intended and ensuring that the design can be manufactured efficiently and cost-effectively. This task is a complicated, multi-step process that is both expensive and time-consuming.  We offer a wide range of products that help designers at different steps in the overall design process, both for the design of individual integrated circuits and for the design of larger systems. Our products can increase designer productivity and efficiency by automating tasks, keeping track of large amounts of design data, adding intelligence to the design process, facilitating reuse of past designs and reducing errors. Our IP products offer proven, high-quality pre-configured circuits that are ready-to-use in a chip design, saving customers time and enabling them direct resources to features that differentiate their products. Our global service and support engineers also provide expert technical support and design assistance to our customers.The task of the software developer is to write code that not only accomplishes the developer's goal as efficiently as possible but that also runs securely and free of errors. We offer products that can help developers write better, more secure code by analyzing their code for quality defects and security vulnerabilities, adding intelligence and automation to the software testing process, and helping to eliminate quality and security defects in a systematic manner. Our products can enable software developers to catch flaws earlier in the development cycle, when they can be less costly to fix.  Products and ServicesRevenue from our products and services is reported in four groups:•Core EDA, which includes our digital and custom IC design products, our verification products, and our field-programmable gate array (FPGA) design products;•IP and Software Solutions, which includes our DesignWare® IP portfolio, our system-level design tools, and our Coverity® software quality and security testing solutions; •Manufacturing Solutions; and •Professional Services.Core EDA SolutionsThe process of designing integrated circuits contains many complex steps: architecture definition, RTL (register transfer level) design, functional/RTL verification, logic design or synthesis, gate-level verification, floorplanning, and place and route, to name just a few. Designers use our Core EDA products to automate the integrated circuit design process and to reduce errors. We offer a large number of Core EDA products intended to address the process comprehensively. Our Core EDA products generally fall into the following categories: •Digital and Custom IC Design, which includes tools to design an integrated circuit;•Verification, which includes technology to verify that an integrated circuit behaves as intended; and•FPGA Design, which includes tools to design FPGAs, a complex, configurable form of integrated circuit.Digital and Custom IC DesignOur Galaxy™ Design Platform provides our customers with a single, integrated chip design solution that includes industry-leading individual products and incorporates common libraries and consistent timing, delay calculation and constraints throughout the design process. The platform allows designers the flexibility to integrate internally developed and third-party tools. With this advanced functionality, common foundation and flexibility, our Galaxy Design Platform helps reduce design times, decrease integration costs and minimize the risks inherent in advanced, complex integrated circuit designs. Our products span digital, custom and analog/mixed-signal designs.In fiscal 2014, we introduced our IC Compiler™ II physical design solution and expect to continue to broaden its availability in fiscal 2015. IC Compiler II is a complete place-and-route system, built on new, multi-threaded infrastructure, that offers faster runtime, uses less memory, and delivers superior chip design results in area, timing, and power, which can help designers reduce their design iterations and boost design productivity. Our other principal design products, also available as part of the Galaxy Design Platform, are our IC Compiler physical design solution, Design Compiler® logic synthesis product, Galaxy Custom Designer® and Laker® Layout 3Table of Contentscustom design solutions, CustomSim™ tool for analog/mixed-signal verification, PrimeTime® timing analysis products, StarRC™ product for extraction, and IC Validator tool for physical verification.VerificationIn fiscal 2014, we introduced our Verification Continuum™ Platform to accelerate industry innovation by enabling earlier software bring-up and shorter times-to-market for advanced SoCs. Verification Continuum is built from our industry-leading and fastest verification technologies, providing virtual prototyping, static and formal verification, simulation, emulation, FPGA-based prototyping, and debug in a unified environment with verification IP and planning and coverage technology. Elements of the platform are in various stages of release, with some elements available currently and others expected to be generally available in calendar year 2015.The individual products included in Verification Continuum span both our Core EDA and IP and Software Solutions revenue groups. The solutions reported in Core EDA revenue include the following:•Our Verification Compiler™ solution, released in fiscal 2014, which is a complete portfolio of integrated, next-generation verification technologies that include advanced debug (our Verdi® solution), simulation (our VCS® comprehensive RTL verification technology), new static and formal verification technology, verification IP, and planning and coverage technology. In addition to their inclusion in our Verification Compiler solution, these verification technologies also continue to be sold as individual point tools.•ZeBu® emulation systems, which use high-performance hardware to emulate SoC designs so that designers can accelerate verification of large complex SoCs and perform earlier verification of the SoC together with software.•Our other principal individual verification solutions, including CustomSim™ FastSPICE and FineSim® SPICE/FastSPICE circuit simulation and analysis products, HSPICE® circuit simulator, and CustomExplorer™ Ultra mixed-signal regression and analysis environment.The virtual prototyping and FPGA-based prototyping solutions that are part of our Verification Continuum platform are included in our IP and Software Solutions revenue group.FPGA DesignFPGAs are complex chips that can be customized or programmed to perform a specific function after they are manufactured. For FPGA design, we offer Synplify® Pro and Premier implementation and Identify® debug software tools.IP and Software SolutionsIP ProductsAs more functionality converges into a single device or even a single chip, and chip designs grow more complex, the number of third-party IP blocks incorporated into designs is rapidly increasing. Synopsys is a leading provider of high-quality, silicon-proven IP solutions for SoCs. Our broad DesignWare® IP portfolio includes:•high-quality solutions for widely used interfaces such as USB, PCI Express, DDR, Ethernet, SATA, MIPI, and HDMI;•analog IP for analog-to-digital data conversion and audio;•SoC infrastructure IP including minPower datapath components, ARM® AMBA® interconnect fabric and peripherals, and verification IP;•logic libraries and embedded memories, including SRAMs and non-volatile memory;•configurable processor cores and application-specific instruction-set processors (ASIPs) for embedded and deeply embedded designs; and•IP subsystems for audio and sensor functionality that combine IP blocks and software into an integrated, pre-verified solution.4Table of ContentsOur IP Accelerated initiative augments our established, broad portfolio of silicon-proven DesignWare IP with DesignWare IP Prototyping Kits, DesignWare IP Virtual Development Kits, and customized IP subsystems to accelerate prototyping, software development, and integration of IP into SoCs.System-Level SolutionsOptimizing the system-level design earlier in the development cycle, including both hardware and software components, is increasingly important for customers to meet their performance, time-to-market, and development cost goals. Synopsys has the industry’s broadest portfolio of tools, models and services for the system-level design of SoCs.Our Platform Architect™ software enables early and rapid exploration of SoC architectural trade-offs. To speed the creation, implementation and verification of differentiated IP blocks, we offer SPW™ and System Studio™ tools for algorithm design, Processor Designer™ software for custom processor design, and Synphony Model™ and C Compilers for high-level synthesis.Escalating software content and complexity in today’s electronic devices are driving the adoption of new tools and methods to accelerate software development and ease hardware-software integration and system validation. Our system-level portfolio includes prototyping technologies that can improve the productivity of both hardware and software development teams. These prototyping technologies are also an important component of our Verification Continuum Platform. Our Virtualizer™ tool and broad portfolio of transaction-level models enable the creation of virtual prototypes, fully functional software models of complete systems that enable engineers to start software development up to twelve months earlier than traditional methods. Our HAPS® FPGA-based prototyping systems integrate high performance hardware and software tools with real-world interfaces to enable faster hardware-software integration and full system validation. Our hybrid prototyping solution combines both approaches to prototyping, integrating Virtualizer virtual prototyping with HAPS FPGA-based prototyping. Synopsys also provides a series of tools used in the design of optical systems and photonic devices. Our CODE V® solution enables engineers to model, analyze and optimize designs for optical imaging and communication systems. Our LightTools® design and analysis software allows designers to simulate and improve the performance of a broad range of illumination systems, from vehicle lighting to projector systems.Software SolutionsIn the second quarter of fiscal 2014, we acquired Coverity, Inc. (Coverity), a leading provider of software quality, testing, and security tools. Coverity products help software developers reduce the risk of errors and security defects in their code before it is released. Our Coverity Code Advisor solution includes the Quality Advisor™ and Security Advisor™ tools, which analyze software code to find crash-causing bugs, incorrect program behavior, memory leaks and other flaws that degrade performance, security vulnerabilities, violations of security best practices, and other critical code issues, many of which may be difficult to detect by other means. Our Coverity Test Advisor™ solutions allow developers to focus their test development on the most critical code and to prioritize their test execution for the tests that are the most relevant for a particular set of code additions or changes. Our Coverity Connect™ platform assists software development teams in tracking and managing their code issues.Manufacturing SolutionsOur Manufacturing Solutions products and technologies enable semiconductor manufacturers to more quickly develop new fabrication processes that produce production-level yields. These products are used in the early research and development phase and the production phase. In the production phase, manufacturers use these products to convert IC design layouts into the masks used to manufacture the devices.Our Manufacturing Solutions include Sentaurus™ Technology-CAD (TCAD) device and process simulation products, Proteus optical proximity correction (OPC) and lithography rule check (LRC) products, CATS® mask data preparation product, and Yield Explorer® and Odyssey/Yield Manager Yield Management solutions.Professional Services and TrainingSynopsys provides consulting and design services that address all phases of the SoC development process. These services assist our customers with new tool and methodology adoption, chip architecture and specification development, functional and low-power design and verification, and physical implementation and signoff. We also provide a broad range of expert training and workshops on our latest tools and methodologies.5Table of ContentsCustomer Service and Technical SupportA high level of customer service and support is critical to the adoption and successful use of our products. We provide technical support for our products through both field-based and corporate-based application engineering teams. Customers who purchase Technology Subscription Licenses (TSLs) receive software maintenance services bundled with their license fee. Customers who purchase term licenses and perpetual licenses may purchase these services separately. See Product Sales and Licensing Agreements below.Software maintenance services include minor product enhancements, bug fixes and access to our technical support center for primary support. Software maintenance also includes access to the SolvNet® portal, our web-based support solution that gives customers access to Synopsys’ complete design knowledge database. Updated daily, the SolvNet portal includes documentation, design tips and answers to user questions. Customers can also engage, for additional charges, our worldwide network of applications consultants for additional support needs.In addition, Synopsys also offers training workshops designed to increase customer design proficiency and productivity with our products. Workshops cover our products and methodologies used in our design and verification flows, as well as specialized modules addressing system design, logic design, physical design, simulation and test. We offer regularly scheduled public and private courses in a variety of locations worldwide, as well as Virtual Classroom on-demand and live online training.Product WarrantiesWe generally warrant our products to be free from defects in media and to substantially conform to material specifications for a period of 90 days for our software products and for up to 6 months for our HAPS FPGA-based prototyping systems. In many cases, we also provide our customers with limited indemnification with respect to claims that their use of our software products infringes on United States patents, copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets. We have not experienced material warranty or indemnity claims to date.Support for Industry StandardsWe actively create and support standards that help our customers increase productivity, facilitate efficient design flows, improve interoperability of tools from different vendors, and ensure connectivity, functionality and interoperability of IP building blocks. Standards in the electronic design industry can be established by formal accredited organizations, industry consortia, company licensing made available to all, de facto usage, or through open source licensing.Synopsys’ products support more than 35 standards, including the most commonly used hardware description languages: SystemVerilog, Verilog, VHDL, and SystemC. Our products utilize numerous industry standard data formats, application programming interfaces, and databases for the exchange of design data among our tools, other EDA vendors’ products, and applications that customers develop internally. We also comply with a wide range of industry standards within our IP product family to ensure usability and interconnectivity.Sales, Distribution and BacklogOur EDA and IP customers are primarily semiconductor and electronics systems companies. The customers for our Coverity software solutions products include many of these companies as well as companies in a wider array of industries, including financial services, energy, and industrials. We market our products and services principally through direct sales in the United States and principal foreign markets. We typically distribute our software products and documentation to customers electronically, but provide physical media (e.g., DVD-ROMs) when requested by the customer.We maintain sales/support centers throughout the United States. Outside the United States, we maintain sales, support or service offices in Canada, multiple countries in Europe, Israel, Japan, China, Korea, Taiwan and other countries in Asia. Our foreign headquarters for financial and tax purposes are located in Dublin, Ireland. Our offices are further described under Part I, Item 2, Properties.6Table of ContentsIn fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, an aggregate of 50%, 52% and 52%, respectively, of Synopsys’ total revenue was derived from sales outside of the United States. Geographic revenue, which is based on customer server site location, is shown below as a percentage of total revenue for the last three fiscal years: Additional information relating to domestic and foreign operations, including revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area, is contained in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Risks related to our foreign operations are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors.Our backlog was approximately $3.5 billion on October 31, 2014, representing a 13% increase from backlog of $3.1 billion on October 31, 2013, which resulted primarily from the renewal in fiscal 2014 of large multi-year contracts, business growth, and to a lesser extent, acquisitions. Backlog represents committed orders that are expected to be recognized as revenue over the following three years. We currently expect that $1.7 billion of our backlog will be recognized after fiscal 2015. Backlog may not be a reliable predictor of our future sales as business conditions may change and technologies may evolve, and customers may seek to renegotiate their arrangements or may default on their payment obligations. For this and other reasons, we may not be able to recognize expected revenue from backlog when anticipated.7Table of ContentsRevenue attributable to each of our four platforms established for management reporting purposes is shown below as a percentage of total revenue for the last three fiscal years:*Our IP and Software Solutions platform was referred to as IP and System-Level Solutions in fiscal 2013 and 2012.Revenue derived from Intel Corporation and its subsidiaries in the aggregate accounted for 10.5%, 11.3% and 10.5% of our total revenue in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.Research and DevelopmentOur future performance depends in large part on our ability to further enhance and extend our design and verification platforms and to expand our manufacturing, IP, system-level and software solutions product offerings. Research and development of existing and new products is primarily conducted within each product group. We also use targeted acquisitions to augment our own research and development efforts.Our research and development expenses were $718.8 million, $669.2 million and $581.6 million in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our capitalized software development costs were approximately $3.6 million, $3.6 million and $3.3 million in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.CompetitionThe EDA industry is highly competitive. We compete against other EDA vendors and against our customers’ own design tools and internal design capabilities. In general, we compete principally on technology leadership, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license terms, price and payment terms, post-contract customer support, and interoperability with our own and other vendors’ products. No one factor drives an EDA customer’s buying decision, and we compete on all fronts to capture a higher portion of our customers’ budgets.Our competitors include EDA vendors that offer varying ranges of products and services, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation. We also compete with other EDA vendors, including frequent new entrants to the marketplace, that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process, as well as with customers’ internally developed design tools and capabilities. In the IP area, we compete generally on product quality and features, ease of integration with customer designs, compatibility with design tools, license terms, price and payment terms, and customer support. In the software solutions area, we compete with numerous tool providers, some of which focus on specific aspects of software security or quality 8Table of Contentsanalysis, as well as frequent new entrants, which include start-up companies as well as more established software companies.Product Sales and Licensing AgreementsWe typically license our software to customers under non-exclusive license agreements that transfer title to the media only and restrict use of our software to specified purposes within specified geographical areas. The majority of our licenses are network licenses that allow a number of individual users to access the software on a defined network, including, in some cases, regional or global networks. License fees depend on the type of license, product mix and number of copies of each product licensed.In many cases, we provide our customers the right to “re-mix” a portion of the software they initially licensed for other specified Synopsys products. For example, a customer may use our front-end design products for a portion of the license term and then exchange such products for back-end place and route software for the remainder of the term in order to complete the customer’s IC design. This practice helps assure the customer’s access to the complete design flow needed to design its product. The ability to offer this right to customers often gives us an advantage over competitors who offer a narrower range of products because customers can obtain more of their design flow from a single vendor. At the same time, because in such cases the customer need not obtain a new license and pay an additional license fee for the use of the additional products, the use of these arrangements could result in reduced revenue compared to licensing the individual products separately without re-mix rights.We currently offer our software products under various license types: renewable TSLs, term licenses and perpetual licenses. For a full discussion of these licenses, see Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Results of Operations—Revenue Background. We typically license our DesignWare Core intellectual property products under nonexclusive license agreements that provide usage rights for specific applications. Fees under these licenses are typically charged on a per design basis plus, in some cases, royalties.Finally, our Global Technical Services team typically provides design consulting services to our customers under consulting agreements with statements of work specific to each project.Proprietary RightsSynopsys primarily relies upon a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws and license and nondisclosure agreements to establish and protect its proprietary rights. We have a diversified portfolio of more than 2,100 United States and foreign patents issued, and we will continue to pursue additional patents in the future. Our issued patents have expiration dates through 2033. Our patents primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. Our source code is protected both as a trade secret and as an unpublished copyrighted work. However, third parties may develop similar technology independently. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. We are not significantly dependent upon any single patent, copyright, trademark or license with respect to our proprietary rights.In many cases, under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we offer to indemnify our customers if the licensed products infringe on a third party’s intellectual property rights. As a result, we may from time to time need to defend claims that our customers’ use of our products infringes on these third-party rights.EmployeesAs of October 31, 2014, Synopsys had 9,436 employees, of which 3,706 were based in the United States.9Table of ContentsExecutive Officers of the RegistrantThe executive officers of Synopsys and their ages as of December 12, 2014 were as follows:Name Age PositionAart J. de Geus 60 Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of DirectorsChi-Foon Chan 65 Co-Chief Executive Officer and PresidentBrian M. Beattie 61 Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Administrative OfficerTrac Pham 45 Chief Financial OfficerJoseph W. Logan 55 Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Corporate MarketingJohn F. Runkel, Jr. 59 General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryAart J. de Geus co-founded Synopsys and has served as Chairman of our Board of Directors since February 1998 and Chief Executive Officer since January 1994. He has served as Co-Chief Executive Officer with Dr. Chi-Foon Chan since May 2012. Since the inception of Synopsys in December 1986, Dr. de Geus has held a variety of positions, including President, Senior Vice President of Engineering and Senior Vice President of Marketing. He has served as a member of Synopsys’ Board of Directors since 1986, and served as Chairman of our Board from 1986 to 1992 and again from 1998 until present. Dr. de Geus has also served on the board of directors of Applied Materials, Inc. since July 2007. Dr. de Geus holds an M.S.E.E. from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, Switzerland and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Southern Methodist University.Chi-Foon Chan has served as our Co-Chief Executive Officer since May 2012 and as our President and a member of our Board of Directors since February 1998. Prior to his appointment as our Co-Chief Executive Officer in May 2012, he had served as our Chief Operating Officer since April 1997. Dr. Chan joined Synopsys in May 1990 and has held various senior management positions, including Executive Vice President, Office of the President from September 1996 to February 1998 and Senior Vice President, Design Tools Group from February 1994 to April 1997. Dr. Chan has also held senior management and engineering positions at NEC Electronics and Intel Corporation. Dr. Chan holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Rutgers University, and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Computer Engineering from Case Western Reserve University.Brian M. Beattie is our Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Administrative Officer. Prior to his promotion to that role in December 2014, Mr. Beattie served as our Chief Financial Officer since January 2006. From October 1999 to January 2006, he was Executive Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of SupportSoft, Inc. From May 1998 to May 1999, he served as Vice President of Finance, Mergers and Acquisitions of Nortel Networks Corporation. From July 1996 to April 1998, Mr. Beattie served as Group Vice President of Meridian Solutions of Nortel Networks Corporation. From February 1993 to June 1996, Mr. Beattie served as Vice President of Finance, Enterprise Networks, for Nortel Networks Corporation. Mr. Beattie served on the board of directors of Unwired Planet, Inc. from December 2010 until November 2012. Mr. Beattie holds a Bachelor of Commerce and an M.B.A. from Concordia University in Montreal.Trac Pham was appointed our Chief Financial Offi