BusinessCompany and Segment OverviewSynopsys, Inc. provides products and services used across the entire silicon to software spectrum, from engineers creating advanced semiconductors to software developers seeking to ensure the security and quality of their code. We are a global leader in supplying the electronic design automation (EDA) software that engineers use to design and test integrated circuits (ICs), also known as chips. We also offer semiconductor intellectual property (IP) products, which are pre-designed circuits that engineers use as components of larger chip designs rather than designing those circuits themselves. We provide software and hardware used to validate the electronic systems that incorporate chips and the software that runs on them. To complement these offerings, we provide technical services and support to help our customers develop advanced chips and electronic systems. These products and services are part of our Semiconductor & System Design segment. We are also a leading provider of software tools and services that improve the security and quality of software code in a wide variety of industries, including electronics, financial services, media, automotive, medicine, energy and industrials. These tools and services are part of our Software Integrity segment.Corporate InformationWe incorporated in 1986 in North Carolina and reincorporated in 1987 in Delaware. Our headquarters are located at 690 East Middlefield Road, Mountain View, California 94043, and our headquarters’ telephone number is (650) 584-5000. We have approximately 120 offices worldwide.Our annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q (including related filings in XBRL format), current reports on Form 8-K, and Proxy Statements relating to our annual meetings of stockholders (including any amendments to these reports, as well as filings made by our executive officers and directors) are available through the Investor Relations page of our website (www.synopsys.com) free of charge as soon as practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC (www.sec.gov). We use our Investor Relations page as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including news releases, investor presentations, and financial information. The contents of our website are not part of this Form 10-K.BackgroundRecent years have seen a remarkable proliferation of consumer and wireless electronic products, particularly mobile devices. The growth of the Internet and cloud computing has provided people with new ways to create, store and share information. At the same time, the increasing use of electronics in cars, buildings, appliances and other consumer products is creating a connected landscape of “smart” devices. Numerous software applications (apps) have been developed to expand the potential of these connected devices. The increasing impact of artificial intelligence and machine learning is driving an increase in the activity of new and existing chip and system design companies around the world.These developments have been fueled by innovation in the semiconductor and software industries. It is common for a single chip to combine many components (processor, communications, memory, custom logic, input/output) and embedded software into a single system-on-chip (SoC), necessitating highly complex chip designs. The most complex chips today contain more than a billion transistors. Transistors are the basic building blocks for ICs, each of which may have features that are less than 1/1,000th the diameter of a human hair. At such small dimensions, the wavelength of light itself can become an obstacle to production, proving too big to create such dense features and requiring creative and complicated new approaches from designers. Designers have turned to new manufacturing techniques to solve these problems, such as multiple-patterning lithography and FinFET transistors, which in turn have introduced new challenges to design and production.The popularity of mobile devices and other electronic products has increased demand for chips and systems with greater functionality and performance, reduced size, and lower power consumption. Our customers are the designers of those products and are facing intense pressure to deliver innovative products in shorter timeframes and at lower prices. In other words, innovation in chip and system design often hinges on providing products 3Table of Contents“better,” “sooner,” and “cheaper” than competitors. The designs of these chips and systems are extremely complex and necessitate state-of-the-art design solutions.A similar dynamic is at work in the software arena, whether embedded on a chip or as a standalone. The pace of innovation often requires developers to deliver more secure, high-quality software, which can include millions of lines of code, in increasingly frequent release cycles. Bugs, defects, and security vulnerabilities in code can be difficult to detect and expensive to fix. But, at a time when software is critical in many industries across a growing array of smart devices, it is crucial to have high-quality, secure code to ensure consumers’ privacy and safety.Our Role—The Silicon to Software™ PartnerSynopsys' products and services enable innovators across a variety of markets—from mobile electronics and finance to media, medical, energy, industrial, and automotive—to develop smart and secure products and applications. Across all industries, our customers face tremendous pressure to build differentiated chips and develop robust code more quickly and cost-effectively than ever before. With the increasing amount of embedded software in today’s devices, security and quality are top concerns. Synopsys technologies and services are designed to help our customers—both hardware designers and software developers—to speed time to market, achieve the highest quality of results, mitigate risk, and maximize profitability. Our offerings span from silicon to software.The task of the chip and system designer is to determine how best to design, locate, and connect the building blocks of chips, and to verify that the resulting design behaves as intended and can be manufactured efficiently and cost-effectively. This task is a complex, multi-step process that is both expensive and time-consuming. We offer a wide range of products that help designers at different steps in the overall design process, both for the design of individual ICs and for the design of larger systems. Our products can increase designer productivity and efficiency by automating tasks, keeping track of large amounts of design data, adding intelligence to the design process, facilitating reuse of past designs, and reducing errors. Our IP products offer proven, high-quality pre-configured circuits that are ready-to-use in a chip design, saving customers time and enabling them to direct resources to features that differentiate their products. Our global service and support engineers also provide expert technical support and design assistance to our customers.The task of the software developer is to write code that not only accomplishes the developer's goal as efficiently as possible, but also runs securely and is free of defects. We offer products that can help developers write higher quality, more secure code by analyzing their code for quality defects and known security vulnerabilities, adding intelligence and automation to the software testing process, and helping to eliminate defects in a systematic manner. To the extent that developers make use of open source software in their code, our products can help developers better manage the composition and security of the code. Our products enable software developers to catch flaws earlier in the development cycle, when they are less costly to fix.Products and ServicesSemiconductor & System Design SegmentOur Semiconductor & System Design segment includes the EDA, IP and System Integration and Other revenue categories.EDA The process of designing ICs contains many complex steps: architecture definition, register transfer level (RTL) design, functional/RTL verification, logic design or synthesis, gate-level verification, floorplanning, and place and route, to name just a few. Designers use our EDA products to automate the IC design process and to reduce errors. We offer a platform that features a large number of EDA products intended to address the process comprehensively. Our EDA products generally fall into the following categories:•Digital and custom IC design and Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) design, which includes software tools to design an IC; •Verification, which includes technology to verify that an IC design behaves as intended; and•Manufacturing, which includes products that both enable early manufacturing process development and convert IC design layouts into the masks used to manufacture the chips.4Table of ContentsDigital and Custom IC DesignOur Fusion Design Platform™ provides customers with a comprehensive digital design implementation solution that includes industry-leading products and incorporates common libraries and consistent timing, delay calculation, UPF power intent descriptions, and constraints throughout the design process. The Fusion Design Platform, which was launched in the fall of 2018, redefines conventional design tool boundaries to deliver a more integrated flow than ever before, with better quality and time to results. The platform gives designers the flexibility to integrate internally developed tools as well as those from third-parties. With innovative technologies, a common foundation, and flexibility, our Fusion Design Platform helps reduce design times, decrease uncertainties in the design steps, and minimize the risks inherent in advanced, complex IC design. The platform supports multiple technology nodes, including advanced nodes at 16/14nm, 12nm, 10nm, and 7/8nm, with technology collaborations at 5nm and below.Key design products, available as part of the Fusion Design Platform, include Fusion Compiler™ RTL to GDSII design implementation, Design Compiler® logic synthesis, IC Compiler™ II physical design, Synopsys TestMAXTM test and diagnosis, PrimeTime® static timing analysis, StarRC™ parasitic extraction, Ansys RedHawk fusion rail analysis, and IC Validator physical verification.Our Custom Design Platform™ is a unified suite of design and verification tools that accelerates the development of robust custom and AMS designs. Anchored by the Custom Compiler custom design environment, the platform features industry-leading circuit simulation performance, a fast, easy-to-use custom layout editor complemented with best-in-class technologies for parasitic extraction, reliability analysis, and physical verification. Key features of the Custom Design Platform include reliability-aware verification, visually-assisted layout automation, extraction fusion, and DRC fusion technologies. The platform supports multiple technology nodes, including advanced technology nodes such as 16/14nm, 12nm, 10nm, and 7/8nm, with technology collaborations at 5nm and below.Our Custom Design Platform is based on the OpenAccess database and includes open APIs for third-party tool integration. Platform tools include HSPICE® and FineSim® SPICE circuit simulators, CustomSim™ FastSPICE, Custom Compiler layout and schematic editor, StarRC parasitic extraction, and IC Validator physical verification.FPGA DesignFPGAs are complex chips that can be customized or programmed to perform a specific function after they are manufactured. For FPGA design, we offer Synplify® (Pro® and Premier) implementation and Identify® debug software tools.VerificationOur Verification Continuum™ platform is built from our industry-leading and fastest verification technologies, providing virtual prototyping, static and formal verification, simulation, emulation, FPGA-based prototyping, and debug in a unified environment with verification IP, planning, and coverage technology. By providing consistent compile, runtime and debug environments across the flow of verification tasks and by enabling seamless transitions between simulation, emulation, and prototyping, the platform helps our customers accelerate hardware verification, bring up software earlier, and get to market sooner with advanced SoCs.The individual products included in the Verification Continuum platform are reported in our EDA and IP and System Integration revenue categories. The solutions reported in our EDA revenue include the following:•SpyGlass® family of static verification technologies including lint, CDC (clock domain crossing), RDC (reset domain crossing), Synopsys TestMAX Advisor, and low-power analysis and verification;•VCS® functional verification solution, our comprehensive RTL and gate-level simulation technology, including Fine-Grained Parallelism (FGP);•Verdi® automated debug system, the industry’s most comprehensive SoC debug;•VC Formal™, our next-generation formal verification product;•ZeBu® emulation systems, which use high-performance hardware to emulate SoC designs so that designers can accelerate verification of large complex SoCs and perform earlier verification of the SoC together with software; and5Table of Contents•Other principal individual verification solutions, including CustomSim™, FastSPICE and FineSim® SPICE/FastSPICE circuit simulation and analysis products, HSPICE® circuit simulator, and CustomExplorer™ Ultra mixed-signal regression and analysis environment.The verification IP, virtual prototyping, and FPGA-based prototyping solutions that are part of our Verification Continuum platform are included in our IP and System Integration category and further described below.Manufacturing Our Manufacturing Solutions include Sentaurus™ technology computer-aided design (TCAD) device and process simulation products, Proteus™ mask synthesis tools, CATS® mask data preparation software, Yield Explorer® Odyssey, and Yield-Manager® yield management solutions.We also provide consulting and design services that address all phases of the SoC development process, as well as a broad range of expert training and workshops on our latest tools and methodologies.IP and System IntegrationIP ProductsAs more functionality converges into a single device or even a single chip, and as chip designs grow more complex, the number of third-party IP blocks incorporated into designs is rapidly increasing. We are a leading provider of high-quality, silicon-proven IP solutions for SoCs. Our broad DesignWare IP portfolio includes:•High-quality solutions for widely used wired and wireless interfaces such as USB, PCI Express, DDR, Ethernet, SATA, MIPI, HDMI, and Bluetooth Low Energy;•Logic libraries and embedded memories, including memory compilers, non-volatile memory, standard cells, and integrated test and repair;•Processor solutions, including configurable ARC® processor cores, software, Embedded Vision processor cores and application-specific instruction-set processor (ASIP) tools for embedded applications;•IP subsystems for audio, sensor, and data fusion functionality that combine IP blocks, an efficient processor, and software into an integrated, pre-verified subsystem;•Security IP solutions, including cryptographic cores and software, security subsystems, platform security and content protection IP;•Analog IP including data converters and audio codecs; and•SoC infrastructure IP, datapath and building block IP, mathematical and floating-point components, ARM® AMBA® interconnect fabric and peripherals, and verification IP.Our IP Accelerated initiative augments our established, broad portfolio of silicon-proven DesignWare IP with IP Prototyping Kits and customized IP subsystems to accelerate prototyping, software development, and integration of IP into SoCs.We offer a broad portfolio of IP that has been optimized to address specific application requirements for the mobile, automotive, digital home, internet of things, and cloud computing markets, enabling designers to quickly develop SoCs in these areas.Our Verification IP portfolio, part of our Verification Continuum platform, is also part of the IP Products category.System Integration SolutionsOur System Integration verification solutions include the following elements of our Verification Continuum platform:•HAPS® FPGA-based prototyping systems, which provide design and verification teams with an integrated and scalable hardware-software solution for early software development and to improve their SoC schedules;6Table of Contents•Virtualizer™ virtual prototyping solution, which addresses the increasing development challenges associated with software-rich semiconductor and electronic products by accelerating both the development and deployment of virtual prototypes; and•Platform Architect solution, which provides architects and system designers with tools and efficient methods for early analysis and optimization of multi-core SoC architectures for performance and power.We also provide a series of tools used in the design of optical systems and photonic devices. Our CODE V® solution enables engineers to model, analyze and optimize designs for optical imaging and communication systems. Our LightTools® design and analysis software allows designers to simulate and improve the performance of a broad range of illumination systems, from vehicle lighting to projector systems.OtherOur Other revenue category includes revenue from sales of products to academic and research institutions.Software Integrity SegmentOur Software Integrity platform is a comprehensive solution for building integrity—security, quality and compliance testing—into our customers’ software development lifecycle and supply chain. These testing tools, services, and programs enable our customers to manage open source license compliance and detect and remediate security vulnerabilities and defects across their entire software development lifecycle. Our offerings include security and quality testing, managed services, programs and professional services, and training. Key products in the security, quality and compliance testing space include:    •Polaris Software Integrity Platform™, which is designed to provide customers with an easy-to-use and integrated platform that features critical application security products (see below) and certain services. Introduced in April 2019 with its initial configuration, Polaris Software Integrity Platform™ will be enhanced throughout 2020 and beyond;•Coverity® static analysis tools (including regular critical updates), which analyze software code to find crash-causing bugs, incorrect program behavior, the latest security vulnerabilities, memory leaks and other performance-degrading flaws;•Defensics® fuzz testing tools, which examine security vulnerabilities in software binaries and libraries, particularly network protocols and file formats, by systematically sending invalid or unexpected inputs to the system under test; •Black Duck™ software composition analysis tools, which scan binary and source code for license issues and other known security vulnerabilities stemming from incorporated third-party and open source code; and•Seeker® IAST tool, which identifies exploitable security vulnerabilities while web applications are running, thereby verifying results and eliminating false positives.Managed services allow developers to test code across many dimensions, and to rapidly respond to changing testing requirements and evolving threats. This includes Mobile Application Security Testing (AST) services to find vulnerabilities in mobile applications as well as Dynamic Application Security Testing (DAST) services which identify security vulnerabilities while web applications are running, without the need for source code. Programs and professional services address unique security and quality needs with specialized consulting by skilled experts, including the Building Security in Maturity Mode (BSIMM), which measures the effectiveness of software security initiatives by assessing the current state as compared to industry benchmarks, and the Black Duck™ on demand audit services, which provides open source compliance and software vulnerability assessments as part of the due diligence process for mergers and acquisitions.  7Table of ContentsFinally, training includes eLearning and instructor-led training that prepares developers and security professionals to build security and quality into their software development process and remediate found vulnerabilities and defects.Customer Service and Technical SupportA high level of customer service and support is critical to the adoption and successful use of our products. We provide technical support for our products through both field-based and corporate-based application engineering teams. Customers that purchase Technology Subscription Licenses (TSLs) receive post-contract customer support bundled with their license fee. Customers that purchase perpetual licenses may purchase these services separately, as further described in Product Sales and Licensing Agreements below. Post-contract customer support includes providing frequent updates and upgrades to maintain the utility of the software due to rapid changes in technology. In our Semiconductor & System Design segment, post-contract customer support for our EDA and IP products also includes access to the SolvNet® portal, where customers can explore our complete design knowledge database. Updated daily, the SolvNet portal includes technical documentation, design tips, and answers to user questions. Customers can also engage, for additional charges, with our worldwide network of applications consultants for additional support needs.In our Software Integrity segment, post-contract customer support for our products includes access to our support community portal, where customers can access our product documentation, self-service training materials, customer forums and our product knowledge base. Customers can also raise support tickets, request replacement license keys and validate the terms of their active license keys through the portal. Our support community portal is frequently updated with new and supplemental materials on a variety of topics. Customers may engage dedicated support engineers for an additional charge.In addition, we offer training workshops designed to increase customer design proficiency and productivity with our products. Workshops cover our EDA products and methodologies used in our design and verification flows, as well as specialized modules addressing system design, logic design, physical design, simulation and testing. We offer regularly scheduled public and private courses in a variety of locations worldwide, as well as online training (live or on-demand) through our Virtual Classrooms.Product WarrantiesWe generally warrant our products to be free from defects in media and to substantially conform to material specifications for a period of 90 days for our software products and for up to 6 months for our hardware products. In many cases, we also provide our customers with limited indemnification with respect to claims that their use of our software products infringes on United States patents, copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets. We have not experienced material warranty or indemnity claims to date.Support for Industry StandardsWe actively create and support standards that help our EDA and IP customers increase productivity, facilitate efficient design flows, improve interoperability of tools from different vendors, and ensure connectivity, functionality and interoperability of IP building blocks. Standards in the electronic design industry can be established by formal accredited organizations, industry consortia, company licensing made available to all, de facto usage, or through open source licensing.In our Semiconductor & System Design segment, our EDA products support many standards, including the most commonly used hardware description languages: SystemVerilog, Verilog, VHDL, and SystemC®. Our products utilize numerous industry-standard data formats, APIs, and databases for the exchange of design data among our tools, other EDA vendors’ products, and applications that customers develop internally. We also comply with a wide range of industry standards within our IP product family to ensure usability and interconnectivity.In our Software Integrity segment, our solutions support several existing and emerging industry standards for software coding and security, such as the Motor Industry Software Reliability Association (MISRA) coding standards for the automotive industry. In addition, our products support multiple major programming languages, including C/C++, Objective C, C#, JavaScript (including many commonly used frameworks), and others. In addition, we support many common compilers, development environments, frameworks, and data and file formats.8Table of ContentsSales and Distribution Our Semiconductor & System Design segment customers are primarily semiconductor and electronics systems companies. The customers for products in our Software Integrity segment include many of these companies as well as companies from a wider array of industries, including electronics, financial services, media, automotive, medicine, energy and industrials. We market our products and services principally through direct sales in the United States and our principal foreign markets. We typically distribute our software products and documentation to customers electronically, but provide physical media (e.g., DVD-ROMs) when requested by the customer.We maintain sales and support centers throughout the United States. Outside the United States, we maintain sales, support or service offices in Canada, multiple countries in Europe, Israel and throughout Asia, including Japan, China, Korea, and Taiwan. Our international headquarters are located in Dublin, Ireland. Our offices are further described under Part I, Item 2, Properties.Information relating to domestic and foreign operations, including revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area, is contained in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Risks related to our foreign operations are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors.Performance Obligations and BacklogWe adopted the Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) at the beginning of fiscal 2019. This revenue standard requires disclosure of revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations. Contracted but unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations were approximately $4.4 billion as of October 31, 2019, of which $494.3 million were in non-cancellable commitments from customers who will determine specific products or services selections at a later date. The remaining performance obligations, excluding the non-cancellable commitments, were $3.9 billion, of which 56% are expected to be fulfilled and recognized over the next 12 months.Our historical backlog was $4.0 billion as of October 31, 2018, primarily representing three years of committed orders which included non-cancellable commitments with future deliverables. Revenue Attributable to Product Categories and SegmentsBeginning in fiscal 2019, we report under two segments: Semiconductor & System Design segment and Software Integrity segment. Revenue attributable to each of our four product categories (with EDA, IP & Systems Integration, and Other comprising our Semiconductor & System Design segment) is shown below as a percentage of our total revenue for those fiscal years.9Table of ContentsAggregate revenue derived from Intel Corporation and its subsidiaries through multiple agreements accounted for 12.8%, 15.4% and 17.9% of our total revenue in fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. In each such year, the revenue derived from Intel Corporation and its subsidiaries was primarily attributable to our Semiconductor & System Design segment. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue during such periods.Product Sales and Licensing AgreementsWe typically license our software to customers under non-exclusive license agreements that restrict use of our software to specified purposes within specified geographical areas. The majority of licenses to our EDA products are network licenses that allow a number of individual users to access the software on a defined network, including, in some cases, regional or global networks. The majority of licenses to our Software Integrity products are capacity or user licenses that allow a number of users to access the software based on a specified number of team members or specified code-bases in a defined territory. License fees depend on the type of license, product mix, and number of copies of each product licensed.In a number of cases regarding our EDA products, we provide our customers the right to “re-mix” a portion of the software they initially licensed for other specified Synopsys products. For example, a customer may use our front-end design products for a portion of the license term and then exchange such products for back-end place-and-route software for the remainder of the term in order to complete the customer’s IC design. This practice helps ensure our EDA customer’s access to the complete design flow needed to design their product. Offering remix rights to EDA customers gives us an advantage over competitors who offer a narrower range of EDA products because customers can obtain more of their design flow from a single vendor. At the same time—because in such cases the customer does not need to obtain a new license and pay an additional license fee for the use of the additional EDA products—the use of these arrangements could result in reduced revenue compared to licensing the individual products separately without re-mix rights.For a full discussion of our software product offerings, see Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.10Table of ContentsWe typically license our DesignWare IP products under nonexclusive license agreements that provide usage rights for specific applications. Fees under these licenses are typically charged on a per design basis plus, in some cases, royalties. Royalty arrangements are not material to our total revenue.Our hardware products, which principally consist of our prototyping and emulation systems, are either sold or leased to our customers. Our professional services team typically provides design consulting services to our customers under consulting agreements with statements of work specific to each project.CompetitionThe EDA industry is highly competitive. We compete against other EDA vendors and against our customers’ own design tools and internal design capabilities. In general, we compete principally on technology leadership, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license terms, price and payment terms, post-contract customer support, flexibility of tool use, and interoperability with our own and other vendors’ products. We also deliver a significant amount of engineering and design consulting for our products. No single factor drives an EDA customer’s buying decision, and we compete on all fronts to capture a higher portion of our customers’ budgets. Our competitors include EDA vendors that offer varying ranges of products and services, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation (now part of Siemens AG). We also compete with other EDA vendors, including new entrants to the marketplace, that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process, as well as with customers’ internally developed design tools and capabilities.Our Semiconductor & System Design segment competes against numerous other IP providers, including Cadence Design Systems, Inc., and our customers' internally developed IP. We generally compete on the basis of product quality, reliability and features, ease of integration with customer designs, compatibility with design tools, license terms, price and payment terms, and customer support.Our Software Integrity segment competes with numerous other solution providers, many of which focus on specific aspects of software security or quality analysis. We also compete with frequent new entrants, which include start-up companies and more established software companies. For example, competitors named in the Gartner Magic Quadrant for Application Security Testing include Checkmarx Ltd., Veracode (now part of Thoma Bravo, LLC) and Micro Focus International plc.Proprietary RightsWe primarily rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trad