  Music playing  Dmitri: Hello I'm Dmitri, Head of this laboratory and today we will show you how to make nanomaterials by using chemical vapour deposition. Let's see what we have here, let me introduce my colleague Konstantin who will show you all the details of this procedure later. We have a main component of this system is the electrical furnace which can be heated up to 1700 Centigrade.  In addition to the furnace we have pipelines for different gases depending on the chemistry of material we are going to prepare. And last but not least I look up here and we have a gas sensing system. In case of any leakage of these dangerous gases the system will be automatically shut down. And yesterday we made a test to make boron nitride nanomaterials here you can see different components of this Precursor, silicon wafers and after this test this wafer changed color. It means we are successful in making nanomaterials made of boron nitride and Konstantin will guide you for the rest of the procedures. Konstantin: Hello everyone. Our first step is preparation of powder mixture for this synthesis we will use. Zero point five grams of magnesium oxide. 9 grams of boron and 2 grams of boric acid. First of all we need to measures the weight of powders. For this we need to weigh this glass first. We zero its weight. And add our powders to the glass. Then we transfer it here. Now when we have our powders ready we can mix them a bit and then transfer to the ceramic boat. I did it carefully and tried to distribute the powder uniformly in the boat. Now when it's ready we can put our substrate silicon wafer in the other boat. And this is the actual place where our nanostructure will grow. So now when our stuff is ready we can transfer it to the furnace. This is what needs to be put in the zone with highest temperature. For this we use this stick with the Centimetres marked. And we put it inside on the length of 75 centimetres. We need to do it carefully to be sure that the boat won't fall down. And now when this part is ready we can transfer our powder mixture inside. And this powder mixture needs to be put on the zone with lower temperature. So we put it aside only for 40 centimetres. Now our furnace is ready to be sealed. First of all use this thermo radiation shield. It's a very important part because it prevents our end seals from overheating. We put it inside and then use this end seal and close this up. Now we close second end of the furnace and put again this thermo radiation shield. Very important part to prevent our end seal from overheating and everything is ready for closing just check that our O-ring is clean and sitting well and then we can close it. Now when the furnace is closed we can turn on the vacuum pump. Here it is and it's important to do it slowly to prevent spilling of powder you can see over here on this meter the pressure is going down. And once it's ready we can start heating. So now when the furnace is heating we can turn on our gas lines. Now when we have a vacuum in our furnace we can turn on the argon flow and fill the furnace with argon. We're checking the flow using this meter and regularly increase the flow. You can see it slowly goes up. Once it will be one atmosphere we can open this valve and flow through the furnace will go on. When we are going close to zero it's better to reduce slowly. To be more careful. Now we have atmospheric pressure inside our furnace and we can open this valve and you can see bubbling through this oil. It means we have actual flow through our furnace. Now we can open the ammonia line. I set the ammonia flow here. Now we have both gases going through our furnace. So once the temperature will reach 1300 degree the reaction will start. VO: When the temperature inside the furnace at the low T zone reaches 700 degrees the powder mixture starts to produce a reactive vapor this vapor travels through the furnace to the high T zone where the temperature is 1300 degrees. Here the vapor reacts with the ammonia gas by breaking the nitrogen hydrogen bonds in ammonia and boron oxygen bonds in boric acid. Boron atoms and nitrogen atoms then recombine to produce a boron nitrate nano structure which is deposited on the silicon substrate as you can see in these examples. Konstantin: Now when our sample was heated up to 1300 degrees and stay at this temperature for about one hour and after this it was cooled down. The whole procedure took about 10 hours. We can turn off the furnace and open it. First I open this end and unscrew this part. Take the end seal off and take this radiation shield from the furnace. Now we can open second part. Again unscrew. Taking off the end seal and the second radiation seal. Now we can take our samples from the furnace. We need to do it carefully because it's very easy to spill the powder. First boat we just put like this and the second one we push through the furnace to the other side. Now we can take the sample from the furnace. So now our sample is ready and we can see the results. So first of all the powder mixture has changed its colour a lot. From the black one to the grey and white one. and the colour changed different bits because this boat was in a temperature gradient zone and the temperature was 800 degree and here we had 1200 degrees and it's clear that at 1200 degrees the reaction is more intense. And if you look on our silicon substrate you can see that its colour changed a lot compared to the initial silicon wafer and it means that we have nanostructured coating on its surface. So now our experiment is finished and I hope it was interesting and you understand a lot about the basics of CVD synthesis.  Music playing  