 - Next speaker will be Mohammad Hamza Kirmani on turning dreams to reality, human travel to Mars, overcoming materials limitations through the development of ultra-high strength and lightweight carbon-nanotube based plastics. - Human travel to Mars has created a lot of buzz lately. There have been all kinds of projections, speculations in terms of when the humans would first set their foot on Mars. Ranging from the mid 2020s to the late 2030s. But the question is, are we really ready to send humans to Mars? The travel time to Mars is going to be about six months and there may be no coming back. What that means is we need to carry more and what that means is we need stronger space vehicles. But at the same time we need to understand that carrying as little as a 500 milliliter water bottle would cost about half a million dollars. What that means is we need to make space vehicles out of materials that are light weight. Working on a NASA project, my research focuses on using carbon-nanotube to make light weight, lighter, and stronger materials. These tubes are up to hundred times stronger, yet five times lighter than steel. But (mumbles) we have a problem, these tubes are small. Ten thousand times smaller in diameter than a human hair. We can not use these small tubes directly to make large structures. To do so, we add lightweight plastic between these tubes. But, we have another problem. This strong tube and the plastic do not like each other as much as we would want. So once the material is stretched the tubes slip out without reaching their true potential and the material fails. To avoid this premature break up, I modified the surface of the carbon-nanotube, attach some glue that attracts the plastic and by doing so I create more love. Up to five times more love is what I have observed in the lab so far. More love, more strength. So now, not only are we a step closer to boarding that flight to Mars, but using these modified tubes, we have materials that promise that we and our loved ones have a safer and cheaper flight. Thank you. (applause) 