 Because the graphite shaft is made by cutting the fabric and overlapping it, It is possible to design and manufacture the stiffness distribution at will by making the partial thickness adjustment in the longitudinal direction and changing the texture direction of the fabric. Hello? Golf is science. My nickname is Golfduckwho. Today, let's look at what's going on with the physical properties of a golf club's shaft. The choice of the shaft is more troublesome as the interest in the club increases. This is because there are so many types of shafts. Even in the same shaft maker, there are many types of models and the specifications seem complicated. Choosing a shaft is not an easy task. Let's divide the characteristics of the shaft into shape and physical characteristics. The shaft is shaped like a hollow cylindrical long rod in simple terms. The outer diameter of the head side is a little small, and the outer diameter of the grip side is a little larger, and it can be seen as a slightly long conical shape. So, let's divide the physical characteristics of the shaft into the characteristics of the long central axis direction and the circumference direction. Dividing into a table, the bending stiffness, which is the axial stiffness, is called Flex in golf. Torsional stiffness, which is circumferential stiffness, is called torque in golf. And characteristics according to the distribution of axial stiffness include kick point, band point and EI profile. Stiffness distribution in the circumferential direction is not measured separately. This is because the USGA regulations require that the shaft must be symmetrical in the circumferential direction. So the shaft cannot be made polygonal or elliptical. However, due to limitations in the manufacturing process, it is difficult to make the shaft perfectly symmetrical. As a result, the spine of the shaft is present and the FLO, which was covered in the previous video, appears. So, a good shaft is uniform in the circumferential direction, so the FLO does not appear very well. In this pie chart, the red circle is a strong and uniform shaft, and the green circle is a slightly non-uniform shaft with a weak but strong spine. In other words, the closer the graph is to the circle, the better the shaft is. Now, if you look at the shaft specification table, the length, tip outer diameter, butt outer diameter are external dimensions and can see that weight, flex, torque, and kick point are properties in the axial and circumferential directions. These four properties are the specs that we should look at carefully when choosing a shaft. Now let's look at the properties of the shaft one by one in order of importance. The first characteristic to look at is the weight of the shaft. The shaft for wood is 46 inches and is based on the shaft before machining. The shaft has evolved from hickory wood to steel and graphite. Perhaps the next generation shaft is a carbon nanotube shaft. Currently, most of them are made by stacking multiple sheets of prepreg fabric impregnated with epoxy resin with graphite fabric. Irons are also increasingly using graphite shafts. The lighter the shaft, the greater the weight or length on the head side, which is advantageous for distance. So the goal of shaft manufacturing is to make it lighter and stronger. Axial bending stiffness can be determined by measuring the degree of bending by fixing one end and hanging a certain weight on the other. This bending stiffness is called Flex in golf and is divided into R and S grades. It is a bit wrong to say that the shaft strength is R, S. Also, Flex, which is classified by R, S, etc., cannot be regarded as accurate because its standards are slightly different for each manufacturer. Because of the marketing interests of each company, we failed to create a uniform standard. Some people use CPM to classify the bending stiffness of a shaft, which is wrong. CPM is a balancing method of clubs assembled up to the head. This is because if the weight of the head is different on the same shaft, the CPM also changes. CPM is displayed on the assembled club, but the CPM is not displayed on the specifications of the shaft only. Next is torque, an expression of torsional stiffness. The torque is displayed by measuring the twist angle when the butt side is fixed and the tip side is twisted with a certain force. The stronger the torsional stiffness, the less twisting, so the torque 4.5 is weaker than the torque 3. In the case of a steel shaft, the torque is about 2.0. Torque affects the distortion of the head when it hits the ball and the ball doesn't hit the sweet spot on the head. And it is generally proportional to the axial bending stiffness. This is because if a strong fabric is used or multiple fabrics are stacked, the bending stiffness becomes stronger and the torque becomes stronger. That's why I made a simple comparison with just torque in the last episode of "The Inconvenient Truth about the Price of a Shaft". However, it may not be proportional depending on the grain direction and arrangement of the fabric. Kick-point and banding-point are similar concepts, but their measurement methods are slightly different. The kick point is the point that is farthest in the vertical direction from the extension line of both ends after fixing one side and placing a certain weight on the other side. If the band point is convex by applying axial force from both sides without fixing both sides Similarly, the point farthest in the vertical direction from the connecting line at both ends is called the band point. Usually expressed as low kick and high kick. The actual position difference between this low kick and high kick is about 1 inch. When hitting, the starting angle of the ball varies according to this kick point. It is said to be about 1 to 2 degrees. In other words, the starting angle of the ball after hitting is affected in the order of loft angle attack angle bending stiffness kick point. In conclusion, it can be said that the effect of the kick point on the escape angle of the ball is very small. Since it is difficult to partially adjust the thickness of the steel shaft, the steel can be adjusted by placing nodes. As a result, they can adjust the kick point by the number and position of the bars. Of course, a steel shaft without a joint is called a rifle style. Because the graphite shaft is made by cutting the fabric and overlapping it, Partial thickness adjustment in the length direction is also possible, and stiffness distribution can be designed and manufactured at will by making the texture direction of the fabric differently. If you enlarge the section of the shaft, you can see the direction of the organization. In summary, the physical properties of the shaft can be divided into bending stiffness, torque, and kick point. Each property is measured in a generally similar way. However, since it is not standardized, it is difficult to simply compare the shafts of each manufacturer. They might use some vague standards on purpose in marketing. Their marketing ability to make and sell products priced more than $1,000 for raw materials of a few dollars is amazing. In fact, the shaft is the most profitable part of a golf club. Today I have a rough breakdown of the physical properties of the shaft. In the future, I will study in detail about bending stiffness, torque, and kick points. And I was designing and manufacturing equipment that can measure each of these items. When completed, I will compare and analyze the shafts of each makers. So far, My nickname is Golfduckwho who a golf buff. Your subscriptions and likes give me strength. Thanks for watching. 