 Other materials And what are the applications of? Nano materials so these are the things we are going to discuss in this session I welcome all of you to this session First understand the word nano What is mean by nano? You are all very familiar with the Scales. Hello kumar. Can you tell me what is micro scale? Can you tell me what is micro scale Richmond silva, can you hear my voice? Okay, so micro scale means 10 power minus six set and milliscale means 10 power minus 3 These are all you know, very well and nano in the sense 10 power minus 9 meter so any material which has this size between 100 nanometer right that material is called a nanomaterial So any metal with the size say one two hundred nanometer? is called as a nanomaterial Okay clear Right, so in this set, uh Who Who discovered this concept in nano And from which it is derived the word nano, it is derived from creek actually and it is Fined by richard feynman in the year 1959 you may think that it is started discussing Uh since 1959, but now only we start to use this term In all the field, of course It is not a very one particular field It is an interdisciplinary field It is If you go for a biology if there you can see this miniature of science science of miniature are physics chemistry so it is the field of Interdisciplinary field understand that one so in future definitely this will dominate the entire engineering and technology also, okay, so This in this screen you are seeing some things which are natural and things which are made by human being right in this you can see they say for just example if you if you talk about The dna dna size is about 2 to 12 nanometer diameter It is a natural one and here if you see the carbon nano tubes it is about One to three nanometer, right? So for comparison you can see there are Nanomaterials or materials in smaller size or exist in the world? By nature and we can also make things by some process so this is about a nano materials uh comparison of a man man and their natural things then this is about this slide you can see dna and the bacteria and the rain raindrop and single volt carbon nanotube standard, uh House just to understand what is nano? I'm showing this slide. Okay, and Comparing the size you can compare a mountain with the child and the ant Then from ant to bacteria and the sugar molecule you can see These are all if you think about a sugar molecule, it is in the phase of a nanometer one nanometer size copper Ant is about one millimeter and the child is one meter and you can see the comparison right the size Okay Now the nanometers are classified based on this structure uh If it is three dimension, they are simply called as a nanoparticles if it is two dimension, they are simply called as nanowires or Nanotubes and if it is one dimension that is called Thin flames and zero dimension is called as a quantum dot so in that small size, uh It is possible to make the materials in three dimension to dimension and one dimension and zero dimension of course all these four materials Are playing vital role in engineering technology? Okay Then a test for uh, understanding quantum dot depth so you can see the pulse semiconductor material on this plane and when you reduce the size into nano quantum dot structure you can see the arrangement of atoms is completely changed arrangement of atoms with view The viewpoint is completely changed So quantum dot in the sense zero So all the three directions are restricted so confinement in this quantum dot is three, okay And this is the this is about the thin flame actually this picture was taken during the synthesis of the pin flame, okay It's a two dimensional uh one dimensional material and nano wires typical nanowire at the nano tubes actually So it is about two dimensional here. The particles are allowed to move in two directions only one direction is confined that is that direction is not allowed to move say for example if we consider x y is that in x state and why if the particles are allowed to move in the sensor the rest of the Direction the particle cannot move. That means is that it is a direction the particle cannot move so nanoparticles up to nanoparticles So it is possible to make the crystals also a nano size so for example in poly crystalline material to make the Bulk metal into Powder in that case there is a possibility of getting nano crystals And the nano collide and the nano powder they were sitting on the screen and Now very very important point Why this? Random metal is very very special I mean why it is Very useful in all this field we can store more data, and we can use this material for carrying the medicine in the human parts and the human body and delivering trucks delivery and for making the strength Materials mechanically strength materials So why this nanometers are subspecial first? Point you should understand when we say when you reduce the size from bulk to nano surface area to volume ratio increases But surface area to volume ratio increases that is why this nano metal is very special And it has the quantum confinement of it. I pointed out, you know if it is quantum dot If you make a quantum dot that is zero dimensional nano material Understand if any particle are placed in that point of dot that particle cannot move In x direction y direction under the direction, so there is a confinement And if you take a nano wire then a wire in nanowire Uh particle can move in two directions Extended why but now it is confined in one direction. So this kind of Confinement effects that you can see in the random material. So these are the two important Property you can see in the materials when it is nano size. Okay Then Come to this surface area to volume ratio, you know the formula for surface area Uh, it is four pi r squared volume, you know Particle in the sense it is we assume that the particles are in the shape of a spherical shape So the volume of the particle is about four by three pi r cube so surface area to volume ratio if you calculate it it becomes three by r so Once the r value is very very less then think about this this ratio between surface area to volume 3 by r becomes very large that is why this material has higher value of the surface area to volume ratio And one more point you should understand that They are Chemically reactive why they are chemically reactive due to this increase in surface area to volume And quantum confinement just now I explained the quantum component Okay and now we will see what are the properties of the this kind of material so first we will say Order the properties first physical property chemical Followed by electrical followed by optical magnetic and mechanical properties the first physical property in this graph it is the graph between inter atomic distance and a size of material in in diameter actually so you can see this is the Diagram which is represented for copper number materials. Okay, you can see initially when the size is very high you can see internal atom distance is Constant, so when you reduce the size into nano so interactive distance says cartoon decrease okay, so this is the Important point you are observing in physical proper tape that is interatomic spacing decreases with the size Okay Then melting point decreases with the size second change first Point the internal time distances decreases with the size. The second point there melting point degrees is the size Uh, okay and This graph shows how the melting point decreases with the size. Okay And third physical property change you are saying is smaller the size higher the ionization potential So ionization potential, you know What is ionization potential the potential required to ionize the material? So when you reduce the size this ionization potential becomes large Okay. So this graphic you can see electron binding energy And relative reactivity. So for nano clusters and Next property is a chemical property. So you know that It has a large surface area. So it is It's chemically reactive Then it can be used as a catalyst and then cluster has strong effects on catalytic properties so to increase the speed of reaction or to control the reaction or to Modify the things for all those things we can See in this nanoscale and the electrical property It can hold more energy than conventional material suppose the conductivity is very less in bulk scale if we reduce this size into nano, then you can see it can increase the Conductivity of that material the total absorption fan can be produced Or even we can alter By passage of current through this material. So this point is very very important Absorption panned and the band can be introduced there if it is not that or if it is there it can be altered by alloying current through this optical property depending upon the particle size So this is the first change you are seeing when you reduce the size from bulk to nano. You can see A color changes in this material. Okay color changes in the material. That is the important part. So suppose if you take a Material in bulkhead say for example if we consider This Gold Gold material Yeah Suppose you take? Uh gold in bulk size, you know the color of gold You are all very well about the folder but When you start to reduce the size of this Gold what happens? before 10 power Minus 9 meter. There is no change in color at all. But when it becomes equal to 10 power minus 9 You can see there is a lot of changes in color immediate Immediate change if you are observing in the material in the sense it is first change is About a color so color of the material Optical properties completely changed that you can see visually that is the important part we can understand Okay, then magnetic property, of course Uh since the atoms which are present surface have less coordination number. So it asks Local magnetic moment. So when it is, uh Very close to one another then there is a chance for a dosing of a magnetic Every atom can possess a local magnetic moment and a large amount of amount can also be exhibited spontaneous magnetization attached smaller size, okay and ferro and ferromagnetic Materials layer, those layers can have this game magnetic resistance effect also, so this is about a Magnetic property then mechanical property. I already pointed out that that is chemically chemically reactive and the interatomic distance melting point decreases with the size right mechanical property when you reduce the size that this mechanical property changes a lot that is it lower elastic modeling than for conventional grind size material and Two to seven times higher harness and distance than the large kind Of materials decreasing on this with the decreasing client side nano scale and high operation resistance, so these are the changes in the mechanical property of the random material so we are we have discussed about what is nanomaterial and what are the properties of a condiment this starting from physical chemical electrical and Magnetic under mechanic, okay 