 Today, it is obvious that the automotive industry is standing still. It is  very difficult to develop and produce a car that would be of the next technological level. At OCSiAl, we are exploring how the  most promising material – graphene nanotubes – can change the automotive industry.  Automotive metal structural parts play an important role in providing the integrity of the car body and  passenger safety. At the same time, their great weight is one of the major obstacles in increasing the energy efficiency of existing cars, as well as in making electric cars more widely used. We need to replace  metal structural parts with polymer equivalents, which can be 50% lighter, but deliver the same performance as metal. Of course, this could change the whole look of a new car!  Here in my hands is the lightest gas cylinder in the world. Currently,  it is used for compressed air applications, for gas fuels,  and for hydrogen in the future. TUBALL  graphene nanotubes make it possible. In this laboratory, we are developing new approaches to reinforcing thermoplastics with graphene nanotubes. Such thermoplastics will make it possible to replace existing materials, produce lightweight composite constructions and maximize vehicle weight reduction. Additionally, graphene nanotubes enable electrostatic painting of exterior parts and provide conductive plastics for static-sensitive applications. Electric vehicles lag behind gasoline cars in all key parameters: range – lower, refueling/charging time – higher, price –double. We need a breakthrough in battery technology to change this. And such a breakthrough can be achieved with TUBALL graphene nanotubes. We can already solve a key problem caused by silicon – a poor cycle life – making it possible to use up to 90% silicon in lithium-ion battery anodes. This makes it possible to create lithium-ion batteries with 350 Wh/kg and 1,300 Wh/l energy densities,  which will offer up to 75% higher range for EVs, together with a long service life. High performance elastomer materials can boost the development of the automotive industry. Today, it is possible to produce conductive rubber parts using graphene nanotubes that are twice as durable and flexible as standard parts. The mechanical performance of these advanced rubbers can be improved by 30% even at high temperatures and in the harshest environments. For tire manufacturers, it was always a major challenge to improve some parameters without losing out on other ones. But what if I told you that rolling resistance and durability can be improved by up to 20% while maintaining stability, electrical conductivity and wet grip at the required levels? Graphene nanotubes   make it possible. New levels of performance can be achieved without negative impacts. In this new video series, “New Cars – New Materials”, we’ll talk about the breakthroughs we can expect in automotive structural parts,   electronics, batteries, tires and much more. Stay tuned and let’s get started. 