 [NAZANIN] And what better way of harvesting that  energy from their environment so you don't have to   go change their batteries, right? [LISA]   Welcome to Nano Matters, the podcast  that explores examples of nanotechnology.   I'm Lisa Friedersdorf, Director of the  National Nanotechnology Coordination Office.   Here with me today is Nazanin Bassiri-Gharb,  the Harris Saunders Jr. Chair and Professor   in the George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical  Engineering at Georgia Tech. She leads the Smart   Materials Advanced Research and Technology or  SMART laboratory. So Nazanin, could you talk a   little bit about what you mean by smart materials? [NAZANIN] Smart materials are materials that are   responsive to their environment. In  that sense, they should be able to   understand some external stimulus. It  could be the temperature, electric field,   magnetic field, pH, and then respond to  it with changes in their functionality.   So in that sense, they should be smart. Usually  they are functional materials and often they are   beyond functional as in not only they change their  functionality, but they are able to help us do   something more with that change in functionality. [LISA] So does that mean that they would be   applied perhaps as a sensor or an actuator? [NAZANIN] They are absolutely. They are. Most   of our sensors and actuators are really smart  material. What we would like to have in the   future are actually materials that are sensing  directly and then actuating directly as a result   of that sensing. And therefore they become really  smart rather than only functional. So it's almost   a wishful thinking. At this point many of our  materials are already functional and many of   them are used for sensors and actuators. And in  fact the beauty of them is that these materials   work almost as a system. We don't have to design  an electronics to get out the signal out of them,   but the next step is can we couple that  sensing and that actuating capabilities   to create something that directly senses and  then responds to it. And then it's really smart.  [LISA] So one of the applications I understand for  these materials is what is sometimes called energy   harvesting. And when we look at the internet of  things and broad applications of many sensors   that might be small or on flexible electronics,  where do you see applications of energy harvesting   to support these devices and how do they work? [NAZANIN] Many of our sensor systems need to be   deployed in large numbers. And therefore if  they need to be deployed in large numbers,   they will need to have a source of energy with  them. And what better way of harvesting that   energy from their environment, so you don't have  to go change their batteries right? Think of   your smoke sensor in the house. Every few months,  years you will have to change that battery. Now   imagine that that sensor had to be in a location  that was really difficult to reach, but really   important for you to have the information from:  close to a volcano, in a nuclear power plant.   Places where you don't want humans to go and do  this exchange of energy source. This is where   the energy harvesters come into play. You want  to have a system that learns directly from its   environment and it is self-sufficient so it can  relay that information back to a reference or   somebody that collects the information. Many  of these technologies start to be there, but   most often they require the systems to be  chargeable. You have to plug them in. Your smart   watch needs to be charged every few days. And we  want to go far away from that. We want to have a   system that is charging itself. You remember the  old mechanically-charged watches? The one that you   would switch your wrist? [LISA] Sure. [NAZANIN]  Exactly! Now think of it as a smaller scale   and higher power. And that it would be able to  relay a lot more information. So combine the two   and try to make energy independent sensors that  communicate to us all of the information that   we need. And between each other. If you want to  think of it the next step of that are the cars.   The self-driving cars rely heavily on the  sensors and how to communicate to each other.   The more you rely on the sensors, however,  it means the more energy they will need.   So how can we make sure that those sensors are  independent from other energy sources that we are   using as fuel because otherwise we are making the  car heavier and heavier with loading it with more   and more fuel or that we need to still charge them  with electricity. So you can have a sensor in your   tires that tells you about the pressure changes.  You can have a sensors that is close to the fuel   level. You can have a sensor that tells  you the distance between the next car,   but also with respect to the street margins. [LISA] How would these devices be able to capture   vibration or thermal gradients or  other aspects of the environment   in order to create the energy that's required? [NAZANIN] You can take piezoelectric materials   or ferroelectric materials that have very large  piezoelectric response. Imagine that these are   materials that are responding to deformation or  to applied stress with creating charges. And then   you collect these charges. Now make it into a  membrane or on the free-standing cantilever and   then you amplify their mechanism to amplify the  displacement or the vibration. And now every time   that the car is vibrating, because it's running  on the road, you are harvesting. You are resulting   in creation of charges on the surfaces of your  material because that cantilever or that membrane   is moving up and down. And then you can get  to store them on a high density capacitor,   for example. Or you can charge the battery with  it. Keep in mind that right now our nuclear power   plants have to go down for up to months for close  inspection to happen on all of the different parts   of it and this has to happen every few years.  If you did have a sensor that was embedded   in all of the different parts that require  monitoring and you continuously have a signal,   you don't have to do that. To a large extent you  can have a continuously running power plant and   then only if you have a signal that starts to get  to a, you know, orange zone, I'm not even saying   red zone, then you shut down things and fix it. [LISA] Could you talk a little bit about how   nanotechnology plays a role in these applications? [NAZANIN] You recall the example of the mechanical   watch that I made to you? We moved away from  the gears and a spring that was getting loaded   mechanically by vibrations by moving a wrist  to quartz. And quartz was one of the first   piezoelectric materials that we found that are  changing stress into electricity. But we didn't   use it for energy harvesting really,  we used it really for control of time.   And then we realized that quartz maybe is not  the best option. You have to start with a big one   and it has to be a single crystal and it has to  be cut properly and there are materials that work   and have even higher properties, but they don't  need to be as big and that's when we moved into   complex oxides. And the complex oxides are  awesome. What we have discovered over the   years, the last decade or so, is that their very  large functional responses really are born at the   atomic scale. So we should be able to reduce them  to the nanoscale without losing too much of their   functionality. And that's again the beauty of it.  The smaller you go, you're reducing the weight   of the device and you're often reducing even  the power required for device to make it work.   Let's think of the car. The car, you need some  fuel to run it, but of course some fuel also to   run the weight of the car around, right? So  if you make the whole car lighter, you will   need less fuel. That's the same concept even for  microelectronics. If we do have systems that are   making it smaller and smaller, you require less  power, less voltage, less current. And therefore,   if you have less demands on your batteries  maybe you can supplement some of that with your   energy harvesting approaches. [LISA] Well I appreciate so much   you taking the time to talk with us today.  Do you have any closing thoughts that you   would like to share with our listeners? [NAZANINI] I want to say appreciate   science and support it because we  are where we are because of science. 