 Creating nanotechnology means connecting molecules   or even atoms together to create  impossibly tiny structures. How?? You could try to move each  atom individually. Here's a   movie made using only several  dozen atoms. Which is amazing But the problem with this approach is that  in order for a product to have real utility,   you typically need a whole bunch of it,  maybe billions of copies. How do you do that? The answer is chemistry. Take a material we're all familiar with:   woven fabric. Is it possible to use chemistry  to make a nano-scale version of this? Traditional fabrics are made by weaving  many many threads together using a loom. But there's no loom on earth small enough  to weave individual molecules together,   and even if we somehow engineered one  down to that size, it wouldn't work.   Literally the forces between molecules  would render loom technology useless. What if, instead of using a machine to weave, we  could make molecules weave themselves together? This may sound like science fiction,  but it has already been done! This is Professor David Leigh's chemistry  laboratory at the University of Manchester. He works with a talented team  of synthetic chemists. Er...   the chemists are real; their field  deals with synthesizing new chemicals. Together they've created molecular robots,  chemical motors, and tiny record-breaking knots. We'll come back to the knots, but let's  explore this self-assembling fabric. What does it look like and how  does it weave itself together? It starts with many copies of this  synthetic molecule, designed in the lab. On each end is a sulfur atom, shown in yellow. In the presence of oxygen, each sulfur  can connect to another sulfur atom. That's cool, we can use that to join up long  strings of this molecule which results in   messy spaghetti. This isn't actually  woven together, it's just tangled. Let's rewind and see how this  innovative design really works. If we first add a blend of positively charged iron  ions and negatively charged tetrablourafluora...   tetraflourbo.. fluoro.. these ones... then the strand-like molecules will  snap together in a very specific way. You can see that by binding to the ions,   the strands have assembled in  an over-under-over pattern. Six strands have formed a three by three grid. Next, the grid units begin to  precipitate as a solid residue,   and as the sulfur tips join up, the  grids become interconnected and voila,   a whole sheet of interlaced molecules, with  individual threads inextricably woven together. It turns out the sheets tend to layer on top  of one another to produce a multitiered stack. After washing away the supporting  ions, we have our final fabric. The scale of this weave is on the order of a  nanometer, which is a million times smaller   than a millimeter. How does someone go about  designing something like this? Well, like everything in science,  nobody starts from scratch. Prior to developing the fabric, this team of  chemists created an elegantly twisted structure,   known as the endless knot. The core of it might look familiar - it's  the same 3x3 grid of molecules as the fabric. Okay... but how do you make this 3x3 grid? Well, how about starting with a 2x2 grid?  This is from another molecular knot. Okay, come on, how you do  you learn how to assemble   molecular strands into a knot to begin with? By tying a simpler knot and by  constructing these interlocked rings. Obviously prior generations of chemistry made this  possible to synthesize, but it's worth stopping   here, because this interlocked molecule earned  a share in the 2016 Nobel Prize for chemistry. The award-winning idea is  to use metal ions to cause   long molecules to wrap around and  snap into place. Sound familiar? This core concept enabled all  the subsequent work I mentioned. Clearly, an important theme in nanotechnology   is about progressively building upon simpler  constructions to develop more complex structures. Okay, so we've looked at  increasingly intricate knots,   but was all this a necessary precursor to fabric? In other words, were the scientists expecting   that this 3x3 grid would lead them to a  self-assembling sheet of woven molecules? Not really. Here's where  serendipity comes into play.   While experimenting with the endless knot, the  team noticed that when the knot was condensed   into a crystal, it formed flat sheet-like  layers, oriented in a regular pattern. Not yet joined up, but it sparked  the idea that this arrangement of   grid units might bring the distant goal  of creating molecular fabric within reach. While serendipity often contributes to important  discoveries in chemistry, luck isn't enough. It requires astute observation to notice  that something interesting has happened   and to recognize its value. Even with the promise of woven molecules,   a problem remained. How to join the  strands together into a seamless fabric? Due to certain constraints, most chemical  processes and reagents would not work. However, connecting together long strand-like  molecules without adding chemicals   is a solved problem. Inside our bodies. Many of our proteins use pairs of  sulfur atoms that join together   to maintain the specific shapes  which allow proteins to function. Applying the same principle to the strands,   adding sulfur to each tip, provides the  self-assembling properties we saw earlier. So was protein biology the key to woven fabric? Well that's probably a stretch. Using sulfur  to link molecules together has been used   for over a century, in the  vulcanization of rubber. However the reason I mention proteins here is  that if we look closely at molecular biology   and biochemistry, we see a host of innovative  solutions that can be applied to nanotechnology:   molecular machines, intricate structures,  even metal ions bound to organic molecules. So, if you're interested in  designing your own nanotech,   you can't go wrong by: building on what other  brilliant people have done, taking inspiration   from biochemistry, and recognizing when you've  accidentally found something interesting. Now that we understand more about the design of  this fabric, I suppose the obvious question is:   "What kinds of things can it be used for?" Would you be disappointed to  learn there is currently no   practical application for this fabric? Well, couldn't it be used as  a strong, flexible bandage?  Not as is. If you stretch it, it tears. Is it bullet-proof? No, it is stiffer than this tangled spaghetti version but it  doesn't have the properties of kevlar. What about making futuristic clothing?  Not yet. So far the largest piece  synthesized is less than a millimeter big. Hmm... But, do you know what else doesn't  have a practical application? These interlocked rings. You see, this proof of concept led to  so many other molecular manipulations   and techniques in the field of nanotechnology. Only in hind-sight do we see this,  which is why Nobel Prizes are often   awarded decades after the initial discovery! It's not about the currently  available applications,   it's about laying a foundation for the  science and technology of the future. It's okay if it takes one or two  or several further advances and   discoveries before we reach a life-saving,  ground-breaking, earth-shaking technology. So let's speculate: what do you think scientists  might do next to fashion new functionality? I could imagine adding a chemical group to  the starting strands to create an adhesive   film or maybe coating a medical implant to  make it more biocompatible with the host. Let me know in the comments what use you  could imagine for a molecular fabric. So, I implied that a practical application wasn't  possible yet, but that's not actually true. Sorry. There's another valuable property of this  fabric that you probably haven't considered. This is PVDF, a plastic that's  often used as a thin membrane,   among other forms. If you look at it under a  microscope, you'll find that it's actually porous. These holes are about 100 nanometers wide on  average. That sounds tiny, and it is   (one ten-thousandth of a millimeter), but compared  to most molecules, it's a gaping cavern. The question is, can the fabric work as a mesh net   to stop certain molecules from  passing through these pores? The scientists used these cool looking  molecules as candidates to pass through.   A bigger one and a smaller one. Both much larger than a water molecule,  but much much smaller than the pore. For the experiment, the researchers compared  the woven fabric to the tangled-style First, we'll see if the smaller of the  two candidates can pass through either   the unwoven spaghetti or the fabric, or both. Looks like it passes through both,  fairly easily at about the same rate. Okay, we'll try the larger molecule next. And it looks the fabric is a  pretty effective net for this size! So there you go, using a molecular fabric  as a filter for some pretty tiny substances. This is a fascinating structure. As we've seen, innovative nanotechnology  like this is both the product of years   of development, and the genesis of  new discoveries and applications. I can't wait to see how scientists  will build upon the techniques and   knowledge that have been woven together here. Speaking of scientists, here are some of the  people that contributed to this research. I'm David August and this is where I prepared the woven materials. I'm Robert Dryfe. With my PhD student, Paige Kent, we performed the experiments where we used the molecules as nets showing that they could filter out smaller molecules of different sizes. My name is Sarah Haigh. I use a transmission electron microscope like the one behind me to be able to characterize the materials in this paper. My name's Dave Leigh. My role was to coordinate this project on how to weave molecular chains. Coordinating the project means basically just letting these other fantastic scientists get on with solving the many challenges they had along the way. Hello, I'm Jean-Francois Lemonnier, and I worked on the design and synthesis of the 3x3 grid and the resulting 2D material Hi, this is Zheling. My job is to identify the layered structure and the mechanical properties of this woven polymer. I'm Leoni Palmer. I helped make the materials and took pictures of them using an electron microscope. My name is Yiwei Song. I joined the other chemists for the early stage preparation of the ligands. My name is George Whitehead, and I determined the structure of the 3x3 grid using X-ray crystallography. Hi, I'm Robert Young, and I've helped with the characterization of the structure and properties of the woven molecular fabric. And my name is Stuart. I created the  animations and put together this video. If you'd like to see more  about what real scientists do,   please consider subscribing and hopefully I'll  be able share more Real Research in the future! On that note, I'd love to make  more videos showing amazing   advances in our understanding of molecules. So this part is for scientists! Are you doing exciting research in  molecular biology or biochemistry? Would your findings benefit from computer  animation to visualize what's happening?   If you're not sure, the answer is yes. Do you have funding allocated  for outreach and dissemination? Finally, are you interested in having your   research seen by an engaged community  of students and lifelong learners? If so, then I'd love to chat with you! You can find a link to more  information in the description of this video. Thank you so much for watching. I'm  Stuart and this is Biocinematics. 