 [PAUL] You might be able to make an engine. Instead of compressing a gas and expanding the gas it would in a sense compress photons. [LISA] Welcome to Nano Matters, the podcast that explores examples of nanotechnology. I'm Lisa Friedersdorf, Director of the National Nanotechnology Coordination Office. Here with me today is Paul Alivisatos, Vice Chancellor for Research and Distinguished Professor of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology at the University of California, Berkeley. Today we're going to talk about his group's research in materials for renewable energy applications. So Paul, what issues surrounding renewable energy are you working on? [PAUL] Well first thank you for having me today on the podcast. I'm just really grateful for the opportunity to talk with you and to share our thoughts with the community. We're working on two things that i'm really excited about right now. One of them concerns how we use light in energy conversion and renewable energy conversion. We are working on making quantum dot materials that can absorb high energy light and emit a lower energy light. And that will do that with an extremely high efficiency. So almost every single time they're excited they would then admit light. And let's say if they're excited a million times they might only miss emitting a photon once. If we can make such a material it can actually be used as part of a device that concentrates sunlight to a very high degree and those can then be used, I mean in a sense they're like a gas compressor in a thermodynamic engine. So you might be able to make an engine that instead of compressing a gas and expanding a gas, it would it would actually in a sense compress photons. So that's a really interesting idea that I'm excited about very much related to using light better in solar energy. And a second idea we're working on is part of a large large community effort that's been going on for a long time to try to emulate photosynthesis and use sunlight in order to make and break bonds so that we could store energy in a chemical bond and use it that way. [LISA] You mentioned the possibility of using these quantum dots or nanomaterials in areas like solar energy, so what are some of the challenges in developing more efficient solar cells and what is the role of nanotechnology? [PAUL] I will say that we have some really good news in the world, just backing up a second saying that I think solar technology that we have today with silicon solar cells has advanced so dramatically and the costs have dropped so much that we see that it's a growing business and that's a wonderful thing. More and more energy is being harvested from the sun all over the world. And that's a great thing for our environment. But it is true that for some time now people have known how to make solar cells that have much greater efficiency than those silicon solar cells. And so as a very practical matter those tend to be way too costly. So one thing that nanoscience and nanotechnology may be able to do is to provide the facility, the ability, to make solar cells at much lower cost that also match the performance of the kinds of solar cells that are often put on satellites, but which are so expensive that they they can't really be used on a rooftop or in a large solar installation for a utility. I do have to say my personal interest is more focused as I kind of mentioned earlier in concepts that allow us to use solar energy in different ways. So, for example, the idea of making a photon compression and expansion cycle using the photon gas as the gas in the conventional engine. That requires a lot of new science that we don't yet have. It's quite different than what would be done even in a very high efficiency solar cell today and it requires the creation of materials that operate at the true limits of anything that we know how to do today. It requires a little atomic precision in the fabrication of materials so that's really hard to do right now. But that's what makes it extremely interesting just to try to find a way to do that. So I think it's a very interesting situation. There's an existing technology and nanoscience can help to improve .it But also we should keep in mind that there may be just entirely new technologies that have not yet really been invented. And I think we have to balance those two out in our approach. [LISA] So I wanted to pick up on some of your earlier comments where you talked about mimicking photosynthesis and the possibility of using solar energy and nanotechnology to store energy in chemical bonds. And I'm wondering if this is what sometimes people refer to as splitting water or as a source of renewable and clean hydrogen fuel. Can you expand on that a little bit? [PAUL] Yeah absolutely. This is a really interesting area of development of chemistry and materials and even the very basic physics. And certainly if we could take the energy of the sun and then make a chemical fuel with it, especially if it were liquid fuel, why then ultimately we could in a sense close the carbon cycle. Imagine that we made a hydrocarbon using carbon dioxide and water, which is what a plant of course does. Take the energy of the light and take carbon dioxide and water and make it into a reduced form of carbon that can then be combusted. That could make a complete cycle of carbon and that would of course succeed in altering the unbalanced carbon cycle that people are involved in now. Where we take stored hydrocarbon fuels and burn them and then just leave the CO2 in the atmosphere. That has unbalanced our carbon cycle globally. So chemically, if we could do that, that would be an enormous development. And looking outside my window and everything out there is green. Those are all photosynthetic plants doing that. Yet if we try and do it in the laboratory in a way that emulates it, we still can't do it. So yes in our case we've been working trying simply to split water, but to do both parts of that reaction, in other words to produce hydrogen and oxygen, and have them occur at good rates when light is absorbed. And it turns out doing that in a very small collection of nanoparticles that are all kind of attached to each other, that would kind of emulate what goes on in a photosynthetic membrane with all of the chromophores and proteins and other things that are laid out just so. Well that's still pretty hard to do. People can't quite do that so that's what is a kind of a long time challenge for us to learn to do. And I'm optimistic we're getting a lot better at this. And say we, I mean a large community of scientists, but certainly in my research where I feel like we're making good progress on it and we're learning to do a lot more things than we knew how to even a year ago. [LISA] Well that's very exciting and I appreciate the time you took today to talk about some of these applications of nanotechnology in renewable energy and want to ask if you have any additional thoughts that you would like to share with our listeners today? [PAUL] Well maybe just to say that I think that nanoscience and nanotechnology are really at the core at the foundation of how energy is converted from one form into another in so many ways. And to emphasize that we have some tremendous advances in renewable energy already, but more is possible. There's still things that we don't know how to do and as our science and our technologies develop, we'll become more able. We didn't talk about this today, but I'm very very hopeful that as time goes on, we'll learn how to recycle materials at the nanoscale in ways that mean that we create much less waste in the future. 