 This is the first time we meet you in 2020. As our first video we thought to talk  about scientific highlights of 2019 On January 3, 2019, China succesfully landed  a spacecraft on the moon's far side These two spacecrafts are parts  of the Chang?e space missions This series has been named after the  Chinese goddess of the moon The mission of Chang?e-4 that landed on the moon's far  side is to investigate about the moon's surface. In order to do that Chang?e-4 has a  Groundbreaking radar system. Chang?e-4 also supposed to take panoramic photos  of undiscovered areas on the moon. China expect to use these data to land  spacecraft more securely in future. And another highlighted news from previous year is that Scientists released the first picture of a black hole to internet This happened on 10th april 2019. They were able to capture  the black hole that is located in a galaxy called M87 This blackhole?s mass is 6.5 billion times greater than our sun And this located 55 million lightyears from earth You can get more informations by watching our  previous video so click here. There was also a huge innovation in computer technology  Instead of silicon chips we used up until now Scientists have introduced a chip that made  out of carbon nanotubes. The new chips are not yet ready to unseat silicon  ones in modern electronics. But according to studies, these chips can do the exact same  process that a silicon chip does only using ? of that energy Decades ago when we innovate transistors computer  technology took a huge leap Scientists believe with this innovation computer technology  will mark a milestone as a new genaration. Another huge news from computer technology  was released last October by google. We usually use digital computers Therefore we use binaries (1 and 0) for calculations But nowadays there are computers that use qubits for  calculations, Qubits have 1 state, 0 state and a state between those two Specialty of this quantum computers is that it can solve a very  complicated calculation in just 200 seconds. You may wonder if it takes 200 seconds  how could this computer be good. But the magic is world?s fastest supercomputer will take 10000  years to do the exact same calculation . We got another news on 20 may 2019. All the SI base units that we use for measuring  in physics have redefined. Most important one is that they redefine the kilogram. Up until now kilogram was defined by an international prototype  that made out of platinum and iridium. But last year they introduce it via planck constant. Last year India also attempted to  land on the moon like china. Indian space research organisation launched a spacecraft to  the moon on 2nd of July, 2019, as a  part of chandrayaan 2 mission. It reached the moon's orbit on 20 august 2019 But because of communication fail it broke free from  Indian control and failed the mission. Last September, a scientist named Robert Wyrek  observed a weird space object. It was a cylindrical object and its diameter was around  35m-365m,and the length was around 100m-400m. This is the first known interstellar object detected  passing through the Solar System. On September 9 it passed its closest point to the sun. It was named oumuamua Even so Prof.Sarath Gunapala who is a  Sri Lankan scientist works in nasa Says this is not a normal space object but something that  createdby intellectual beings from outer space Last but not least we like to talk about  Nobel prize winners in 2019 For new theoretical discoveries in Physical cosmology James Peebles, Michel Mayor, Didier Queloz  won the Nobel price in Physics 2019. And also for the development of lithium-ion batteries three scientists were awarded with Nobel price. They were John B. Goodenough, Akira Yoshino,  M. Stanley Whittingham. For discoveries of how cells sense and adapt to  oxygen availability 3 scientists were warded with  Nobel Price They were William G. Kaelin Jr,Gregg L. Semenza  and Sir Peter J. Ratcliffe. We wanted to make this video about  scientific news that we got in 2019. If there?s any special event that we missed Feel free to mention it in comment section below If you learn anything new share this  video with your friends. You can subscribe your channel and leave a like 