 Welcome to our third 2020 MITEI Low-Carbon Energy Center webinar. Coming to you from virtual MIT scattered across Massachusetts. I’m Robert Stoner, the deputy director of MITEI for science and technology and I’ll be your moderator today. Our intention in presenting these webinars is to cover a range of topics drawn from ongoing work in all of MITEI’s Low-Carbon Energy Centers, and a few drawn intentionally form outside them. We want you to know what we’re up to at MIT and what we think is especially interesting and important as we work toward a globally decarbonized energy system. We want to engage and hear from you. We’re presenting live. We’ll reserve time at the end of the session for your questions. You compose your questions anytime in the Zoom webinar format. Just type a question after clicking Q&A at the bottom of the screen and we’ll see it. We understand that not everyone will be able to view us live, and so as usual we’ll be recording this webinar so that it can be viewed offline and shared with colleagues. Please feel free to share it. Our subject today is carbon capture. It’s hard to overstate just how important carbon capture is to a low-carbon future. Almost any low-carbon future that one can imagine. Whether we’re talking about capturing carbon emissions from the flue gasses of coal or natural gas fired power plants; from power plants fueled from biomass, the tail pipes of cars and trucks, or from the air. We need technologies that can be deployed in a wide variety of situations at low cost and massive scale that capture CO2. We may put that CO2 into the ground, convert it into new materials or transform it into fuels to be recycled over and over again through the atmosphere. Whatever the pathway, effective means of capturing carbon are the indispensible tool. Our speaker today is Alan Hatton, the Ralph Landau professor of Chemical Engineering at MIT and the long-serving director of the David H. Koch School of Chemical Engineering Practice. Alan is also the codirector of the Low Carbon Energy Center for Carbon Capture, Utilization and Sequestration. Three big and incredibly important topics that engage the talents of dozens of our faculty researchers and students. Alan, we’re glad to have you at the helm, and speaking of the helm, the helm is yours. -Good. Thanks very much for the generous introduction, Rob. I’m very pleased here to discuss with you the work that we have been doing in carbon capture. Let me share my screen with you and we can go ahead. What I’d like to do today is talk to you a little bit about some of the work that we’ve been doing on the area of carbon capture, and some of the new techniques and technologies that we have been developing. I don’t think it’s any surprise to you that carbon capture is a really important consideration nowadays. The CO2 emissions and the global temperature have changes associated with the CO2 emissions have led to dramatic increases in temperatures over the globe over the last 50 years or so. What we have is a very strong correlation between the actual temperature raises. It’s been the anomaly, temperature anomaly since about 1880. It’s going up by around over 2 degrees Celsius, about 2 degrees Celsius at this point. This is directly correlated with the amount of CO2 that has been emitted over this period, and it’s been accumulating in the atmosphere. Clearly there’s a very strong correlation here, predicted Arrhenius around 120, 130 years ago. It is still part of our models right now. The problem we have with CO2 emissions from fossil fuels, a major contributor to the overall CO2 budget in the atmosphere. If we look at the United States energy emissions, the energy-related CO2 emissions from fossil fuels is on the order of about five to six gigatons per year. A significant amount of CO2 that’s been going up into the atmosphere because of coal, natural gas and petroleum type products. If we look at the overall emission by sector, the electricity sector certainly has a significant fraction, but so is the industrial sector. Transportation provides a huge amount of CO2 that’s emitted to the atmosphere. Globally there’s on the order of about 35 to 40 gigatons a year of CO2 that’s being emitted. These of course all accumulate in the atmosphere to a large extent and it’s pretty important that we try and think about ways in which we can mitigate that. The IPCC and others have shown that the CO2 emissions as a function of time will continue as we go as business as usual. The CO2 emission will continue to increase with time, over here. This could lead by the end term of the century of temperature rising about 4 degrees Celsius, which is really unsustainable for human activities and for life on the planet. There’s a lot of interest in terms of how we can abate and what kind of abatement technologies, how we can mitigate these CO2 emissions, to give us an opportunity to keep the temperature rise to below 1.5 degrees Celsius. What this means is that the CO2 emissions should be dramatically reduced over the period of the next 30 years or so. Indeed at some point, around about 2050 to 2070, we’re going to need to have a net zero emissions, which means that we need to be able to remove the CO2 from the atmosphere rather than put it into the atmosphere. The mitigation pattern here can be achieved through a number of different approaches, one of which I’ll be talking about today is the carbon capture and utilization. Fossil fuels are always going to be an important consideration. We will not get away from fossil fuels completely, although we can reduce the use significantly as we get further and further electrification of our grid and things like that. This is the fossil fuel. This is the negative amount of emissions we’re going to need. We can do that using that negative emission technologies and we’ll be talking somewhat about that. The strategy for CO2 mitigation. Clearly there’s nuclear, there’s solar, wind and hydro; all of which are important and are developing even further nowadays. Then there’s a whole area of carbon capture, utilization and storage. Nuclear, solar, wind and hydro of course avoid the emissions of CO2 et al. Whereas the carbon capture, utilization and storage actually try to do something with the CO2 that is being emitted nowadays and we can’t avoid completely. We can look at the capture, we can look at utilization and we can look at storage capacities. In addition, this is to take into account what’s happening in terms of emissions, but we can also look at how we can remove the CO2 from the air directly. This is where bio energy with carbon capture and sequestration is of interest. There’s direct air capture taking CO2 directly out of the air, and then of course forestation. These are all removal of the CO2 from the atmosphere. The carbon capture center, our mission in the sector is to conduct cutting-edge research. We want to look at techno-economic assessments and we want to reduce the cost of carbon capture. We want to enable secure carbon storage operations and options, and develop carbon utilization opportunities. In my work today I’m going to be talking a little bit more about the carbon capture side, because that is where my areas of interest have been over the last few years. In particular of course, we have the power industry, we have the industrial industry then we have carbon emissions from vehicles and transportation. These typically on the range of about 5% to 15% CO2 in the emissions. On the other hand the other areas of which could be of interest as well for CO2 abatement, some of which would not do much to solve our CO2 problems, such as in confined spaces, in submarines, in aircraft and spacecraft and the like. Buildings, if we can keep the CO2 levels down inside a building, we can then avoid doing a lot of exchange of air outside to maintain low levels. Therefore reduce the air conditioning cost associated with this. Then there’s also the whole area of looking at capturing CO2 directly from the air at the moment. A number of companies are looking at that right now. These typically being on the order of about 0.05% to about 0.5% of CO2. We can see that the scales over which we are looking at are enormous and the concentration ranges are pretty significant as well. What we need is a suite of different types of technologies for mitigation of the CO2 releases. If you look at the carbon capture, utilization and storage space, the source of CO2 is power, is coal and gas. The power sector, the transport sectors of course and the industrial sector are all important sources of CO2. Whereas if you look at the storage side, we look at sequestration and geologic formations. We look at useful sequestration such as enhanced oil recovery and mineralization. We’re also looking at utilization such as the development of chemicals and production of chemicals through either chemical or biological means. To the use fuels or chemical products and refined chemicals and the like. The important part of course connecting these two is that we need to be able to capture the CO2. Here we look at how we can go about doing this. Obviously, one of the ways we do it is to take a CO2-rich exhaust stream and pass it through an ad or absorber system in which we remove the CO2 and then we release the lean CO2 stream. This is good because we cannot capture the CO2 directly. The problem is, the absorbent will tend to get loaded up and we need to regenerate the absorbent and release the pure CO2. You take the CO2-rich absorbent and take it through a desorber where we have some kind of energy input to be able to break the bonds or whatever it is that we have in the system and release the CO2 as a pure CO2 product that can then be sequestered or utilized in other ways. Then, we could take the lean sorbent and take it back to the absorber and do this complete cycle. Now, there’s a number of different ways we can do that and I’m going to talk about a couple of new ways that we have been looking at that might be able to be exploited to do this sufficiently. The capture CO2, they release the of CO2, the desorption can occur through temperature swings and raising the temperature and breaking chemical bonds. Pressure swings to release the CO2 because they’re sucking it out basically off the surface or out of the sorbent. Then, we can also talk about electric potential swings, which are of some significant interest to us. Now, if you look at the traditional amine process, to put things in context, the traditional amine process is the benchmark operation. We have an absorber system here. This is where the CO2 gets absorbed by an aqueous solution of amine, so this particular case by ethanolamine. It interacts with CO2 to form a chemical, a carbamate, the chemical complex is shown here. This is generally done around 40°C to 60°C so fairly low temperatures, but to be able to release the CO2 and regenerate the amine, what we need to do is take this up to much higher temperatures where we can break the chemical bond and release the CO2 and regenerate the amines. This then is taken back from the desorber here back through a heat exchanger where it’s cooled down again and sent back to the absorber. This whole process is rather energy-intensive. It requires significant amounts of steam for the reboiler and the like. Generally, it requires a certain amount of retrofitting and disruption of the steam cycle in a power plant if you want to install this in an existing power plant. We were wondering are there ways in which we can go about avoiding this huge energy requirement or steam requirement and do things under more isothermal conditions, but also with using electrical sources which can be from renewable resources as well. The basic idea we have here is very similar in terms of the absorption side. We have an absorption column in which we absorb CO2. We have the amines coming in. The CO2 is then captured by the amines to form the carbamate, but the difference is the way in which we regenerate these amines. Instead of sending this through a firmly heated up desorption column, we send this through an electrochemical cell that’s shown here where we’ve got the-- These are copper electrodes. What we do is when you oxidize the copper electrode, we release the cupric ions and these will complex with the amines very strongly displacing the CO2. CO2 comes up now as a pure stream and we can then release that to disengage that in the flash tank. Then, this copper amine complex that we have can now be taken back to the cathode chamber of the electrochemical cell where we clean out the copper and in so doing, we regenerate the amines and that can then be sent back to the absorption colar. This is a pretty straightforward process now. The thing is that the anode chamber really takes the place of the thermal desorber. The cathode chamber is more like the-- It replaces the heat exchanger system that we have. This process works pretty well. This is a small bench-scale system that we set up in our lab. You can see the desorber here. These are electrochemical cell with the copper electrodes separated by a membrane. The two chambers are separated by a membrane. Just to show you how this works, this is the applied current that we apply across that cell. The higher the current, the greater the rate in which we release copper ions and solution and therefore the greater the rate of which we will release CO2. Indeed, as we change the current passing through the system, we change the amount of CO2 that’s being released directly as shown here. Typically, we can get on the order of 80% to 90% per day efficiency for these systems. Actually, what happened is sometimes, they [?], or sometimes the anode will be corroded and the cathode will grow with time. In some points, we would need to flip chambers, change the polarity and switch the feed to the different chambers. This shows you the cyclic type operation is rather stable. This is a new order of six hours. We’ve actually run these on for more than 200 hours now and we got a very, very stable operation on these systems. The question is what are the thermodynamics, energetics for something like this? You can develop a thermodynamic program diagram as shown here. This is the potential versus the standard hydrogen electrode as the function around the copper that’s been released relative to the amines and solution. If we start out here, this is coming from the bottom of the absorption column at a pressure of about 0.13, a fugacity of 0.13 for the CO2. This is the constant concentration here. As it starts releasing copper into the system, we also begin to start releasing CO2 and we get constant pressure and we get the CO2 loading. In this case, from 0.81 to 0.26 in the system. Then when you get to the end here, we take this off to the flash tank. We circulate the CO2 lean copper-rich solution back to the cathode. We’re going to reduce it. The concentration is constant the whole time of CO2 now, but as we release and reduce it, we’re replacing out the copper and we come back in this cycle. Total energetics are basically given by the area under this curve. That gives us the minimum thermodynamics penalty. Of course, we have to worry about transport limitations and other kinds of kinetic or potential required, et cetera. Once we’ve gone through and taken consideration, all these different kinds of things such as surface and transport overpotential and so on, we can then develop an analysis of the work required to do this, the kilojoules, electrical equipment, the kilojoules per mole of CO2 and we find that we are very competitive with the other systems that are out the advanced MEA, the thermal EDA, the advanced piperazine. This shows that basically, the concept is a very viable concept in the system. The economics are also favorable if we look at the cost of electricity. This is for the EMAR system, the process we’ve just been talking about with the MEA and MDEA piperazine thing and we see that we’re very, very compatible instead of these. The overall capture cost depends on the shift in the loading that we have in copper, how much of a capacity do we utilize of our system. If we go between about 40% and 80%, you see that the loading or the actual capture cost are pretty reasonable depending on the price of the membrane, the cost of the membrane that we have in the system. That’s been very, very promising in this case. Just to summarize. I’ve given you a very brief overview here. There’s a lot more that’s going into it, in particular, in terms of understanding the chemistry associated with these systems, the electrochemistry and the like. The advantages of that process that these foresee for this is it does not need steam and extensive retrofitting, which is a very strong advantage. It’s pretty much of a plug-and-play type operation. It can be operated isothermally, which is also a significant advantage. It can desorb at pressure to some extent. If we want to, we can also utilize low-grade heat to improve the efficiency. That’s crucial. It certainly has competitive cost and energy requirements. Now, what we do here is the actual agent that capture the CO2, the amines are not really electrochemically active at all. What we do is we utilize the electrochemistry of copper to add to the amine solution to release the CO2. There are other ways in which we can do this and actually have the chemical reaction, the reagent itself be electrochemically active so we don’t have to add a second component to the system. One of these would be looking at quinone-type systems. There are a number of different systems we can look at, but this particular case, let’s think about the benzoquinone system in general that’s shown here. Typically, these are the dormant states. They have no capacity for CO2. They’re just pretty inactive. We can then as we go through an electrochemical reduction, add a couple of electrons to this guy. What we’ll find is the electrons accumulate on the oxygen [?], high-electronic density associated with this, which makes it very active states for the capture of an electrophile such as CO2 which will form the dicarbonate shown in this case. This is a way in which we can then modulate, control the capture of the CO2 by controlling the electronic distribution on the molecule by a reduction. Then when these are fully loaded, we can regenerate them by re-oxidizing these again, removing those electrons oxidizing going back to the dormant state which has no particular affinity for CO2 whatsoever and we can release the CO2 in a flash tank and release the CO2 and then recycle these systems. The question, how do we actually apply these in the case of one in a real system? The idea we have here is to use an adsorption type process not absorption, but adsorption in which we’ll have electrodes as shown here in a column in a chamber like this. The CO2 will be flowing between the electrodes and the electrodes would be punctualized with these quinone-type molecules where they were being captured as CO2 as they pass through this electrode stack and so on. Again, we’ve got the quinones coming in, that’s the quinone coming in. It basically is reduced, captured as CO2 and then when you want to we can release the CO2 by reoxidizing this system. The way in which we set this up is shown here, a sandwich-type structure where we have the CO2 in this particular. We’ve got pink ones here are the quinones in the reduced state and they can then capture the CO2. We do need an electron source of course and we had that in the central electrode which with this particular case is ferrocene. When you have the ferrocene are being oxidized to provide the electrons for the reduction of the quinones, we get the ferrocenium. At some point, this electrode will now become fully loaded with CO2, would have no normal capacity for CO2. In that case, we can just reverse the polarity and the ferrocenes, that gets reduced. Ferrocenium gets reduced back to ferrocene, the quinones, these dianion quinones get oxidized back to the quinone and then release the CO2. This is a typical swing type process that we’ll have in this system. Let’s just have a look at what we have to do here. One of the things obviously is that we would have some degree of coupling between the coupling redox, coupling between the cathode and the anode sections and we want to make sure there’s some charge balancing in the system. Let’s take a look at the electrochemistry here. If you look at the charge concentration on each of the electrodes and in the bound CO2 concentration on the cathode as a function of the potential relative to some reference potential, we know from that equation we can relate the amount the quantity of the charge amount to the actual applied potential [?] potential here and we’ll get a curve that looks something like this. This will tell us as we change the potential like a more positive the amount of charge on the system goes down and the amount of CO2 that’s bound also goes down so you need to go to fairly negative charges here to be able to capture the CO2. On the other hand, we have the anode side in which we have the ferrocenes get charged up and they have the opposite behavior in terms of the overall structure of the curve. This really gives an indication then of the electrochemical advantages of the system. If we apply a potential here and we capture CO2, apply potential at this point, the amount of CO2 bound will be given by this quantity at this point, but because we need to have a charge balance, the electrons have to come somewhere to give us their charge concentration. We have the same charge concentration on the ferrocene electrons as well and this then gives us the capture of our last potential. When we actual capture voltage, the cell voltage, when you apply the voltage across the two electrodes, this is what you would need to get this level of charge transfer and CO2 binding to the electrodes. Then when you want to release, of course, we can apply a different voltage and when we get to a different voltage, this would be the voltage that we would require to give us a bound concentration at about this level. The total concentration swing you might say in terms of the CO2 that’s captured and released is given by the difference between these two points over here. How do we make these electrodes? Well, the easiest way to do them, not the easiest way, but one of the ways is to take the polyvinylferrocene as shown here and we wrap these around carbon nanotubes in solution and then do drop-casting or dip coating or things like that to be able to generate the electrodes. This is the electrons, the carbon fiber substrate for the electrodes. These are the actual polyvinylferrocene carbon nanotube films are shown here. This scale bar, 200 microns. If you zoom in a little bit closer, we get 400-nanometer scale bar here, you can see it’s a very porous structure. You can see all the carbon nanotubes here. These are coated with the ferrocene so we get very large surface areas and a large porosity which is good from a number of perspectives. The carbon nanotubes themselves ensure strong electronic conductivity. The high porosity facilitates a ionic conductivity because we have these electrodes in barred with an ionic liquid and the large surface area makes them really accessible to adsorbent such as CO2 in this case. We can do the same with the quinone electrodes, a very similar operation. We just polarization of these anthraquinone and coat them in the same way and get very similar behavior. Now, the way with some early tests we did we were to take the electrodes, this is the electrode structure, this would be the quinone electrode and a second quinone electrode and the ferrocene electrode. As I said, these are separated by a separator sandwiched together like this, and then they are moistened with an ionic liquid as the electrolyte for the system. It also acts as a shuttle for the CO2, allows the CO2 to be absorbed, and then transferred directly to the electrode themselves. We then take this electrode, wind it up, and put it inside a sealed chamber as shown here. We wind it up there. The electrical contacts where we can connect the two different electrodes and the fuel chamber is then connected to your pressure transducer where we can measure any changes in pressure because of changes in CO2 concentration in the gas phase. You seal everything up, pressurize this with CO2 at any given concentration, and then flip the potential on and off to get an idea of how much CO2 is absorbed. We have to say we measured that sitting pressure from the ideal gas token calculate the amount of CO2 absorb and therefore determines the effectiveness of this approach. This will show you what happened in this particular case. As we show here, let’s just say in this case, we been jointly going from the oxidized to the reduced state of the quinone and you’ll see that when they oxidize you get little no concentration of CO2 on the electrodes, the amount absorbed and we go up to the reduced state, it gets absorbed pretty quickly and it goes back and forth. You can see the cyclic efficiency is pretty good in the case like this. We can go back and forth, we just fluctuated back and forth in terms of the oxidation-reduction potentials. The overall capacity was pretty high. The normalized capacity over about seven thousand cycles. There was some reduction in capacity which was because of-- We understand why that is and we know how to improve on that but the important part is that be got about a greater than 90% faradaic efficiency and as I’ll point out all that later, we’ve got about 40 to 50 kilojoules per mole, which is a very respectable energetic penalty to pay for this overall capture and release cycle. We’ve also done this in packed bed top operations. This shows the normalized concentration in the packed bed. We have a packed bed like this, we have a CO2 rich feed and we measure the outlet concentration. This is a normalized concentration outside of the inlet and a function of a number of bed volumes. Bed volumes is equal to the actual time of the experiment relative to the rhythms time within the bed. What you’ll notice is that initially the CO2 has been absorbed. Certainly, what’s leaving the column here is very low CO2 concentration. Until such time as the bed is totally saturated with at that particular concentration and therefore the concentration of the [?] rises to be up to the feed concentration. As expected, you’ll see for different concentrations of CO2 in the system, we will get different overall residence times required for saturation. If we look at the normalizes everything falls onto one curve here and this gives us indication then of the total bed capacity and how effective it is these things are in terms of captured CO2. This is some other example. This particular case is a residual concentration coming through which we think is just because of [?] the hydraulics and hydrodynamics of the system and the inefficient packing of the electrodes. We have been able to do it where the actual concentration leaving the column, leaving the bed is zero essentially for a large number of bed volumes before we can breakthrough in the system. The utilization in a system like this is related to the charge transferred and of course the faradaic coefficiency about point nine and then the difference between capture and release voltages in the system. If you look at this, we talk first about the capture and release voltages as I talked about before. This is the amount of CO2 released. If we have this degree of these capture and release voltages, if we actually have a slightly more negative release voltage, what we all have is this degree with this particular voltage and the amount of CO2 release would be given by this. Remember it’s the difference between the capture and release voltages so we can see this particular case of capture and release voltages are significantly smaller. The difference is smaller than in this particular case. We used the yellow release voltage. The amount of CO2 released is also less. We can then evaluate from this the amount of the energetics associated with this system. If we look at the amount of fraction released as a function of the release cell voltage, in other words the difference between the capture and release. The capture volts is 1.3 and release cell voltage can change because delta V at 0.3 we get about a 55, 60% fraction released but you also get significantly lower energetics associated with the with the overall capture and release cycle. There’s about 35 kilojoules per mole. This is very, very encouraging and all depends on how much of the capacity we want to utilize all the quinones as to what the energetics per CO2 would be. This is very encouraging result as well. Indeed, if you look at the overall summary of these systems, what you’ve got [?] they are isothermal. There’s no external heat sources. They’re plug and play, can be really easily installed. They’re readily scalable. They can be used in small-scale and large-scale type systems with these. The favorable energetics, about a gigajoule electric per ton of CO2 and reasonable economics we estimated. We would have put in 80 tons per CO2. This is actually if we’re looking directly at capture. The number seems really low for $80 per CO2 but we need to look at [?]. It’s also available across multiple scales. We actually had started up a company to look at this, a company called Verdox that I started. Not the best time to start a company in the middle of a pandemic but it is getting up and going, looking at a number of different types of market opportunities. In the last 10 minutes or so, I’d like to talk to you about another system that we’ve been looking at and revisit the whole idea of what these different capture scenarios might be. We know their temperature swing. We’ve talked about chemical solvents such as the amine for temperature swing type operations. There are pressure swing which I had not talked about. These use physical adsorption at high pressure into solvent but then pressure to regenerate the solvents. Then we’ve talked about our two electrochemical potential string systems here. We have others you can look in as well. There are all operated low temperature, ambient temperature. The question is are we be able to operate a high temperature or the actual operation in which we might be [?] to operate at high temperature, the temperature which the CO2 is actually produced rather having to cool the [?] gases down to low temperatures for use of these other systems. Why do we want to use high temperature, intermediate temperature capture? If you look at take the fuel oxident, this would be the reactor. We take the hot exhaust, we get heat recovery from here and we then take the cool exhausts into the sorber and we get our CO2 lean and we get our CO2 product from a desorber. On the other hand, if we switch the these and did the sorption and desorption at the temperatures in which they produce, and we take the hot exhaust gas and hot CO2 going to heat recovery units, we can then get the same product eventually at the other end. The reason why this could be of interest to you is high temperature recovery is- and we get energy content of the fuel coming in here, we get useful energy to extract it from the heat recovery units and then some of that energy needs regeneration but that is then going to be low grade energy that’s somewhat wasted at this particular point. On the other hand, if we look at the energy content coming in again, we do the energy for regeneration to high temperature and the recovered energy is high quality and it can then be going to the heat recovery unit and we get useful energy coming out right at the end. Similarly from a desorber, the useful energy from both the lean exhaust and the CO2 product in both are recovered rather effectively for the system. How do we go about actually exploiting something like this? Now, we think you might have improved heat recovery, higher efficiency and lower cost is the holy grail here. Traditional solvents for CO2 capture are a very big valley in here. This is CO2 uptake and here’s the millimoles per gram as a function of temperature and these are traditional absorbent that people have been talking about. You can see that there’s a very big trough, a very big valley in this region here and this is the region which we would be most interested in looking. What you’ve been doing then is the high temperature [?] the temperature carbon capture. For temperature swing, we have been looking at solid oxides. I won’t talk about them now but we have some significant impact, significant results on using solid oxide such as magnesium oxide and their like that shows some very strong powerful [?] and capacities for these systems. We’re also looking at metal oxides at the moment for electrochemical systems but that is very, very preliminary work and we don’t have much to say on that at the moment. What we’re interested in, the high temperature systems. This is just showing that we are looking at magnesium oxide which we’ve overcome some of the many limitations that people have had in the past by having molten alkali-metal nitrate as a promoter for the CO2 capture and the formation of the magnesium carbonate in this particular case. We’re not the only people. Other people have also been looking at this. The important part is that we are able to operate rather stably over many, many cycles as shown here. What we’ve done is by having the promoter here, we can actually bring the CO2 to overcome any of the kinetic limitations associated with CO2 capture and bring it up. You’re looking at the equilibrium curve associated with this. [?] limited by equilibrium rather than kinetics in the system. What we’re interested and again, now is other systems that you might be able to use. These are solid oxides that we’ve talked about in the past, but we also recognize that we can reuse molten oxide system that can have some significant advantages in terms of being able to there be- I’ll show you some of the advantages in a while. There are three different types of molten oxides we’ve been looking at. One is a liquid to solid in which CO2 when it gets captured, they form solid products. The other liquid to liquid CO2 when it gets captured, it stays as a- dissolved in the liquid as molten oxides. These molten solvents have good advantages in terms of reactivity with rapid kinetics, stability, and able to remove contaminants simultaneously and be able to separate them such as SOx and NOx. They can operate under isothermal conditions or pressure swings as a thermal condition with isothermal pressure swings and they can also be highly efficient in use of reaction and sorption enhanced designs. Just to show you quickly some results in these, this is a liquid to solid type system. This is the loading as a function of time when we challenge these solvents with that and you’ll see that depending on the concentration, whatever happens, there’s always this little knee that’s coming on here. We get a fairly quick absorption rate and then a bit of a knee. This particular point, the solvent is becoming saturated with CO2, but you’re also getting nucleation and formation of particles as shown here. Once that occurs, that keeps on driving up the CO2 up to loading 6 millimoles per gram, which is pretty respectable loading. If you’re looking at the liquid to liquid systems, we do not see that knee. It’s much more stable, much more attractive. Kinetic results are shown here. It does indicate that we are able to get really good loading at the fairly low rates on absorption in these systems. The stability, let me show the stability for these two systems that they cycled over many, many cycles. These are hundred-cycle tests and we can see that there’s actually no loss in overall capacity over this time. They’re very stable in these operations. We’re able to regenerate these isothermally using steam. We have an inlet concentration CO2 coming in. This is when we capture it, and we have a sweep gas coming out, steam in this particular case, to release the CO2 into a steam stream. This is all done isothermally and we can see that we get very rapid capture and release of the CO2 from the systems. The purity of the release of CO2 is 100%. The capture is pretty much 90% capture in these cases, and we’ve got many, many cycles of a stable operation. If we just want to revisit this system here, what we’ve got is again, our little valley of death, you might say, in terms of the existing sorbent systems, but we have been able to fill in this gap quite successfully. Looking at magnesium oxide systems, lithium borate, these are solid systems, and two different types of liquids systems, either sodium or lithium-sodium borate that can operate in these particular temperature ranges. We have been quite happy with the results to date. The question is, how effective are these going to be in terms of actual applications? There’s just one analysis we’ve done looking at utilization in a coal fired power plant and analysis. What we have here is a typical coal fire power plant with SCR and FGD here, and all the other things that go on. What we look at is some of the combustion and some of the steam cycle. If we can integrate these absorption systems in with the boiler and the like, we can do a fair amount of work in terms of looking at the sulfur recovery, and CO2 capture release, and so on. Those are good capture. The question is, is this going to be a viable approach economically? Let’s take a look. We’ve done a fancy fairly detailed analysis, design analysis on the systems. This is the rate efficiency of the power plant. This is the emissions in kilograms CO2 per megawatt hour. If we have no capture, the emissions are pretty high, efficiency is about 46%. If we have a capture, the net rate efficiency is going to be about 33%. We get about 80%, 90% capture , and emissions are greatly reduced. If we use our molten salt systems according to our analysis, we get this range over here. These are various cases we looked at, where the emissions level are similar to what we have for the amines, but the efficiency of the overall plot would be larger, would be significantly better. If you look at this as being the base case here, we can then use that and do an analysis, rather base case. The question is, how does this compare in terms of costs? This is the cost of CO2 avoided using amines and the order of about $50, $55 per ton and efficiency again of about 34% in this particular case. Base case, as we pointed out before, was close to 40% efficiency, and this is it. The cost was somewhat higher in terms of the CO2 avoided in this case. By doing an analysis of a number of different combinations whenever, we end up with this type of a curve that’s shown here, and the relative base case. The important point is that we have now been able to minimize the cost, and at some loss in overall efficiency, but that’s a really huge loss in overall efficiency. It looks like this could be a very viable approach for us to adopt. Take the economic analysis, the levelized cost of electricity shows up amines, it goes up by about 64%. With the molten sorbents, we think, it could be up to about 40% significantly lower, and the cost of CO2 avoided would be shown here. $55 per ton relative to $34 per ton, about 38% decrease in costs of CO2 avoided. Of course, there’s a lot of work still to be done in this case, the materials of construction, the stability and things like that. This rather extensive exhaustive analysis here indicates there could be some strong advantages associated with using these molten salts and sorbents. Putting all together, the advantage of the molten sorbents is rapid kinetics and high capacities. They are inherently stable and regenerable. They can capture other gases if needed. They can be regenerated by a pressure swing or a temperature swing depending on how we want to go about doing it. The high temperatures can lead to improved heat recovery in these systems. To summarize, we’ve looked at a range of different options here for new technologies for CO2 capture. [?] area has been a redox active species of the chemically mediated systems in which we looked at a number of different approaches. I’ve just described two today. They look promising for a real CO2 capture. We also have solid oxide which I’ve not really talked about. Then what we have introduced very recently are these molten salts and sorbents. Last part about the molten salts is that we can then consider combining the advantages of continuous type processing so we can have the sorbent going from this sorbent through the desorber in a continuous way, so we do not have to worry about the normal switching and the cyclic swings that one needs with solid phase and sorbent systems. With that, I’d like to thank you. I certainly would like to acknowledge the students that [?] have done the work and over the last five to 10 years or so. Mike Stern developed the EMR process that has been really greatly improved by the others shown here. Sahag Voskian was very much involved with the electrochemical system. I do not have Cameron Halladay here. Cameron Halladay and [?] Halladay, I forgot to put them on, are two that worked very extensively on the molten salts, and important to the point where I think it’s actually a very viable approach. With that, I’d like to thank you for your attention. I’ll be happy to try and answer any questions you might have. Thank you. -Thank you, Alan. There are a couple of questions that have come in, which we’ll get to. Maybe we should start with those and they’re rather specific, but we can move maybe to more general questions. I don’t know if you can see them, Alan. If not, I’m happy to read them. -I’m trying to get my Stop Share here, there we are. Let me see the questions. -The first relates to NOx and SOx impact on quinone sorbents. -Okay, that’s a very good question, NOx and SOx. We haven’t done much work with NOx but we have done a fair amount of work with SOx. Obviously, the SOx are going to bind quite strongly to the quinones. If we got a low concentration of SOx, they can be absorbed, and we can tolerate that for a while until enough of the quinone has been poisoned, and is not releasing significant capacity for CO2. At that point, we can just take it to a much high oxidation state, and release the SOx in a separate, take it offline and release the SOx. Alternatively, this is something we have shown, although we haven’t published this yet, we can actually alter the quinones itself to make them much less basic. They will absorb the SOx quite effectively without actually taking up the CO2. I think that’s a really important consideration in this case. We are able to accommodate these as well. -The same questioner asks the same question about molten salts. -The molten salts, yes. Again, what we find is with the SOx, I’m not sure what happens with the NOx, but there are two different things that happen with SOx. What we find is that they tend to precipitate out. The liquid molten salts, lithium-sodium borate with the CO2 is a liquid phase, but the SOx will tend to precipitate out. One can in principle then take it off and have a purge stream to capture, to regenerate the SOx side. They can be accommodated, but NOx, we have a different situation. The NOx actually end up going in there and we end up getting volatilization, and we can lose some of the sorbents. That could be a bit of a problem that we need to address still. -Does the potential for taking up SOx and NOx in the same reactor mean that if a plant didn’t have SOx and NOx abatement equipment attached to it already, as it might not in many developing countries, that this becomes a way to provide both, and therefore to lower the cost of scrubbing all the gases including CO2? -Yes. What we have is in the power plant that I showed you, the other things as well. Power plant, we did have that built into that, the schematic I showed you in which we would have the SOx being removed as well directly along with the CO2, and generated and regenerated separately in a side stream. I should point out that the SOx problem is actually quite an important issue now for the quinones and things like that in the maritime industries, where there’s new regulations in terms of SOx emissions. I think that our system could be quite effective there for minimizing the overall costs associated with the systems. -Joel Pavel asks about integration with gas-fired versus coal-fired plants. -There, basically, we’re talking about the different concentration levels of CO2. I should see no reason why they should not be just as effective. We are busy doing some work. Now, I know that Cameron is doing some analysis on gas-wide systems. He’s also doing analysis of cement industry and so on. We should have those numbers in the next month or two. Particularly now you can’t spend any time in a lab. You’ve got all the time in the world to spend doing economic analyses. -It’s a great time to be a TEA guy. Have you been able to move toward real-life demonstration projects with these devices? I know that you’ve got Verdox going. -Verdox is certainly moving towards doing that. In fact, that is a goal we have seen. Hopefully the next year or two he won’t have units out there, small units initially, but not necessarily for looking at the large scale mitigation but 70% direct air capture and then utilizing CO2 there for everything like greenhouses and things like that. Very good demonstration units. We will, hopefully, in the next few years, be in a position where we can do some very large-scale type operations too. As far as the EMAR process is concerned, we have been working with a company in terms of assessing whether this would be something they’d want to put on board on one of their [?] facilities. The molten salts is really too new at this point. There’s a lot of unknowns in terms of the metal’s materials compatibility and so on. We think we’ve overcoming some of those issues, but we need more experiments which we are doing at the moment. We would be doing if we were at home. -Have you investigated the techno economics of air capture with any of these techniques? -Yes. I can’t much about that, unfortunately. That was done during the fundraiser stage for the [?] stage. -I see. -It was done in a separate study. It does look very, very promising. I must admit I find the numbers a little low. I’m a little surprised at how low the numbers are relative with what other technologies are. I have every faith in the people that did it. Maybe we’re okay. -Low in the sense that the costs are low or low in efficacy? -The overall cost per ton of CO2 captured. -Okay, interesting. Joe also asks about the stability of the quinone system by the way. -That’s a good question. Clearly, the quinone systems can, depending on the oxygen content and things like that, the [?] associated with oxygen reduction. We feel that we can obviate these problems by modulating or changing the structure of the quinones so that the oxidation or reduction potentials are significantly more positive and we can avoid some of the oxygen and reduction systems. Oxygen reduction problems. -I think we’ve gotten to all the questions. Well, there was one other one about whether you’ve probably accounted for the power consumption in the EMAR process with the energy spent on the electromigration of ions between the electrodes. -Yes. That’s all been taken to consideration that really is what’s being built into to that. -I think that’s it for the questions that have come in. Keep them coming if you have more. I just perhaps one more. -Actually, I see there’s one here, how does moisture interact with this absorbents? -Yes, right. Good. -With the quinone-type systems, because it’s very low moisture content in the electrolyte we had, the ionic liquid electrolyte have very low water content. We do not have much of an impact of water on the quinones at all. We don’t see any impact there. We’ve actually also worked with quinone type systems like water in salt kind of electrode system. Rather than using the ionic liquid, we used water and salt, a very strong lithium salt and shown just to be as effective using the quinone for the CO2 capture. With the molten salts, we don’t see any effective water whatsoever at this point. Of course, there may be some other things we haven’t seen yet. [?] when you get more experiments done. Now, we did that regeneration, the steam regeneration of the molten salts. We saw the psychic stability. It was pretty remarkable. -I guess finally, a question relative to your center. I understand that you’ve initiated a seed fund call that sounded to me rather unique. I wonder if you might tell us a little bit about where you’re heading. -Sure. What we had initially is the seed fund we gave small drawings to some of our junior faculty members to get them interested in the whole area to try and bring them into the- with the center. This has been fine. We kind of felt it would be worthwhile now that the members would get a lot more out of it if we had some large projects that were running instead. We had a seed fund call. We had 15 proposals or white papers come in. Of those, we selected three for four proposals. By the end of May, we will have been done. We can figure out who we’re going to give the award to. We’ve got some exciting proposals, I must admit. -Is that all entirely funded from the seed contributions that members have already made or they have to raise more? -Those would be from the seed funds, yes. -That’s exciting. Great. I guess, with that, well, there’s one more question that’s come in. It’s absolutely timely. Will the slides be posted and available to members. Our usual answer to that is yes. -I will clean up a couple, take back all my backup slides and things like that and get rid of it. -Perhaps that’s an invitation to wrap up. I guess with one further thought, in our past experiences, participants have questions occur to them after the phone has been hung up. They emailed them to us, and we’ve passed them on. I hope you won’t mind answering a few more questions if they come in that way, Alan. -Not a problem at all. -We’ll post those questions and the answers on the site along with the recording of this session within the next couple of days. Alan, I’d like to thank you very much for a really, really interesting talk and one that I think is exciting and should inspire everyone. I’d also like to thank you all for joining. I will see you next time. Bye. -Thank you. Bye-bye. 