 Looking for extra income in your spare time or looking for a complete transition to another job or if you have lost your job and not expecting any job sooner. Then there are Top 10 Best Part Time Jobs to help you earn money easily. Number 1 are Analyst Jobs Analyst are persons who do the work of analyzing, identifying problems and solving or implementing new changes to resolve management and business problems so that it brings efficiency in management, organizational or system and achieve its purposes and objectives. Most commonly there are management analyst, financial analyst, market research analyst etc. Analyst are often employed full-time but there are employers who take in part time analyst as well. Financial Analyst and Management Analyst make more money with a median hourly wage of $38 while market research analyst pay, falls in the range of median hourly wage of $29. At second position in this list are Computer Programmers. With a median hourly rate of $35.71 computer programming is yet another job that gives quiet fulfilling money. But its hiring outlook is merely 8%. Having the ability to code can open doors to lot of job opportunities both within reputed companies and also as a freelancer. This job surely requires a steady state of mind and a lot of patience and personal interest. At Number 3 is the Network and Computer Systems Administrator With a median wage of $34.88, Network and System Administrator is a job involving administrating the IT systems like LAN, WAN and intranets which can be its access control to its network and/or troubleshooting. The overall hiring outlook for this job is around 12%. So I think if like to just administrate network and computer systems then it’s a good job for you. Number 4, Accountant With a median wage of $30.55 Accountant is a job of accounting or accountancy that is the measurement, disclosure or provision of assurance about financial information that helps managers, investors, tax authorities and others to make decision about allocating resources. You can acquire special certifications as Chartered Accountant, Certified Public Accountant and earn more. Hiring Outlook for this job is 13%. Number 5, Writer or Author Jobs As Writers and Author number have increased, these jobs now has a median pay of $26.89 and one can earn up to a maximum of $55 per hour in some cases. Depending on the writing job and its deadlines, a writer will be responsible for creating specific and focused content in one or more subject areas. Sites like freelancer provides lots of writing jobs. Not only writing search specific contents but writers can opt to write narrative stories or can publish their own book and earn money from it. Passionate and instinctive writer can make difference which can become their full time career, one such example is JK Rowling who worked as a secretary for the London office of Amnesty International, but she dreamed of being a writer. After being fired she focused only on her writing and today she earns unimaginable income from her successful book series of all time, The Harry Porter Series. Number 6, Social Media Assistant and Online Researchers With median hourly wage of $21 to $28. Content editors, social media assistant, online researchers and market research analyst are jobs that involves the understanding of consumers and competitors behavior and bringing up contents, products or services that sells. The hiring outlook for this job is little high around 32%. Such jobs can also be found at freelancer website. Number 7 is the Event coordinator Event coordinator, Guest Service coordinator or Event DJ are some jobs that has median wage of up to $21 per hour. According to FlexJobs.com, some jobs like Jazz Teachers can pay as much as $78 per hour which is quiet good income provided you can book sufficient hours to it. Being teacher is different thing but event performers’ needs skills that really produces an entertaining feel. So if you are good at music or anything that can be performed in event or occasions then you can use the same for teaching others and earning from it. Number 8, Cam and Escort Jobs This kind of jobs are more of adult jobs but there are some jobs that don’t involve much of sexual acts in cam modelling and escort jobs. The hiring outlook for this kind of jobs is very high and increasing with time. Females tends to earn more than males in such jobs. The median hourly wage may differ from $50 to $200 depending on the task given. This kind of jobs also requires skills of attracting, engaging and making friends both in sexual and non-sexual way. Number9, Proofreader With the median wage of $15.93 jobs like proof reader or grant analyst holds a hiring outlook of 3%. Proof Reader jobs involves reading electronic copy of publication to detect and correct errors in the text or art. Proofreading is the final stage of editing process before publication. Similarly Jobs as Grant Analyst you are involved in the analysis process prior to granting of budgets and monitors expense activities and other grant problems with managers and administrators. And at Number 10 is the Package Movers Jobs like Delivery Boy or Delivery Truck Driver or Material Movers has median hourly wage of $11.04 to $13.23 with hiring outlook of 5 to 10%. These jobs mostly involves delivering the packages to specified address within stipulated time and providing the confirmation of delivery to concern service providers. Some of these jobs requires you to own your own vehicles but other employing companies do provide transporting means to their employers. Hope you liked this video, give it a like and share it with your friends. And do subscribe to watch my upcoming Top list videos, vlogs and much more. Also connect me on social network that links to all of these are in the description. Until next video bye and take care. And Thanks for Watching. 