 A while ago I reviewed that Golden Moustache's skit, the unseen jobs people who do machines job, the concept is kind of sensless and by reading press and a bunch of economists, it seems to be happening the OPPOSITE , machines are replacing humans. We see computers able to drive, able to be better chess players, or at go (game), computers are much better in numeracy and a lot of other things. And the list goes on but there's a lot of other tasks and activity that machines aren't as good as humans. Really easy stuff and a bit basic like deciphering handwritten texts, select the best picture out of the three or correct given sets and there come the Artificial Intelligence. This term used by Jeff Bezos to describe the service proposed by his IT plateform : Mechanical Turk, and for those asking, Jeff Bezos is Amazon's director. This IT platform's concept is relatively simple, it create a tasks market for humans who can do bette or cheaper than a machine. Like create the subtitles of a 30 hour video. But asking this to someone by himself it's long. By this 30 hour video example, it should take like a week to achieve this task. To do it faster, the idea is to divide this long task into thousands of little tasks which would be achievable in a few seconds by hundreds of people ; like divide this 30 hours video to subtitle into 30 seconds extracts each. This little tasks called "Hits" will be online on Mechanical Turks IT platform, it will create a market of hundreds of thousand people who will be able choose the tasks depending on their nature and/or their remunerations. To give you a few examples, here's what we can fin : check an actor's accent in an audio clip for 2 cents, retrieve some funds ticket informations for 5cents or even translate a one minute video for 50 cents. Nowadays, the entreprise major tool for the tasks I just told. But it also used by some Social Science searchers who would be able to put their own questionnaire in front of thousands of people, remunerate them and get quality answer really fast and cheap. Of course, we can talk about the systems critics and even more, therefore because it is new and it doesn't fit into classic work's labels, it isn't a mission, neither a temporary position nor a permanent position, it's just a 40 seconds tasks accumulation or more paid a few cents. In the Mechanical Turk's IT platform case the remuneration is often criticized because it's had to earn more than 8$ per hour, which is relatively weak for the US but enough convenient in India by the day, there's a lot more of indians on this platforms. On top of that there's also big problems of power balance between hundreds of thousands of isolated workers and the employers who can decide if the work deserve remunerations, in contrast I essentially talk here about Amazon's IT platform. Because there still is a lot of this kind of services and not all of them necessarily the same problems. But to get back to the funniest part, nowadays a lot of organisations entreprises submit their use and their algorithm strength : Google, Facebook, Netflix, Amazon, the NSA or X.IRL's personal assistant, it's a thing which seems really high-tech and help to sell. But it's an interesting thing because X.IRL sells itself as a personal assistant powered by an Artificial Intelligence and the views I find out boast solution's efficiency and also mentioned the bot's humankind. Humankind who may provide partial explanation by the Ai's trainers, the human workforce who is charged to assist and correct the machine until it will be able to be self-contained, If it ever makes it one day. I don't know why but it reminds me something... If you liked this video, don't hesitate to share and subscribe and above all, a big thank you to all the tipers for their support It was StupidEconmics, thereupon...  'Open the part bay door AL' -"I'm sorry Dave, I'm afraid I can't I'm afraid I can't do that" 