 [MUSIC]  [APPLAUSE]  Thank you. All right, we've got to talk about the Internet of Things, what are they? Everything that we gonna buy in the future will be connected to the network. Obviously, we have the fitness bands, and of course, all our phones are connected, our cars will be connected, our TVs, refrigerators, everything is going to collect a lot of data about us. It's a big business. How big is this business? Well, John Chambers said that this is a $19 trillion business. Is that really possible? Right after he made this comment a few days later, Google bought Nest for $3.2 billion, and Nest is a thermostat company. Okay, why is it worth so much? The money is in the data. So this leads us to this question, so there's all this data about me but where are all our data. Besides the Internet of Things we are very used to putting our stuff in the cloud. Facebook has a lot of our social data and there are many, many different accounts that we have and they collect all kinds of information about me. So besides the things that we just talked about, what is coming up are the medical Internet of Things. Okay, the blood pressure monitors, and all these other devices. Now this brings up an interesting question. Can we see all the data about me? It is really useful. So for example, if I'm talking about medical devices, obviously, I wanna see all the medical information about me, and I wanna share it with the doctor. How do we do that? So obviously, the security camera in my house wants to talk to my thermostat because nobody is in the home, then the thermostat really needs to be turned off, we don't need the heat. And on top of that what we have done is we have done various research to show that if you have pieces of software like a search engine or the browser, who knows everything about us. They can do a much much better job, okay? So we would like to have all this data about ourselves in one place. So who is gonna host this data? An interesting question. So, Financial Times asked this question. Who will be the Google of the Internet of Things? Not will there be one, but who will be one. Do we really want to have a Google Internet of Things. So, who can it be? Who should it be? Well, I have a few guesses. Google, [LAUGH] there is Facebook, there is Apple, there is Microsoft. It is possible that they get to see all our stuff because it is really useful to have all this stuff in one place. So how do we interface with all these things. And my guess, my guess is that there will be a virtual assistant. Okay, so how many people here have heard of XiaoBing? Interesting. XiaoBing is a Microsoft chat box and it is very, very popular on WeChat, and it was so popular that actually WeChat shuts it down because they said that XiaoBing is collecting a lot, too much private data from the individuals. But because they shut them down, XiaoBing got even more famous and everybody partnered with XiaoBing. And soon after that they have now a partnership and XiaoBing is back on WeChat again. So what is XiaoBing? XiaoBing is a chatbot as I said. But what is interesting about XiaoBing is that she has a 16 year old personality, okay. So I talked to the Microsoft people. They said they absolutely took this from Facebook. They want it to be social. They want this bot to be your friend. So this bot can talk to you, ask you questions, find out everything about you. And they also interfaced to databases. So when you go visit eBay or Amazon they know what you want to buy because they know who's birthdays are coming up. So what I believe in the future is that you will not be interfacing to all these things out there except through your assistant. This is very, very powerful. It can be very convenient, but it also brings up a lot of scary questions. So, what about privacy? Who's gonna see all my stuff, and everybody else's stuff at the same time, because we have to share, okay? So we all know that sharing today seems to all sit in some centralized server, so does that mean we are all sharing through the same server? Would there be a monopoly? Will there be an oligopoly? With several large companies that don't interoperate with each other, that's not a good world. Either way is not a good world, okay. So what happens to choice? What happens to open competition? If you're not one of these four companies, what are you going to do? Okay, and if you don't have open competition then innovation suffers, and the consumers suffer. So what are we gonna do about it, we have to do something about it, we are technologists. So what we think is that we can go the open stores way, how many people understand what open stores means? Okay, so you have iOS that's proprietary so Google came up with Android that is open source. Now you have many many companies building Android phones. So what we wanna do is to put the technology together that handle all my stuff and make it open source, so anybody can host this engine that hosts our data. And that means that you can have a choice. It's just like email in a sense because you can go to Microsoft, or Yahoo!, or Google. Or if you are Hillary Clinton, you may even want to put an email server at your house, okay?  [LAUGH]  So this is all possible. This is open source software. That's the power. And you can also put the little one on your phone and then just keep it to yourself, okay? So if you wanna make this open source software and we will also create a open source virtual assistant technology and current code name for this project is Sabrina. I don't know if you've heard of Sabrina. Sabrina is your friendly teenage witch. [LAUGH] Okay? And we like to use that analogy, because in a sense, Sabrina is gonna do all kinds of magic for you, doing a lot of your chores. So you may ask it's like, really? You think that you can take on the largest giants? And I think so. Why? Because there is a way to do this, get everybody involved to build this system. Call this system ThingPedia. You have heard of Wikipedia, right? Wikipedia is huge. It is not easy for any one company to make that happen. And so in the same way, we're building ThinkPedia. It allows everybody to put up the interfaces of all the digital things out there, from Facebook, to your heating pad in the house. So we made this website. We put it up there, and in my class, we asked the students to build on top of it, and we got 30 interfaces in 1 week, okay. So after you put the interfaces up, how do you get them to do anything? So we create our language called Think Talk. What Think Talk does is it allows us to put all these things together. So for example, I wanna say, if it's gonna rain tomorrow, please send me a message, so that I will bring my umbrella. And using that language we can write it in two lines. One rule, two lines. And after you write that two lines you would see that there is a very simple English analogy, that says the same thing. So we are working on Sabrina that allows you to have a natural language interface to all the things out there. And we believe that if we open this up. A lot of people would put their stuff in there. Because there is really a long tail of things that people want to do. So for example, if you look at our list, we have for example the PhD comics [LAUGH], okay. It is put up by PhD students who wanted to be notified whenever there was a news story that comes up. So, we just opened it up and let everybody contribute. So that's the basic idea. So let's put this all together. So what we said is that there is an open source manager that allows you to hold onto all the different things. And it works off a global database, we call the ThinkPedia, that we will all build together. And interfacing to this Thing Engine, is Sabrina who's gonna talk to us. And where is Sabrina gonna talk up? The current technology is built on top of Omlet. And Omlet is an open messaging system. This is actually research that we did in our research group, and about three, four years ago, my research group, just like a lot of Stanford students, wanted to start this company, because we really want to give open messaging to the world. So we started this company. It is a StartX company, okay? And so one thing that is interesting about this company is it is not like anything else and that is it really helps you keep your data. So first of all, it moves your data and it deletes all the data within two weeks. But we help you store the data in your repository. So for example, in America I may wanna put my data on a Dropbox account. But in China maybe you can put it in the Baidu account. So we allow people to go across the boarders in the repository of different countries, and so it's interesting obvious one of charts that work very well in China, because we have a server here and a server over there it is completely fair rated and welcome anybody to host this service. So now that we're connected to a messaging system, what that means is that now my virtual assistant and your virtual assistants can talk to each other, okay. Because we have a Think Talk language, it is actually very easy to write these social apps. In a few lines of code, we could be sharing our GPS locations, we can be sharing our fitness data, health data. And we can actually share this with doctors and get second opinions and so forth. So this has really changed how a lot of this important data is going to be shared. And, so let this summarize here. And that is that we are creating a complete open stack from a database of an open database of interfaces all the way to a natural language assistance, and we need a lot of help and want everybody to chip in. And I think that we can compete against the biggest giants. And finally, this is really the beginning of this Open Social Movement. We're gonna create the stack, we believe that when you have privacy you can build many more things than what you can do before. We'll have a healthy ecosystem. And you may ask, are you crazy? This is so hard. If you are wondering about this, I want you to remember that AOL at the time when it was strong, it looked invincible too. But there is absolutely no way a single company can compete against an open Internet. [MUSIC] 