 Hey everyone, welcome to teach online TV.  I'm very excited to have our guests here today who is the author of "Never Work Again" and as an export in automating your business and outsourcing and so I know a lot of us are interested in outsourcing tasks that we do on a regular basis in our business so I'm really excited to chat with Erlend Bakke today, again author of "Never Work Again" and if you're looking for more information a great place to find him is at MrOutSourced.com or at YouWillNeverWorkAgain.com but I think for the outsourcing side of things for a lot of us Mr.OutSourced.com is probably the best way to place to start for him. You can also check out his book Never Work Again and it's a Erlend Bakke. Am I saying that right? Absolutely and we were discussing the originals of my Norwegian name as well. The Bakke means hill and Erlend is from old Norwegian from the you know the Viking ages which means foreigner so you'll say Foreign Hill. Next up look at Metallica. Property of my T-shirt well yeah that was  the band I listened to much in high school actually still a little bit. Me too,  interesting man you know I. You can never go wrong with that. Definitely great. You just don't make music like you used to anymore? You what ? sorry. You don't make music like they used to anymore. No. Are they big in Norway? Yeah They're pretty big. Big guns and roses you know I'm gonna grow up like guns and roses and metallica. They were the, I remember I was too short to get into the Guns N Roses concert 150 centimeter and I was like 130 something so I can't get in. Terrible. Like depressed. Struggles of our youth. Yes it was a hard life. Yeah but now you're in the center of things in London? Absolutely I'm just behind the London Eye here. You know the giant Ferris wheel in London and you know schools to Big Band so yeah that's where I'm not tryna. Excellent. Good. Big rents there? Yeah Yeah it's very cheap.Yeah Excellent. Great. So I am curious about the whole outsourcing side of things. I know that we get a lot of questions of people saying looking for virtual assistants,  looking to outsource, some of their work whether it's you know simple stuff like just setting up a website or you know doing some of the day-to-day tasks in their business or even sometimes into the more complicated stuff like marketing and design. What so, what kind of, well, what can you, to start with, what can you share with us about outsourcing I got a few specific questions to get into it but what's your general advice around outsourcing. Okay so first things first, it's important to know that we have been programmed by the school system not to outsource. Right? So we grow up in to go to school, we get told to you know what you get if you the get an assignment, you have to do it yourself. What happens if you are creative and give it, give your assignment to somebody else what happens. You probably get pulled out for cheating and then expelled and your parents have to go to the principal and then you feel embarrassed, then when you feel like a loser because you were smart entrepreneur. Smart entrepreneurs do things very differently that's why so many entrepreneurs dropped out of Universities. There are " Oh I don't have to do this this way anymore, i can do it the way I think I should do it. So another thing is modeling, like looking at what other people are doing and applying the same to your work that's all so friendable in school, everything else innovative and creative yet very few things on you under the star. Another thing is teamwork so like if you get an assignment and you're meant to do it yourself, then you collaborate with to other people and you'll hand in the same assignment then again you fail so there's all these things that the school system has or to program into us to you know not to but as entrepreneurs we know that these are the smart things to do. leverage all the, leveraging talent and other people's time is how you know Richard Branson has build this empire Richard Branson, Sir Richard Branson rich entrepreneur, founder of the Virgin Media Group, Virgin group and you know the guy was dyslexic and he wanted to start a student magazine so how can somebody that dyslexic start to studio mics? Well, he had to outsource and it's actually one of the things that he talks about quite a lot in his interviews with people asking about how do you, how do you do things. Well he said I couldn't do everything myself so I just went out there and try to find the most talented people that I knew to do stuff that I needed to get done so he very early understood and said of  parallel of outsourcing and leveraging other people's time to get things done because you know when you're starting out as an entrepreneur, it's, time is an incredibly scarce resource, right? So you can either spend time or you can spend money, right? Smart entrepreneurs, they will always choose to invest money in other people's time because they know that time is something that they can't buy any more of and when soon it comes into his deathbed and said you know time was my most precious resource, so we cannot find more time. Every single day, every single minute is precious and needs to be used in a way that gives you what you want in life and understanding how to get talented people to perform amazing things in your business is leverage so that's why it's so important to understand outsourcing. Great. Okay and so if I'm a first-time outsourcer so first time i'm looking at doing some outsourcing, what are, well actually one of the things that maybe even before you get to outsourcing is there a period of time where you should be doing the work yourself, figuring out how to do it and then passing it off to someone or do you just go straight to new task,never done up before, let's see who else can find get it done, where is that, where do you draw that line between passing it off to someone. Yeah so the dangerous thing, well let's say, you build a company, you sell the company and now you also need money and then he starts throwing money at things without really understanding you know the return investment that you could expect from like a marketing agency or similar. So it's dangerous to sort of go off and just sort of go to people and say " go and just do it" yeah because then your uninformed whether it is a very smart thing because the other person's agend is like I want to make money, so I think it's really important in all things to really understand the fundamentals, so you need to understand the result that you're looking for, I mean do a little bit research on like what are the smart things to do because I've also experience with my coaching clients where you know they've purchase something, they've spent lots of money on something, they haven't gotten the results and sort of blindly trusted people to execute whatever project that they had lined up which isn't always the case,right? So you do need to be a little bit savvy and I'm always negotiating and trying to get people down on price and try to sort of figure out what's going to be the most effective way of getting the result I want, I don't like blindly outsource so it does depend a little bit. So if you have an outsourced for anyone needs me tryna get started in in applying outsourcing then it's, so what I've done many times is that I very early started outsourcing to the Philippines because I realized that this is also a skillset that I hadn't learn in schools so on the one hand, when you're paying somebody let's say, five hundred dollars a month to do things for you, you now learning how to be a  delegator, you're now learning how to manage people, you're now learning how to think as an entrepreneur and instead of going all I have to do this, you go ' oh how can I ultimate this, how can I get somebody else to do this'. So five hundred dollars a month to learn how to be a good outsourcer and to leverage other people's time is probably good investment in your education as an entrepreneur. So if you're gonna go that route that five hundred dollars a month, what kind of task would you be outsourcing or what would you expect them to be doing within that? So 500 would be full time that will that would be if you hire outside so mr. outsourced were slightly more expensive because we actually manage the employee for you. Yeah, however if you go to like Craigslist Manila, Cebu or Davao City which are like the three main outsourcing cities in the Philippines, yeah you can get somebody for five hundred dollars full time a month or less as well, you also get what you pay for so you have to be a little bit aware of that. What would that those initial task be that you're typically looking to outsource as a first-time person getting it outsourcing absolutely so in a business you have two different types of things going on. You have projects and you have repetitive costs. So project would be a lot I want to launch information, marketing product or course or book or you know a website or the product on Kickstarter that's a project, right? So the things that are going on in the project or have like a start and an end but in your business as well you have all these repetitive tasks so like invoicing, chasing invoices and you know legend, sales, checking the things that are being delivered you know so you have all these like repetitive toll scheme as well and I found it much much easier to do outsourcing because what I've done is I've identified repetitive habits in the in my businesses and I've said like 'so Monday we do this, Tuesday you do that, Wednesday you do that, Thursday you do this. Friday you do this and then you do it every week'. And then my role is more to sort of just check what they did that day and give them feedback on how they can do things better. So I work that way. We do also have project-based at work but typically I will hire somebody external like so if i'm launching a book or some kind of marketing I'll probably find like a specialist in that area that's really good at marketing let's say webinars= and that work with them for a certain point periodand then you know gold and the relationship but that's a full-time stuff you're actually looking at somebody to help you with repetitive tolls so if you go to podcast it could be like inviting expert on the podcast on a sort of daily weekly basis and getting great guests really just a numbers game you know it's like people are authors that are out there they want to they want to speak, to share their information and if you just consistently to be asking them some point free for like at some point they're ready to broadcast the new product or something and then they'll be more than happy to come on your show. Excellent and so for people who are out there looking to find that first person the first virtual assistant or outsource person is that something you help them with that MrOutSource.com. Absolutely so if you go to MrOutSouce.com, we do a 30 minute fee business order of your business and we figure out whether we can and can't tell key and the way we work is that you get a project manager and we have a team of talented freelancers that we worked with for a number of years so if anybody design or graphic design or copywriting SEO, data-mining, although of this different different tolls stumble or just make your PowerPoint of sexy and you know you you hire us for you know ten 10 hours and then we will do the work for you and we'll manage the project for you. So you're kind of managing that outsourcing situation essentially for them? Yeah. Absolutely.Okay excellent and I mean you mentioned earlier a little bit about automation and automation in your business is that a bit different than outsourcing or how do you how do you manage automation. So interesting in automation it goes back to the repetitive tolls a little bit because you don't wanna spend a lot of time automating something that happens like once a month. Now so you'll identify if some things  like happening every day and it's in cheating away at your time, you want to ask yourself " okay is there any software that can do this for me?" Alright so the first question is always like "Oh is there a software that can eliminate this from my time?" but then there's like a, there's a fine line between like spending too much time and money on software and just like using an Excel spreadsheet or just getting somebody else to do it so we actually use a lot of excel in our business. I know a lot of other businesses as well so they excel spreadsheet, you know logging jobs and stuff like that we don't have any like internal customized software that we spent like millions of dollars developing because you can't tell , we share the excel spreadsheet with a client and a decline over there but overview all the jobs done for them so software is great but I sometimes we get lost in the software trap It's like on our phone where you only using like ten percent of all our apps right but we have all these apps. We only use about ten percent to them. Be weary of the software trap in an in terms of automation, I try to always go the real just and teaching somebody to do something instead first but five hundred dollars a month, right ? So I can just get them to do lots of tasks. Aright then, when it comes a real big problem there like " hey I don't have time to mark because I'm doing this all the time?  Then you say okay let's automated it. Yeah that's kind of the way we operate too is it often start off with something like a spreadsheet work with that for a while until it it's like oh we're actually doing this all the time because the worst thing is you know you go and implement a software solution or you set a whole system up for it and then you realize I'm not actually i'm doing this that often or I don't actually need this complicated solution or this powerful solution so often you right spreadsheet. It's fun to like getting new software and like playin in your software, right? I love that My new thing right now is buying like Appleworks fans at some point what fans because I want to do Yeah it's I don't know it's the monkey in me that wants to buy stuff you know that's fine but it's like having a new watch every time you get a band on, right ? Exactly. Are you Apple watch fan?  or you, I've got a I got the fitbit surge I don't have it on right now but but usually the fifth search so it tracks my bike to work and all that kind of stuff it's pretty good that way but I it was a gift so I went with that I I'm kind of curious to try the apple watch at some point too though.I think maybe there's a new one coming out in September, I'm not sure but maybe. Probably brought us hope they don't change the  the lock thing . I got to vans again. So anyway let's get back to Outsourcing. Of course yes. Okay so I'm curious if if someone's getting an outsourcing for the first time I they're sort of some mistakes you recommend they avoid, I know it seems to me like the kind of thing where you could, it could be a bit dangerous and you could waste a bit of money working because you don't have that personal one-on-one connection that can be a little hard to sort of see what the person is doing and you know I wouldn't want to get you know months into paying someone and find out that they're just not working out how do you ,how do you avoid making mistakes the first time you're outsourcing ? Okay so there's couple of things References because there's a lot of people that I've hired in the past where like people great people hang out with great people typically and losers simply hang out with losers so like if you have a great one great person then I'll stand for do know somebody, right? That's how I built my entire company's , great up. So references number one and if they don't have references and testing, Okay, it's like give them something and what I typically do is I'll give them a test where there's like a like a secret test within the test it but the mistake they're just eliminated because you want somebody that's like fully hundred percent committed that was really hungry for the job, you don't want somebody else like just kind of just thinks it's kind of okay. Really thats hungry and really wants to perform for you and then you know I really work people I like and trust. So anything in the says I don't trust this person I don't like this person so I'm going on Thursday with a guy wants to become like want to invest in mr. outsourced and i got this email from him because i sent an email about a meeting and it was just a date confusion and he sends an email which was rude but it was just like it seems like he's got a bit of a temper. And I was like , it seems like "Oh that's so some up will going to do business with me. Just because you know that I don't like that side of him, like you have to be okay with people being confused with the meeting time. Yeah. maybe not twice in a row o three times in a row but you know. So only when people like and trust and yeah so check references send a test and have a secret test within the test yeah and then only work with people you like and trust and then when you work with people you know I used to Golden Rule. So like I try to treat other people as I want to be treated myself. So I pay people early, I give people bonuses, I tell them great work and you know our energy as people also determines a lot of what we get reflected on us. You won't great people then you have to be great. You have to be a pretty cool guy to have really cool people that want to work with you, right?  Definitely I think the cooler you are, the cooler people you get. Okay and then the test within test that's an interesting one and I think we've actually kind of unintentionally done that at times is that sort of, so for example i think we had someone doing some pretty simple data analysis on a spreadsheet so we're taking a spreadsheet and just manipulating the data moving it around a little bit nothing nothing too difficult but there were some errors in the spreadsheet in the original data and some people caught that and some people didn't. Is that sort of the kind of thing you're talking about where you're getting them something saying do this simple task but there's actually something more complicated or maybe even broken hidden within it i love the broken thing because if there's an error that they can catch that you conceivably did not catch them that's exactly the kind of person you want. Yes you do you want somebody that's like that has a growth mindset. yeah always interested in like hiring the most intelligent person for me it's a growth mindset and growth mindset is like so when they spotted that thing in Excel spreadsheet they're like. oh there's something wrong here, I better ask just to be sure. and you know that I sort of  varying smart person might go. He was such a dumbass and just fix it and not let you know that there was a mistake. Right? Oh so you want you want people to growth mindset and also your people that like when you give them feedback they're not defensive just like that was interesting thank you for teaching me this. Yeah because those kind of people are the winners of the world. You know sometimes coordinate, I'm actually at Wimbledon Tennis Tournament on last Monday. Yeah I was looking at the junior championship winners and I was looking at that the singles winners. Yeah and there's very few of the junior champions that were actually Wimbledon champions was like yeah and why is that well because people are very very talented at a young age and things come to them very easily something that sometimes when they need persistence when they sort move from junior to senior, then can't handle not winning, right? That's the kind of people that were like maybe not as good as a junior but they kept on training and working and resisting the hand growth mindset that become like the number one tennis players like Novak Djokovic. Djokovic was  knocked out this of this year's tournament, but he was on 4 grandslams in a row now. A boy told him that he was going to be the world number one but he told himself he would be any tell everyone else i was going to people and nobody thought he would but he had the growth mindset in behalf.Right ,  yeah and was open to receiving feedback too I guess, right? Absolutely. Excellent. Thank Michael Jordan. it's the same same case, it's just like you willing to put in the hours and time and get feedback and that's the kind of people you want to be working with excellent. Okay and you mentioned before when we were chatting just before their we actually sort of went on here about freedom lifestyle so what's your, what is it a topic I love? I don't so much have the freedom lifestyle anymore because that we I started I created my own online course, got some nice passive revenue, moved up to a mountain town, spent a summer kiteboarding and then decided to start this company and so I've got less the freedom lifestyle right now but I have a ton of fun doing it but what's your kind of concept that the freedom lifestyle and I know you've got your book Never Work Again so i'll be curious to see your concepts around that. I actually interviewed earlier today and the question was like what do you enjoy, what did you enjoy about lost 89 years as an entrepreneur and then wait for me it was like it's the create it's the creation process.  yeah for me like I'm the most happiest when I can do anything with creation. Yeah give me like looking at a website trying to find out how to have a better website. It can be like being creative about our marketing, anything that has a lot to do with being created. I will enjoy also in Never Work Again, we talked about is freedom is really doing what you love and then getting into challenges and growing because you are getting those challenges so why consistently growing and being creative and sort of meeting the challenges in life, you feel good because you're doing stuff and you being challenging and then you will be able to solve some problems so I basically you know freed , myself have like you know people working for me and systems and I got only had to work for couple of hours a week and I was making money and bought a couple of things that I really wanted, I thought really good change people's perception of me basically and you know it didn't you know and I found myself in a sort of weird place because I achieved lot of things I want to achieve but yet I wasn't feeling filled up. Everybody out there is, people out there that are happy, they're doing stuff right so working your entire life to retire this isn't appealing to me but I know retirement will probably be incredibly boring, challenging yourself and for a lot of other people, I die after they retired.Right so worked in entire life and then they get like 67 and they die becuase of heart attatck.he dollar hard time writer and they'd stop there they don't have much purpose in life they don't have much momentum they just wanted just by getting up watching TV you know eating some lunch ,watching more TV and that becomes your life and it's quite a sad existence and so I basically like travel and all these things but I didn't really feel fulfilled. Yep so pretty lights off of me is doing what you love and and trying to sort of fill your days with the things that you want to create, want to share with the world that's for me that is it's really about. Excellent that's great and I think that ties in well to the one that outsourcing concept right because if you as you start to like with any business it often starts off as that work of passion you start creating that fun thing that you're doing and then business gets in the way and there's the details the accounting, the invoicing , the regular details, that bog it down and if you can find a way to outsource those repetitive tasks and just focus on the stuff that you love doing then you create that that dream lifestyle even though you may be working hard and doing building a business and doing a lot of things and not just lounging on a beach, the whole time you're you're actually doing the stuff day-to-day that you love and being able to outsource that that more mundane thing tasks absolutely and you know a lot of people start out in business with liking it utopian idea how it's going to be but then they realized I wanted like understand contract and cash flow and cons and you know legal staff and somebody sues you and you know, its all  the fun stuff for me . Yeah maybe. Are you a lawyer? I am. Oh are you ? yeah okay well there you go for me that's like you I just want everybody to be friends yeah so oh no I don't, I don't like suing people. To be honest, I don't even like contracts, I understand but to me usually when I do business deals iits like handshake deals, I don't try to stay away from the contracts just because I have the , I  guess I have an unfair advantage on that side too so I'd rather just say I'll just you know treat you like a friend will do a good business deal here. Yes so yes so people this utopian dream and then they get bogged down and all this stuff yeah then you know what they thought was going to give them more freedom in their life becomes a nightmare. Another thing is you like asking yourself what is your freedom number because I know quite a lot of rich people and you know that they have lots of problems you know so that when I started in business I thought oh if I just have a lot of money , I wont  have a lot of problems but that's not true, right ? so having freedom number is really about sort of saying i am very happy in life if I can do it no in this house and have this stuff and you know do these things and that's what makes me happy yeah makes other people happy because a lot of people spend a lot of life myself myself including trying to impress all the people just sort of being true to myself yeah funny that I think that's a very big part of freedom is sort of cutting the shackles of the world around you and just don't you want to be in doing what you want to do and that's actually what the freedom is all is about being happy with where you're at at that point in time and enjoying what you're doing at that moment yes because when we quickly grasp for things we are unable to enjoy the moment yeah and the the challenge of our ego is that once we cross that one goal we get up there and we go for the next one yeah only reach a goal at last we need goals any need things to move towards but it's the grasping that room instead right and you're just if you're only looking at being happy when you hit that next level then you're always never happy because you're looking for the next level constantly so it's right definitely good to have the goals and be shooting for them but I think you also have to appreciate where you're at i was talking to an entrepreneur recently and they were telling me about the struggles of their business and you know not particularly happy at that moment and i started said well hey we talked a year ago when you were just when this was just an idea like you were literally just starting out imagine if you could go back to yourself then and say this is where you eat today how happy would you be then and he's you know like I would be ecstatic this would be amazing and I've had this conversation with a few people recently and so it's you almost have to reframe that of like just put yourself back in your shoes a year ago or six months ago and and imagine that you were here all the things you've accomplished in that time and it kind of realized that whole perception actually exercise in my book and it's not made by me which means something i can't remember his name was called her the reverse gap yeah and it doing exactly what you doing with your friends just like go back to you when you started and say what if you were making this month what if you were doing this and this is needed to accomplish all these things would you be happy but yeah yeah yeah it's pretty amazing and I just how you think about things can change all of that I am awesome great i well I'll and really appreciate you having you here and for everyone is interested in learning more about outsourcing I mean honestly I think that it's definitely worth checking out it can really take a lot of the sort of regular mundane pass in your business and make it easier to manage them check out mr. outsourced calm and Berlin can help you with that kind of stuff I let you focus on the creative tasks and the stuff that you love doing which of course you know I find whatever it is such a good point you make it is like a point to be happy in your business but i think the the the corollary to that is that your business grows way faster too and I know you're aware that is that when you are doing the stuff that's creative and that you're good at and that you love doing that's when your business grows faster than if you just focus on the little details every day so the more you can outsource that better or or hire people to do it or get someone else to help with that one more thing i can suggest everyone is like do a personality test alright i do it a score of Mars Briggs or talent dynamic sorry they're all the same anyway I like get it on paper that you're like Tommy creative and the timing system I'm a mechanic creative creative mechanic in the star yeah so I like making stuff like they created by making stuff and I like being onstage like speaking and stuff like that so it's fine grounded in that means that all my teammates to have all the other sort of personality traits on functional yeah it's good to do the personality because because that you can kind of go okay fine I give up I'm like that yeah be like that yeah and it don't have that then i get missile the office that's how it is yeah yeah and at six is good . cuz we focused a lot on the creative side and I was forcing the rest but I know say for my wife who is an accountant I'm she loves to just come in and and do the accounting side of things right and you know it's not as simple as just bookkeeping she's much more advanced than that but she gets into managing the whole business side of things that for a lot of people would be something you might want to outsource so it's yeah I think that's a really good point is to understand you and what it is that your strong points are in your points of interests are and then you can pass off the other stuff even if that is the creative stuff absolutely yeah excellent well thank you so much appreciated again mr. outsourced com great place to check you out or you can check out never work again I know that's an Amazon bestseller so I thanks so much i appreciate it 