 Hello guys, we are group 10, and this is our mobile coumputing project, called Batroid, an android-based personal assistant. This app handle multiple tasks without much of an user intervention. It has features such as Do-Not-Disturb mode depending on user's current location, weather and route suggestions for upcoming calender events, automatically sending birthday wishes to friends on their birthday etc. Lets start with the installation procedure. It is a standard apk installation package. And this app needs few set of permissions such as current location of device, access to contacts and calendar events, managing phone calls, and sending SMS. Now, if you launch the app for the first time, it will ask you for these permissions. just click on allow and you should be good to go. Now if you see on the left side, we have a drawer menu with all the functionalities of the app. And as you can see, we have followed standard material design principles for the look and feel of our app. In order to provide services such as GeoDND or Weather, app needs current location of the phone. So, if the GPS is disabled the app will give a popup requesting user to enable it. Lets see how GeoDND works. We will simply place marker on the map, and enter the name for the location, we'll call it "Test", and lets save it. Right now phone is on a ringer mode. And, if you click on "Start DND", it will create a fence around the place which we have just stored. This place can be anything such as Library, Classroom or Office. So now if we enter into that location, app will trigger the "Enter" event and will broadcast it to other services. The phone is now in silent mode. Similarly, if we move outside the fence, app will trigger "Exit" event, and the phone will again goes back to ringer mode. Now lets see how GeoDND actually provides Do No Disturb functionality. Lets place a marker and create one location. We'll call it "Home". Lets save it and click on "Start DND". It will create a fence, and once we walks into that location, it will start DND mode. Alright, DND is activated. Now, if someone tries make a call when we are in DND zone, we should not get that call. So the call should be rejected and it should go to voicemail. Along with that, the caller will also get an auto-reply saying the phone is in DND zone. Just like the call, if someone sends a text message, the phone will send an auto-reply saying that phone is in the DND zone. Now if we walk out of the DND zone, app will exit DND mode and now if someone tries to call, we will be able to recieve calls and text messages. We can save upto 100 GeoDND zones. App also provides functionality to delete any of the saved locations. The app will also provide weather updates based on current location. It will also send notifications in events such as rain, snow fall or thunderstorm. Lets see how Route suggestion works. If we have an upcoming calendar event along with the location of that event. App will get that information from the calender, and will suggest a route from current location of the device to the location of that event. If someone in your calendar has a birthday today, the application will get that information and will send birthday messsage to all those contacts with just one click. So this is all about our application, making day to day life easy. The application currently has core functionalities and is designed in such a way that more functionalities can be added in future. Thank You! 