 (Music) Data regarding an airplane's engines is constantly monitored and analyzed to provide insights and ensure that it is running smoothly. The same type of data is available about us. About our minds, our bodies, and our health. But we don't monitor, analyze, or connected to make sure we are running smoothly. But what if we did? What if there was something that could collect your data and create personal health insights tailored specifically to you? What if it could come up with daily nutritional recommendations based on your own real-time personal health metrics? What if it could help you better understand and manage your individual care plan when you are sick or help you care for and manage your mother's care plan from across the country? What if when you had a health issue, it could help you answer your most complicated questions based on the most up-to-date research and using real-time expert opinion? What if it could help you become smarter about your health by understanding the things that you don't know but should? What if it could tell you when something wasn't right and not only tell your doctor about it, but schedule an appointment for you as well? What if it was able to give you information by connecting different things of actual life that only you know should be connected? What if there was something that could do all of that? Meet Nora. Powered by the Deloitte Cognitive Platform. Here's how it works. It starts by collecting all the relevant data you allowed access to. Things like medical history, lifestyle, behavior, weather, and location. As well as personal preferences around food, exercise, hobbies, and more. Then it uses machine learning algorithms to find patterns and relationships between his discreet sources of information. Finally it generates personalized insights about your health and makes them available to you, in the context of your daily life through whatever channels are most convenient. An invisible force that appears when you need it. Making health care personal for everyone. 