 Hy my name is Peter from U-Render. In this video I will show you how to work with substances and U-Render. First let’s create a little scene. I like to use the landscape with deactivated borders at sea level. Then create a null... and a spotlight. Parent and move the spotlight along the z axis. Increase the outer angle of the spotlight… and create a U-Render light tag. Goto the render settings and select U-Render as render device. I recommend to set a global hdr environment map and to activate “enable diffuse IBL”. This gives a good starting point of overall indirect lighting and reflection. Leave all other settings for now and just start U-Render live to see what we’ve got so far. I set the shadow mode to soft shadows, and adjust the angle of the spotlights null. So that’s our scene and it really could need a nice ground material. You can find very nice substances on substance source. For this example I will use the Rubble Sand substance. Just download it and copy it into your project folder. Back in Cinema load the substance and open the downloaded sbsar file. All substances that are loaded into the project, are listed in this Substance Asset Manager. In the Attribute Manager you can see all values and parameters that are exposed by the substance. By default the resolution is set to a very low value, but we will change this later. You may have noticed, that by loading the substance there is also a cinema material created automatically. There are three kind of cinema materials you can create within the substance asset manager: standard, metallic and glossy. By default the already created material is a metallic one. If you want to convert this cinema material to a u-render material I recommend to use the glossy version. Assign the material to the landscape… ...and adjust the uv tiling. I will also increase the intensity of the spotlight. This is the fastest way to get a proper result but let’s have a closer look to the converted material. In the texture channels are substance shaders assigned. If you open it you can select every channel that the substance provides. What I don’t like so much is that the Glossiness has an additional Colorizer node, because the created c4d material uses the colorizer to invert the glossiness map to behave as Roughness map. This works, but it’s unnecessarily complex. However, the textures look unsharp and that’s because the default resolution of the substance is set to a low resolution so let’s increase it a little bit. As we use to bake c4d shaders and the substance shader is one of them, it is also important to set up the baking resolution for the texture channels. You can set different resolutions for each channel. As I mentioned, this is the fastest way to get substances U-Render ready. If you want to set them up by hand you simply can create a new U-Render Material and set the substance shader as needed. Put the substance shader into the channel and use the pick mode cursor to click on the substance in the asset manager. Right click and copy the channel, paste wherever you need it and select the desired channel. Note that you should use diffuse and specular texture OR basecolor and metallic texture together to get the correct result. For the normal map I will turn off U-Render live for a moment to get the material preview. There are two different kinds of normal maps: OpenGL and Direct X normal maps. The difference between them is the Y direction. OpenGL Y direction is facing upwards and Direct X Y is facing downwards. By default the substance is set to Direct X normal map. U-Render needs OpenGL normal maps so you have to change the normal format in the substance to OpenGL, or you also can check the flip Y option in the material. When using displacement maps, use the substance height channel. Assign the material with and adjust the tiling and activate the displacement in the render settings. Adjust the amount of displacement with the strength or height values and check if you need more subdivision levels to get a good result. Of course too high values costs performance so it is a good idea to keep that value as low as possible. Let’s further increase this scene by just tweaking a couple of things. First create a camera so we can add some depth of field to the scene. In this scene you don’t need to set the near clipping plane. In some edge cases this can prevent flickering artefacts. To get DOF you have to enable it first in the render settings. With the focus distance and f-stop you can adjust the DOF as you like. Next, I turn on the ambient occlusion and increase the radius as well as the power. A little bit of bloom with a large radius is sometimes useful to slightly add additional luminance. A bright bluish fog adds depth to the scene. Let’s add tonemapping and also use it to brighten up the entire result. Chromatic aberration and vignette gives a little bit of photo like style. So with just a few additional render settings we greatly increased the render result. The great thing about working with substances and U-Render is, that you get all changes instantly in real time in high quality. Some substances have custom features that can change the appearance dramatically so it’s a great fun to work with them. So thanks for watching and have fun with substances and U-Render! 