 Oh professor you are so funny, hahaha Phone Ringing Professor on phone - Hi Lucy Hello, oh hi professor. Professor - did you have a good time? Lucy - Yes, it was fun Professor on phone - Was he a nice fellow? Lucy - Yes, very nice. Professor - Did you get a sunburn? I? I had an umbrella Lucy - Did you see the photo I sent you? Professor - Yes, it looks wonderful Professor - Okay, Lucy. See you at work Lucy - Okay. Bye. Bye. Oh Awh! Good morning class Everybody ready, you know Lucy sometimes I worry about her, you know, Lucy I worry about you I kind of feel like you're your father your daddy, you know with all those computer guys that you date. I don't trust them They are nice guys professor Your say they are, Okay, I trust you Okay class. I hope you're taking notes because this is all going to be very important we're now moving into the arena where we're going to put the gasses into the chamber and Since they have different expansion ratios as we warm them up, they're going to expand differently And then what we have to have is exactly a thousand cubic centimeters inside the tank Okay, that's important because when we combust them then we go to measure and condenser We're going to find out exactly how much we got when it's all over once the gas is combined and they turn into water Here is the process of the calculation using the expansion ratios in the volumetric equation First our rate of expansion of hydrogen and oxygen is different Hydrogen is eight hundred and forty eight to one So .207244 times 848 175.742912 cubic centimeters of hydrogen and oxygen is 861 to 1 so one cubic centimeter of oxygen is 861 cubic centimeters when expanded to 70 degrees Fahrenheit added together we get 175.742912 plus 861 equals 1036.742912 our total cubic centimeters are 1036 .742912 thus we have 1036.742912 cubic centimeters at STP of 70 degrees at 14.7 PSI, but we need that to be one thousand cubic centimeters So we must reduce the temperature to bring this volume down the ratio is 175 .742912 divided by 1036.742912 which equals 0.169514 16.9514 % is hydrogen in the remaining volume is eighty-three point zero four eight five percent oxygen we want to keep our pressure at 14.7 PSI So we will use what is called the isobaric process when the pressure is constant T2 equals t1 times v2 divided by v1 or seventy times one thousand divided by 1036.742912 equals 67.5191498 which is 67.5 degrees Fahrenheit we use the volumetric equation to check our values and Then the isobaric check also v2 equals v1 times t2 divided by t1 Which shows substantial accuracy? Thank You Lucy now you can see class how we use the isobaric equation and the volumetric equation to determine when the gases Expand in the expansion chamber into the chamber. We have exactly a thousand cubic centimeters when we started with 1036 and change Okay, so when we expand them up, we have to have to write them out. So when we Combust them and they turn into water We're going to determine how much of thousand cubic centimeters are the right mixtures of hydrogen and oxygen turned into one cubic centimeter of water Now before we go any further into the combustion reaction We're going to look a little deeper into the quantum world Because when we finally solidify hydrogen from a liquid state into into a solid crystal It turns into a hexagonal crystal it turns into a hexagon Now we're going to show you That the hexagon has seven members They told me to hold for a count 1 2 3 4 5 hold for a count Thank You mr. Director and Then we place three on top Then they tell me hold again Thank You mr. Director 1 2 3 4 5 can't you delay this in any editing, you know? Ok, and then hold and then we put 3 more on the bottom, you know, so that makes 13 That's 3 on the top 3 in the bottom is 7 in the middle that makes a full hexagon of hydrogen We bring up I give you another picture This one is oxygen Oxygen is a square when it's frozen at a crystal So now you can sort of start to understand. Why water Makes these funny pretty patterns because the hydrogen wants to be a hexagon and the oxygen wants to be a square and when you got two Hydrogen's and the oxygen all of a sudden it's a bent molecule. Then it starts doing all kinds of weird things That means it's unpredictable because of what they call the mobility of the hydrogen atom. It wants to move around a lot So when it tries to crystallize when it gets frozen at 32, it makes these beautiful patterns Here's another interesting one. This is called boron. Boron has a rhomboid shape They say it was made by cosmic ray spallation in a supernova Not sure how they know that but I'll trust them Now here's an image of carbon as a diamond most interesting heck saw hexagons It's such a hard crystal that it'll cut through anything any other element. It'll cut right through it. It's the hardest Strongest element in the in the periodic table now now Lucy's going to give you a lot of details About why we need to get away from the traditional model of the atom being proton Neutron and electron Because atoms really are liquids that were in liquid in the center of a star and the only way they got out of there is that they collided with another star and The stars broke up and all of a sudden all those liquid it really high pressures and temperatures Get down in the empty space and they froze What you're handling are frozen atoms Nothing's moving inside. They are hard Crystals, this is a break from the Niels Bohr atom and leave it to Brainstein to come up with the idea But I'm sorry, it's just that when you started looking and doing experiments that you'll see later on the thesis Niels Bohr atom just doesn't work We got to have another model now when you start looking at things in the way They really are as hard crystals. You can understand how When atoms collide together, they break, and they turn in to other compounds Look professor. You don't need to hold up a card. I can just appear anywhere Teehee hee hee ha ha ha. Oh my tee. Hee hee hee, that's funny Oh Lucy, you are so funny. I didn't know computer girls were so funny. Oiah Now Lucy's is going to give you some details about the layering concept of particles in atoms sub particles on top of sub particles on top of some particles and how they were all put together under extreme pressure and how it takes millions and millions of years for them to evaporate the The natural state of elements is as a liquid inside of a star or as a plasma in a nebula that millions of degrees The substances you handle every day are solid because they are cold comparatively The professor's break from convention is that atoms have sub particles that are always moving Electrons do not orbit the nucleus And he suggests we should break away from the view of attractive forces as in the theory of the strong Nuclear attraction of protons in the theory of the positive charge attracting electrons that have a negative charge He will show that electrons are real and there are forces that move them around And that they are particles with energy and that energy is mass always moving in the path of least resistance The results of this break in convention does not change the observed Actions and the results are much the same and the models of atomic Structure are right in the layering of particles with energy as with electrons orbiting except they don't orbit All the rules still work the same but our observation needs correction the parts of atoms as in protons neutrons And electrons are all the same thing, but they do not move unless they are pushed They are at extreme densities the closer you come to the nucleus and they are stable except Entropy is natural and all atoms decay the time periods are millions to billions of years a carbon atom is evaporating or rather decaying because it is no longer under the pressure of a star but it's compression of sub particles of sizes even much smaller than the quark are so dense that unlike carbon-14 whose half-life is 5730 years Carbon-12 the non radioactive carbon decays over millions of years Thank You, Lucy now I'm gonna keep coming back to the push theory with examples and Gradually break the convention and I know it's sacrilege But when you start finding that things just don't work. You got you got to come up with the solutions And yeah, I think the issue The confusion has been magnetism because magnets sure look like they pull each other together When in fact they're being pushed together, and that's where the pull attractive force came from and It's an illusion and we'll eventually see how that illusion plays out and why there is no such thing as attractive forces There's only push forces and that's what holds everything together. So Let's look at our two gases hydrogen and oxygen. We have evaporated them into the chamber at 67.5 degrees Fahrenheit and let them sit The hydrogen in the conventional gravity model is lighter and less dense than the oxygen So it will settle to the top of our chamber The electrode is positioned at the line where both gases come together If it were positioned lower in the oxygen it will cause no reaction Likewise if it were positioned up in the hydrogen area there would be no reaction The spontaneous ignition point of hydrogen is 700 degrees Fahrenheit It seems hard to believe but true We could raise our chamber all the way up to near 700 degrees Fahrenheit and nothing would happen With spontaneous ignition the pressure is sufficient to break the atoms. And yes, I said break Now the hydrogen has formed molecules two by two and likewise. The oxygen is o2 Now rather than seeing them as a nucleus with electrons Singing around in orbits. Let's see them as layers of sub particles packed together They are like hard quartz or silica Oxygen combines with almost any of the other elements and we will see that it's square Crystal is hard and sharp like a diamond and its mass can break into other atoms They are held together by pressure They are no different than balloons in that if I lower the pressure they expand and if I increase the pressure They compress The only difference is that they are so small that not even air can get between them Because they are the air There is space between the sub particles which is why they can compress But there is nothing small enough to get in between them except perhaps the electron or the proton or the neutron Well, I suppose there are lots of things that can get into the space between them But they themselves are against each other edge to edge I can Wiggle them with light waves and sound waves But the only thing that happens when I add energy as heat is they swell Now this is no different than the ring and ball that your science teachers showed you in science class The ball will not fit through the ring But if I heat up the ring with a flame for a short while the ring will easily slip over the ball The ring and ball are made out of brass and are hard metal so it is no different for hydrogen and oxygen they are hard structures that expand when they get hot and Contract when they get cool The standard view is that the electrons and their orbits become energized and their orbits get larger That would need an attractive horse magically attracting the electrons It will take time to understand the amazing discovery of dark matter But when you begin to see that matter is infinitely small it all starts to make sense So be patient, there is so much more to come Thank You Lucy What would I do without you? Now now we're gonna give it give a breakdown Lucy's going to give you a breakdown on on layering If you look at the universe and you look at the Stars and you look at the planet Earth Everything's in layers layering is a natural function as As professor Brainstein describes years ago his daughter's sixth grade class homework was to do a sedimentation Experiment as it should be homework for your children becomes a project for the parent So he set out to find stuff to mix all together as Gluck Shake it up and then watch it settle for a day or so Of course the layers formed and she got an A for her homework The byline here is that everything has layers and the closest example is the earth The Earth's layers become more fluid the deeper you go till you reach the molten core of iron in the center The Sun is layered and the planets all have layers that vary in density and activity So it should not be difficult to see the quantum world as layered Thank You Lucy now we're going to talk about the the spectral absorption lines that come off from a spectrometer as being the real vision that we have the real Observation the way we can see into an atom and what's going on? Because they all produce spectral lines from the smallest element to the heaviest element and they get really complex They the spectral lines gives us all the details we'd ever need on what's inside of an atom This is the spectrograph of hydrogen there are four lines in the visible light spectrum One is hard to see in this image. It is to the far left in the deep violet range The color grading behind the lines is there for reference But when you look at the light through a spectrometer Only the lines show. This is the spectrograph of oxygen on Close inspection you can count fifty two lines produced by oxygen many of which are in the blue and violet range But an issue here is the possibility of some of the lines being interference patterns The bands produced are all coherent. That means each band is completely only one frequency This can cause interference patterns What is not seen are the bends in the ultraviolet range and higher? There may not be a top end on band count as we delve more into dark matter well in that interesting how hydrogen has only four spectral lines and an oxygen has got Almost forty eight to forty eight to fifty eight but then there might be interference groups or you know lines crossing over lines because when you get to the core oxygen It gets really complicated because got a lot of protons and neutrons from the conventional model what we're going to find out it's just layers of sub particles and they're extremely high compression and crystallization Okay Lucy's going to give you a lot of good information on the spectral analysis that really shows us the inside of the atom and And how the Niels Bohr atom is wrong And as we go along in the end the treatise you're going to see if this really plays out that That the the core of the atom is not protons neutrons with electrons spinning around because nothing's moving inside the atom so we're going to see this when we see how the the Spectrum analysis really gives us a lot of insight into the atom of what's really going on inside. Take it away, Lucy so let's look at a coordination of the spectral lines as it might relate to the layers inside a transparent atom of hydrogen and oxygen The radius of hydrogen is 31 Picometers It is relevant when you look at classical descriptions of atoms with the nucleus and the electron being Separated by a great distance as the spectral lines might indicate the classical description is the proton is positive and the electron is negative and the Electron orbits around the proton if you add energy such as heat the orbit Expands the space between the electron and proton is empty looking at a green laser through a hand-held spectroscope produces a prominent line at 525 Nanometers of noticed for later is that it produces a clean single line coming off of the diffraction grating in? This graphic oxygen is broken down by the wave length measuring 66 Pico meters in radius the smallest wavelength produced is 407 nanometers the longest wavelength produced is 655 nanometers This is a completely unconventional way of analyzing atoms But as the professor continues in the treatise, it will gain more relevance this next slide shows oxygen from its core to its outer edge and it displays the correlation of wavelength and nanometers to the physical structure of the oxygen atom in picometers This next enlargement which shows the scale of nanometers in? Between each ring which is a layer of sub particles and the thickness of each layer respectively it is astonishing as to the Correlation to the theorized radius of the oxygen atom and how perfectly it matches the spectrum and tests This enlargement shows internal groups where there are strong and weak emissions which could mean internal harmonic resonance More research will tell this break with the convention of what is called the Niels Bohr atom is going to be difficult it is going to be considered radical because so much science has been developed around the standard model all Of that science will still work only the observation is a new Some physicists will have a difficult time with this new approach Because they have built so much around electrons orbiting around protons But now here this nothing is moving inside an atom Yes Electron mass can be added and subtracted causing positive and negative ions This is how diodes can be made that conduct electricity Only in one direction in one direction the semi conductor conducts freely because it has holes to be filled Reverse the current and the holes fill up and will not accept electrons to move in Essentially atoms are hard and nothing moves until you add energy and force them to move Electrically conductive elements allow electrons to come and go the core of the elemental atom is unaffected So here is oxygen It is layers of sub particles packed together in a hard crystal that can expand and contract Just like the ball and ring Heat it up in its wells cooled it down and it contracts and it can break like glass when another atom hits it just right and they combine The outer layers are more fragile while the inner layers are progressively harder Just like glass Electrons can stick to it, but it is not Actually sticking the electrons are pushed into the surface and can be scraped off This is another approach to ionization. Phone ringing Professor I have TJ Ginn on the phone He said he was listening in and had a comment TJ - Hi professor How are you? Professor - good how are you. You know science is so authoritative about things that they don't understand and if they don't have an answer they just make something up, Prof. yeah de do. I'm talking about the nuclear force Just like gravity. We can't prove gravity waves but we are sure they are there. Prof. Yeah I know. Like we're sure how atoms are held together. It's the strong nuclear force, right? Prof. - Yeah. That's it. That's it I know positive and negative gotta be magnetism Proton is positive. The electron is negative and protons pulling the electron. I'm being sarcastic I just don't like it when science is so authoritative about theories for lack of a better answer. Prof. - Yeah the magic of Magnetism. You know that depiction you have of the atoms sure looks like the classic model the spacing of the proton to the electron not necessarily electrons layers layers of sub particles. Prof. - Yeah crystals. crystallized be sure to have Lucy show how that Correlation between the wavelength and nanometers to the size of the atoms and the proton and the electron Distances in Picometers. Prof. - Yeah, I'll do that TJ - you know if science is wrong about magnetism and the nuclear force Perhaps they're wrong on more than one level Standard model has just run. Its course. Prof. - It sure has. TJ - The results are lacking Well, I put in my two cents good talking with you professor. Prof. - Talk to you soon Take care of Lucy. Talk to you soon? He's such a nice man? professor You should invite him to the laboratory Someday, yeah, Lucy. I'm gonna do that. He is a nice guy. I'll have him come into the lab We can stand side-by-side, you know, they say I kind of look like him, but I you know, I think TJ's better-looking, you know Professor Singing Okay, well I'm TJ said they're on the phone We're going to show you how the wavelength coming off the spectral analysis applies to the actual picometer dimensions of the atom Take it away, Lucy Here is the spectrogram of hydrogen to explain how this works you find the range of spectral lines and then set a scale and picometers to fit the range Divide the range in picometers by the range of spectral lines and nanometers This gives you a ratio Measure between the lines and multiplied by the ratio to see how many Picometers the layer of particles consists of Yes hydrogen has one electron around a proton in the conventional model if Science is wrong about the nuclear force and magnetism Perhaps they are wrong on more than one level The professor says he is not a rebel without a cause The standard model has run its course and the results are lacking For science to admit a thing like dark matter which up to now is a theory then keep an open mind It all makes sense in the end No, no, you can hear your own heart beat. Stick it on your neck and maybe... bump, bump, bump, no, oh well... Okay class from the premise from the premise the premise the premise the premise that Atoms are hard crystals we can start looking for other reasons why they do what they do like forming crystals in square and hexagons and and Rhomboid and why they act funny when they crystallize, you know and make all those pretty patterns like in water okay, so This is gonna show you some some interesting interaction between between shapes of different crystals and how when things get pushed together They go from round to square in the corner pretty interesting. Watch this one. Take it away, Lucy we see in the universe common and natural shapes as As previously described the elements take on crystal forms hex and square and rhomboid we see the round planets and the elliptical and discus shapes of galaxies and If you have seen the water drop Slow-motion video you see the droplet pop into a ball you see children's bubbles wobble in a round shape Round is a phenomenon, which is always evolving but never achieved as stated in the foreword of the professor's treatise He tries to avoid saying that the universe is attempting to be more perfectly round because that implies will or desire It is not trying to do anything it however cannot stop if it wanted to Is that not funny? It is not trying to stop it merely is Spheres when pushed together have forces that push them into a shape other than round The cones are depicted here to show the way spheres are push into a junction point Here are soap bubbles showing how they join and depending on each bubble size and weight They are pushed into a glob and I mean glob not globe. That finds a balance or a some Solution to all the forces pushing on them in the Junction's it is anything but round three spheres alone cannot form a structure It takes four to form a structure that can be fused Fusion will be discussed later Notice the black lines that show the center of vector force the red lines indicate the triangulation planes formed by the spheres Center of gravity here is a drafting term It was at this point in the development of this thesis that the professor needed more tools to describe the tank Experiment and the amazing reaction that would take place in the chain He knew that there were some critical observations that he needed to make It sent him into months of experiments to show some critical points about nature and light itself so put on your seat belt in Episode five comes some really cool stuff you ya know, soap bubbles They show us more about the universe and you know, you would think little ole' simple soap bubbles that shows spherical interaction and in the Junction's and the crystallization and the way Way shapes interact with each other Okay class. I hope you're taking notes. We got a lot a lot of territory to cover the big thesis Next time this once again this pretty much wraps up episode four Next time in Episode five, we're going to go into the lab and we're going to do some serious Experimentation that really shows that propagation velocity is dependent on frequency Which all the physics says no That's not true. I'm gonna prove that it is Thanks for joining me Kids, where's Dixie, the neighbors dog is here. Charlie Charlie Charlie Charlie, this is Charlie plays with Dixie all the time. It's a neighbor's dog. I think I think Charlie's deaf But they say no, but I think I holler for Charlie and Charlie can't hear nothing Charlie can't hear nothing. Let's see. Can you hear can you hear no, I can't hear nothing Let's see. Oh boy. You're healthy. Oh, you're healthy dog Charlie I can't where's Dixie Charlie wants to play with them There you go There you go. I'm not a doctor I'm a sciencologist, a physicist. And, that was Charlie Music Music Closing Music 