 Hi there, my name's Andrew Brown. Welcome to the series of real-time music and sound with pure data in this series we'll be looking at sound synthesis and some sequencing and all the kind of factors that will come in to electronic music making, but we'll be using the Pure Data software which is available free for many platforms there are a number of versions of Pure Data we'll be using the Vanilla version so we'll just be making use of the basic functions and building things up from there this particular video is just an introduction to what we'll be doing and a bit of an introduction to Pure Data for those who have not used it before let me start though by playing an example of where we might head. This is a patch of algorithmic music created by Reno Petrozziello. This patch is written in Pure Data. You can see on the screen that it's a visual programming environment with objects connected by lines. In this particular example the software has been made to look intentionally messy but you'll hear that you can make sounds and you can sequence those sounds with Pure Data, let's have a listen. And so we be able to make music like that and all sorts of other music and sound as well, as we work our way through this series. Pure Data is a programming environment, it's a visual programming environment. You can download it from the Puredata.info website which is shown here. You'll see there's a link to Pure Data download here. There are two versions featured there's Pure Data Vanilla that we'll be using and there's Pd-l2ork which has some additional functionality. So if you download Pure Data vanilla it will then take you to the Pd page it's available for Linux Macintosh, and Windows operating systems. That means it can run on most people's laptops and PCs, and with the linux version it also means that it will be able to run on things like a Raspberry Pi so and things like a Bela board as well if you've got those kinds of processors. So one of the things you should do is go and download it if you haven't already. You can pause this video and do that and come back and join us when you've got it done let's just take a little bit of a look around Pd. When you first open up Pd you get this Pd window which is shown here on the left of the screen this particular window here displays messages from Pd itself so errors that come up or things that you print for debugging purposes will appear in this window. There are of course a number of menus like any software application and we'll look in particular at what's on my screen. I've got a big PD patch window which starts as a blank screen. I also have on my screen another program running so we can see the output of the sound from Pd. There's an oscilloscope and a spectrum analyzer these particular ones here from a program called Signal Spy. If you're on a Mac you can download that but you can get similar ones. We will also look later in this series at how to show some of the oscilloscope options within PD itself. So I mentioned that Pure Data was a visual programming language. What do we mean by that? Well let me just do a very quick piece of programming in Pd. We can have objects like this one here which is just an ADD object or a + object and if I create some number boxes with some numbers in them create a couple of those then we connect boxes together and this is what we mean by visual programming. So we have two numbers, 34 and 45, they get added together and we can look at the result. If we click on those numbers we send them in and we see that the result is listed here as 79. So this is the basics of any computer programming system. To be able to do some simple maths. One of the things that you can see here is that there are three different types of objects that we've used or three different types of boxes. They've got slightly different shapes. You can see that the one with the + is a purely rectangular shape, the one above which we've got the numbers in have got a little indent on the right-hand side, and the number box at the bottom which is displaying the result has got a little chopped off corner. So these are fairly subtle differences but you'll come to recognize them as you go. These different types of objects or different types of boxes in Pure Data have different functions. You will have seen that they just kind of appeared on the screen because I was using keyboard shortcuts, but when you are gettting started if you go over to the Put menu you'll see that there you can create a new object box, or a new message box, or a new number box. And you can create all sorts of other objects  as well, which we'll get into in time. This particular simple mathematical function has used an object box for the +, it's used message boxes for the numbers at the top for 34 and 45. These are messages which are passed to the + function. Then the number box is the one at the bottom that's the output of + which is a number and it's displayed in the number box. So these are the very basics of what's happening in Pd. The main box type is the object box. We choose another object box from the Put menu. When you start an object box you'll notice that it's hasn't got any particular function at all, it's just like an empty box. You need to type into it what the function is going to be. +, for example, was a function but we probably are also interested in making some sound because this is a video about music and sound in real time. So if I type OSC and a tilde sign and click then this becomes an oscillator. It will just produce a cosine wave by itself and we know that doesn't really do much. It's producing an oscillation but we can't yet hear it, so we need to do a couple of things to make that work. First we create another object box. I used the shortcut command-1 and in this box I'm going to put an audio output, which in Pd is called a DAC, a digital to analog converter, and we can connect the oscillator to the DAC. I happen to know that if I do connect it just directly the sound will come out at maximum volume, and that may not be very pleasant. So in between those I'm going to insert a volume control. As you may be aware, volume is controlled simply by multiplying the signal by some amount. So you can see that we've got an oscillator, our volume control, and our the output. Now, to connect them together we can see that on all of these objects there are inlets at the top, indicated by these black regions, and some of them have outlets. Most of them have outlets here. So this oscillator has two inlets and one output. The inlets for the oscillator are for its pitch, or its frequency, and the phase on the other side. The output is the audio signal. So I'm going to take the audio output of the oscillator and connect it to the inlet of the multiply. The right Inlet of the multiplier will indicate how much to multiply by, and we haven't yet done that so let's do that now. I can use a number box and connect the number box up to that. At the moment we multiply by zero and of course I can change the value so that it will be multiplied by a small amount. Zero being silence and one being maximum volume. Next, the output of that can then be passed to the digital to analog converter. It has two inlets because we operate by default in stereo so it's left and we can also send the signal to right. We'll get the same signal out both channels. We still don't hear anything, however, because the oscillator has no particular pitch. So we can use another number box and it goes in there and then increase that and we start to get a pitch. You should be able to hear that, and I could turn it up a little bit further. This controls our frequency, this number box controls our amplitude. You can see over on the left that we have on our Oscilloscope the cosine wave. And down on the spectrum analyzer you can see that we've just got this quite sharp peak at a fairly low frequency. We've got a single sinusoidal  waveform from this oscillator. And there we have it. I will look at more of the sound generating capacities in the upcoming series. So for now let's just leave that as it is some other things which are important as an introduction to Pd. So now you've seen how you can actually make a program run but let's have a look a bit more around Pd and see how we can get some information that will help us. If when you first come to Pd and you open up a new object like, say, the oscillator it's often difficult to understand what it can do. You are basically presented with a blank screen and not much else. If you right-click on any object you will see that there will be a help option. Note this is really really useful, so let's open up the help for the OSC object, for the oscillator object. You can see that there's a description of what it does, there's some sample patches to show you how it can be used, and this is a really useful thing as we're trying to learn to operate Pd. Same for any of these objects. So we go to the DAC object, and go to help again, it shows us what's going on, what it's all about, and some of the ways in which it can be used. Also, for further help, we can see that in the help menu that there are a number of options. First of all we can go to Pd help which will take us to this website with Pd documentation. Pd has been around for quite some time the documentation is quite thorough, so please take a look at that. Also in the help menu we'll see this thing called the Browser. When we bring up the Browser over here, it's this window which has got a whole series of Pd examples. As we click on Pure Data examples you'll see they're categorized into the various topics. We might want, for example, to look at the audio examples. You'll see that there are a whole swag of audio examples, plenty to keep you occupied for quite a long time. We can have a look for example at Intro to Pd and that's just got a text field which tells us about Pure Data. There's a sine wave help file which pretty much does a similar thing to what I've just shown you. It has an oscillator and amplifying objects that turn the volume down and then sends signal out to a DAC. So there are all sorts of useful things that you can see in the Help Browser. As well in the Help menu there is a list of objects. Sometimes when I get a new object up I can't quite remember what that object is called. I know that Pure Data can do this, but I can't quite remember what it's called. This list is quite useful, it lists all of the objects in Pd Vanilla and you can scroll through that and see them. This is also handy if you just want to ask "what can it do?" "What else can pure data do?" You can look through there and go to any of the ones you may not even know what they do and, like with any object, you can get help on it, read the help, and find out what's going on. So it's really important to understand how to get help as you get start learning Pure Data. Like any software system you can open and save and reload patches. A program in Pure Data, like this, is called a patch. In the normal fashion we can save it and we can reopen it just like you'd expect with any software application. One other thing is to have a look in this Media menu. There are a few important things in this media menu. One is that to make our audio run we have to turn on the audio engine, the digital signal processing engine, the DSP engine. You can see that it's on, we can also turn it off if we don't want any sound to be produced or we don't want our computer to be processing sound. Some other important things are the Audio and MIDI settings. If we look in the Audio settings, this will importantly tell us about the sample rate the block size — mostly you can ignore that — initially what's important are the input devices and the output devices. You can see it will show you all of the important output devices on your computer and you can send Pure Data to the output that you want so that you can hear it adequately. Similarly, there is are MIDI settings.  Pure Data can accept and send MIDI messages and not only audio, so you can see that there's a list of input devices that are connected and you can select an input device. If you want to send MIDI data you can send it out to a different device. So when you first set up Pd you'll need to make sure that you configure it so that the audio is going in and out the way you need on your computer and the MIDI is connected in and out to any attached MIDI devices, and make sure that the signal processing is on. You get a shortcut to it right here it's so important to ensure that any of the audio applications will work. Alright, that's sufficient I think for now. Have a go with Pd. If this is your first go at it, just work out what's going on and have a look at some of the examples. Then come back to the next video in this series and we'll have a look at steping you through how use Pure Data for real-time music and sound. See you later. 