 - Hey guys it's Andre from High Performance Academy. Welcome along to this week's webinar. Today we're going to be dealing with  the topic of how we can construct high quality aftermarket ignition leads. This is something that's going to be pretty important if you are working on a project car and perhaps you're making some  changes, maybe if you're removing a distributor and you're converting across to a  direct fire or coil near plug system I probably should say. You're going to probably struggle to find something off the shelf that's going to suit your application if you're making those sorts of modifications. So in today's webinar we're going to look at exactly what's involved in making your own leads. Before we get into that though, I'll just cover off a few things. We've had a reasonably quiet week over the last week since our last webinar on account of I actually haven't been in the HPA Lab. So not a huge amount to report however we are now two weeks away from the first round of the South Island Endurance Championship so I will talk a little bit about what's going on with our Toyota 86 development car. Before we jump into that though I just wanted to show a picture that I posted up on our Instagram quite a long time ago and Taz reposted it on our Facebook page and it kind of got quite a bit of traction and went a little bit nuts. And we've got a few comments that show a little bit of a misunderstanding out there that I wanted to clear up so we'll head across to my laptop screen. And this is actually the remnants of a Honda B18C oil pump that with the result of a dyno session back probably about seven or eight years ago now, back at my old performance workshop STM back up in Wellington. And I was dyno tuning this turbocharged Honda B18C and I'd done a bunch of runs on the car and finished a run and ended up at the top of the run with a loud metallic sound, came back to idle and  we had no oil pressure. Immediately shut the car down and this was the result once we pulled the oil pump or the front housing off the engine. So what we can see is that the oil pump gears have shattered. In particular we've got a big nasty crack through the driven pump, another one over here. And what that's done is in turn it's  separated a section from the outer part of the oil pump gear and you can see then in turn it's put a big ugly crack through the front housing. So the whole thing was pretty nasty. Fortunately we actually shut the engine off in time that it didn't actually end up doing any serious damage to the engine. So very very lucky and that's one of the advantages with tuning on a dyno. You are in a controlled situation there. And it is quite easy if you've got the right equipment attached to the engine, particularly if you are listening for knock audio, you're going to hear a lot of nasty stuff go on if you end up with no oil pressure. And if you're quick off the mark you can actually save the engine. Anyway more to the point why did this happen? And this is quite common in Honda tuning circles, getting rid of the factory harmonic damper off the end of the crankshaft and replacing it with a small diameter solid aluminium pulley. The idea here is that we're reducing the mass of that pulley. It's a smaller diameter, basically getting rid of a mass that needs to be accelerated when the engine RPM is increasing. So this can provide an increase in response in terms of transient response of the engine. The problem with it is though that  understandably that factory harmonic damper is there for a reason. As its name suggests, it's there to dampen out harmonics in the crankshaft that can cause some pretty nasty problems such as this failure in the metal gears for our oil pump. So one of the questions we had come up during this post was well if we're balancing our engine components, we're balancing our crankshaft, our connecting rods and our pistons, then obviously we don't need a harmonic damper. And this is a common misconception, a common belief that is unfortunately completely wrong. And the reason for this is that harmonic damper is there not so much to dampen out vibrations that are as a result of the  engine components not properly being balanced, but even with engine components that are perfectly balanced, you're still going to end up with some vibrations or forces being introducted to the crankshaft just purely as a result of the combustion process occurring. And obviously as that combustion process occurs on different cylinders, that's adding some harmonics into the crankshaft and that's exactly what that harmonic damper is there to guard against. It's there to take out those torsional  frequencies that are introduced to the crankshaft and dampen those out. Without those, this is what we can see  happening, we've got those cracks through the gears for the oil pump. So just basically wanted you to understand that a harmonic damper is not there just because an engine hasn't been balanced and even if you have got an engine that has been really thoroughly balanced, you do still want to include a harmonic damper. Now the other aspect that comes up here is that yes we do see a lot of race cars where the harmonic damper has been replaced with a solid pulley. And this can lead to the belief that well if it's working on these cars then obviously it's fine. What we need to understand is that if we move through the rev range we're going to have RPM ranges where there will be a resonant frequency. Basically where all of those harmonics are magnified and this is a really bad place to sit at at any particular RPM where we've got harmonics for a long period of time. And we'll have these harmonic frequencies potentially several areas through our usable rev range. Now the advantage with a race engine, which is why we can often get away with those solid pulleys, is that the race engines don't often stay at a consistent or steady RPM for very long. Instead they're constantly accelerating or decelerating and this means that they don't stay at those harmonic frequencies or harmonic RPMs for long periods of time. So it doesn't give too much time for them to do damage. On the other hand, if we're talking about a street car, particularly one that is driven quite frequently under cruise conditions. If in a worse case scenario we happen to have those harmonics occurring at perhaps 2000 or 3000 RPM, an RPM range which we are going to be using all of the time when we're out on the open road, then  obviously we're going to be sitting at a dangerous area of the rev range and this is where we can see those harmonics do a lot more damage on a road engine than what we can expect to see on a race engine. So just if you are comparing apples with apples there, you're seeing these solid pulleys used on race engines, that's why. They can often get away with it. That being said, I still personally don't recommend it. There are a good range of high quality  aftermarket dampers available now from the likes of ATI or Fluidampr. If you've got a popular engine then there's a pretty good chance that there will be an off the shelf damper available for your particular application so cheap insurance because as you can see, does do a lot of damage. And particularly if we hadn't been lucky  enough to catch that on the dyno, basically would have cost our customer the entire engine. So we don't want that happening. Alright now as I mentioned, we have got our first round of the Endurance Championship coming up in a couple of weeks. Now one of the problems we've got is that Ben and I, who will be racing in this championship, haven't had the opportunity  to drive at any of the other tracks, other than our local track Highlands Motorsport Park. So we've got our first round which is running in the south of the South Island, a little town called Invercargill and the  particular racetrack we are racing at is call Teretonga Park. Now we are actually heading down to Teretonga tomorrow all going well to do some testing on the track. But this is one of the areas where advances in technology have made our job a little bit easier. So we run what is a very basic simulator in the office. It's mainly there for the whole crew to have a little bit of fun and cut loose and get to experience a bit of race driving without needing to replace tires, brake pads or panels. But this does have a more serious use, so we'll head across to my laptop screen, and this is our really basic simulator setup here. So we are running a Assetto Corsa. We can see there we've got a Oculus Rift VR headset and we've just upgraded as well our steering wheel and our shifter, we've got  a shifter here on the side that can be used for sequential or H pattern and the steering wheel which also has paddles behind it. There is also, because Jono our  videographer is dead keen on drifting, we've also got a drift handbrake there. But the more serious aspect is that we were able to download our local track, so Teretonga Park, which neither of us had driven at. Managed to put in a couple of hundred laps around Teretonga Park. Now obviously it's not going to be perfect. One of the things that makes it less than perfect is that the car that we're actually currently practising in is a 2016 Audi R8 LMS GT3 car. It's safe to say that it's not going to be  quite the same as our 450 horsepower Toyota V8 86 with absolutely no aero. But at least, if nothing else, we now have a pretty good idea of which direction the track goes, where all the corners lie, it's given us the opportunity to test some braking points and also more importantly probably some lines through the various corners so hopefully tomorrow when we turn up, we're not going to be completely unprepared, it'll give us a little bit of a head start. Now the other thing that's really interesting, we have only got this set up today, is we do have the ability to download straight out of Assetto Corsa, data in MoTeC's i2 format. So this is just a quick test we did here just while we were setting it up. So we've got our track map out there on the right hand side. And we've got all of our data here on the  left hand side. And this actually is an overlay of two  different laps. So the grey line that you can barely probably see right up the top there is our variance line showing where the gains or losses were between those two laps. So once we've actually got the chance to  get a little bit more in depth with this, we're really excited to see how much we can apply from this. It's also going to actually be hopefully a  pretty powerful tool as we move further into our new Racecraft project which is more about vehicle and chassis development as well as driver training. While I am on that note, if you are watching and you're a dead keen Assetto Corsa fan, and you think you've got the skills to  develop for us a relatively realistic Toyota 86 with about 450 horsepower and a sequential gearbox, then we'd love to hear from you. Make yourself known in the comments  because we definitely want to get something a little bit more realistic to the car we're going to be driving compared to the R8 GT3 race car. Now speaking of our Toyota 86, we have been going through a few upgrades and I've been talking about them here each week. So I don't want to harp on about the stuff we've already touched on but one of the things we have just changed here is the exhaust system on the rear of the car. So we can see we've got this stainless steel section which has just been fitted. Now what we've found is that while on a  normal track day, if we're heading to our local Highlands Motorsport Park and just putting in some laps, the car is quite loud. It does seem quite loud and it sounds great, problem is as soon as we had it in an actual race where we've got a lot of other race cars with unrestricted exhaust systems around us, all of a sudden it's incredibly quiet. And it's actually quite off putting because as a driver it's really helpful if you can actually hear the engine note. Just so you know the engine's running while you're on the start line for a good example, is pretty helpful, so you know that when you drop the clutch, you're not going to end up getting rear ended by the car  behind you because the engine was stalled. So what we've got is just a straight through section of three inch pipe there. Attaches with this V band so it is nice and  easy to swap back because the other issue we have when we head to Highlands Motorsport Park outside of a proper race event, there is a fairly low noise threshold. I think we have to be about 75 db at the boundary which is incredibly low. So this particular setup we've got there, is going to hopefully be legal for race days where the decibel reading can be up to 95. But yeah it's definitely going to be over the limit for what we're going to be doing on member's days. Now one of the things when we make  changes like this, and I quite often get asked this as well. If we're going to make a change to the exhaust system, do we need to retune the car? Likewise if we're fitting a different intake system, do we need to retune the car? And the answer honestly is maybe. However we don't want to take any risks, particularly when we are running on an aftermarket standalone ECU that uses the speed density principle. Basically all of the fuel and ignition timing is scheduled based off, in this case actually we're using throttle position because it is a fairly aggressive cam that we've got in this engine. So we're looking solely at throttle position and engine RPM. So what this means is that if we change something mechanical on the engine, let's say for example that exhaust system, we've removed the rear muffler. That's going to potentially have the effect of reducing the exhaust gas back pressure. This in turn could potentially improve the engine's volumetric efficiency and how that will show up is that we would expect our lambda, our air fuel ratio to then potentially move lean. We're going to be injecting the same amount of fuel because the ECU doesn't know more air is going into the engine, all it knows is that we're at 100% throttle and 8500 RPM and it's simply going to inject the amount of fuel that it's been told to do. So if we make any changes to the air flow, we really need to check this and my answer is always the same, potentially you may be able to get away with it, maybe it won't make any change to your tune but it's always safest to check things out and make sure that the tune is safe and that's exactly what we're doing. Actually outside the studio here we've got the Toyota 86 set up on our Mainline Pro Hub dyno. Once we've finished here, going to be putting it through its paces, running it up and doing a few tests just to make sure everything's on point before we head to the track in the morning. Now last week I did talk about the fact that Brandon's been busy fitting a ECUMaster PMU or power management unit. PDM for want of a better term, power  distribution module. So to remove relays and fuses. Now we're not really making full use of this yet because we are working to a fairly tight time deadline to get the car all ready. However one of the reasons we went with this was to simplify the wiring installation for our gearbox, oil pump, our diff pump and the fan for our diff cooler. We've added a few other functions in there as well but we quite often get asked about the use of power distribution modules and how they're helpful. And I've got a really really basic screenshot that I just want to show you here. And this is at its absolute simplest form. Once we get a little bit more involved, we're going to have a lot more data to play with here. But what we're monitoring in real time on this particular graph here is the total current being supplied through that power distribution or power management unit. So that's all of the channels but of course we can break these down and start monitoring them individually. So we can see, for that particular little piece of data there, we're just running the fuel pump through the power distribution module and we're drawing around about 12 amps of current. Now why that's important is because if we've got some historic data on the current draw and we're monitoring that relatively carefully, it actually can be a good early warning that we've got a  component that may be set to fail. So for example with a fuel pump, if we start seeing the current draw increase, that could be the result of the fuel pump wearing. Another thing that it could be displaying to us though is that there may be a blockage in the filter or something of that nature. So it's a good idea if we can monitor that data to get that historic data, watch that carefully so that we can get ab early warning before things go pear shaped. Now how we're also going to be using this is that the ECUMaster PMU does talk to our MoTeC C125 dash via CAN. So what we can do then is send all of the  individual channel current draw data to our MoTeC dash via CAN, we can  datalog that but more importantly as well we're going to be testing with a MoTeC T2 telemetry system. So we can also send all of that data via the dash and a 4G connection back to the pits for telemetry purposes. So pretty excited to jump in and have a look at how well that all works out. And of course once I've actually got the thing up and running and we've got some proper data so I can show you a little bit more thoroughly how it all works, we'll present that in one of our pre shows in the not too distant future hopefully. Alright now those of you who are watching on our YouTube channel today, probably have already seen this, if you  haven't, make sure you do check it out. For those who aren't on our YouTube  channel, please make sure you head over, subscribe and also give us a thumbs up for all of our videos, please it does help. So this is our latest video that we've  just released today. This is an interview that we had with David Mountain from Mountune over in the U.K. while we were there for the Goodwood Festival of Speed. And we're talking to David here about the development of their in house cast aluminium block that they use for their world rallycross engine. And this is quite interesting because we're seeing, particularly in the world of drag racing now, and word time attack for that matter, as the power levels have increased we're seeing a drive more and more towards a full billet block. Now that's great and there are some  advantages with a billet block however there are actually some easy to overlook advantages with a cast alloy block as well. Particularly if you are looking at producing engines in quite high numbers. David's sort of point where the casting  process becomes more cost effective is if you're looking to make somewhere in  the region of about 20 units or more. There's also a lot more flexibility in the casting process for where the oil galleries and water jackets et cetera are going to  be located compared to a billet CNC machined block. Now the world rallycross engines, on face value probably don't seem that exciting, we're talking about a four cylinder engine producing somewhere in the vicinity of about 600 horsepower and let's be honest these days, probably a lot of us have got street cars that are making more power than that. The important thing that we need to  consider though is that the power alone really isn't the main focus here. It's cylinder pressure that's the harder part to hold an engine together with. And with these world rallycross engines while they are only making around 600 horsepower, this is because they run an air inlet restrictor and this restricts the airflow into the turbocharger. So what this means is that at higher RPM basically the turbocharger is strangled, artificially limiting the engine to about that 600 horsepower mark. However where these world rallycross  engines really come into their own is that at lower RPM where the restrictor is not  limiting air flow into the turbo, they'll be running in the region of three, 3.5 bar of positive boost pressure. So the sort of cylinder pressure that they're seeing down in the 3500 to 4500 RPM vicinity are actually more akin to what we'd see in a modern common rail diesel engine. So this is why it's really hard to hold these engines together. Getting on with it though, the other advantage with the system that Mountune are using is that they really have embraced modern technology using full 3D modelling using Solidworks to develop the entire engine  before any components are manufactured. This brings the cost and timeframe down considerably. Particularly now with the foundry that they are working with, if they want to run a quick prototype to test a theory, then while it is an expensive process, they can send their Solidworks model through to the foundry and the foundry can then actually make the cores for the casting process using 3D prototyping, rapid prototyping. And that can bring the lead time for a  product down to, I think it was somewhere in the region of about four weeks So pretty rapid compared to a couple of decades ago that would have probably been a five to six month process. So go check out that video, if you've got any questions, please ask them in the video. Lastly we are giving away a HP Tuners package now so if you are interested in reflashing quite a wide range of vehicles on the HP Tuners platform, very very popular on the GM and Ford platforms but also  they've over the last probably 12 to 18 months opened up to support a fairly wide range of different models including Mercedes, VW, Audi, Toyota just to name a few. So the package of parts that we've put together, we've got the HP Tuners MPVI2 interface, I should have one here in front of me but I don't. Anyway most of you who are familiar with the HP Tuners system would already know what that looks like. This is the little hardware interface that plugs into the OBD2 port on your car. It then goes to your laptop and that, in conjunction with the VCM editor and VCM scanner software allows you to download the factory calibration data out of your ECU, view it graphically in a way that makes sense to us, manipulate it, flash it back in and with the scanner software, very powerful, very full featured scanner. It allows you to datalog and find out exactly what the engine is doing while it's running. Regardless whether you are performing your tuning out on the road or on the dyno. Now so that you understand what you're going to be doing with that HP Tuners package, we're also including our package of tuning courses, so you're going to get our EFI Tuning Fundamentals course, our Understanding Air Fuel Ratio course, our Practical Reflash Tuning course and  you're also going to get access to our regular weekly member's webinars, our private  member's only forum and also access to our archive of existing webinars. Now the HP Tuners interface also works on a credit system. Off the top of my head I think we are also including USD$350 worth of credits. So this will let you license probably a number of vehicles and get up to speed learning how to tune in no time. Absolutely no cost getting involved with that giveaway. I'll get the team to drop a link in the comments that you can follow if you want to get your name in the draw. It has only just recently gone live so we've got a little bit of time for that to run. But why not get on top of that while it's fresh on your mind. And on that giveaway page you'll find that there are a few other tasks that you can do that will give you some more entries into that draw. Alright that does it for our pre show today, thanks for watching there. Give me a few moments and we'll get  started with today's webinar. 