 Good morning, I'm excited to be here with all of you today. Now, I'm wearing Magic Leap One Creator Edition, and I'm especially excited a year from now when we're here together for all of us to have this on, on our heads, and be wearing spacial computer so we can actually get rid of these screens and we can't have shared experiences where this presentation was personalized for you and that you guys could all see the whale that is swimming around the arena today. I don't know if you saw a tweet you should you know go back and look it up we did float a whale around another arena and and we did we did do it here as well and it's an incredible experience to be able to have that shared experience, to be able to see that type of scale, in the physical, in the physical world around us. So, I'll take this off for now. So, I'm gonna spend the next few minutes talking about both Magic Leap and innovation in Florida and what we can do together, to take advantage of this complete revolution that's happening in the space of computing. Dean Barday reference something very important in terms of the computing revolution that's taking place over the last 11 years with the smartphone. And I've spent the last 20-plus years of my career primarily in the mobile industry and I was at the center both at Motorola and Samsung of creating, you know this form of digital computing. It's really become pervasive and immersive and integrated into our lives and, and it's actually one of the reasons I joined Magic Leap. But, I'll get, I'll get further into it. It's also very personal for me to be here back with you, here in Florida. I grew up here I'm a product of the Dade County public school system K through 12 and the ability for me to come back and be part of something as special as Magic Leap, in terms of the transformational nature of what we're doing, and the kind of ecosystem that it should foster around Florida is incredibly personal and, and gratifying for me to be part of that, and, and I'm looking forward to to taking that to the next level. So, we've chosen this digital lifestyle. It is the the primary form of computing today, with multiple billions of devices, whether they're smartphones or tablets, that we interact with for productivity, efficiency, entertainment, 90-plus percent of video is consumed on somewhere between four and six-inch screens. Not on IMAX not on 140-inch or even a 65-inch television. And so, this has, this is the lifestyle that we've chosen. We love it so much, that we practice it on a daily basis. We practice how to run into each other, we practice, you know we're so focused on this screen. This technology has taken over our lives. It's a value statement. And I think it's incredibly important, because the world is ready for a change. It's incumbent upon us to revolutionize and take people to the next generation of computing. What we wanted is an integrated form of computing, an integrated reality where digital content lives with us in the physical world and respects the physical world where we don't have to be obscured from the world around us, where we don't have to be in danger. I walked up these stairs with my Magic Leap One. I didn't trip. I didn't run into Dean Barday. I was able to interact with him in a way that allowed me to be fully present, and I'll get back into, I'll get into those attributes a little bit later. But, not just an integrated form of computing, we want to enhance our human abilities. Computing should be a part of our lives to enhance us Dean Barday mentioned the concept of human-centered AI, which is one of our four pillars and Northstars that were innovating upon at Magic Leap. And not only that, we want a human input model. We don't want the mouse. We don't want the the the interfaces that exist today. We want a natural human interface to digital content and the computing experiences. And it's with that backdrop, that our mission is really to harmonize people in technology, to create a better ,more unified world. It's important that technology play a role in our lives, in terms of enhancing us, but it shouldn't be what what sits between us and the world. It should actually go to the background. Enable us to interact with people and to improve our lives in a way where it's where technology becomes more unified and we can connect with each other each other in a way where smartphones and other forms of screens have really placed a boundary between us, and that was one of the reasons I came to Magic Leap was, even though I was part of creating some of the mobile industry around the world with smartphones like Galaxy 1 and Galaxy 2, you know seeing my kids and not being able to interact with them, was you know, an incredible frustration the fact that you know, we're all buried in our screens all the time and I'm guilty of it too and so when we're having family dinners, we're forced to put those phones in a drawer, so we can actually have human to human connection and interaction and the next form of computing should actually enable that, rather than restrict that. So what's the origin of the company? I think Dean Barday a chatted about a little bit about running, advocates our founder. He founded the company in just west of Fort Lauderdale, where he grew up in. He grew up in Hollywood but he found it in Plantation, Florida. And, he founded it in a garage, and then we moved to a dental office, and then to the design center of the Americas, and today to our headquarters in Plantation, Florida. Today, we are 1,600-plus employees strong, across 18 offices. Carlos Panzini, our head of people, who's in the back of the audience, and I counted them up last night. 18 offices around the world of those 1,600 people, almost a thousand are still here in Florida. We've moved about 500 or so, of people, from all over the country to to South Florida, mainly from Silicon Valley. And so, the ability for us to attract talent and retain talent from all over the country is an important part of why Magic Leap is in Florida and why we're succeeding and why we're thriving, and I think we need to all take advantage of that. To continue to bring talent, not just, not just here, but back you know, I grew up in South Florida. I went away to school at MIT in Boston. I've worked all over the country, whether it was in Chicago, Dallas, and in other places, the opportunity for me to come back to South Florida, be close to my family, and help foster the innovation culture of Florida was just so powerful in it, and it's actually even more personal than that. In 1992, I walked into the doors of the building that we're in today, which was Motorola land mobile products headquarters and to the human resources department, I said, can I have an internship? I was a freshman at MIT, so my first internship was in the building where my offices are today, at Magic Leap. So, I mean it there is so much fate and kismet involved and it just made sense, so when when we chatted when Ronnie and I got to know each other and I got to meet the senior leadership team, it just felt like home for many reasons for me ,and I think that's the way it feels for all 1,600 plus Magic Leap employees around the world. The evolution of computing that we've talked about, you know, from the PC to spatial computing is one, is one timeline that were undertaking with spatial computing, but there's also a network evolution of you know, 2G networks, the 3G networks, to 4G networks. Spatial computing unshackles experiences that started spatial to begin with. All experiences were naturally spatial to begin with, when we communicated with each other we walked up to each other, we shook each other's hand, we looked each other in the eye, we collaborated by building things with our hands. All of those experience has got paradigm, Dan mapped into 2-D digital platforms for efficiency, portability, accessibility, the goal with spatial computing and what it enables, is to unshackle all those experiences. So, people ask me quite often, what can I do to start thinking about spatial computing? In order to think about how to utilize spatial computing, you need to remove all boundaries. Just remove all limitations from your head, in terms of human machine interface in terms of scale, and some of those things, and really start to experience things as they were, as they were meant to be. They're meant to be spatial, and that's that's the first, unshackling that happens, the second, unshackling, that happens is through our partnership with AT&T our integration of 5G over the next few years will enable us not just just unshackle those experiences, but take those experiences anywhere, anywhere in the world that we want to be, because we don't necessarily just want to compute at home or in a fixed environment where we have Wi-Fi or high bandwidth experiences. We want to be able to compute in in the physical space, in the physical world, wherever we want to go and that's really this evolution of how things come together in terms of both computing devices and personal computing devices, coming together with 5G evolution to really enable spatial computing going forward we have come a long way at Magic Leap since it was founded in 2011. In 2014, the first prototype of Magic Leap was something we called the beast, it looks like a piece of, of medical equipment where you had to put your chin up to see it float pixal in the air it enabled us to raise a significant amount of funding to be able to show that. But very quickly, in a couple of years we were able to go to WD3 which, which is tethered wearable, and to the device that we launched last August, Magic Leap One Creator Edition and it's been the response has been incredible and we're excited about help having you guys engage with it today and and growing our creator ecosystem around the world I think it's important there's many forms of extended reality and and it's important to sort of call out the distinctions of what is different between spatial computing and virtual reality, virtual reality, which many of you have experiences is immersive, it requires you to put a screen in front of your head it actually obscures you from the physical world around you, and oftentimes you know you can't wear it for long periods of time. Some people can't wear it at all. Augmented reality overlays the digital world on top of the physical world, but it doesn't necessarily respect the boundaries of the physical world. The difference between augmented reality and spatial computing is that the digital world respects the physical world so when I if I were here in co-presence once you guys all have Magic Leap devices on your head, if I walk behind this podium I should be obscured ,right? I shouldn't just float over the podium. I shouldn't float in front of the podium. The digital world should respect the physical world, and that is the power of spatial computing when we think about the attributes of spatial computing you know, this is one thing that we codified very early on, which was helping people think through what the benefits of in attributes of spatial computing are we talked about respect which is that digital, digital, the digital world needs to respect the physical world, but also the physical, we need to respect the user from a human physiology perspective, from a data and from a privacy-perspective respect, is a really important part of Magic Leap's ethos from a technology perspective, we talked about smartphones and what you know, the boundaries that it places but the ability for us to be aware the ability for us to be present. The ability for us to interact and for the world to interact with us are key attributes of spatial computing scale we don't we shouldn't do everything on a 5 and 1/2-inch screen or a 13 inch screen scale, is incredibly important for the experiences around us with Magic Leap, in spatial computing, I can interact with a Saturn 5 rocket at scale that's five stories tall or I can interact with a car at real-scale and be able to get behind it, get inside the wheel well, and manipulate the design of it. Scale is an extremely important part of the benefits and attributes of spatial computing furthermore, the ability for us to have persistent experiences experiences shouldn't be limited to the screens that are in our pocket, they should be persistent where they naturally belong if I want to interact with an entertainment experience in my living room. It should persist there if I want to interact with the cooking experience, where I have my favorite chef that's helping me up and get a, guide me through preparation that should be able to persist in my kitchen. I should be able to pause it. I should be able to come back to that experience. So, persistent experiences are an incredibly important attribute of spatial computing. And finally, sentience. The ability for us to have these experiences in a way where the digital world and the physical world start to come together and where, where it understands me and things are intuitive and contextually relevant so that, when I walk into the kitchen, the things that naturally I would want to be aware of which is which knife to pick up to carve something or to, or to cut a, cut a tomato automatically. It presents itself to me, the power of sentience is incredible, when it comes to spatial computing. All of these things come together, to help us really understand how to take the take advantage of the platform and how to move computing forward to this next generation and Magic Leap, we're very careful, and we catch ourselves off and I'll even catch myself sometimes which is, we're not, we don't use the world, real world or the word real world, can very lightly, because the real world is not synonymous with the physical world any longer. The real world is digital and physical coming together in perfect harmony, as we talked about to create the new reality and that's important because, when we do that, when the digital world respects the physical world at scale, we will start to actually be it. The human brain will be able to start to interact with it in a way that it's never been able to interact with the digital world before. So, what have we created Magic Leap One is a very unique device, it's the most powerful computing device ever created. Litewear that I was wearing, produces both you know, produces our light field or sound field and, and is a physiologically correct representation of the light field the light pack is a fully functional computer. It's got the power of let's say a MacBook Pro in it and then you've got the control which proves you six degrees of freedom there's a few things I wanted to just touch on it's the most powerful set of sensors ever created and enabled in any device. The device has the ability to see what you see, but also see how you feel and interact with what you see, and that's an incredibly powerful interface with the human body that's a natural interface with the human eye, brain system and it enables us to have much better context much more natural human inputs to computing it's one of the slides that I showed earlier we have the ability to to get nonverbal communications like head pose or gaze or heartbeat and other types of biomarkers we have the ability to use gesture hand tracking direct manipulation as well as haptics through our control we have the ability for the eyes to play an important role in terms of what I'm looking at and the emotional data, that we're able to to gather and be able to interface with you on we're able to use voice. Voice is a very natural human input and then finally the environment and the geometry and the physical space around us these are called multimodal inputs but the most powerful input is actually transmodal, which is the way we naturally communicate with each other. I may look at you, I may gesture, and I may use voice. So, all three of those coming together are a transmodal interface that's the most natural form of computing and that's exactly what magically been able, and that's what we're working with the creator community and the development community to start to take the power of is how do you enable on how do you, how do you enable these experiences using transmodal forms of input and that's going to change and revolutionize how we interact with the digital world around us this is something that we created with the workshop, what a work workshop created for us it's the best representation of all of the attributes of spatial computing. So, I wanted to share it with you. Oh, there we go. Now, you'll get a chance to play with this upstairs on the sixth floor, behind me. And I have lost, as well as many people. I've lost guests who visited us for hours. There's multiple hours of gameplay the team at what has created just, that entire world that you saw beyond, beyond that portal actually exists. They've created this entire world and, and, and if you're three or four hours into into Dr. Gradbords you will It will, it's life-changing, the experience, that you have with it. So, I look forward to you guys playing with, just even a level today, and so we talked about this reality not, not being the same as the physical world. but also reality is not just reality. Reality is not just physical plus digital, but it's it physical plus digital layers, and I'll talk a little bit about that. We call that Magic-verse and I'll come to that in a second, but Magic-verse is one of the core platforms that we're collaborating with, the University of Miami. On the University of Miami is our first spatial computing learning destination in our partnership, and we're going to be creating the magic first at the University of Miami campus, which is going to be incredibly powerful, and fun spatial computing is built on these four Northstars sensory fields which is our human input, input, output, which is the wearable computer that we talked about things like the digital light field, the digital sound field, 360-degree audio, to give you peripheral sensing capabilities as well as haptics, or touch field, then there's live-stream because we see what you see and we know how you feel and interact with it we're capturing a digital version of the live-stream there's only one analog version of live-stream it's what you capture in your brain from your human eye brain system from birth till death. That's your memories, we can now for the first time capture the human live-stream or the digital live-stream and with that comes an incredible responsibility of privacy and data security the the the live-stream is yours ,and only your's to control and to own. It's, it's in your hands as a user to decide what you do with it, if you choose to share it with somebody, it's your decision and that's the incredibly important part of the ethos at Magic Leap, because we don't have legacy business models that we're trying to preserve we get we made a decision very early on from from the heritage of the company as a biomedical company that respect for the user is not just about physiology but it's also about your data and, and everything that the device knows about you live-stream feeds a form of AI that we call human centered AI which is the best way to describe it as if you if you've watched Iron Man, Jarvis is a human centered AI. Jarvis is who makes Tony Stark who he is. Tony Stark has a great suit, but without Jarvis, Tony Stark wouldn't be anything, so that is the form of human centered AI. It's fed by our sensory fields in our live-stream and all of those come together to form something we call Magic First, as a platform the world around us now use a stadium as an example Amalie stadium is a physical space but through systems and through data we can create a digital twin of this stadium and once you have that digital twin, you can layer over all sorts of information that sits, whether it sits in servers, desktops in the cloud and start to anchor that data, whether it's customer data, whether it's food and beverage data, whether it's traffic flows, you can start to geo-spatially anchor that data on to the digital twin, and on to the physical world and that enables us to have incredible, incredibly relevant visualization of data. The ability for us to to manage control but also to do simulation so if I wanted to have an activity in this building. Let's say I wanted to have a concert I could use these layers whether it be the transportation layer, or the logistics layer, the people layer, the traffic flows the physical patterns and start to simulate an emergency response of the stadium so these layers of Magic First have come together, not just enable experiences but allow incredibly powerful simulations at scale something that we can't do today with any other legacy platform. So Magic-verse is, is, is one of the most important ways that our platform comes together and enables the future of computing and I'm going to very quickly sum it up with some just key use cases and platforms to help kind of bring it home and you'll get a chance to play with it upstairs and see some of these in action one of one of the most important use cases is displays on demand the ability for me to have multiple screens anywhere I want them. We've had people who have had a physical TV and and they've placed an NFL game right next to the physical TV, so their son is watching, or their toddler's watching Spongebob, and I'm watching you know the Miami Dolphins game or a Buccaneers gam,e and and I can now, if I'm, if I'm going to cook something for that person for my child I can go and that screen will follow me. And it'll follow me into the kitchen. I'll cook something, I'll be aware of what my child is doing, or what my son is doing, and then I'll go back to to him or her with with their meal, and so, there's an incredibly powerful capability in terms of screen replacement and screens on demands. Just not multiple screens but sizing screens to where you need them and and where they should reside in the physical spaces around you immersive gaming in entertainment using these platforms such as our lumen OS or unity or unreal as development platform so we've we've seen organizations like Angry Birds very quickly with, with development tools, that they're used to in in less than two week period be able to develop a spatial version of Angry Birds that has gotten incredible reviews the web unboxed our Helio browser is an incredibly powerful platform there's no reason that the web should be locked to 2-D screens anymore so we have partnerships with companies like Wayfarer and others that allow us to bring shopping home immersively the ability for you to place furniture at scale in your home and see how it how it fits and how it how it sizes and how it matches other pieces of furniture, so the web should become unboxed and become three-dimensional that's what it deserves to be that's how we shop naturally. I mean, if we could always go to a store, but we could bring up the store home, just the home with us to the store, or imagine bringing your entire wardrobe with you to the store and you capture your wardrobe, but now you bring in you can start to match things in, in and see whether or not it complements, well there's the the power of the Helio browser is incredible in that I can't wait for you guys to start playing with it, and finally, one of the killer platforms is communication co-presence and collaboration that is naturally spatial there is no doubt in anyone's mind that communication collaboration and co-presence is they naturally it is naturally done best face-to-face, or in some sort of volumetric method and there's so many great example of this we had demos at CES from partner companies that showed co-presence and collaboration at scale volumetrically it is such a powerful tool for us to be able to take advantage of and I've got a couple visuals here to share as I finish up imagine a collaborative space a Learning Lab or a conference room at work where you have actual people working in subject matter experts and now you can invite in guest lecturers or subject matter experts that aren't physically there but their co presence that either as either avatars or volumetric representations to collaborate with you they can bring in the outside world and through screens and through screen replacement technologies be able to turn the entire wall than any physical space into screens for collaboration and sharing purposes bring in the physical world and instance you type applications into the space from a collaboration standpoint enabled by AI and then be able to turn something as simple as a tabletop into a collaborative space where we can share manipulate and learn together so these this is this is an application individual that's realizable today with spatial computing and Magic Leap, but this is one of the examples that were working on with with the University of Miami as in partnership in home sports immersion we have a partnership with the NBA and our partnership with the NBA is very smooth is incredibly important because live sports is you know and we're sitting in the stadium live sports is such an important part of spatial computing because live sports our best experience going to the game I mean it's so powerful to be at the game but the most power the most expensive ticket and the most sought-after ticket is the ability to set courtside to watch LeBron James played in a Lakers uniform but only about a hundred people get to pay five to ten thousand dollars to do that on a nightly basis or or for 41 games that he plays at home the NBA sees an opportunity to not just not just make that opportunity available to those hundred people it should be available to 100,000 people to be able to sit courtside or to be able to sit in a skybox or have a sports bar view and so that's what we're working on with them the ability to bring the court in a skybox type application into your home and place it on a desktop the ability for you to have commerce and team comparison available to your for you to have multiple games available to you for for you to be able to toggle through the ability for you to turn your entire living room or family room into an immersive entertainment experience where you can volumetrically see a screen see the scoreboard see the game on the tabletop and also be able to share it with somebody who's not physically there in a co-present manner so I can now have a shared experience and one of the slides that I deleted but is I'll mention when you take people to places there is a finite economy it is limited by capacity accessibility but when you're able to take places to people wherever they are the economy is unlimited and that's an incredible opportunity that spatial computing and Magic-verse enables, and so I want to leave you the call to action. We have a very unique opportunity in the state of Florida to partner together, as we create this next revolution of computing. We can build an entire ecosystem around content, around peripherals, around applications that will enable us to really realize this future so together. We could actually create this next revolution of computing, which is spatial computing. Spatial computing has arrived. It is ready for primetime. It's not a matter of coming soon. We are, we are working on this today and we want to work on it together with you and most powerfully it's human, it's a human form of computing. It's meant to enhance us, it's natural in terms of how we interact with it. I appreciate the time today, thank you. 