 (Jesse) Once people have gotten in, thank you all for being here for the finale of Tech Talk, the show about technology and the pioneers who make it tick. I am super thrilled today to... Basically, this is kind of like a combined force... This is like a Voltron of all the things that, like, I love in the industry right now. So, this finale is in partnership with Games4Change as part of their XR Talk and Play panel series, of which there are three leading up to the big Games4Change festival which you'll see, uh, over there is July 14 through 16, is free, so, please register, please come out. We're gonna be announcing the lineup soon and I have to say it's, like, mind-blowing who's agreed to come out. Part of it being virtual obviously is we had to change some of the formats and so we pushed some of the panels that we wanted to have at the festival out into the real world or virtual world as it were, like this, which is why you have the good fortune of being able to engage with this panel in VR which feels super fitting to me because it's about volumetric capture, uh, rapidly evolving important technology in this space. We got some dancing going on to go along with it. I love it. All the dancing is welcomed, big thumbs up for that. So, with that, I'm gonna send it over to all of you so that I stop talking for a minute, if we could just work our way down just to keep things easy. If y'all could introduce yourselves and particularly give a little bit of background in terms of your experience with volumetric. (Adam) Hi, guys, my name is Adam Rogers. I'm a creative producer from Intel Studios. Been working at the studio for about eighteen months now, two years and my journey really began by meeting the wonderful team of [Inaudible name- Diego Baluski] and [Inaudible name- Sarah Vick] who are sort of the head team and Diego's the head of studio and I got involved in a project called Run In which was with Reggie Watts where we took him a bunch of dancers and created this amazing sort of retro-futuristic dance party. We're creating a feeling of inclusiveness and a space where you are basically feeling like you're right there with Reggie and the dancers having having a dance party. So, yeah. (Yazmin) Alright, I'm gonna use my mic. Hi, everybody, my name is Yasmin Elanat and I'm a co-founder at Scatter. We're based in New York and we are a company, a hybrid company that focuses on the, you know, pushing forward on volumetric filmmaking and we do so in two ways. We make a tool called DevKit which is a accessible software solution for volumetric capture and we can talk a little bit more about that and how it works and then we also do our own films our own original productions and my role there is I had marketing and our creative R&D team so I produced or direct our productions and in pursuit of pushing our tools forward and you may have seen the project I directed which is called Zero Days VR which premiered at Sundance in 2017. It's on [inadible-All Person Steam?] and it won an Emmy in I think a year ago in official. [inaudible-Focus of a?] documentary, so, that's me. [Laura] Hi, guys, my name is Laura Rizzoto. I am a singer-songwriter, recording performing artist and I've been exposed to VR and AR a few years ago because my brother actually works with the medium but then I got involved in it more when I first I wrote a soundtrack for one of his projects which was a VR experience [inaudible-Couple of thoughts ago?] and then my experience my personal direct experience with a photometric captures that I became one. So, I worked with Meta Stage, who Christina is the CEO for and we created basically a volumetric capture performance of one of my songs called One More Night and another song called Fun Girl and we were the first ones to release a brand new song, a brand new performance with this technology of autometric capture and it's been such an exciting time, I am loving to, you know, be able to learn more about this technology. I'm so looking forward to hearing from all of the panelists about in other ways we can expand this with our creativity. So, that's me. (Christina) Yeah, everybody. I'm Christina Heller and actually I'm glad I'm the CEO of Meta Stage and we're volumetric capture facility in Los Angeles. It uses the Microsoft mixed reality capture technology software. Um, you know, I've been working in immersive since the beginning of 2014, I've definitely been riding the wave the rollercoaster of this amazing world and I just think it bears mentioning how cool it is that we're doing this right now in VR, out of VR talk show. It just, so much, like- this wouldn't have been possible in 2014. Oh, and she says, like, just as her computer starts glitching. Can you still hear me? (Other Speakers) Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. (Christina) Okay, okay. So, um, anyway, basically, volumetrically, I... we launched Meta Stage in August of 2018 and so now, volumetric capture has become my passion and specialty in this space. We've done I think about maybe, 20, 40 or maybe even closer to 50 projects in one way or another, over the course of these few years and working with Laura was a real highlight- you know being able to do a full performance from beginning to end. You really start to see the potential of, you know, bringing the magic of live performances through this medium. Yeah, it's a pleasure to be here. Thank you. (David) Hi, everyone. I'm David Liu and most folks probably know me from my work actually from working at Viacom where I used to head up the PR team there at Viacom. Our... It's so funny like I know everyone here on this panel really because I've worked with them in some way or form like I met Adam when we were working on Tyler [inaudible-Hurst?] music video called Talk- (Adam) You made me, David. (David) Dude, dude, that was a new project. And we've been working in the employment space in 2017 when we first discovered the Microsoft volumetric solution as well as the Scatter solution here in New York City. So, you know, when I was at it I was at Viacom and one of the things you want to do is try to represent all the performers there in as real as possible and that's why volumetric capture was really the best solution we found and since then we really have been trying to bring it to the masses so to speak. So in 2018 we formed a lighting company and tried to work with all the other providers that are bringing into New York City. Unfortunately, Light Frame was a victim of the market and we are no longer operational, but I'm still here to talk about our adventure and our journey. I haven't used other solutions here on the panel as well. So let's get started. (Jesse) Amazing, and, you know David's also being a little bit modest about his background. We're all sure that whatever comes next after Light Frame is going to be incredible, volumetric or not. (David) Aw, thank you. Thank you, Jesse. (Jesse) I want to set the scene a little bit with everybody who might be kind of like, "Wait, volumetric?" I kind of get it. So as a sort of basic starting point the way that volumetric works is, you're capturing 3D footage be it photo or video, but in many cases you want it to be video, of a given subject. And what I want to throw it to all of you, and just start really broad and kind of work our way into more discrete buckets like performance, like you know, documentary is- what is the power of being able to capture real life in 3D? Because I think a lot of people might say, "Oh, well, okay that's cool but, maybe it really only applies to this one little use case." But all of you obviously know that this is a much broader thing, so what are those sort of unique superpowers of capturing, you know people, places, things, volumetrically? (Christina) Well, I'm happy to jump in and by the way can- mic- is all glitchy but you can hear me right? (Other speakers) Yes, perfectly fine. Yes. (Christina) That's great. I'm just gonna close my eyes and continue. So, you know, I think of volumetric video as the next evolution in cinematography in photography, you know. We are now taking you know a real performance but capturing it from every possible angle to create a fully 3D asset and the goal is that it has all the integrity and all the nuances and micro expressions on an authenticity of the real performance and because it's 3D and because you can, you know, look at the performance from any angle, appreciate it as if it's happening right in front of you- It's so far I think the closest thing to the real thing, when it comes to replicating somebody's movements and performance and I think as, you know, we move into spatial computing and immersive technology, obviously, you know, 3D is a key part of that and, you know, as we move into these virtual worlds, I've always like ask the question like, what are these virtual worlds without real people and real performances in them? So I believe that volumetric is the real person's seat at the virtual table and it's how we will bring, you know, all of the magic of humanity into facial computing and immersive technology. (Yazmin) Yeah, and I'd like to add on to it because, you know, at Scatter we kind of think of volumetric as the sort of bigger umbrella of what we call a volumetric filmmaking because we all come from a documentary and filmmaking and photography background and so it is the first big problem to solve is the volumetric, you know, capture of human performance and human presence but for us it also involves- you also capture the entire world in the context of these performers and their world around you so we see kind of all of this sort of a whole workflow actually under volumetric filmmaking with the human performance being the most difficult one to solve first and I'll say also for us there's something quite special about, you know, we see there's an obviously a future we're moving towards that is the, you know, merging emergence of the, you know, the crafting sensibility of filmmaking and the power of game engines right and the interactivity of game engines and we're all kind of moving to this world where these are colliding and that's where we see you know volumetric capture and volumetric filmmaking really sort of ready and poised for this convergence and that's the future we're building towards and that's the exciting thing about all of this and I'll also say that there's something interesting about what is, like, the, you know, representation of humans whether it's photo real or, you know, obviously everyone here wants to customize how you look and so what does that look like in that future? Is there a way to have an ownership over your own, you know volumetric presence and your avatars in this new future so that's something to think about. (Speakers) Let's go ahead. (Adam) Oh, no, I'm just gonna say you know, from our perspective one of the things that, you know, with our stage at Intel is it's literally the size of a Broadway stage and, you know, its accessibility to certain types to the content and performance you might not normally get the opportunity to have versus obviously seeing it on a 2D flat screen, you know, I get to really see the power of that almost especially in dance and choreography which is a number of projects that we've done over the last couple of years that really enjoyed that and you know when you think about opera and other types to have arts but maybe not so accessible for everybody this technology is really providing a platform for that that those sides of arts that may not necessary get their eyes, you know, in the real world so VR with it volumetric just just creates that world that we so desire. (David) One of the things that we often get asked is, like, "What's the difference between volumetric capture and motion capture?" Right, and like what the difference is what it costs and one of the big pros the ball cap has over motion captures is really you're capturing reality, you know, you're not disguising them as an avatar if you're not trying to capture their first likeness and then the performance you're actually capturing them, right then, right there with all their micro expressions that come with actual performance and so like, you know, we often tell people that you're actually capturing performers as authentically as possible and that's one thing that's extremely hard to get and extremely expensive to get with other solutions out there, so I just want to throw that out there so that people understand, you know, like, this can work in concert motion capture but it's really really different and in many places it's own thing and it's really really much better in a lot of ways especially like what Adam has said in terms of capturing large range spaces or something as small as what Meta Stage and Scatter are doing with sort of you know catching very authentic people. (Laura) I think the cool thing about photometric captures basically from, more from like an audience and our audience an artist kind of relationship it's just you're able to provide a performance that feels intimate but is also customizable in some way. I think that again, like Christina said, it's the closest thing you can really get to real-life performances and for so many people who have artists they enjoy, they will often not get the chance to actually see that their favorite artists performing live, so this provides them the opportunity to do that, having the best seat in the house and having, I think, even when you're actually watching an artist perform live you can't necessarily get all angles so it's it's an even more enhanced performances in some ways which is super unique and cool and I think it also is, it makes the experience more like a memory between the person that is watching it and also the person that created it I think that at least as an artist to me my goal is to be able to connect with the people that are watching my work or listening to my work and this creates a bond that I wasn't able to do before at least not to this capacity because it's so accessible because of the technology so I think that's really really cool and I can't wait to see really how people expand with how, like, depending on how comfortable they're able to get with the technology with time. (Jesse) Well, let's pick back up right there, and performances come up a number of times. Laura, we'll start with you because, obviously, you've actually performed and sort of had experience doing that but then I want to speak, you know, broadly from all of your perspectives so many of you. I mean, all of you have come at it from a creative standpoint in thinking about, "What is the power of not only the performance but then also how it can be shared with the world and socialized and kind of build community?" So, Laura, first off, what was it like recording- like, having yourself recorded volumetrically and performing volumetrically? (Laura) I mean, it was an amazing experience. It definitely was a challenge that I enjoy so it was challenging in the best way possible because as a performer again I'm used to having a stage. There's the front of the stage, there's the back of the stage, and then, you're very aware that you're performing this way, so being captured by all of those cameras and the 360 degree level was made me very self aware of my performance and then because it's a one-take thing, we did several takes but you have to get the performance right throughout the entire song. That was definitely a challenge for my stamina and just abilities as a performer, so I really actually enjoyed being challenged in that way, you know. I think that just pushes us to be better. It was cool also to be able to create a performance being aware that people would be able to spin me around and look at it from all angles so what was most exciting to me about it was how I was challenged to be creative in that sense that I was like I need to think of when I'm performing this way and when I look this way, I'm not looking back. I'm looking at someone else's eyes and that kind of sense was super, super cool. But, yeah. It was a challenge that I loved taking on and honestly I feel like being able to record a performance in this medium just opened like a little door in my brain of like, "Wow, like, this is the future. There's so many different possibilities for this. Can you imagine when more people can be a part of it or when you can add other kind of visual effects to it?" So, I think that the first time I got to do it really got me hooked for the future. So, yeah. (Jesse) Amazing. And what about those of you who have actually had experience kind of recording these captures? Talk to me a little bit about what that process has been like for you? (Christina) It's really interesting. You know, there are definitely some differences between, you know, frame production and volumetric actor and it's just so- We actually just had an experience recently where one of the biggest challenges is you know things anything that least with- I think the software has trouble recognizing the geometry of and so we have to use volumetrically friendly adjustments. A hair, you can't have dangling earrings, no stiletto heels- things like that and you'd be surprised at what a challenge that can be with certain talent. We actually had somebody who was really upset when- I guess the director hadn't given them the wardrobe guidelines ahead of time and hadn't instructed the best practices around hair and so she was really upset when we were telling her that she had to, you know, she needed to adjust her hair to make the capture look better. Then, when we told her to take off her dangly earrings she put them off and threw them on the ground- (Other Speakers) Oh, my god. (Christina) And she said, "I guess you just want me to look terrible, then!" You know, and it was a challenging situation because, what she doesn't realize is that to not make those adjustments it's gonna make her look much, much worse and especially when you're talking about hair and things around the face, you know, you want that to be the cleanest part of the capture, you know. That being said, you know, we also work with, you know, talent that is extremely amenable and we'll, you know, and there aren't that many limitations you just have to, you know, adhere to our few wardrobe guidelines. So, I would say actually that's probably our biggest challenge is just taking people who- and used to getting their way and don't understand the concept of no, and then, you know, on our end, we don't want to put out subpar work, so, you know, it can be an awkward situation. (Adam) Yeah, we obviously had the same challenges in toss videos and I think it's lessons learned, right? You have to be very clear very early on about wardrobes and props because that is a significant part of the workflow in terms of removing and, you know, color grading and reconstruction, all of those things. So, that's been challenging to show but I think we finally got to a place where we've got a system where we've managed to get that nailed down but the other interesting thing that I found through the light capture performance is that, you know, when you think about actors and traditional film and TV. That's really the avenue that you saw start going down when you're kind of looking for talent but what's become apparent is the most successful types of actors- the volumetric types- are actually stage performers. Because, you know, they never they never actually have to think about the camera. They have a floor and space that they do their performance on. So that's been really interesting to see the difference because, we found early on a couple of projects that was really difficult to get really get it but it's been really interesting to see that how, you know, you take that real almost from sort of stage and you get a much, much more successful performance but the whole process is actually really enjoyable. I think, you know, in terms of you know what it means to shoot and then go through this sort of process afterwards. It's a lot less stressful after the shoot, obviously. The shoot itself is pretty stressful because you've got, you know, over 100 cameras that you're collaborating together and you've got to make sure everything's aligned, you know, you've got to do recalibration through the day but generally from a perspective of experience I think volumetric capture, so once we get it fully nailed down and we know exactly like everything is working perfectly it's a really enjoyable way that we shoot. It really is. (Laura) It's interesting-we (David) Sorry. (Laura) No, go ahead, David. (David) Okay, just very quickly like just so it like how what the stages are like just for all the stations, Microsoft and talent. Even Scatter like, you are surrounded by an array of cameras and Scatter's place- you're surrounded by one or two cameras and basically it's it's, you know, you're not really performing to like one thing anymore necessary. You can and usually, there is like a marker performance form to one but it's not- for the performers themselves like, there is that sort of like, "Oh!" Especially they don't yeah they're in it for the first time, it's like, "Where do I look? Where do I go?" So, there is acclimatization process but you have to really introduce them to what it what is probably a more novel way of performing. I just wanted to get that out there in case it wasn't sure. (Yasmin) Now, that's really helpful. I was just gonna talk about another side of- because we work in documentaries, the performance in our case is a little different, and so, you're talking about real people who are not performers and not actors- and yes, thank you for clarifying sort of like how DevKit is, like a right now it's like a, you know, sensor only, or paired with a cinematic camera. You know,  single camera solution meant to be accessible and off-the-shelf using off-the-shelf hardware and we're working on our multicam solution but that's still down the line but what I wanted to talk about the, like, performance something about the history of Scatter, and us as artists and why we created this tool that informs why we approach it this way and I think it's kind of interesting and helpful which is we're all the artists ourselves and the birth of this tool and all our creative tools and why we still do productions as a start-up is because we do projects and these tools to achieve our creative vision that with that with tools that don't exist right now and so part of when we talk about, "What is performance and what is a volumetric capture?" as artists we want this to be an artistic tool that is shows a wide array of creative expression so it's very important that you know our character, whether it's for a documentary like, you know, done a few documentaries and we need to represent this character as they are that, we have that ability, but then we also have a documentary where part of the creative conceit, like Zero-Days was to anonymize our character because this is a whistle-blower. It's an NSA informant and we needed to use DevKit to stylize her and use our sort of effects to act like formats to create a new sort of anonymous stylized character and a lot of people sort of play this line, even though a lot of people use duct tape for documentary, there is sometimes a need to either represent a story because artistically it warrants, you know, from a creative perspective like vestige. It's about like memory and loss of memory and losing someone you love and so they created with the DevKit kind of like a fragmented stylized performance, and it's all about a real person's story and it's real humans and so I think there's something about when having to work a documentary or creative nonfiction, whatever you want to call it, that there is an ability to still represent the world, but also add your creative flair and creative self-expression in the capture of the real characters and their people but still have a way to represent it to sort of achieve your creative vision, and I think that's sort of how we think of it in our approach. (Jesse) Yeah, absolutely love that idea and Adam, I remember when I visited Intel Studios, there was this discussion of the materiality of volumetric that actually its own material language in as much as it's also kind of like a groundbreaking medium and I don't mean it's just, you know, for you but for everyone. How are you thinking about what that sort of unique quality of volumetric is or can be, whether it's, you know, a 17 terabyte per second file, all the way down to a point cloud that's meant to sort of evoke a memory- How are you thinking about that sort of 3D representation, that real 3D representation of people in the work do you make? (Adam) It's a journey actually and it's expiration and it's about the project and what needs and the fields of the project are. You know, we are we are obviously striving for complete, you know, visual fidelity of the human form which I think, you know, is great for when we're talking about projects that like our little archival and to give that strong feeling of your presence in a real world but you know when you look at things like Reggie- Reggie running, you know we went the other way we decided to use this new technology with its new kind of sort of you know because it's foxholes right and it's different to what pixels are. It's different so we've been learning how to use the voxels to create certain types of looks and creativity that the can fit the mold of the particular project so you know when I think about music you can really part of the kind of like crazy, break it apart, put it back together world with these voxels, you know, bring it back, and bring it back in. That's really exciting but we you know we've got that balance we're trying to do really arty stuff but then we're also trying to do really visual fidelity stuff as well. (Christina) I would say that, you know we were lucky in, I think the Microsoft software is excellent at getting visual fidelity because we, you know, I'm like the Intel stage, you know, we actually have a much smaller stage. Our stage is at maximum the 10-foot diameter circle, sometimes, we bring the cameras in even closer so, we don't have to deal with the complications necessarily of like the football stadium there, but we also don't have the flexibility of the football stadium either. You know, we if we're doing multiple people and, like, more than three people in this game we have to shoot them individually things like that. That being said, you know, I feel like our visual fidelity is very strong, again assuming that, you know, our talent is willing to work within the few limited, you know, volumetric, you know, limitations, um, so then really for us, it's about the performance right? It's about creating an atmosphere where the talent can feel comfortable, as you were saying, Laura, like in what is probably a unique and new situation, you know, being alone on a stage, surrounded by cameras, you can't even see the director. It's almost like performing in your bedroom, in that regard and so it's about making a place where the talent feels comfortable and then trying to get the absolute best performance from them during those takes and that is really an art, not a science and we work with the directors. And, you know, once in a while, you know, I'll direct if they don't have a director and so I've had a lot of first-hand experience directing volumetric often and they provide us with a director and then our job is to support them so in that case, you know, we are trying to create a place, where a great creative work can happen, and then the director needs to work with the talent for that magic of getting the best performance and then what is so special is that when it comes, you know, out the other side of the software and we're then begin to integrate it. If the performance was good, the volumetric capture will have all of that, as I said, all that magic within it. And it's now immortalized for four generations to come. So I think anything that is compelling live is compelling in volumetric and we're in some ways waiting for the display tech to catch up to the capture technology. So I am very much looking forward to things like the AR glasses and also, maybe down the line, some holographic display tech that is truly 3D, because I know that these performances are beautiful and solid and will become cherished over time, whether that's like an athlete doing their signature move or someone like Laura performing, you know, her brand new single at this one unique moment in her life, right? You know, she'll never be this age again, she'll never be this again, and we captured her doing that with all the excitement and enthusiasm. And now, you know, ads that display tech gets better, you know, we'll be able to engage with this in a more realistic fashion over time. (Jesse) Yeah, let's talk a little bit more on that. I mean I was really struck by what you're saying about Zero Days where you're having a performer represent somebody who's meant to feel like a real character sort of a composite of different characters. What do you see is the function both of capturing reality sort of, like Christina's saying, like the person in the moment at the time and also the sort of the feeling that volumetric is reality to recreate or to re-establish a reality to something that is from a moment past. How do you approach that process in your in your creative work? (Yasmin) Yeah, I mean- it's actually- I could even complicate your question a little more. It's also, you know, we've been, like, as I said, we're artists, we're technologists, we're tool builders, but we're also storytellers and I think, as artists and storytellers when we're taking on a new project, sort of, a project strives at each of our stories, sort of, the creative news, the technical needs to be just like blunt and so, like, is we needed, as I said, this way to sort of fill this amalgamate character that represented and anonymized the Whistleblower because she was not meant to be- she's meant to be real and you can kind of see her humanity but she flickered between a kind of sort of breakdown between a digital and physical world and that aesthetic was meant to serve the story, but also, the aesthetic turned into a sort of Unity plugin that we also sold as part of our tool is actually part of the Unity plugin and, you know, that's where Vestige came from and Terminal 3 and all these other people started using this look to achieve completely different creative visions and that's sort of, like, their dream that everyone, sort of, remix things, sort of, where starred but we also part of, kind of, what we think about just to you but what is reality captured like the thing I was hinting at the beginning as we move into this like as like, you know, Christina says, where the displays are gonna start, basically, catching up to you know to where volumetric capture is and where also just, you know, rendering and people's like, you know, machines and whatever, like, all of that stuff, once it catches up there's something interesting about thinking about, you know, all of us right now are these, like, avatars and there is definitely- we're coming to the future where we can, ourselves become, you know, volumetric avatars. We all press our own captures in these spaces, but then, if you do want to, you know, represent yourself accurately or if you want to, as I said, stylize yourself somehow or if you want to hybrid a little bit of an avatar- what does that mean and, like, I think when we think about reality we think about reality as in, like, there's, like- but you need to document something as is whether it's for journalism or documentary for certain purpose but there's also a reality of self-expression and how you want to translate the world and the story world and I think that's kind of the spectrum we think about and that's what we explore and we try to make the tool flexible enough for all of the above. And also, just one other last note, a lot of people come to use as a VFX tool not even for VR it's like for 2D music videos like Rap God, Eminem's Rap God or there's- I can share some other examples later but we have, like, people who come to it and film filmmakers because, like, you can use it to, you know, capture the human that you want the human performance but then because of, like, our experts, whatever- you can literally play with any of your 3D tools and you can recreate Eminem in any way. You can, like, you know, it's almost a translation of these real people and so I'm really excited by this playful approach employment to capture and representation of humans. (Jesse) I love that. So, I want to throw one question to all of you that builds off of that, before then opening it up to questions from the crowd, and for those of you who are new, the way that works is I'll activate the question asking function and you'll see it pop up on your bottom right. If you have a question go ahead and just hit hand-raise and then when they're done talking I'll be able to kind of activate you to ask that question. I mean, yeah, building on what you just said, I think one misconception that I know that I even had was I just sort of conflated volumetric as like, a tool like, the output I would experience in VR. But a lot of other ways that these assets can be shared, and I think each of you have experienced kind of in that little burgeoning new sort of possibilities for deployment, so, I'd love if you could if all of you could sort of ground the audience in what the other possibilities for volumetric capture are in terms of delivering outside of VR headsets? (Adam) Well, I think you know everything in media can be generally delivered in volumetric assets. I think, if you've been watching sports, for instance, you know, with the NFL- the cameras, you'll see a replay and, you know, it'll have those crazy camera moves, that's volumetric. You could think about creating- actually, one of the things that, you know, women especially talking to musical artists, you know, you want to do these really cool immersive projects, but really, the number one question is can we do a 2D music video as well but the great thing about the assets is that once you shoot it, you can then really just decide how you want to deploy them, and you can use every different type of medium you want, depending on the use case or the kind of marketing whatever it is for the project, I mean we've been primarily in, obviously, sports and then we've been doing VR but, you know, just recently as well. We just done a project with sort of science which in-app is being released where, you get to see hands, like really, real performance of the athletes in it through your phone, you know, so there's the phone deployments, there's VR, there's TV, I think it's everything, it's just- it's getting the technology, and the cost down, and the efficiencies down, because once the efficiencies are there, and the cost is down for a lot of, you know, media, if it's a much more effective way of shooting because of the versatility you have with it. (Yasmin) Yeah, I'll say, just down the line for her, I guess the way I think about volumetric capture at least how, at Scatter, our approach so just to speak that, on Scatter's behalf which is, we're actually platform agnostic, so we just see that this is sort of a new future of computational photography. This is the future of filmmaking, so there's for us it's like, it doesn't matter whether you publish in for a film or like music videos or XR and we actually support all of the above and more it's just, for us, it's actually agnostic. It is a tool for self-expression and there's nothing more interesting than the real humans and real people in real stories and the real world and we need a way to capture that and you can publish it in whatever format and your that you come from and I think that's where we come from and we believe in that. (Laura) What gets me the most excited about creating volumetric captures, I mean, there's very different aspects to it. One of them is just being able to create performances that I wouldn't be able to perform live because of the technology, right? So to be able to explore those tools and, for example, being my own backup dancer. I'd be able to create like a trio of Laura's for a performance. We're being able to move myself around like- I was discussing some performance IDs with Cristina a few months ago and I was like well if the tools, like, if there's no limitations to the tools of this imagine all that we can create, so I think that just, again, it's like opening a door to your creativity that you didn't know was there before and there's so many different possibilities. I also am interested though in learning how this can be used for not just creating the virtual performances, but also merging with live actual performances and the awesome visuals we can create with that and on the third aspect would be from an educational point of view I can only I have a master's in music and music education. One of the classes I took there was actually VR in education, so, I keep imagining for people who want to learn music to be able to have access to the performances of sometimes, maybe, their idols and be able to watch that up close and be able to learn how, they move how they play their instruments, then read more about their body language in a way that was never done before. It's like a private lesson from someone who you aspire to be as so I think that that would be amazing from a musical point of view from choreography as you were saying as well I think that- Imagine being able to have dance lessons and choreography tutorials with this kind of technology because there are things that you can learn from a 2D kind of perspective but when you're able to get the full spectrum of the volumetric performance, for learning how- (Adam) volumetric captured the moonwalk by Michael Jackson, right? You know that kind of thing? (Laura) Yeah, it's amazing, so I think I'm excited to see those areas expand with the use of volumetric captures. (Christina) Yeah, and that was all very well said, Laura. I agree with it and I think what was really fun about your deployment and what we're starting to see do as well is this idea of a user-generated content and, you know, allowing your fans to engage with you and create videos with you- (Laura) Absolutely. (Christina) -and, you know, make their own music videos, I think, you know, that's what we're starting to see with, like, for instance, you were able to do it with the MetaStage app and then I feel like I said, just took it totally, to the next level with Jaudy by creating an entire platform around this concept of being able to dance and play with the volumetric captures of your favorite artists and then what he did is he made it so that you could the Jaudy publishes directly to TikTok and Instagram and it's been a blast to see with just the few- the beginning Holograms that they released on the platform, the huge response on fans, I mean, you saw it, too, like people did such funny, creative, cool stuff with your Hologram. So, I think that's another element that we're gonna see more of, as well, it's like how can we take these assets but also encourage, you know, other people to be creative with them and honestly they're informing us about, you know, how they want to use these this content. But if you haven't already, if you have an iPhone, check out Jaudy, Android's coming soon. And what I think they're doing well and not only like I said the app is so elegant, it's very smart the way that it deploys to the other social media platforms but then we're also seeing such creativity in the content- You know, the way that like the I think that and his team have an inherent understanding of the way that their fans might want to play with these assets or engage with them so they pick key moments of the songs that will translate well to user-generated content. So anyway, I'm excited about that and then and I'm also, as I said, very excited about, you know, AR glasses. (David) Yeah, I mean we're figuring out this wonderful crew like, one of the things we did at Light Frame and even a little bit at Viacom was really experiment with what you can do with this after it so, one thing to keep in mind, like, you're capturing highly realistic photo-real people and with all that data you capture, you can actually train it, so imagine what you can do with virtual beings, and one of the things, one of the prototypes we sort of wanted to really develop on was, like- Can we capture a a sort of you know Elvis lookalike and then have that character perform in different ways that, in order to perform, did not really intend to so like we're moving away a little bit from authenticity here but that's what we think the future is like when we are able to sort of capture realistic performances and emotions and realistic sort of facial movements- Can we actually replicate it and have unintentionally an autonomous being that can interact with you and perform with you as well? Lots of, you know, weird ethical, you know, sort of quandaries there, potentially, as well, definitely. One thing we have to sort of acknowledge but, I just want to really acknowledge that the book doesn't really stop at just capturing authentic performances, it is like the representation of the human being, of an authentic human being, where he can go from there? One of the things we did build that was really, really interesting and just really simple is just capturing someone using the Microsoft capture solution and there's a shader, that comes with a solution, as well which I'm sure Christina would be familiar with which is basically, you can track the head gaze, through whatever the person is in a headset. So imagine if you're in a headset. You have a sensor speaking to you. Their head will actually track where you're standing, so they're actually talking to you. Now, we managed to build something similar where instead of like being a headset this person was in a giant TV frame and we had to connect, which attracted the head of a person walking by, so if you walk by what you thought at first was a video, suddenly this video is like, you know, Haunted Mansion, it would turn its head to look at you which is always like, you know, we subverted what people thought was, if it was a video they're like, "Holy cr*p! This is someone actually talking to me!" So, you know, just want to put it out that a volumetric capture really is a new form of capturing someone and then it the whole breadth of what you can do after they have been captured. Some things to think about. (Jesse) Beautiful. On that note, everybody please join me in a warm round of emojis for these wonderful panelists. (Speakers) Aw. That is so adorable. Aw, thank you, everyone. (Jesse) All right, so we have a couple questions already and I want to be mindful of time, so I'm gonna go ahead and start those. Blanche, you are live. (Blanche) Aw, thank you, everyone. Uh, can you hear me? (All Speakers) Yeah. (Blanche) Okay. So, first, thank you guys for being here, really, really, happy for the artists here. I do theater out of the advisor and designer like a light and set and I'll be practices with these would be Oculus design spaces through four months. I think we have to work together here like a team like outside in the rehearsal and things because I understand a lot of people enjoy the template and that's good. I mean, now everyone is a designer but in my case I'm gonna be really glad to design something for one performances. You know what I mean? Like, you can advance I can work with you here in this space and build a set for your own performance so I'm really excited about it because I'm really new in things. I do theater for 35 years outside and here I just started designing for four months, and it's really interesting. I mean, but we have to work with the same sensation like artists with the signers together. You know what I mean? So, if you need any space if you want to work with me please just be my friend, love with me and I'll be here, okay? (Jesse) Elaboration! (Christina) If I could say something about that, I think that's also one of the things that I'm super excited about because I think, at least in my world of musicians, when we talk about things like that in tech, it sounds so intimidating in some ways, you know, you're like, "Oh, wait? How do I?" So, I really do agree that it's important that the artistic community, the tech community who also like, we're all like able to learn new things but I think that collaboration is so important so that artists can come with ideas and then just be like, "How can we expand what can we do that has never been done?" And I really hope that actually, for someone who went to music school that they start having classes that talk about this, and how you can use these tools really in order to create things so it stimulates artists to really get outside of the box and work with people who can design these experiences as well. So yeah. (Other Speakers) Thank you very much. Thank you. (Jesse) Thank you for that. Thank you, Blanche. Going now to Christian. You are live. (Christian) Hi. (Other speakers) Hello. (Christian) I'm from Romania. I joined this event five minute ago, and I don't know what it's all about but I like this design over here of this panel and I just want to say like I start to use Gravity Sketch and in three days I come with an idea to recreate my city where I live and I recreate my city, my buildings in the city center in Gravity Sketch and this gives me an idea- a real work, no, real buildings under beautiful work. (Laura) Cool. (Jesse) Very cool. Thank you for that. (Christian) What do you think? (Laura) Yeah, thanks for joining us all the way from Romania. It's great to be here. (Other Speakers) Yeah. (Jesse)All right, I'm gonna do one more question, there's a bunch piling up, so what I'm gonna do is have one more question live and then I'm gonna de-toggle the stage barrier, so everybody come down, we do a big selfie together, and then you can ask him just directly, you know, right you can just ask them standing, right next to them. So going now to Mr Mule 96, you are live. (Laura) Mr Mule... (Jesse) Did we lose you, Mr Mule? (Adam) Mr. mule? (Jesse) Oh, no. I think we lost him. All right. Going instead to Dave. You're live. Dave? (Laura) Dave... (Speakers) Dave...(Jesse) Okay, well, I don't know if we might be running into an issue then, so how about this? I'm gonna go ahead and institute our selfie right now. So let me de-toggle the stage for everybody. So come on down, join the panelists. You will sink to their level. (Speakers) Yay! (Jesse) It's wonderful, wonderful, selfie time.(Adam) Poor David... (Laura) Come on! Should we, like, take a selfie? (Jesse) No, no, you're fine. We got Raoul who's going to take our photo and Laruen in the black sweater right here, so, these are your camera lines, I'm going to join you. So everybody, send up your favorite emojis, wave, do whatever feels true. (Yasmin) And we'll lean in. (Jesse) Thumbs up, emojis, wave. (David) Is it working? Am I clipping anyone? (Lauren) Your emoji, your emoji. Say cheese. (Everyone) Cheese! (Speakers) Cheeseburger! (Jesse) Hey, Carlos! (Lauren) Oh, hey Carlos! (Jesse) Oh, I just realized that I forgot to de-toggle the audio so everybody should have their audio back I've read granted you your audio. Lauren, we good? (Lauren) Yeah, we good! (Raoul) Hi, Jesse! Hi, Christina! (Lauren) I think we're good. (Jesse) Thank you, Lauren. Thank you all so much for being here, for attending. Especially thank you to all you panelists for being here. This was a ton of fun. (Speakers) Thank you! (Jesse) Bye, everyone. Glad I got to see Carlos. 