 From Turf-Tec International - the FieldScout  TDR350 is a simple to use field moisture sensor   that gives immediate results. The TDR350 has  an ergonomic design with a shaft mounted probe   that has a telescoping tubular frame. With  each reading, the unit displays Soil Moisture   Readings and Volumetric Water Content (VWC),  Soil Electrical Conductivity (EC) and Turf   Canopy Temperature. The FieldScout TDR350  also features an LCD Backlit Display,   Integrated Bluetooth, Internal GPS and Data Log.  The Data Logger can record approximately 50,000   measurements with GPS coordinates. The TDR350 has  interchangeable stainless steel moisture probes   that can measure moisture at 1.5, 3.0, 4.8 and  8.0 inches deep. When the TDR350 moisture sensor   probes are interchanged, you need to adjust  the settings on the unit for that particular   probe length. In addition to offering time domain  measurement technology, this unit also takes into   account EC readings and integrates that reading  into the TDR results. This gives consistent   moisture readings if the soil EC level is high  or low. The TDR350 has a free app available for   Android and iOS devices that will allow you  to view and save your readings in the app.   The app shows moisture as Volumetric Water Content  (VWC), Percentage, EC levels, Canopy Temperature   and the Salinity Index. The free app features a  grid of nine (9) test areas and you can add up   to 18 separate zones. Color metric readings can be  set up for these ranges. It also saves the average   measurement by zone. There is also an option to  upgrade the app to SpecConnect FieldScout Pro,   which is a one year subscription. This upgrade  allows you to use customizable Google Map   images as well as SpecConnect Data Sharing, Auto  Uploading and adding user comments to individual   readings. The unit also comes with a soft sided  protective case. On sports fields, the TDR350 is   used in conjunction with the Clegg Impact Tester  to test for gMax readings. The TDR350 is also   used with the Turf-Tec Shear Strength Tester  to test for sports field turf shear strength   on athletic fields. The TDR350 the Clegg Impact  Tester and the Turf-Tec Shear Strength Tester   are often used together for testing playability  standards and to assess sports field safety. visit us online at turf-tec.com to  see our full line of moisture sensors 