 This video demonstrates how to use an Equilibar back pressure regulator to control flow. With traditional flow control valves, the ratio of the maximum flow rate to the minimum flow rate is typically 10 to 1 or 15 to 1. With Equilibar flow control valves, this ratio is increased to 100 to 1. This video will show how an Equilibar valve can reliably control flow rates at 50 milliliters per minute up to 5000 milliliters per minute. We start by using a constant pressurized supply. In this demonstration we have a water supply header pressurized at 90 psi. For flow control the Equilibar back pressure regulator uses a pilot pressure controller and a flow meter in a PID control loop. The electro-pneumatic pilot pressure controller translates the electronic signal from the PID into a pressure signal for the pilot pressure. Flow is decreased by raising the pilot pressure. Flow is increased by lowering the pilot pressure. Here's a picture of our lab setup. In this demonstration, we use a Bronkhorst high resolution flow meter which sends a signal to the PID controller. An Equilibar FDO4 is used to control the flow by modulating the pressure at its Inlet. A high resolution Equilibar QPV electro-pneumatic regulator is supplying the pilot pressure. The QPV receives the electronic signal from the PID to adjust the pilot pressure on the dome of the FDO4. While the demonstration is taking place the process information is recorded in this LabVIEW program. The chart in the center of the screen is showing percentage. The green line is the flow setpoint, the red line is the actual flow value and the white line is the control output signal from the QPV. The two bar graphs along the left are showing flow in milliliters per minute. Green is the setpoint and red is the actual flow. Now watch as we demonstrate the performance of the Equilibar flow control valve while a controls flow rate from 50 milliliters per minute to 5,000 milliliters per minute.  For more information, please contact us at equilibar.com/contact. 