  MUSIC  WOMAN: “Let's play ball"... MILES O' BRIEN: Lexie is an active, healthy 2 year old, and already lending a hand, actually her wrists, to see how sensors can help us better understand her emotional responses to social situations. ROSALIND PICARD: The problem is really hard because emotion in particular is something that's very hard to measure. ROSALIND PICARD: Hey Javier! JAVIER: Hello  MILES O' BRIEN: With support from the National Science Foundation, teams across the country are working to advance a new field of research called "computational behavioral science." Computer scientist Rosalind Picard at MIT is developing wearable sensors to measure the subtle changes that naturally occur in the body during social interactions. For example, this wrist sensor measures electrical changes in the skin that increase with perspiration.  ROSALIND PICARD: A lot of the focus of our work has been children with autism and with other nonverbal learning disabilities. People who have difficulty understanding and communicating their emotions, and also difficulty being understood by other people. MILES O' BRIEN: Picard says this sensor is designed to give immediate feedback. ROSALIND PICARD: So a child who maybe is not aware of their emotions changing until they get very extreme might learn to see the levels are starting to go up. In fact, this device can gently vibrate. It was doing that on me a little while ago (laughter) when we started filming. MILES O' BRIEN : Another team led by Jim Rehg at Georgia Tech is developing new methods to monitor subtle behavior. They're testing a range of sensors on kids, and started with children like Lexie, who is not on the autism spectrum. JIM REHG: For example, in a face to face interaction with a child, does that child make eye contact? Do they indicate they want your social attention? Does that child produce communicative speech? MILES O' BRIEN: Now they're testing devices on kids with autism, too. He says their findings will eventually help young children with autism to receive more effective treatment, and may provide new tools for autism research. ROSALIND PICARD: We've also been very interested in new ways to sense what's going on with people without contact sensors and building tools that help people do things that nobody thought they could do. MILES O' BRIEN: Micah Eckhardt on Picard's team develops software that plays to an autistic child's emotional strengths. MICAH ECKHARDT: Now we can start to transport other people and objects into the story. Actually we're going to put me and that in the story. So..." ROSALIND PICARD: So Micah has built a piece of software that allows folks to create stories and to do it in groups, to enhance communication, and to also, at the same time, measure things about what's going on so that others can get more insight into how the learning process is unfolding. JAVIER: Well those are, right now are head gestures, head nods. ROSALIND PICARD: Yeah, like a nod. JAVIER: You would see all that going in different directions. ROSALIND PICARD: We're extremely interested in how to not just measure when people are sick or depressed or having affective disorders; this is like an early warning sign. MILES O' BRIEN: Developing sensibilities using sensors. There's an idea to pick up your pulse. For Science Nation, I'm Miles O'Brien. 