 [music] Interior design and architecture have a somewhat different method of conveying information. And what I've found is there are some really interesting synergies between that method that is historical and has been going on for years and years and the way the Universal Design for Learning approaches things. Universal Design for Learning. One of the things that I think is the most consistent between a studio environment of learning and Universal Design for Learning, those principles, is that the studio environment is all about iteration. It's all about starting from a concept and coming up with an option and then critiquing that option, and coming up with another option. or five or six other options, in order to get as much of those, not only creative energies, but also those  problem-solving ideas out of your head as possible. And get them down on paper. So, one of the things that we train our students very early on, is to be less sensitive to the critique of their work as it's not a critique of them personally. It's a critique of the work that they're putting out. And in an effort to help hone the work, to refine it, to get it to a point that's better. That is directly applicable to the process of writing a paper for example. The first option that you put out there is  very rarely gonna be your best work. Okay. It's never going to be your best work. So we always need that second and third and fourth iteration. Sometimes the structure of it needs to be completely reversed, or you know, I think we've all had those experiences where you're in the middle of writing a paper and you say, it will be so much clearer and easier if I start with the last topic first and then work through in the other direction. That process of iteration,  students need to know that's ok. And they need to know, to be encouraged, in that process and not feel like, well because I didn't get it the first time, I'm just no good at it. And I can't do it. We have those students that feel as though they don't have the ability to do interior design or architecture work because of the fact that they didn't get it right the first time. And I think if anybody got it right the first time, it would be a miracle. It is part of the process and so one of the things that we find very important to teach his process. The process of throwing out the first idea, or getting as many ideas on paper as possible, and then weeding through and finding what's good about each one, and what's really not working for each one. And then and then refining and refining and refining and so you end up with a product that you can really champion and really get behind, and say okay this is this is good. Another piece that I think is important in relationship to Universal Design for Learning is the feedback component of that. So it's important for instructors, or even guests that would come in and take a look at the students' work, to provide feedback in a way that is critical, for sure, to be sure, but I also helpful and substantive and gives students a new direction. or a new thought process. A new perspective. I never thought of looking at the process that way. We train our students to make sure they have the widest possible view. Okay. If someone were approaching this building with a couple small children in tow, how would that change their experience? If someone were approaching this building and they're late for a meeting, and they need to be able to get to their destination quickly, how does that affect their experience in the space? So each one of those, it is important to recognize the perspective of the end user and for the instructor, it's important to recognize the perspective of the student, to help them to recognize the perspective of the end user as they're approaching and making use of that space and that process. 