 My phone is almost always on charge. ...someone needs to be treated for screen addiction. So, the first thing I decided to do is to paint the rack with the varnish and black paint I ordered it from Ikea. The rack was pretty cheap. And how could I dare not to buy? lol It came without any surface protection and completely disassembled. At first I liked to paint it, but then I got tired and bored. Besides, there’s such a mess at home. Replenishment in my plant family. Dracaena. I didn't realize that painting the rack was an easy task until I started assembling my desk. The head of my screwdriver was worn off, so I used a knife. After several hours of torment, finally, something looking like a table began to appear in my room. Now it remains to to remove the garbage around.. The next day, my parcels arrived. They had skin care products. I like the sound of a washing machine. I feel like someone speaking to me and I’m not alone at home. I put the purchases on washing machine and mentally pray to God to help my problem skin. Because for the same price I could buy a box of KFC wings - my happiness! I did not like the plastic table handles. They look cheap and unpleasant to touch. So I bought others, metal ones. Looks much better right? So cool to fill a new workplace with your own things. I have not much, only the most necessary. *please live! don't die here* And here are the books I've been trying to read for 100 years. My drawing tablet and e-book from amazon. Ikea’s lamp. I would drink coffee out of it.. The place is small, but for me and my humble ego is quite ok. I look forward to being productive and feeling like a super Busiest Beaver at my new workplace. I also ordered an inexpensive floor lamp. I will rarely use this type of lighting. I want to have it for decoration (*marketing victim). It smells air-conditioned divinely. Can I pour it all over myself? Whoo-hoo! I got an order from Fiverr, I need to draw a caricature of several people! I am so glad when people order my performances from thousands of competitors. By the way, if you also want some scetch done or other design services, I’ll leave a link below. This is first time I'm working on my new table. So cozy and calm.. The new lamp gives a yellowish light. But I'm not used to such a tint. See you in the new videos.. love u! 