 You might have heard a lot  recently about Google Workspace.   We’re NetHunt Gmail CRM and Google Productivity  Know-it-alls, and we’re here to tell you exactly   what Google Workspace is, what’s new, and to  give you a little Google Workspace Tutorial.   First - what is Google Workspace? Google  Workspace is G Suite on steroids… with a price   tag. Workspace brings all your favourite G Suite  tools closer together, integrating them deeper   into each other for a seamless Google productivity  experience. Why has Google introduced it? Well,   it’s Google’s answer to a changed working world.  We’re working from home now, that’s the reality.   With no office, we can’t troubleshoot next to  the water cooler, bump heads with an impromptu   brainstorm. So Google is bringing the Office to  us. They’ve made a three-step promise with their   new platform. Number One - a new, deeply  integrated user communication experience.   This means they’ve brought together all of  Google’s communication tools into oneplace.   That’s Chat, Gmail, Voice, and Video Calling under  one tab to aid communication and collaboration.   Smarter mentions and shoutouts offer full contact  information on somebody tagged in a document -   bringing CRM-like context to your word processor.  Link previews have gotten an upgrade too, and now   you can preview a linked website by hovering your  mouse over it. Finally, Meet got an upgrade. Well,   two upgrades. It works across more devices, and it  also gains a picture-in-picture feature. Now you   can see the person you’re collaborating with on  docs, sheets, or slides. NetHunt’s marketing team   use Meet for our daily standup. What does your  team use for your socially distanced meetings?   Number Two - an ambitious new brand identity  means new icons. Yep, here they are. Wow. Google   says these new icons reflect the way in which  the programmes all work together. Nice one. Ok,   looking for some honesty here. Was this the  update you were waiting for? ANNND finally,   Number Three. Google has added new subscription  plans for you to play for. Here they are. And what about security? With all that data  knocking about - some new security features are   also coming to protect your data and privacy when  using Google’s Workspace. We’ve got comprehensive   chat logging within the Investigation Tool. Smart  detection capabilities in Meet to prevent unknown,   potentially abusive users from disrupting  meetings. A much-needed automatic classification   of spammy Chat rooms. All new data protection  insights for Gmail, and a redesigned rules page   in the Google Workspace admin console, which  centralises Google’s rules for easy creation,   discovery, and management. You might be wondering…  what does it all mean for me, a NetHunt user?   Well, it means more productivity in the tools you  use. Workspace is built to help you work at home   by bringing the tools you use closer together.  NetHunt works to a similar end, but in a different   way. Our Gmail CRM brings a full dashboard  of business tools to your Gmail inbox. We’ve   got full customer context at your fingertips,  where anybody who needs it can see a customer’s   full communication history inside a ‘record’.  Like Workspace, we’ve got integrations that bring   the tools you use under one tab. The Data Studio  integration helps you better automate reporting   for your business. The Intercom integration  keeps all customer support chats within NetHunt,   and even let’s users scrape incoming leads  straight from the platform itself. Our   LinkedIn add-on automated lead generation from  the world’s best business social platform.   We’ve got loads more native integrations, we’re  working on some right now, and we integrate with   Zapier which brings over 2000 tools right to your  inbox. All-in-all, it’s a thumbs up from NetHunt.   Having Google Workspace and NetHunt Google  CRM working for your business is only ever   going to be a good thing - especially as the  world works from home. If you haven’t already,   sign-up today and check out NetHunt CRM. The Link  is in the description. If you want more NetHunt   productivity hacks, check out the link on screen  now! Is Workspace popular? Stick a plus sign in   the comments below if you’ve signed up for it!  Like Comment Subscribe. NetHunt, over and out. 