 Welcome to another VMblog Work From Home series. Today we have the pleasure of having Nico Zieck who's the senior IT architect for Liquit with us. How are you doing today? I'm doing great, good weather in the Netherlands, so happy to be here. Maybe you can start by just giving us a short background of the company itself. Yeah Liquit is a software vendor founded in 2015 and we're focusing on delivering the unified workspace to the end-user so enabling users to do their work from home or anywhere around the world as easy as possible. And we've been talking a little bit ahead of time about the pandemic, so you know keeping with that theme the pandemic is a major topic these days. How has it changed the way companies are dealing with their employees and are you hearing from your own customers, where they caught by surprise or did they already have solutions in place to help make the shift from the office to work from home? Well I think it's a pretty good question. So I think generally we can separate two types of customers. So the old-school customers, the people who got our employees to go to work in the office every day, some certain way of control over their users, their employees. Now if the other part is already working in real flexible ways, so usually there aren't a typical Liquit customers already in place, so they had a focus on a more mono workspace working from home and we see that a lot in the Netherlands. So the Netherlands didn't change a lot of things. So we have a good infrastructure and by law you are allowed to work from home, so it's by law. Looking at our other customers, you see a lot of people just working in the office from day to day basis or control, now you see that the companies need to give them the trust and the freedom to do their own work at from home and you see things for shift into different working styles, so people get more, feel more freedom so they feel more power to do things for the company because they feel more happy. And for the companies that are continuing to push forward to this work from home model before we go into the technology side of things in general how is this affecting the people, the connectivity and the infrastructure behind it? So even if I'm looking at myself working from home I just love it and I think a lot of our customers love it going out of bed just doing my work. The thing I miss is the connectivity and the talking to my colleagues, so most thing I want to have is somewhere in between so working from home and from time to time being in my office. So what has to do for the technology, you have to have good at home workspace so a good device, good internet connection of course then something that will enable you to access your information data and also do your Zoom meetings or your Team meetings in the correct fashion so it's affecting people in a lot of different ways, first of all the communication. I simply just miss it on a day-to-day basis and that's all I hear from my colleagues but also from our customers we miss the office, so the office is still important, but we love the work from home and we are really more productive working from home no more travelling so things are changing and on a technical point of view, you need a different solution so you just can't use your old-fashioned laptop in the office you need more stuff. And so how does Liquit solutions help enable work from home? So Liquit is actually a smart workplace so what we do we aggregate a variety of surfaces like Citrix, WVD, but also local applications and the user will simply just see an icon and Liquit will decide based on whether a user is based on the user's peripheral devices and based on other specifications what should we launch in a certain scenario. So the IT admin has full control over what will happen, where and when, but the end user simply just clicks on an application so it doesn't have to think about it and therefore the IT is more accessible for the end users make it more simple. So what are some of the big questions that your customers are asking as they're transitioning to work from home? So we've got a lot of questions so a lot of customers we have are running out of power on their virtualization platforms, so to use virtualization platform for a limited amount of users now of course everybody's working from home they're gonna stress those virtual environments so they need to spin up some extra machines. So Liquit is able to help you with it or add another system to it like WVD just for a burst mode, just for a short period of time add extra machines and manage those machines, and so our customers are are requesting how can we make things more easy for our end users because now in the office everybody knows where I have to be where's my printer, how do you do that from home, when I log on what will happen to my phone, what will happen to my productivity applications, how do we access the data, how do we secure the data, so Liquit gets all these questions every day again and basically that's where Liquit is founded on, making the workspace smoother, faster and better for the end-user without the user having to think about it. And security is always something that's top of mind or should be for most companies, with this whole work shift from the office to working from home are there any special things that companies should be paying attention to? Yeah of course, data, it's all about data, so what do you do with the data when the user is using his own device, where do you save it, do you remove it, are we allowed to save those data on the local device, that's something system administrators have to think about it, so we offer it complexed awareness so in corporate owned devices we are allowing users to run and store their own local data but if it's not corporate owned you're working from home, we don't allow it to render your data for instance on your local device and you will be redirected to a citrix session which will be secured, so of course data is really important, then and the other part is the security of the connection it's also really important, how do you keep unwanted people out of your network, how do you manage all those network connection into your data center, there's something we're not focusing on we're just helping the IT admins to keep control over those processes. And you know what are some of the key technologies that people are using in this work from home? So basically we see a major up coming in the office 365 usage but we see more and more people going into Microsoft 365, of course today is only one name, but I still separate office 365 from Microsoft 365, so we see a lot of our customers going into Microsoft 365 remote deploying their devices with autopilot and then offering them a true hybrid environment separating some local applications to save some resources on a virtual environment and for special applications or high security applications deliver a virtual environment like a VDI or an SBC or as a XenApp session for instance. So it's for productivity the office suite, office 365 for communication of most commonly Zoom or Team or something and for deployment you see a shift from in-office deployment than just shipping out your device to an end user let that device be enrolled itself and then let Liquit do all the deployments we broker you into secure applications on Citrix or VMware. So those are the most common use technologies for us. And you know we talked about this off-camera before but you know there's a lot of companies are starting to move back now bringing their people back from from home back into the office are there any tips that you can share that companies should be doing now to prepare for another event like this? I think it should be much broader so I think everybody they have seen the success of working from home. So if I'm looking just typically at the Netherlands, economics just just went on, it didn't stop anything so we were prepared for something from working from home, if I can suggest for every company just focus from working from home allow your people to work from home so you always be prepared for something like this, let the people get used to it, you're already used to it why don't use it so you don't need that much office space, you already have a lot of resources in place, just focus on it, take it on your road map and go from that point on, but I really strongly encourage all companies just keep it this way, focus on it and allow your people to get more freedom, trust your employees with it. So obviously it sounds like the best strategy is to be prepared for work from home and have that as your normal policy, for people that do want to come back into the office you know how do you get them to come back and what are the cost savings for keeping people working remotely? So I read some examples or research that productivity of much of people yesterday talked about to a customer the productivity of the employee raised by 30 percent by working from home so instead of traveling, so how do you get him back in the office? well first of all if they're happy to work from home keep it that way. In Europe we see a lot of companies just allowing people to work from home every day, but I think workspace is something like a social place you want to see your colleagues, you want to see your friends, it's all about personal communication from that point so I think workspace a workplace should be, the office should be a place where people feel happy so like good coffee for instance but also good IT but it's I think it's gonna be a hybrid way so hybrid IT tech but also hybrid workspace so working from home should be always be there and if people are happy they';; be more productive. So for me myself what I see I tend to work a little bit more off hours if necessary because I am happy I can do my shopping during day time so I feel much more happy, feel much more enabled with my family, so I'm much more home so I'm happier to do my work. Well before we let you go, I want to ask, where can viewers go if they want to learn more about the company and the technology and do you have any resources online that specifically addresses the work from home topic that we're talking about today? yeah of course they can go to our website liquit.com, where they can request the full live demo, of course it's free of charge so you can use it for a time of period two ones of course we will contact you afterwards but you also can look up some of our videos we've posted and our solution brief in Microsoft for the WVD part so Liquit is a WVD partner, maybe show you exactly how things can work with our smart icons and what will be done to work from home and how to enable it. Great, well thanks again, we appreciate you taking time to speak to VMblog today. You're welcome, thank you very much for the time. I hope you enjoyed this video, if you'd like to see more of these VMblog videos, please hit the like button and subscribe and it's important if you want to get notified the next time we post a video please hit the subscribe and the bell notification. 