 Google just launched its latest smart speaker  and wow, i'm just gonna say it up front,   the Nest Audio is a major improvement over the  Google Home in terms of sound. So let's dive   into what makes the Nest Audio sound so good and  then i'll give you my overall first impressions   of the device. When i opened up the Nest Audio  from its neatly packaged box i was surprised   at how nice it looks in person it looks like a  mini Google Home Max but slimmer on its sides.   The fabric seems to be the same material  Google has used on its Nest Mini last year   and is made out of 70% recycled plastic. You can  get them in various colors like chalk, charcoal,   sage, which is a new color for nest devices  and matches the Pixel 5 really well, sand,   and then sky. When you first pick it up it's much  heavier than you expect which is a sign that this   thing probably has some solid hardware in it. It's  powered by a barrel jack connector and thankfully   Google got rid of that circular one they include  with most Nest devices and replaced it with a more   square design which should make it easier to plug  into some surge protectors. The touch controls are   at the top of the device volume down is on the top  left side volume up on the right and then tap in   the center once to play and pause media on the  back of the device there's a two-state mic mute   switch which will cut the connection to the mics  physically as opposed to just doing it through   software like some other companies do. Also  there are now three far field microphones found   with the Nest Audio compared to two microphones  found on the original Google home. Next let's   talk setup setting up the Nest Audio is incredibly  easy especially if you already have Google Home   devices. It took me about three minutes to  go through all of the steps but if you're   new to the nest product family it might take you  slightly longer to set up things like voice match   calling with the Google Assistant and connecting  the device to your wi-fi. If you already have nest   or Google devices in your home the Nest Audio will  use the same settings as your other Google devices   which is why setup is so fast. Alright so sound  quality that's the big topic when it comes to   the Nest Audio. Google seriously upgraded the  speakers in the Nest Audio compared to the   previous Google home device the Nest Audio comes  with a 75 millimeter woofer and a 19 millimeter   tweeter and i've spent quite a few hours listening  to music and podcasts on the Nest Audio and wow   this thing sounds way better than the Google Home,  like they've improved the base on it the base on   this is way better than the original Google Home.  Now it's not like room pounding base that you can   get with the Google Home Max for example, but  it's still adequate enough and i think it'll be   adequate for most people. One thing that's even  more apparent when you listen to the Nest Audio   compared to the Google Home is how much more  detail you pick up in the music. The original   Google Home had a more muffled sound to it and  the Nest Audio definitely fixes that issue. Part   of that is i think due to the fact that the Nest  Audio is not trying to emit sound for 360 degrees   around the device it is a directional speaker  so you're only going to get sound coming out of   the front of it not from the sides and not from  the rear. Another big change with the sound is   that it can get much louder than the Google Home  without sounding distorted. Even with just one   it can fill my bedroom with some pretty serious  sound and depending on how many of these you get   and your room configuration and how you angle them  to bounce sound off the walls, you may only need   two maybe three of the Nest Audios to really  get that surround sound experience so you feel   like you're just enveloped in the media that  you're listening to. You also have the ability   to stereo pair two Nest Audio speakers together  as well. Another area where the Nest Audio shines   is multi-room music as we've demoed before on  the channel, moving music in between speakers   and speaker groups is quite straightforward with  nest and Google devices you can tell the Google   Assistant to move music from say my bathroom  speaker to my bedroom speakers and it'll do it.   The Google Assistant is predominantly featured in  this device like with all Google speakers and it   allows you to do things like play music set timers  set reminders ask it for the weather put something   on your calendar etc. When the assistant has  been triggered you'll see four LEDs light up on   the Nest Audio. If you're interested in learning  more about what the Google assistant can do we   did a video on that and i'll link it here in the  video as well as in the video description below.   Now if you're looking at getting the Nest Audio or  trying to compare it with another Google Assistant   speaker here's a sound comparison between the Nest  Audio and a bunch of different Google speakers: So who should get this? I think you'd get a Nest  Hub or Nest Hub Max if you want to display things   on a screen but if you just want to use your  speaker to listen to primarily music and podcasts,   my new default suggestion is to get a Nest Audio.  It's going to sound way better than anything other   than a Google Home Max and because of the Max's  size it may not be the right speaker to place   everywhere in your home and it's about $200 more  than the Nest Audio. Now if you're between getting   a Google Home Max or getting maybe two three  Nest Audios and are struggling with that decision   ,here's some advice. I'd say i would probably  go for getting multiple Nest Audios just because   you're going to be able to angle them and bounce  sound off different walls within a space so it's   going to be easier to create that room filling  sound effect and feeling like you're surrounded   with the music and media that you're playing on  the speakers now if you want just the best sound   quality possible in a Google Assistant speaker  then i'd still say go for the Google Home Max,   you're still going to get that with the Google  Home Max and if you are a bass fan like if you   just love tons of bass, Google Home Max. So  where would i rank the Nest Audio sound? So   far in my testing i'd say that the Nest Audio is  the second best sounding smart speaker from Google   right behind the Google Home Max, but the Google  Home Max still offers superior sound, better   separation, more detail, and a deeper, richer,  and more powerful bass. But i think at $99,   the Nest Audio is a no-brainer for anyone wanting  a better sounding Google Assistant smart speaker   or an upgrade for their existing Google Home  speaker. Now we'll have much more on the Nest   Audio in the coming months as we test it out over  the long term for our 6 Months Later review of   the product, so if you want to see that review and  other videos on Google products and tech products,   make sure you subscribe to the channel, and  if you like this video and found it helpful   and informative make sure you hit that thumbs  up button below. And if you have any questions   at all on the Nest Audio, make sure you  leave them in the comments below as well.   Well that'll do it for me, for 6 Months  Later, I'm Josh Teder, thanks for watching. 