 In May of 2015 Michigan Technological University's Institute of Computing and Cyber systems or the ICC was formed. It is the research branch of a larger Michigan Tech organization called the Alliance for Computing Information and Automation or the ACIA. Both organizations aim to surpass traditional academic boundaries in computing information and automation, in order to create an environment that's a reflection of today's industry and society. What this means is that Michigan Tech is now more than ever reaping the benefits of cross-disciplinary collaboration and the ICC is at the heart of it. The Institute's mission is to promote research and learning experiences and five areas while fostering a heavily collaborative environment. These areas are represented by five specialized research centers: They are the Center for Cyber Physical Systems, the Center for Cybersecurity, the Center for Human Centered Computing, the Center for Data Sciences and the Center for Scalable Architectures and Systems. Within these centers and between these centers we see a rich interplay across disciplines that are traditionally separated. ICC is important to Michigan Tech in the sense that it brings the faculty and students in those sub-disciplines  together to discover new knowledge in computing and also enable faculty to develop interdisciplinary proposals which otherwise would not be possible. The ICC as a research center is I think a very good model in the sense that it is trying to foster these wide-ranging collaborations. Many centers are very focused on a narrow topic and bring in a small subset of researchers on just you know one or two areas and often coming from the same department or the same disciplines. The ICC allows us to collaborate across units across departments, across schools and colleges. Hopefully encourage and enable these collaborations going forward to tackle I think some of these really interesting research projects up today. ICC members are active leaders in the computing society. They are the world winning educators and researchers. I'm very excited by what we achieved the last year. We almost double the original goals. All of this is because the hard work from all ICC members and also because of the inherent collaborations between ICC members and also between ICC centers. ICC provides a platform to enable in the v3 search through support, facilitation and collaboration within and outside the Michigan Tech. Almost all my research project being a collaborative project Here in this department I collaborate with many people. One of the projects just mentioned, the joiner has a project with Dr. Braun who is not in our center but in different centre but she is a member of ICC. The center is great, is very helpful for developing collaboration with center members. For example I have a project will Dr Hu about the symptom monitoring. And I provide data and Dr Hu's research is more about data analytics. So I provide data and he analyzed data so we're a good match for research. Last year ICC supported 32 students. These students play an important role in the research we do. As we know ICC members they develop research proposals and the guide research directions. Our students they do make valuable contributions during the course of the research, especially on simulations and experiments. In doing so, students gain invaluable experience of having worked on projects for [inaudible]. In the research Enterprise, shall we say, I view students as being the apprentices in that. So that our faculty members in the ICC are really responsible for creating the research programs and leading those research programs but one of our missions is to bring students into that Enterprise, bring them into that activity. And that happens at all different levels. Any undergraduate who is working in my lab is treated like a graduate student. They are actually given and assigned the same tasks that graduate students are assigned. Students are incredibly important for our research program I mean the students are the ones who are actually able to do the most of the research for us. We're spending our time looking for opportunities writing proposals to get funding and then the students are in the lab actually executing our ideas and so in my lab specifically here at Tech I use both graduate students and undergraduate students. And undergraduates have turned out to be an exceptional resource for me. I have undergraduates that have gone on to work at Uber self-driving car program, Amazon, Facebook, Bosh, Magnet Electronics. They're doing very amazing things now. We are always driving to advance the science and the technology in the field of computing. The short-term goal of ICC is that we are going to continue to grow the regular membership and start to recruit a fit into the membership to fuel more collaborations and also to bring more research funding to enable cutting edge and the impactful research. The long-term goal of is that ICC along with ACRA will lead the computing research and education on campus. Make a notable contribution to Michigan Tech strategic plan, and the play more leadership roles in the computing society. To learn more about ICC members, news and events: go to icc.mtu.edu Find the support button to learn about ways you can help support the ICC and look for the sign up now button to receive ICC newsletters. 