 Customers increasingly want a trusted partner that they can work with. It is about taking the customers through the journey until they have achieved the business outcome they desire. Every CEO, every CIO, every person who has anything to do with technology needs to know  about IoT because it is really taking technology to the next level. IoT is pervasive throughout healthcare, retail, smart city, industrial, big pharma and life sciences. It is really everywhere. It just brings more intelligence in  every place. Every action has more context, more intelligence and more automation. And for us to be able to extract that information and make sense of it and be able to turn that into value for our clients is incredible. The Intelligent Edge is all about extracting data and context from devices that we have around us. It is not the edge of the data center.  It is truly outside of the data center, where people are or where things are.  It is about people, places and things and the data that is generated by the interactions that happen between people, places and things. Now, for the first time, we can actually guide somebody turn-by-turn when they arrive at a hospital, give them the medications they should be using, even give them their test results, all in the language of their choice while they are moving through hospital. This is science fiction realized. We connect any device over any network. You think about smart city, you think about cars, you think about consumers. That is all wide area network. In the energy market, we already have over 20 million meters connected to our universal IoT platform. They are sending the information directly back to the energy company. We are gathering the data of those meters. We are normalizing it.  We are doing the analytics on it, mashing up data from one device to another.  So from an IoT perspective, one of the biggest barriers to mass adoption is security. We have a combination of ClearPass and Niara. The ClearPass solution is very good at profiling devices. And once you have that discovery,  Niara starts tracking all those thousand devices. As Niara tracks these devices, in the moment Niara sees that something is not right, Niara can actually send a signal back to ClearPass and ClearPass can kick that device  off the network. So it is a full loop. IoT is going to go into the realm of things that are not yet touched by IT. IT operates with different rules than OT. In the industrial world, the goal is production efficiency and operational technologies want to keep the process running 24 hours a day. What is happening now, however, is that customers want the two to merge,  and they also want to manage and have visibility into both systems from one common pane of glass. And that is industrial IoT, because you need to understand exactly what is happening in real time on any part of that machinery. That is where Edgeline fits in today. We have now invented a new category of products, called the Edgeline, that bring the computing power to the edge, allow customers to collect this wide band data, crunch the data, do analytics on the data and then take action right there. When you look at the future of IoT  and Intelligent Edge, the assets we have, the products we have, the solutions  we are building. We are so well positioned, not only to address customers'  needs today, but really over the next five years. For me, it is no longer simply about productivity inside the workplace. IT has become so pervasive in everything we do. It is changing people's lives, and it is changing societies. It is changing social outcomes and business outcomes.  Of course, we serve our enterprises, but it is being applied increasingly,  to really advance society in very interesting ways, and to me, that is very heartening, and that personally excites me a lot. 