 Thanks to the introduction. It's great to be back here Waterloo was my home for many years. I did my undergrad and Phd here so it's it's great to be back and see the new center and so I want to thank the IQC for organizing this and inviting me and Congratulate the director on six fine years right, no? Oh, I was just counting the six that I was here 15 years yeah, it's been incredible, kind of started when I just arrived here as an undergrad So it's it's been fun to watch the field grow and Maybe bring it all the way back full circle so I put some Academic affiliations on here for just so that my colleagues know I'm still a serious well Not serious, but I'm still a scientist I'm now at the the center for quantum software information. That's in Sydney, Australia, and it's a new center that just started and We're on Twitter so check us out and In addition to to doing you know science at the centre for quantum software information. I also have a Hobby I like to play Tennis No, I write. I write children's books. So there's the book it It's actually had quite a long journey which I'll tell you about so I wrote it about five years ago and self-published it at the time and Now it has a publisher, and it's in this nice board book format So I'll tell you The story of sort of how how it all came together so Measure twice cut once that's sort of the old proverb and it certainly makes sense if you're in the lab And you only have a certain amount of money And you have to build the thing but in the academics that I mean I think take this advice a bit too far There's there's too much measuring too much overthinking not enough action not enough cutting so I like to cut I cut all the time You don't want to see the thanks that I tried to fix in my yard But in many aspects of life it works And so I think in the end ultimately that's the story of quantum physics for babies it wasn't something that I saw a market for or saw a need for I just kind of did it and I? Started going, and it didn't work the first time and that got thrown out never to be seen again and started again But for better or worse it became kind of popular. It's been translated to several languages Is it there's a chinese version and the Korean version and will be this one will be translated into several more Yeah, that there's a picture of me signing books on the street in beijing so it's You know with this sort of popularity I didn't expect I also didn't expect journalists to take me a task over so they they seem to be very nice to politicians But to a children's book authors like why did you do this right and Really come on it's quantum physics. Is that really important for kids? so I had to have an answer and so I started to rationalize and I I think the answer well to the question of is it important for children. I think the answer is yes, and I'll tell you sort of various levels of rationalization that I've went through But I'll start in the place. I've served most things with a joke So I Think for my colleagues in the audience They probably won't be surprised when I say humor plays a very important part in my life So I joke with my family I joke with my friends I joke with other scientists Although Einstein. He didn't look very impressed Yeah, he never really did like quantum physics But I you know the reason I think humor is important because I think it's deeply connected to happiness right so happiness I see is the difference in what you're expecting out of life And what you actually get and humor has this effect that it's often defies your expectations you laugh at the unexpected and so That's why I see them as as deeply connected So I Knew that when I first wrote the title down that you know I had something right it was there was something to this you know the juxtaposition of Quantum physics and for babies is something that people tend to get a laugh out of although it's not really the humor for the advertised audience, but parents seem to Enjoy that and so I knew that um You know at least at least there would sell a few few copies as gag gifts for nerdy friends But what I didn't expect was this nerdy friend to get a copy I So that's a screenshot of my Facebook, so you see I gave him a gave him a little like thanks Zuck, and right so it Having that sort of that sort of publicity is pretty good for business although again, you can see My book of the years quantities for babies. You know haha. Just kidding um So yeah, maybe he didn't do me any favors with that. I'll have to talk to him about it. I Asked him to that to share the updated version, but he hasn't replied So you know I? Joked with some of my friends who are in different professions about maybe writing on a no-contract law for babies or geopolitical policy for babies? though I think For the latter there's a really only one person in the world that needs to read that book and he's too busy on Twitter tweeting insults at people But quantum physics. I think most agree that that's worth more than than just a joke and And hopefully I knew something about it. So you know in the end I put some effort into the book and the goal was kind of clear you have a look at a baby book There's 20 pages nice clean illustration short words and I try to make it sort of a coherent description of of quantum physics and there's lots of room for improvement, but I think that This space is growing quite rapidly and we're seeing more and more examples of this kind of thing at a younger and younger age but You know the parents really seem to like it, so I hear all the time We opened the book at a baby shower, and we all laughed it was really good fun But then we start to read it, and it looks like there's real physics inside But with the children learning and this is a tricky concept Right so the only sort of unanimous advice that you hear for new parents is to read and it doesn't really matter What you read as long as you just read so read and But you know let's let's play a little game. You know suppose you have a child and you have a nice rotation going on and Quantum physics for babies well it doesn't fit into the rotation so it's got to replace a book. What should it replace? so I'm not going to touch fiction. I'm not going to you know make anyone mad And say that it should replace any of the classics, so let's talk about nonfiction so for this age range They'd zero to three Nonfiction is limited to reference material and it's sort of what you would expect you know Shapes, numbers letters maybe first words right you see something that looks like this on the bookshelf and What I find a bit peculiar about this is How many animals there are And I suppose that It makes sense from a historical and cultural perspective at least in North America but you know Maybe maybe you know we don't need to teach kids exactly what a cow sounds like anymore So it's hard to say when is when a child is reading this book if they're learning something you know there's there's as many cognitive Models of early childhood development as there are people who research it But one thing one thing's for certain I think you go to any three-year-old in the entire world, and they'll tell you What sound the cow makes even if they haven't seen one? Let me give you another example. So this is in that book right there It might even be the same picture, so if you can get public domain images you're set so Does anyone do you know what what these two birds are? They're birds, does anyone know what they are? Yeah, penguin and puffin have have you ever seen a penguin or puffins. Yeah, he's gonna go good I guess we're in that in Australia of course they have no clue what a what a puffin is and these aren't even part of the same species and My children can tell you the difference between a penguin and a puffin in fact I don't know why it is but there are as many books. I think about puffins as there are puffins and and There's no books about transistors when I see a billion there, and I see a billion there, right? you What's in your pocket right now by the standards of only ten years ago is a supercomputer and so children growing up today you know especially ones in more and more kids are being born into urban centers of more than Multiple millions of people and they're going to be closer to a supercomputer Than they are an animal of comparable size probably for the rest of their life and so why Why don't they need to know about what it is and what's what is it made out of in and how it works? so What I say that my kids are ready to to get into the lab and do some quantum physics no But it's interesting to see that they they can say words like hippopotamus and giraffe and puffin and tractor but they can also say everything in the world was made of atoms and Atoms are made of protons and neutrons and electrons and electrons exchange energy one quantum at a time, right you know I would say that that's better understanding or Equal understanding than being able to recognize animals and you can repeat the names of them So I think I think there's there's something to it though It's certainly a large gap between quantum physics for babies, and then say an undergraduate degree that was at UTS we did a little event with the childcare center for the the Faculty at UTS it's I just came back from a tour in the US, and there's there's lots of scenes like this and What I find interesting is there's always one. There's always one little girl Who is just so amazing and knows so much and just kind of she's usually the star of the show so you know it's interesting to see where bookstores put the book right and Oftentimes it's in this sort of new section with these various toys, and it has this new buzzword in the education space STEM Right so STEM Science technology engineering mathematics and sometimes you get some some grumpy people who say it should be STEAM or STREAM for reading and arts but the it started as an initiative to Have more education in these topics because it was thought that with the rise in technology there will be more demand for jobs that that were in these disciplines, okay, and I did some research in the first press mention that I found with that term in it was 2008 and that's when the Bill and Melinda Gates foundation donated 12 million dollars to the Ohio STEM Learning network. Which is actually surprisingly still going on most of these initiatives fizzle out But it was like a 10-year plan so ending Next year, and there's going to be a huge report generated based on whether or not they achieve their outcomes and now you see across the whole world across all levels of government there are these initiatives and They're all about what they call STEM based learning and if you dig into these a little bit you find that there's a problem right policy has to be Dictated by research right and research needs Data and Data takes time to collect so in the policy and the initiative that's relevant to where my children go to school has a Report that cites Data that was collected before the first iphone was invented right and I Don't know if it makes you feel young or old But that was actually only 10 years ago right when I was walking around these halls. I had a little nokia about this big And now we all all of us have smartphones, so Policy is great. It's necessary, but it is having trouble keeping up with today's technology the most commonly cited report for education and science broadly is the report of the chief scientist of Australia which came out a year and a half ago and It actually cites data from the period 1965 to 2005 Right so I I worry that it's a little bit too far behind and you can see this actually In the educational space and in all of the things that are happening in what people cal STEM outside of education So actually the presidents of the university of where I work This is sort of a passion of his and there's a huge initiative at that university and his motivation here which starts like this over the next five to Ten years 40 percent of existing jobs won't exist. You know so he's the president of the university we have 40,000 students at that university and For him, that's 40,000 people where he feels. He's the last line You know the last level of responsibility before you send these people off into the world into what? Right, into something that that that probably won't exist when they start But he goes a bit further so at UTS We have a an entire overhaul of the educational system. It's got a fancy name learning futures and The goal is not to create graduates with jobs but Graduate people who will create jobs right and when I first heard this I thought wow that's nuts. I don't want that problem But you know thinking about it It's this is really This is really what's what's what's driving all of this all of this innovation all this technology is is people who are Creating new areas creating new jobs. I mean if you want to put buzzwords on it innovation disruption right and and this university has the audacious goal of creating entrepreneurs though I don't think you were really strangers to this here in Waterloo. So you know You look at a report on education and future technologies and it May be maybe in Canada lately you might see the word quantum, but probably nowhere else in the world so Now that I'm here in Quantum Valley let me show you what this sort of thing looks like In the quantum space and at a lower level so at the secondary level maybe even the primary level so Somewhere in this building right in this building somewhere in this building There's students that look just like this high school students. Who are here for a summer school on Quantum cryptography There's the quantum exhibit. I haven't seen it yet. Where is it now? On it's way to Halifax. When's it coming to Sydney? Really, okay cool all right? I'll be there and you know bringing students in and going to schools right now this is obviously great, but what happens if you're a parent? And you don't happen to be the school that has the school incursion where the person Who is going to teach your kids about technology happens to be there So this is really part of the problem a lot of these initiatives and pilot studies Target a school. It's just one school and And they bring in technology or bring in some some learning program and all of those students benefit from in you know many of these students Go on into careers jobs that have the word quantum in the title and that probably wouldn't have happened if they didn't good the summer school in Quantum cryptography So just south of the border you can go there because the wall's on the other side is The IBM quantum experience, so it's an app and you can Design a quantum algorithm, and it will run via the cloud on a actual quantum computer sitting in IBM's researches labs ok and again, they bring students in you know as young as 10 and because it's cloud based they can skype with people in South Africa right and so this is kind of the What STEM learning is today right it exists entirely outside of the classroom? especially for Something as cutting edge as quantum technology So do I see quantum physics for babies on par with these efforts no Obviously, not um I don't think I don't think this is for the students or babies Ultimately, I think it's about the parents so you know when you talk to parents about this that sort of fear and anxiety about mathematics starts to creep up right and it's sort of daunting to think that the you know it used to be thought that I send my kids to school they get an education and That will train them for a career, and they will have that career, and they will be set right? Their employer will pay into their retirement fund and they will have kids and life will go on But you know the average 20 year old today. They say will have something like 15 jobs before they're 30 and How as a parent how do you how do you deal with that uncertainty life used to be so simple, right? Or maybe it wasn't I think it was always the case that education was as much the responsibility of the parents as it was of the school and you know teachers will tell you that probably even more so But I think I think it's actually true now today More and more than it more than it ever has been and so One of the phrases I hear most in this discussion like you know journalists. Who are being a bit cheeky will say You know this is a bit too much. Why can't we just let kids be kids? That's actually and a brisk winter day in Sydney not to rub it in So I I don't know I mean this phrase is used all over the place. You know it's you at hockey games and Other sporting events and in the classroom, but I think for most people What the sort of gut feeling that they have is actually born out by the research that Play is all important for children But the problem is that the average person thinks that education is actually the opposite of play when you say What is education as an activity they're thinking about something that? diametrically opposed to play and I think this is a huge problem for me my point of view is that Life is education if you watch Watch a small child There's little scientists, right they Put something in their hand they throw it on the ground Right you put it back in their hand they throw it on the ground. They want to see if it happens again Right and they're out there exploring the world and at some point Some point in our education system We stifle that and then we have this weird conversation where we say at what age should we introduce? Math to kids at what age should we introduce science to kids and the only reason we use that word introduce Is because we've taken it away at some point, right? So Beyond say the obvious things for a parents, you know survival and morality and independence What what is the what is the true mark of a good parent? Now obviously, it's an immense privilege to sort of entertain such a question and asking that in maybe an audience with parents and is a bit dangerous, but I'll risk an answer I think that the goal of parenting should be to help your children find their passion and By passion I mean the thing that will drive their curiosity throughout life So how how am I going with my kids? I Don't know it's too early to tell but I think the one thing that I can do that's definitely not going to hurt and Can do the most to Probably succeed is give them variety right if there's something that I avoid then they will avoid it, right? Nobody's born being afraid of spiders right you're only afraid of spiders because your parents are afraid of spiders, okay? smiles in the audience back there yeah, right so And this is this is the problem with especially science and mathematics and You hear this all the time from people you say you know I study science and they say Oooo I hated science right, or Mathematics which is really strange because you know you ask someone hey What do you love in the world? and they answer you and say I hate that It's sort of a really weird response, but it's accepted and encouraged Right and especially for women it's really strange that they're told you know Maybe you should focus on something else. Maybe maybe math isn't for you, but It's just not true right it may be that's not something that you have a passion for but you'll never know because you're being shielded from him and from people my generation the Kids that I grew up with we're told as I was told this by a guidance counselor in high school right don't worry about Don't worry about the physics you seem to be good at math. Maybe maybe you should go take an accounting degree, right? Not that there's anything wrong with accounting, but it was clearly a safer choice well, maybe they thought it was back then So Nothing really comes to my mind where I would be afraid if my kids took an interest in it, you know as a academic or just as a passion and I think I think that's that's that's going to go a long way just just to be able to offer them that variety So ultimately I think that's that's my goal for quantum physics for babies and in the follow-up books right is to start this conversation try to remove some of that fear and uncertainty and doubt about topics like quantum physics or Mathematics and Hopefully, you know when the time comes that the child says hey I saw that there's this summer school in Canada on Quantum Cryptography the parents will say yeah no worries mate That's my best Australian accent. I haven't been there long. It'll be better next time so This shouldn't be seen as an odd request right? and the the people that come obviously had a parent that Encouraged it or a teacher Maybe that encouraged it or maybe they had a school incursion from a place like IQC and heard about it But most people haven't heard about it. It's pretty strange so one Curious little Fact by a survey I can't remember who did it but it was one in three Americans would rather clean a Public toilet, then do a single math problem And they do this scientific literacy quiz you can take it up you can take it to the actual quiz online and compare your Well, they're all yes or no questions. So you clicked and it tells you whether you got the answer, right? and there's some really simple questions like does the earth go around the sun of the sun go around the Earth and and You click the obviously correct answer and it says How many people in the world or in various countries got it correct? So I was looking at the one that was done in America, and I think that one was like 60% got it correct the other one was did the universe start with a big explosion and 30% of people got that correct which just boggles my mind. I mean there's a hit TV show with that in the name like the theme song actually has the answer in it right like and You know when you type into a search engine Quantum physics, what do you think comes up is it going to be quantum physics? Probably not. It's actually probably going to be Deepak Chopra right, so when Deepak Chopra comes before Stephen hawking and When you know the obvious facts for global warming seem equally compelling as maybe some celebrities theory of a flat earth then we have a big problem, and I think we have to start the conversation as early as possible and Well quantities physics for babies was just the beginning Thank you sure So when I when I read it to my daughters second year class I don't say for babies and so a lot of kids don't like that That's one of the biggest criticisms I get for the book was Do you have to put for babies in it it has to be that obviously it has to be there like it Just doesn't work without the for babies Okay This is a ball This ball has energy This is a ball. It's on the ground. It has zero energy All balls are made of atoms and atoms have three things They have neutrons And protons and the ones that have all the fun are there the electrons an Electron can be here or here and Even those three-year-olds are amazing at deductive reasoning because I asked them where else could it be and I come up in they point here But an electron cannot be here Or here you can see this is going to be on YouTube all electrons have energy the one up at the top has the most energy and One down here close to the protons and neutrons has the least energy but there are no electrons that just sit around there are no electrons with zero energy and Here across the hall we have a special name for that. We say that energy is quantized can everyone say that? quantized then an electron here it can take energy to jump up and What's going to happen to it if I can turn the page it must give energy to fall down and That is a very special amount of energy It is a quantum. Now you are a quantum physicist 