  Everyone is going to the cloud.   It's a great idea, but... ..will the cloud be capable   of adapting everything? The answer is yes. Will the communication between the edge, where   the customers are, and the cloud be sufficient for the network   to be able to adapt it? It's a different story, due to the...significant amount   of traffic that would run within the network, mainly because of video - and Netflix   is a great example of that... Which...last year they only started,  and this year, they already   consume 20% of the network. Uh...there will be a great   requirement for market growth. Sorry, for bandwidth growth. And if you do not... As big as the network will grow, if   you do not utilise it in a good way,  you will find yourself that regardless of how big you are   planning to grow the network, the infrastructure and everything, regardless of the fact you need   to keep on not only growing it but upgrading it   and doing a lot of things, what will actually happen is you   will end up by having some issues. And a good example is...you know,   there is a new paradigm which talk about   how all those heavy applications - the 5G, the cloud,   the 4K - actually, 8K soon - videos, um...and the AR/VR   augmented reality will go in, not to mention, uh...AI,   machine learning, which will be another important task  that would be part of the network, how this will all go to the network.  Now let's remember that within   the network, um...most of... ..definitely the tier one   but not only... ..they have traditional networks. So if everybody is talking about the  ability to have a flexible network, elastic...to grow, expand   and...and go shrink back, conceptually it's great, but it will take time   until this happens while... ..the more information with what we call the big data   is going into the network. There is more and more realisation   in the network, in the telco market,  that the traditional way of looking   at putting everything to the cloud, it's good, but it's not good enough.  There will need to be a way   of bringing some of the data... ..some of the knowledge,   some of the process, to the edge. So this is very much a...effect that more and more people   realise this is happening. Um...Big question. In five years' time...you know   what - in three years' time, what would be the main   revenue generating app or service that service providers   will be able to sell? It's a big question. No doubt that gigabit broadband   or even 10-gigabit in the future would be a portion of that. But as we all know,   it's not about being pie providers. How can we uplift   this sort of wholesaling services or any type of services to...a way   of an added value services that we will provide   more to the customers. Otherwise we will end up   by being a plumber only and the revenue will keep on going   down, obviously margin will go down.  So we need to find ways to do this. And if you look...uh...cloud, which   will take 37%, video/OTT, virtual reality, industrial IOT... Well... Here in the chart   it looks very nice. Like, "OK, that's going   to be the pie, or estimated." It might all change. But the fact is that you need to have the ability   to generate revenue from all this. How can you do it? Obviously there are   so many different applications in the market... ..which are either   running on servers, virtualised, or running   in different sort of compute. You know, Amazon are offering   a lot of different sort of service. Um...with AWS Greengrass and a lot   of different sort of things - IOT, etc. Google does the same,   Microsoft Azure. It's going to be more of an...   a dynamic sort of service that customers would be looking at. How can we offer...whether   the service is actual bandwidth and the bandwidth would be X, and after five minutes or 10 hours,   it will grow and shrink back. And on the top of that actually   sort of elastic service... ..what actual applications   do we want to run? And obviously applications   can be the normal routing, firewall,  security, self-services, IOT. In the future there will be 50   billion devices in the network. Not in Australia of course, but...widely spread   all over the place. And I'm not   talking about the connected cars, which is different story. It's a lot of data. So definitely   there will not be a way of connecting all of those IOT   devices directly to the cloud. You will need gateways to take   the data, process it in a way, in a modest way, and once you process it, you synthetically   send it to the cloud. So there needs to be a mediation   sort of player to be able to do it. And the idea   that we see more and more, that you need some kind of smart   edge connectivity at the access that would enable us   to do all those things. 