 I'm Scott Rankine, President of NXCAR. And we're totally about connecting vehicles to everything. That's what we do. So we make smart cars smarter. SCOTT RANKINE: Sure. I mean, the-- the genesis as we started looking at the more than 100 million cars that out there currently that are not connected, and we wanted to see how to connect them. So these are both new and primarily older cars. So our whole-- our whole - you know, point is to provide you with as much connectivity as a Tesla that can be added to your car, so you too can be part of the connected network of things. So that's really the focus of the company, is to enable pre-existing drivers to be part of the connected car revolution. And beyond that, of course, we're looking at newer vehicles, autonomous vehicles, but our starting point is to make your next car a NXCAR. SCOTT RANKINE: We've developed our own-- hardware that can be put in an after-market product-- through dealerships. And essentially what that provides you with is extraordinary connectivity, the ability to upgrade your vehicle with high-speed in, you know, in-car Wi-Fi, the ability to connect to other devices like Nest computers at home. And also to be able to be part of the whole infrastructure of IoT from a connected car platform perspective. SCOTT RANKINE: So we're working with IBM and other partners to really push the envelope on what's possible and to take that really from-- take our cue from what's happening in the industry right now, in terms of security. It's a big part of our story, and also enabling applications to be added to your car as you drive. So over the air application of new software and new technologies. So our whole thing is to future proof your cars, so they can be part of the connected car revolution. SCOTT RANKINE: What's next for us is really to-- deepen our connections with our partners, to be able to roll out what we hope will eventually be the largest connected car fleet in North America and then beyond, leveraging the connectivity that's there with folks like Sprint and other people we're working with. SCOTT RANKINE: But also to be part of the-- the whole evolution of the vehicle as a thing on the internet. It's no longer just a separate item. It's integrated into everything that you do. And then from there, to connect that to as much as we can as fast as we can. SCOTT RANKINE: Sure, it starts from being able to understand how your car behaves, to make it a safer ride, a better ride, and also to take that so that you make it easier for people who come into your vehicle to connect to the web. So that's why we offer in-car, high-speed Wi-Fi. SCOTT RANKINE: We also offer the ability for our partners to do things like add distracted driving applications. So it's really a platform for making your car for more connected and then evolving that experience as you drive the vehicle. And eventually as you buy new cars, we expect to be in those as well. We're a startup, so we're been-- been in the-- industry about a year. And-- we're moving rapidly. And-- you know, that's-- Well, you have to basically be-- you know, keep your eyes open, but you can't see everything. So you have to work with people that are doing it for you. So it's really about building partnerships and ecosystems. So we have potentially aligned ourselves with some of the biggest automotive and IT, you know, IoT brands. SCOTT RANKINE: So we're going to keep on doing that. That helps keep us ahead of the curve, right? So it's about who you partner with and-- who you hang with. And also-- if you're intentionally trying to disrupt, then you have to sort of live that-- live that code. And-- and always be asking yourself, "What can I do to actually make what I'm making better?" And if you have to, you-- you, you know, you cannibalize yourself as you go. SCOTT RANKINE: One of the things that we really are focusing on as a company is that the number one-- thing you want is-- is a safe and secure-- connected car. So that's really a priority of our company is working with-- with IBM and other partners to make sure that we can bring to market the most secure IoT technology in the world. That's really one of our core goals of our company. SCOTT RANKINE: Think in terms of your strategy and how it can evolve to accommodate these technologies. So you have to be able to almost self-cannibalize. You don't want to be the Blockbuster. (LAUGH) You know, you don't want-- you don't, you want to think in terms of, "Okay, I'd rather be Netflix than Blockbuster. So how do I do that?" SCOTT RANKINE: So one of the things is to look at your business and say, "Is it time for me to put some things aside and embrace new tech? Or am I going to just stick with the model I know?" So part of that comes from a culture of, people say it a lot, but a culture of real innovation, which is you're really thinking about the small things you can do to implement a larger strategy. SCOTT RANKINE: So if your strategy is to evolve your business, then you have to be very mindful of what's happening around you, but you also have to think in terms of-- not necessarily believing any, you know, the hype that's around. It's to think clearly about what you need to do. SCOTT RANKINE: Part of it's the speed, because you can go, in our case, you can go from literally concept to finished product in 12 months. So it's really the velocity of which you can move with things. Because now there used to be, you know, you have to, you would spend $50,000 building something, and you can now buy that, you know, off Amazon. You can buy a raspberry pi as an example for $300, which can simulate, you know, the whole work of a lab before. SCOTT RANKINE: So you do have this ability to leverage technology that's out there. It's much more connectable. It's much more extensible. But you still have to start with a great idea. So if you have the idea, you have to execute on that. And so the speed at which you can bring things to market has increased. Also the competitiveness to do that, to be first and best to market is also there too. So you have to really factor in both. SCOTT RANKINE: I would see what's coming down is what we characterize as-- IoT 2.0, which is really about-- since we're at Watson here, we're talking about leveraging that technology, leveraging A.I. So you can increasingly make IoT part of that, in terms of edge computing. And-- that's really part of our focus too is to help go from first generation IoT to second generation, which is really a far more capable, secure and intelligent IoT platform that can literally harness the collective power of billions of devices. SCOTT RANKINE: The, these are devices that are out there now, but an entire whole new generation of IoT devices that's on the very cusp that you'll be seeing and-- and reading about-- over the next year or two. This is-- this is a generational leap in IoT technology that's coming down the pike. And we hope to be part of that. 