 Hi, Welcome to another tutorial on Spirochetes. Today I am going to discuss about Treponemal antigenic characteristics. By this time you all know,Treponema pallidum can not be cultured in any artificial media. Thus characterization of it's antigen has been quite difficult. The outer surface of Traponema pallidum is sparse in protein and is only weakly antigenic. Even though more than 100 protein antigen has been noted in Treponema pallidum and it's subspecies.However they contains one unique component called cardiolipin. Now look at the word cardiolipin. Cardio means heart Lipin means lipid Cardiolipin is a lipid found in mamalian tissue like beef heart.So it is present not only in Treponema but also in other eukaryotic tissues.That is why it is non specific and this uniqueness has huge medical importance. Now let us look into the antibodies that Traponema pallidum produces.They are 2 types 1.Specific 2.Non specific Specific antibodies are produced specifically against Treponemal antigens. It is either IgM or IgG. They will only react with Treponemal antigens and once positive remain positive for life. They ensure higher specificity and sensitivity. High sensitivity means that there are few false negetive results and thus fewer cases of diseases are missed. High specificity means certainty that the individual has the disease. We will clear up these concepts in another video. So what is non specific antibody? It is called reagin. It is non specific because it reacts with Syphilitic antigen as well as other substances. Like beef heart. Reagin gives positive complement fixation tests with cardiolipin extracted from beef heart. Its titre decreases with effective treatment in contrast to specific antibody which is positive for life. Both specific antitreponemal antibody and non specific reagin are used in the serologic diagnosis of Syphillis. Non specific antibody tests are 2 types 1.VDRL 2.RPR They can be used to asses the response to therapy, to detect central nervous system involvement and as an aid in the diagnosis of congenital Syphillis. Now listen very very carefully Syphilitic reagin that is IgG and IgM should never be confused with reagin antibody involved allergy which is IgE Reagin comes from a German word reagiren which means to react. So do not get confused about these two concepts. To put in a nutshell: Treponema is only weakly antigenic. But the antigens of T.palladium induces specific Abs.They also induces non specific Abs (Reagin) which can be detected by the flocculation of lipids (cardiolipin) extracted from beef heart. Both specific antitreponemal antibody and non specific reagin are used in the serological diagnosis of syphilis. Thank you for watching.If you like this presentation please give us a thumbs up, comment below and subscribe to our channel. Feel free to share this with your peers. That is all for today, see you in the next video. 