 Hi everyone, this is Victor here. Welcome to the Intelligent Investor Channel where you will learn about stock investing and personal finance that will help you become a great investor. In today’s video, I am going to talk about Tesla stock—I have a long position in Tesla, and It is one of my favorite long-term investments right now. In this video, I’m going to talk about “Is Tesla at $550 Billion market cap or $585/share overvalued? And Why Tesla Will Reach $1 Trillion in Market Cap?” I’m going to cover these topics in this video: First, is Tesla at $550 billion market cap or $585/share overvalued, and what is a fair valuation of Tesla? Second, when is the best time to invest in Tesla? Third, what are Tesla’s long term goal and long-term growth prospects? Forth, what are the 4 Catalysts that will drive Tesla to $1 Trillion in market cap? Fifth, what are Tesla’s competition and risks? Sixth, conclusion: Is Tesla at $550 Billion market cap or $585/share overvalued? Why Tesla will reach $1 Trillion in Market Cap? If you like this video about Tesla, smash the like button and subscribe. I will continue to make many great videos about stock investing and personal finance that will help you become a great investor. Let’s start. First, you may wonder: Is Tesla stock at $550 billion market cap or $585/share overvalued? What is Tesla’s fair valuation? My short answer is yes. I believe Tesla stock at $550 billion market cap or $585/share is overvalued for several reasons: First, if we look at Tesla’s valuation based on the traditional price-to-earnings ratio. Tesla’s current price-to-earnings ratio is at 1,120, which is extremely high. Second, Tesla’s share became more overvalued after the S&P Committee announced that Tesla will be joining the S&P 500 market index on December 21st. This is because Tesla reported five consecutive quarters of profit. This is a huge inflection point for Tesla, because Tesla had been burning cash and losing money every quarter for many years until now. This announcement forces institutional investors with funds that track the S&P 500 index to invest billions of dollars in Tesla. This is why the stock increased +43% in less than two weeks between Nov 17, 2020, and Nov 27, 2020. If you look at Tesla’s year-to-date stock performance here, you will see that Tesla’s share increased +600% year to date in 2020—this is also extremely high. Now, to be fair, Tesla is not a traditional car manufacturer company. We should not compare Tesla’s valuation with traditional car manufacturers such as Toyota, GM, Ford, BMW, and Volkswagen. We should treat Tesla as a high-tech growth company because Tesla has a lot of growth potential in the electric vehicle market, battery tech, autonomous driving, Robotaxi, and energy business—especially since the whole world is transitioning from the current internal-combustion engine cars to battery electric vehicles. Third, here is another indication that shows Tesla’s current market cap of $550 Billion is overvalued. Tesla’s 2018 CEO Performance Award indicates Tesla’s current market cap growth of $550 billion is way ahead of the company’s operational milestone growth. This CEO compensation package is supposed to award Elon Musk with stock options to purchase each time Tesla achieves “a specific market cap milestone plus a specific operational milestone over a period of time.” There are 12 vesting tranches in this compensation package. According to Tesla’s latest Q3 2020 earnings report, the 2nd and 3rd tranches are already vested. The 4th tranche is also achieved, and it is expected to be unlocked once the Board of Directors reviews it. This means Elon Musk is going to have another huge payday very soon. But here is one interesting thing about the CEO compensation package. If you look at the expected market cap growth over 12 tranches, Tesla’s current market cap of $550 billion is already near the top end of the 12 expected market cap growth. In comparison, Tesla has only achieved 4 operational milestones so far. So what does this mean to you as an investor? It means that Tesla’s current market cap growth is way ahead of its operational milestones. Realistically, if we use this CEO performance package to estimate Tesla’s fair value or intrinsic value, Tesla’s current market cap should be anywhere between $250 billion and $350 billion if Tesla’s market cap growth is to match Tesla’s operational milestones. Second, you may wonder: “When is the best time to invest in Tesla?” The best time to invest in Tesla is to wait for large price corrections so you will have a larger margin of safety. For example, if you look at Tesla stock year-to-date in 2020. Tesla stock dropped as much as -60% between Feb 19 2020 and March 18 2020 because of the enormous pandemic sell-off in March 2020. The stock dropped as much as -33% between Aug 31, 2020 and Sept 8, 2020. Then, right after Tesla’s Sept 22th Battery Day, the stock dropped as much as 10% because Tesla announced that it will not have its $25,000 car not until 2023 and because Tesla’s new 4680 battery is not ready for mass production yet. Tesla stock can easily drop as much as 10% to 30%, because of Tesla earnings, Tesla deliveries or any significant Tesla events, so I would wait for these large corrections. Third, What are Tesla’s Long-Term Growth Prospects and Long-Term Goal? First of all, I want to explain to you Tesla’s biggest revenue sources right now: Tesla is making the majority of its revenues from selling Model 3 and Model Y; Tesla is making less revenues from selling Model S and Model X. This is because Model 3 and Model Y are much more affordable than Model S and Model X. According to Elon Musk, Tesla’s mission is to “accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy,” and this is accomplished by making electric vehicles much more affordable—even more affordable than the current internal combustion engine vehicles. Going forward, I believe “Model 3, Model Y, CyberTruck, and the upcoming $25,000 Tesla car” will still be the largest revenue sources for Tesla because these cars are much more affordable than the Model S, Model Y, Tesla Roaster. Of course, Tesla also has enormous potential in its energy business, its insurance business, its upcoming Robotaxi service, and its subscription services. Second, In terms of Tesla’s EV market share, Tesla is currently the largest EV maker in the world. According to CleanTechnica, Tesla’s Model 3 alone had 14% of the world’s EV sales in 2019. According to EV Sales Blogspot and Electrek, Tesla has approximately 18% market share year-to-date in 2020, compared with the other top 3 major competitors Volkswagen’s 6% market share, BYD’s 6% market share, and BMW’s 6% market share. Third, according to the Battery Day event on Sept 22, 2020, Elon Musk said Tesla’s long-term goal is to sell 20 million cars each year by 2030–this is a very ambitious goal. As of now, Tesla is still aiming to sell 500,000 vehicles in 2020. In comparison, Volkswagen Group sold 10.8 million cars in 2019, Toyota sold 10.5 million cars in 2019, and Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi Alliance sold 10.3 million cars in 2018. This means Tesla wants to double Volkswagen Group’s number of cars sold by 2030. What are the Four Catalysts that will drive Tesla to $1 Trillion in Market Cap? The first catalyst is that there is an enormous demand for electric vehicles right now. Electric vehicle sales are growing rapidly each year, taking market shares from the traditional internal combustion-engine car sales. According to BloombergNEF’s Electric Vehicle Outlook 2020 report, the report states: “By 2025, EVs hit 10% of global passenger vehicle sales, rising to 28% in 2030 and 58% in 2040.” The report also states: “Price parity between EVs and internal combustion vehicles is reached by the mid-2020s in most segments, but there is a wide variation between geographies.” “China and Europe combined represent 72% of all passenger EV sales in 2030, driven by European vehicle CO2 regulations and China’s EV credit system, fuel economy regulations and city policies restricting new internal combustion vehicle sales.” Tesla’s Model 3 is already reaching price parity compared with many premium internal combustion cars at the same price range. Tesla Model 3 is even cheaper if we factor in Model 3’s “much lower maintenance cost, savings on gas, and Model 3’s higher resale value.” Once most electric vehicles reach price parity with the internal combustion vehicles within the next few years, many people will be switching to electric vehicles because of the cost savings and the lower CO2 emission. The second catalyst is that I believe Tesla’s current Shanghai Gigafactory and its upcoming Berlin Gigafactory that is being built will eventually reach full capacity within the next 2 to 3 years. There is an enormous demand for electric vehicles in China and Europe. China and Europe are the two largest electric vehicle markets in the world, much larger than the US. If you look at the BloombergNEF report here, it shows China and Europe have a combined EV market share close to 80% in 2020. Tesla is still aiming to sell 500,000 vehicles in total in 2020. Here is my prediction—if Tesla can sell 1.5 million vehicles in total each year across Tesla’s Fremont factory, Shanghai Gigafactory, and Berlin Gigafactory (meaning an average of 500,000 vehicles per major factory), I believe Tesla will reach $1 trillion in market cap by 2023. Again, this is my prediction. The third catalyst is the upcoming mass production of Tesla 4680 battery cell and the much more improved cell manufacturing processes that were announced on the Battery Day. To summarize the Battery Day event that happened on Sept 22, 2020, Tesla has introduced us new ways to mass produce its upcoming 4680 battery cell. This new 4680 battery cell form factor alone will have “5 times more energy, 16% more range and 6 times more power.” Tesla also showed us its upcoming cell manufacturing processes and its upcoming vehicle integration processes. All these processes combined will greatly increase Tesla’s vehicle range by 54% while decreasing the price per Kilowatt-hour by 56% and decreasing investment per Gigawatt-hour by 69%. These are huge improvements if Tesla can achieve all these processes within the next five years/ Tesla vehicles will become much more affordable since the battery cell is always the biggest cost. Tesla will be able to sell many more cars to meet the current enormous demand for electric vehicles. On the Battery Day, Elon Musk also announced that there will be a $25,000 Tesla electric vehicle with full autonomous driving that will cost less than internal combustion engines. As far as I know, no other car manufacturers out there are as vertically-integrated as Tesla in terms of “battery design, cell technology, cell manufacturing, car manufacturing, autonomous driving, and selling cars directly to customers”—I believe all these things combined give a huge competitive advantage to Tesla. The fourth catalyst is Tesla’s full self-driving (FSD) that will eventually become fully autonomous—or level 5 autonomous driving without human intervention. Right now, at the time of making this video, Tesla has already released its full self-driving (FSD) beta to testers. As far as I know, no other car manufacturers out there are close to Tesla’s current full self-driving Beta right now. Eventually, many electric vehicles will become fully autonomous. Tesla’s full self-driving beta is much more advanced than other competitors. Even though without Tesla’s Robotaxi service, I believe Tesla’s full self-driving (FSD) alone will continue to be a huge selling point for many customers. What are Tesla’s risks to consider? The first risk I mentioned before is that Tesla’s current market cap of $550 billion market cap or $585/share is likely overvalued. If we look at Tesla’s 2018 CEO compensation package, we will see $550 billion market cap is way ahead of the company’s expected operational milestones. Realistically, I believe Tesla’s more reasonable value (at the time of making this video) is somewhere between $250 billion and $350 billion. I would wait until Tesla stock has large corrections, so the stock will be much cheaper. The second biggest risk is Tesla’s completion. Right now, all the major car manufacturers in the world—including Volkswagen, Porsche, BYD, Mercedes, BMW and Toyota—are shifting to produce more electric vehicles. I cannot predict whether Tesla will still have the biggest EV market share by 2030. But I believe as long as Tesla is continually innovating, improving its battery tech, improving its car manufacturing processes, reducing battery costs, and staying ahead in full self-driving, I believe Tesla will continue to be the market leader in electric vehicles for many years to come. In conclusion, Is Tesla at $550 Billion Market Cap or $585/share overvalued? Why I believe Tesla will reach $1 Trillion in Market Cap. I believe Tesla’s current $550 billion market cap or $585/share, at the time of making this video, is overvalued. Institutional investors that track the S&P 500 index are forced to invest billions of dollars in Tesla because Tesla will be joining the S&P 500 index on Dec 21st. This is why Tesla stock increased +43% in less than two weeks between Nov 17 2020 and Nov 27 2020. Also, Tesla’s 2018 CEO compensation package shows that Tesla’s $550 billion market cap is much more ahead of the company’s operational milestones. I believe Tesla will eventually reach $1 Trillion in market cap within the next 3 years because Tesla is benefiting from the enormous demand for electric vehicles in North America, China and Europe right now. In terms of competitive advantages, Tesla is far ahead of most competitors in battery tech, car manufacturing processes, electric vehicle range and performance, and full self-driving technology. Again, here is my prediction—Once Tesla’s Fremont factory, Shanghai Gigafactory and the upcoming Berlin Gigafactory reach full production within the next 3 years, I believe Tesla will be able to sell 1.5 million vehicles each year (meaning an average of 500,000 vehicles per major factory). If Tesla can sell 1.5 million vehicles each year by 2023 or perhaps later, Tesla should eventually reach $1 trillion in market cap. Tesla’s future services including Robotaxi, full self-driving subscription, and other software subscription services (which have high gross margins) will also add to Tesla’s valuation growth. Now, if you like this video, smash the like button and subscribe. I will continue to make many great videos about stock investing and personal finance that will help you become a great investor. This is Victor from the Intelligent Investor Channel. Thank you for watching! 