 The all-electric Ford Mustang Mach-E Ford Testing Facility - Belgium Hello! Here at Lommel proving ground, together with the vehicle dynamics team we're making sure that the all new Mustang Mach-E electric vehicle is set up just right for the European market. Engineers from different regions of the world have been working right from the start together with the Mustang Mach-E development team to create an architecture that enables great driving dynamics. In Europe we have more twisty roads but at the same time we have high-speed motorways. They all require suspension tuning that really fits to these road conditions. We have been adjusting the shock settings the springs, the roll bars and the calibration of the steering system. The battery pack is sitting way low in the vehicle therefore the centre of gravity is very low, but at the same time the electric motor has immediate response and that is really giving this fantastic sensation of fun to drive. The immediate acceleration is very very sporty and very much in tune with what European customers want. Another advantage of the setup of this vehicle is the high speed stability which is very very crucial on the German motorways. With the absence of a combustion engine the vehicle is much quieter and in order to make it harmonious with the rest of the vehicle the road isolation has been optimised as well. The Mustang Mach-E has three different driving modes. With the three settings the pictures in the in the cluster are changing the ambient light is changing, the calibration of the steering system is changing and even the sound in the interior is changing. We also calibrated the driver assist systems to make sure that the system can cope with all possible driving conditions all over Europe. Fun to drive, is probably the most key element that we want to develop in all our Ford products. And this Mustang Mach-E will definitely meet the expectations of all of our European customers, but if there was just one thing globally that we wanted to achieve with this electric vehicle, it is that it would deserve the Mustang badge on it. The all-electric Ford Mustang Mach-E 