 Hello my name is Gabi Zuniga and I am Got It's Software Architect. I'm visiting Vietnam for a couple of weeks and I'm very happy to meet you so what's your name? My name is Tuan Anh. And how old are you? I'm 13 year old! Wow that's very young and you're you're probably our youngest intern ever! How long are you intern here? Well I've been doing intern here from the beginning of the summer so it's a month and a half. And how did you even consider interning at Got It? So my mom knew that I was interested in programming so she started like searching for any things I can do online and she come across Got It and she asked her friends how Got It worked and it is fun and she decided for me to have an interview here and get an internship here. Wow and so did you learn or do you know some some programming before coming to Got It? Yeah! What did you know? I know a lot about making web design like HTML/CSS and some of JavaScript. And here at Got It what did you learn? I learnt a lot more details about a programming language called Python and I also learnt a bit about machine learning and got to do some big projects. I heard that you did it like a college-level Python course here with exercise and everything, is that true? Yes! Wow that's that's that's amazing that's actually free pretty cool! So let's talk about your project! So what what did you do here at Got It? What was your main project? So my main project is to create a car that can drive by itself on a certain path! Okay so that that's actually the hardware that you used right? Yes! And then what were the steps? What parts of the project that you can explain for someone that knows nothing about machine learning and about this kind of projects? So first of all we have to like know how it works and then we put some code and some files into the car and then we calibrate the car so that it can move forward and backward smoothly and it can turn without any problem. So you learned how to SSH and how to login inside the car? Yes! It seems like Linux command? Yes! Wow! OK! And then we started to train it like using images to let it know how to drive and how to follow the path So you trained it. What kind of machine learning techniques the you guys used for for learning? We used Keras framework. Yes Keras framework. Cool! And like what kind of models do you used? Well, it's supervised learning! Yeah. Okay. That's it. Right, and so after the car learned it's inside car or how the learnings occurred? How we got processed? So you have to like dig deep and like change something about car. I see and so this process is smooth or you have any challenge? Yes, we do have some challenges so like we have some some problems with the cameras like it doesn't have enough resolution so we decide to change the settings of camera or we change the Keras and the second problem is about the calibration at some time the car doesn't move smoothly or the car can't turn or we can't drive so we decided change setting inside the car about how it moves and how it turns and also we have a bit problem about the training because the path wasn't bright enough or there wasn't too much spot light, it's dark so the car doesn't know where to move So now what's the next step? I don't have any more time for it but I think I'm going to improve the car to make it so it can drive on any kind of different paths and it can avoid collision and avoid cars and obstacles. That's pretty awesome! So at Got It we really care about results so enough talking. Why don't you show me how it works? OK. Alright! OK, what are you going to show me now? So I'm going to show you the demo that how the car runs by itself OK excellent! So you loaded the code into the car and the car drives itself. Yes. Awesome! Cool it's loading now. car is running by itself following the path that's great! The car is just driving around by itself? Yes. Awesome! OK Cool! 