 Hey, everyone. Today, we've got a couple of fresh faces for this week's crypto duel. Today, I'll be joined by Jacob Canfield, the number one ranked Bitcoin analyst on trading view, and Jeff Dorman, chief investment officer at Arca. Together, we'll be analyzing Bitcoin's latest sleep's China's latest blockchain developments and where is the global economy going? Welcome to this week's crypto duel! and makes you head over to our community page on our YouTube channel. And there you can tell us who you think won this week's crypto duel. How you guys doing today? Good. Doing well, man. Thank you. Thanks for having us on the show. Yeah, of course. Thanks for coming on. So since last Friday, Bitcoin, as usual, has pretty much done the last thing everyone expected. On Saturday, it topped out at around ten point five thousand dollars after rising around 40 percent in under twelve hours. That's a big move, the largest percentage increase since April 2013. In fact, not only that, it did so in the face of many bearish indicators. Can you please breakdown what happened over the weekend? Did either of you see this coming and where do you think we'll go from here? Is this enough momentum to push us into more bullish movements? I mean, look, as you said, 40 percent is a big move. There's very few people who can ever say in retrospect that they saw that coming in the perfect timing or the perfect sizing of that move. But there are certainly reasons to have been bullish leading up to that effect. I sent a note to my team earlier that morning and actually the night before to just saying, here's the bull case right now, if you're looking for one. Sentiment was incredibly low. There's a lot of different measures you can look at. But, you know, the fear and greed index was approaching all time lows again. Every fund that you spoke to, especially here in the U.S. and also in Europe, was basically either high cash balances or even net short, just given the price action that had happened previously. Options expiry had just happened. You have big options expiry the night before. And usually there's a lot of repositioning that happens after expiry. So there was certainly a bearish tone. And as that rolls off, there is certainly some room or a little wiggle room in there. We might see some some exacerbated moves right after options expiry. If Bitcoin just going below the 2 year moving average, which I know Jacob can probably talk about more than I can on the technical side. And you also add a lot of minors kind of reversing course, right. A lot of the move in August and September down was miners buying puts and ultimately selling on the market. And we had heard from a lot of different OTC groups as well as from our Asian channels that that was not only reversing course, but a lot of miners were actually buying calls, getting ready for the next move higher. So there were reasons to be bullish. I think anytime you have massive volatility both ways, it's hard to really set yourself up to capture before move like that because, you know, you're trained in any kind of trading to get smaller in the face of volatility, not get larger. But there were certainly reasons to be bullish ahead of them. Yeah, I would I would agree that for me, I was I was prepared for the bounce. I was not prepared at the velocity or the ferociousness of the bounce. So I'll just share my screen real quick and I'll kind of go through my logic on the trading, what what I was actually watching for. And then I'll go over an indicator that has actually been really historically strong pretty much through all of 2019 at kind of predicting these these choppy moves and which way that they're going to move. What I would be looking at is just the daily chart on XBT USD, which is the perpetual swap contract for Bitmex specifically. And so what we saw was we saw a falling wedge structure on Bitcoin. But more importantly, we had this like classic triangle that everybody was watching that broke to the downside. And when we broke to the downside, we tested that 200 day moving average one, two, three, four, five times. And usually when it when it tested multiple times, it usually gets weaker for the next retest. But in this case, it rejected it and pushed it to the downside. Now, when we remove everything and I'll go back to this in just a second, but when we when we get rid of everything, what we actually had was we had a really, really classic descending broad wedge. Right angle broad wedge, which is usually bears. What you usually see is you'll see a bounce, bounce, bounce. And then this last bounce. Classically with the right angle, broad wedge usually bounces about 50 percent. So that was kind of an indication to get short or at least head short neutral. So when that broke down, usually a measured move is from the top of the price channel to the bottom of the price channel. So about 11 percent. So 11 percent would have taken us down to around 68-7000. That's what I was ideally looking for. But we did hit a very strong previous strong bullish block in this block right here actually coincided perfectly with our swing low to swing high from thirty four hundred to twenty thousand to the 618. And so I did have a bullish case since that and saying that, you know, we can we can add on. And what I was looking for, price to happen was basically like a bounce up and then a retest of that sixty one point eight to maybe form a double bottom. Now, the one indicator that has has been giving me kind of pause to go heavy short, when we were in this lower range was the funding indicator. So I'm just gonna I'm just gonna kind of back up to where I had all my indicators real quick. So this funding indicator down here, it's a funny indicator on trading view by a guy named Neal Buting. But this basically shows the positional siding of longs and shorts. So you've got long interest versus short interest. And so this is more of a lagging indicator. So when when the topside. This is basically where short or where longs are paying shorts, and so funding is not favoring longs at all at this position, and this was basically when we're in the 10000 chop range. And so when when shorts are paying longs for our side, when longs are paying shorts for an extended period of time. That means that the the people that are on the wrong side of the trade, most of the open positions are longs. So if you see a price break down at all, you know that most of the market is actually net long. So if you get that, then you're usually setting yourself up for what's known as a long squeeze to the downside. And that's what we saw. And then when we got down into this choppy range right here, we had basically net short. Most individuals were net short. And so longs are Saras shorts were paying longs for almost basically since the beginning of September all the way through October. So almost an entire month from that breakdown, we had flipped funding. So I was watching that, knowing that we could get a short squeeze to the top side. Did I think it was going to be the third largest candle in history? Absolutely not. I don't know if anybody really saw that happening, but all it really takes is a little bit of a spark to get a little bit of a spark. It's kind of like the initial spark to start it like, you know, just an explosive chain of events. And so that, you know, when you saw China announce that they are supporting blockchain, that gave us that little spark. So all of these shorts that were offsides because they'd been paying funding for that long. They just got short squeeze out of the market. And then you see this high volume blow off top. And we I mean, we respected the moving averages really, really well. But I'm going to let him kind of fill on fill in on some more of his thoughts. And then I'll and then I'll go to the futures chart, which has been historically highly accurate with technical analysis. And that's it gives a little bit more of a bullish case as well. I think I think you're hitting on a lot of things that are important. I think more from for me, having come from the traditional world, more of an equity and debt background, technicals always matter something you need to you need to respect in traditional markets is not the most important thing in the world. Because there's all types of different players. You have you have rotations happening all the time. Right. Equities get too cheap. Companies will start buying back their own stock or distressed investors will start moving away from debt. Move into equities. Right of debt gets too cheap. Also on the activist investor, the Carl Icahns of the world will come in and buy the debt and will try to take over companies. So you always have this rotation of asset classes where new players will come into the market based on what's happening. In crypto you're just not seeing that, it is such a small piece of the overall financial puzzle. And for the most part, it is so heavily dominated by traders who are looking at TA that this sentiment and this funding that Jake is talking about is actually very it follows the TA very closely. So when I was talking earlier about sentiment being low and funds being very heavy, cash being short, it's all based on the same TA. So everybody was eyeing that same move. Oh, we're probably gonna go down to seven thousand sixteen hundred. And when that happens, we're going to buy. And in general, when everybody is thinking the same thing, it almost never happens. Right. That contrarian indicator doesn't necessarily mean it's going to happen, but it means if it does happen, it's going to be violent. And that's what we saw. Right. So I would say nobody knew for sure we were going to break to the upside any more than they knew we were gonna break to the downside. But when you do break to the to the upside, when everybody is offsides, it just accelerates faster than you'd ever believe. But like you said, today is only good to an extent. That's why I look at a lot of other things like minor capitulation, minor prices, on-chain analytics, wallet movements, order book analysis. Most of my trading is based around order book analysis, so I'm watching for order flow. A lot of these a lot of these funny ratios because what you typically see is when a move is about to occur, you'll see a lot of the smarter traders limit selling kind of offloading positions or just building positions at that level. But price isn't changing much. So you see a lot of orders coming in. So it's not driving up the order books for these five million, 10 million, 20 million dollar buys. But you're seeing, you know, a hundred thousand to 500000 kind of limit buys coming into the market. And so that kind of gives you an idea of when someone's building a position to expecting a market move the other way. One of the things that I think has been driving the market that doesn't get a lot of attention and I'm just gonna show my screen one more time is the futures market, which is the CME market. And what we see is we see a lot of these gaps and some of these gaps will get filled. Some of them won't get filled. It depends on what type of gap is. But the CME futures market actually came down to that 700 support. That's seventy three hundred support and it came down perfectly to the 200 day moving average on the Bitcoin futures chart, which is the CME chart. But on Spot, on Bitmex on any of the other exchanges, it was below the 200 day moving average. But on the futures market is actually on the 200 day moving average. So you kind of have to look at a few different markets to kind of get an idea of what, you know, what's actually driving the market, what's supporting the market, what are the smart money of the institutions? What are they using to chart with and for? In my opinion, I think that the futures market is actually what's been driving the market a lot. It's much cleaner from a technical analysis perspective, but the volume was massive, especially on this volume breakdown here. We saw most of the volume coming from the CME market when this volume broke back in April. And so, you know, this bullish move recently up to 7400 level. It came down to sixty one point eight. And those while the twenty day moving average, which is super, super classic TA, as well as had this falling wedge structure. And then it gapped up perfectly to the thirty eight point two percent Fibonacci level. So. So I'm I'm looking for maybe a pullback back down on the spot price down to maybe the 200 day moving average. So this level here, this this ninety nine hundred level was basically like a really strong pivot kind of price action level in the upper price range. And so this is a key level for me as far as like getting back bullish, I'd say ninety nine ten. We break that and I'll go FOBO. Jeff, where do you think we're headed from here? Well, it's always a hard question because the timing is so important. Right. I mean, I don't think does anybody in this market for the most part who doesn't have a long term bullish view on Bitcoin and a select few other digital assets, I share that same view. I know I completely reinvented my career and dedicated my career to this asset class because of that reason. Even when we're marketing to traditional investors, you know, the pension funds, the endowments, the family offices. Nobody's rushing into crypto just to get short. They're all in this market because they think it's going higher for good reason. There is a ton of bullish indicators outside of crypto that are happening across the world from the global unrest in countries like Chile and Lebanon and Hong Kong to be just continuous lowering of rates across the across the world to even negative rates. I think the Fed's going to cut rates again tomorrow, which is insane when you think about stocks at all time highs. You've got this race to the bottom in global currency. So even outside of anything happening in the crypto world, there is so much more money outside of crypto that will make its way into this market at some point. And you can have all the TA in the world. But when demand massively outpaces supply, which is what we're going to see in the next few years, prices have nowhere to go but up. So you have to block having next year, which is going to reduce supply and you've got new money that will eventually come into the system, which is gonna increase demand. And that's as bullish as you get. The problem is, as you know, Jake and I were both alluding to here is dealer positioning and industrial positioning can screw all of that up right in the traditional world. You can stick with a short for much longer, because even if you get blown up on 2, 3, 4 or 5 percent, you can kind of just reload and get back in it when the moves are 40 percent intraday. It's really hard to stay in any trade and it's really hard to get big in any trade. In crypto there are people who have 100 percent or more of their funds in this space trying to trade it and it gives you no room for error. So short term, anything can happen, obviously. Longer term, I think the best thing you can do right now is just figure out a plan to ensure that you are long biased when the real move starts to go to the upside. Let's move on to the next question. So we've been speaking a little bit about China and big moves. And China has been making some really big moves in the blockchain space recently, in addition to Xi Jinping's announcement supporting blockchain technology, China Electronic Information Industry Development announced that there are now more than 700 blockchain enterprises in China. China is also looking to be the first country to implement a central bank digital currency. Why are they pushing this technology so hard? Why is it so important for China to be on the forefront of blockchain implementation? Will it offer them some sort of global economic advantage? I think if they get to think this a lot of problems we have and we speak to people who in crypto who are new to this or maybe just not as entrenched as the rest of us are, who focus on it all day, all day long. But crypto has to be split right now between what is actually affecting currencies like Bitcoin or some of the Bitcoin derivatives. And what is being used as an underlying technology for everything else. And I like to use ETFs as an example. ETFs didn't create a new asset class. It simply made investing in existing asset classes that much easier. You can invest in different types of equities that you didn't have access to before. You could invest in bonds through an easier mechanism than you could before real estate, hard assets, et cetera, and Blockchain the technology, is doing something similar. I mean, you look across the altcoins, a lot of them are very different that there's not there's not necessarily one category that fit into some of them are clearly scams. Some of them have no ability to accrete to the price and makes it a terrible investment. It doesn't necessarily mean that it's not a good use case. So when we think about China getting involved heavily, China's been involved heavily in every new technology. This is nothing new. I think it's a I think it's maybe a wrong or at least dangerous assumption to assume that them getting involved in blockchain is necessarily directly based on bitcoin or currency. There could be plenty of other applications of blockchain that they think is really important and they just want to be ahead of it like they have been in just about every form of technology of the last twenty five years. I would I would agree with him, but you've got to think of what blockchain brings to the table as far as value. China is really, really well known for blocking U.S. companies, said of Google set of, you know, Google, Facebook, they've got their own companies, they've got Tencent. We checked Alipay. And so blockchain, it's one of its biggest value propositions is trackability and traceability. Right. So when you put your food on the blockchain, it allows you to track exactly which farm it came from. It allows you to, you know, compile a massive amount of data and really have the source code of where that data came from. It's all verifiable, it's all unhackable. And so separating blockchain from tokens. Right. Because I think that's a very big important differentiation, because you can have a blockchain company that doesn't have a token. You've got blockchain companies that don't have tokens. But when you talk about China, they've got a ton of issues with agriculture. Figure out where their food comes from. And they've banned a lot of U.S. agriculture. They're buying U.S. property for agriculture. So just having, you know, their agricultural processes put onto the blockchain is a huge part of it. But also there their program WeChat it is literally drives the everyday citizens life on the whole platform. They schedule appointments. It's their payment processing. It's their social messaging app. It's everything. So they have all this data. But now when you integrate a blockchain layer, now you're actually have that data that's verifiable, that's shareable, that you they can go back and they can look at the whole history and you can't delete that history anymore. And so I think that that's a really big part of what China's doing. But talking more about Jeff was saying they're at the forefront of a lot of technologies. We've got a lot of things that are coming out from A.I., self-driving cars, robotics, 5G. You've got all these things in blockchain is kind of the base layer for a lot of that. You've got a lot of these pro broad protocol layers that you can build all these things on. Andreas Antonopoulos talks about a lot of this when he talks about you can have a car that's its own corporation because the blockchain allows it to verify all these transactions, do all these different things. And so you're going to see just like a very big shift in the way that all these technologies integrate today together. It's called the IOC Internet of Things. When you're when your refrigerator is, you know, empty, it can send an automated message to the store. And then all of this thing is can be built on that blockchain layer. So I think that what his message was, was that they just need to be at the forefront of it. They need to accept it. Whereas, you know, the US, the S.E.C., the CFTC, they're they're like they're given really gray. You know, they're there. Clarity of regulation is if we sue you, it's a scam or, you know, sue you, sue you by fire. I mean, that's basically like what they're allowing with with crypto right now. And it's not really clear. They allow, you know, Block One and EOS to get away with like a 10 million, 20 million dollar fine for raising a billion dollars. But then they find another guy, five million dollars for raising 10 million. It's very confusing. And Donald Trump himself have come out and said that blockchain and, you know, bitcoin and cryptocurrencies are bad and scam. So you're at this kind of dichotomy where two world leaders are giving mixed messages on what they're saying. And in my opinion, we're going to lose trillions of dollars in business because a lot of these innovative technologies and I saw first hand Asia is all in on crypto. You go to Singapore and it's nothing but tech emerging technologies. I was at the Blockchain Invest Asia conference and they're just all in 5G, IOT, you know, all these everything. So in my opinion, they're just they're just they see they see the vision, they see the future. And same thing with Russia. Russia has been eyeing blockchain for a very long time. And the big tipping point will be when a country, a sovereign nation, starts to back their national currency or their national digital currency with Bitcoin. And I think that's the next tipping point that you'll see really be the bullish use case for Bitcoin as you see it with gold. You see China has like one of the largest reserves in gold. You see Russia has the same thing. They were buying U.S. debt, but now they stop buying U.S. debt because that may not be a good debt to hold for the long term. Our debt ratio is going up like through the roof when a sovereign nation starts buying bitcoin and then backs their digital national currency like we're seeing with China. I think that's the next tipping point for for Bitcoin, you know what I mean? Jake bounced around a lot of different topics. And what I think is important to separate two of the things he's saying. Right. So blockchain technologies. So, as he said, doesn't need a cryptocurrency in effect. I think the word cryptocurrency is the most dangerous word in this entire market because it makes everyone think that every tokin that comes about and every blockchain project is trying to become a new global currency. That's not the case. There is plenty of different use cases for tokens, some of them already better than others. In exchange tokens, which are kind of quasi equity instruments, you've seen things like File coin, which is, you know, trying to. Allow you to transfer assets, access storage on your computer to the people who need it. So these are not currencies. These are these are different use cases of blockchain technology. And to what Jake said, there are way more reasons right now in Asia to be using some blockchain than necessarily here in the US because of the verification, everything from agriculture to merchants to to things that are maybe not as clear cut as they are here in the US. So the blockchain technology itself is really important data. And I would argue that here in the US it's not really being stifled, stifled by the SEC. The SEC is focused only on the that the investing part of it. Right. Our retail investor is getting taken advantage through these investing opportunities. That means ICOs or other top forms of crowd sales, and that means listing on exchanges that are not necessarily registered broker dealers. Things like that. That's a totally different line of regulation than anybody who just wants to build using blockchain technology. So I think you are seeing the innovation here in the US as well. But I think some people like to conflate the SEC's impact on crypto prices and on trading versus the innovation happening just in blockchain. I mean, IBM is one of the biggest blockchain companies in the world now. Bank of America owns more blockchain patents than anybody else in the world. So I don't think that it's I don't think that I don't think we can say that China's doing it and The US isn't. I simply think that it may be more important near-term for China and other Asian countries to get some of this technology right. Now, conversely, going back to what Jake was saying at the end of his comments about the currency aspect of it, now that is very real and that's very scary in the sense that we really talked about. Every country is trying to debase their currency because the global debt to GDP GDP is higher than it's ever been. And there's only two ways out of massive debt loads. There's default, which you've seen now in countries like Argentina and Puerto Rico and even close in Turkey and obviously in Greece, you know, 70 years ago. Or you inflate your way out of it. Right. And you inflate your way out of it by basically inflating your currency so that your debts are meaningless or you simply lower the purchasing power so much and find a new form of that purchasing power that's going to take over. So China is looking to basically debase their own currency to fuel exports and keep rates low while simultaneously adopting Bitcoin or their own new currency like they're doing that they think is going to be stronger and give you the ability to pay down these debts and to ultimately become a global force. That's really scary. And I don't think that Jake or I or anybody who's not there every day can really say what the ultimate goal there is. But certainly currency wars and trade wars and terrorism, all the things that are happening are not to be taken lightly. And I think you're going to see a pretty stark dichotomy over the next five to 10 years between commercial uses of blockchain versus the currency uses of blockchain. Wow. I actually wanted to go back a bit to a point where Jake said that he believes that at some point Bitcoin might become the backing of a national currency. How would we actually get to that point? As a store of value, I mean, it's a digital gold. It's it's deflationary in nature. It is based on Austrian economics. It's a scarcity model. Right. So it's it's based on what people value. But the biggest thing that it has going for it is that it's unstoppable. The only way that they tried to stop it was to shut off the fiat on ramps to it. And it still managed to survive quite well. I mean, you saw that in twenty seventeen, which is one of the biggest reasons why I you know, I sent a note to basically move positions to cash only around 17, 20, set around 15 to sixteen thousand after the big drop from twenty thousand is because the writing was on the wall. Bank of America shut off bitcoin buying, Wells Fargo shut bitcoin buying, all credit cards shut bitcoin buying. And the only way you get new buyers is is by having new money come into the market. And so they tried really hard to shut off all these Fiat onramps. And now you see all of these big players that are entering. The fact that Bakkt is here is a big deal. I think that it really gets understated like how big of a deal Bakkt is. Bakkt, they own the New York Stock Exchange and they've managed to innovate tremendously on the New York Stock Exchange. They got they they did a whole bunch of things that nobody really saw coming on the NYSE. But the fact that they came in and they are great, they created this deliverable. You know, Bitcoin backed futures market. And now they're coming out with this commercial app where you can pay in crypto for. I think it's a much bigger deal than people are realizing. And I think that I just think that Bitcoin is really here to stay. I mean, it's it's proven itself as a store of value. It's proven itself against attacks. It's really it's I mean, you have to spend a billion dollars. I can't remember the exact statistic or amount of time, but you have to spend like a billion dollars to try and like every 10 minutes or an hour, something like that, to try and bring down the Bitcoin network. And you can only do it temporarily because the incentivisation of the way that the mining works in the way that Satoshi Nakamoto designed it, it's incentivized to maintain the network. And like he talked about with the halving coming up, everything is just pointing with all these macro events to Bitcoin as a massive bullish catalyst coming in the near future. So I see I think that once you see what somebody sovereign nations, when they when the price of gold maybe dips or they're looking for. I think that Bitcoin eventually could see itself as a as a standard or a backing. And I have seen some theories about the way that Bitcoin could act as a standard unit of measurement for finance, whereas like we've got the kilogramme we've got these standard metrics, measurements of unit. And I think that Bitcoin could act as the same way because of the nature of its properties and the fact that it's so decentralized and doesn't really have anybody that runs it now. I mean, we can go into how many wallets are owned by Wecks percentage and the centralization nature of its early beginnings. But the longer that time goes on, we do see that it gets more and more and more decentralized. But I think that we're talking the long game here. I don't think this is a five year, 10 year, 20 year play. I'm talking 50 or hundred year play in that. For me, it's just even though it's an early technology like you had kind of mentioned, I think that it's still got potential to do really, really big things. I just think it's even simple things, very simple, which is Bretton Woods was an agreement between nations to make the U.S. dollar a reserve currency. I don't see anything going on in the world right now that makes you think that any nations are going to agree on anything right now. So the likelihood of anything replacing the US dollar as a reserve currency, as a vote or as an agreement is not going to happen. Only what's going to happen is because they don't have a choice. Right. And the only instrument out there that has any potential to knock off governments ability to control things is something decentralized and immutable like bitcoin. So, you know, I don't think there will ever be an agreed upon, hey, bitcoin is not a reserve currency because governments need power. And power is based on your military and on your currency. So no one's going to cede that control on. No one's going to cede that control voluntarily. It's gonna be something that happens because they don't have a choice and it's too late. And with Jacob saying, as you know, because of all the things we've spoken about, about why Bitcoin is growing and why adoption is going to happen, these governments are gonna have a choice at some point, whether they openly or explicitly say, yes, we accept Bitcoin in any walk of life or it's just assumed like a unit of measurement where you don't have a choice because people are benchmarking it to it anyway. It's going to happen. And I think it's fairly inevitable at this point. And that's why you're seeing China going on their own new currency right now. And what the U.S. will really digitize their currency soon is every government out there is going to grasp at straws right now to try to hold on to that power that they do have while they still have it. And it'll be probably the most interesting political and economic experiment ever. If Bitcoin somehow is able to use her, you know, tens of thousands of years of control. Great. Well, that was an incredibly interesting take on the future of our global economy. Thank you guys so much for coming on the show today. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks for inviting us. Thank you again for watching. That was Jacob Canfield and Jeff Dorman on this week's crypto duel. My name is Jackson and always remember to, like, subscribe and comment. 