 Hi, welcome! My name is Ian McGann. I'm a  business strategy manager here at Siemens   and I'm going to talk today about  accelerated multi-sensor ADAS development   with a new data collection solution that we have. To introduce the topic I'm first   going to start about the talk about the  levels of automation. So we have level  0 which is no automation at all - all the way  up to level 5 which is a fully automated car and as you go up through those levels what  you're going to see in level 1 is ACC, AEBS,   and then level 2, which is the most common today  is highway pilot systems, traffic jam assist   parking assist, and I also have here sensor fusion.  It's important to remember that for later on   sensor fusion is something that starts with the  level 1 and it works its way up and becomes   more incorporated as you get into level 5  but we'll come to that a little bit later.   In order to help explain the topic of ADAS, we kind of say, well, what is ADAS and ADAS is   is an example that we're seeing here where we have  a potential collision that is going to happen a   car is driving along at 80 kilometers per hour and  a cyclist pulls out in front of it and the car   now has 29 meters or 1.3 seconds in order to stop  or make a maneuver. Now, in order for it to stop   there has to be enough distance and in this case there isn't. If a car was driving along even at 50 kilometers per hour, it would have 35 meters  and that's on a dry road. So, it's not going to   have enough time. It really has to make a maneuver  and in this situation an MPC or model predictive   controller is typically used to help the vehicle  guide around the obstacle and but then also   take into account all the boundary constraints, so  like the cyclist is moving, so it has to take that   into account and its distance, and then you see another very big constraint is the motorbike   passing on the left-hand side, so that the  vehicle has to slow, make a maneuver, pass the   cyclist, and then go back into its appropriate  lane. So, all of this has to happen within   before 1.3 seconds, before the potential collision.  And the vehicle does that by recognizing   its environment around it. It has cameras built  into the vehicle. It has potentially radars, lidars,   ultrasonics, and IMU, a GPS for its positioning, and  all of the CAN-bus information. And it's receiving   all of that information, it's perceiving  all of that information, it plans its route   and then it acts. It does control, so it steers, throttles, brakes, or uses the gears.   Now, all of this happens extremely quickly and  MPCs or model predictive controls, they work   like, say, you're playing chess. They're always  looking ahead. They're always thinking ahead   taking new information in, and immediately reacting  to that information, so that they can guide the   vehicle around the cyclist as safely as possible.  Now, if we look at a standard vehicle today on   the market and this is a level 2 vehicle - so  if you remember we had 5 levels - so this is a   level 2 vehicle, it has a long-range radar which  is in the front, it has a surround camera also in   the front, and if we move around the vehicle,  we then get a view of the other types of sensors.   It has a parking sensor, it has a smart  camera up in the dash, and it has another,   nicely hidden in the wing mirror, surround  camera, and then the short-range radars are   typically hidden in behind the bumpers. And you'll  have a few of those around the bumper, and then   on the back, you'll have another surround camera,  and on the inside is our system that we're   going to talk about a bit more:   the recorder module and a high-end GPS and   those are the modules that will record all of  those sensors and capture all of that information.   So, in the end, what you're going to see  with all of those sensors, you're going to   see them all coming into our recorder unit, and  you'll get a view like this. You're going to see   the front-facing camera, you're going to see the  surround cameras on the left and the right, and   we've got one on the back as well. You'll  also want to see the GPS location, you'll want   to see some CAN trace information and if there's  a lidar present or a radar present, you might also   want to see that information coming through  the system as well. The objective is getting this complete picture, this  complete recording, coming off of the system. But why is ADAS needed? What we have here is  a nice example of a Tesla vehicle that is driving   along, and it very nicely avoids a collision.  Right, so, the Tesla system slows down and stops   in time to avoid hitting the red car and avoid  this complete accident. And if we take this   scenario into account and we analyze  it, we use our predictive systems to analyze this,  we can see that the radar is - the Tesla  system is analyzing the radar not only of the red   car in front of it but of the blue car in front of  that. And it's using the reflections on the ground   that are passing underneath the cars - the red car - and it detects the blue car breaking and slowing down.  And it avoids the accident completely! So, why  is ADAS testing needed? In this example, we have   a bus and it has a picture of a person on the back  of the bus. And the same Tesla vehicle mistakes   that person - the picture - for a real person and  starts to automatically break. And we call that   a false positive and that's the type of  scenario that we really want to capture. And those scenarios, it is something that is happening  quite frequently as you get into areas of,   let's say, unknown testing, so as you start introducing  your vehicle into new markets, you're going to see   this kind of example more and more. So, customers  need to test the boundaries of the systems that   they've put in place. But the testing isn't  easy, there's a lot of different types of cameras,   there's a lot of different radars, lidar systems,  ultrasonics, IMUs, GPS, CAN-bus systems available   and, they all have these different interfaces. So,  having a system that is flexible, that can take   into account either a GMSL2, an FPD-link 3 type  camera, automotive Ethernet or standard Ethernet   is really important. So, you want a system that  is going to be extremely flexible, you also need   to take into account the bandwidth, right? As you  progress, in the level 2 example we showed   was a generation 2/ generation 3 type of camera  and, as we progress into level 3, 4 and 5,   the types of cameras and the bandwidth they  produce is going up. So the number of cameras   also increases, and this adds a level of  scalability to the overall challenge that you have.   And to think about that a little bit, we have  an example, well, where we're talking about   terabytes of generated data per vehicle. The  example we have is we have one camera, it's a full-HD   raw at 12 to 40 frames per second, so it's 120  approximately megabits per second. We have a radar   which produces about 220 megabits per second.  And just a simple example of taking 6 cameras   and 6 radars, the complete vehicle  can produce 2.040 megabits per second.   That's equivalent on a full day of testing - 8  hours - that's equivalent to 58 terabytes. That's an   enormous amount of information per vehicle. Now,  in this kind of setup, you're probably going to   see that more in a level 4 or level 5 kind  of setup. So at level 2 today, it is a little bit   easier to capture, but you do need a system that  can take that kind of bandwidth and scalability.   So the system also needs to be able to be  robust, right? If you've been in a car,   the systems that we typically use here are  put in the trunk or the boot depending   on which part of the world you're in right now.  And so, the system needs to be robust,   it needs to be able to handle a lot of different  operating temperatures from -25°C to 70°C   is what we support. It also needs to  potentially have some smart power up, right?    If you have somebody driving the vehicle  for you, you just want the system to boot up,   log in, start recording immediately, so that's an  option that we also support. And then, you want to   maybe have a smart power down. So, we have  a UPS - optional UPS system - that can crank down   and shut the system down nicely and safely for  you. All of this needs to be scalable. So, in the   example we see here, we have 4 cameras, we have  some radar systems, we have our recorder unit   and I'll explain a little bit about more those  little other black boxes - they're called MDIs -   and we have a GNSS and a lidar. But scalability -  well, the cameras and the number of   radars can all increase, right? And again, you  maybe want to double that again and we have   an ECU in this case, right? So, this system needs to  be scalable and that's exactly what our system is   doing here is that you can link multiple systems  together, scale the overall setup, and go up to 128 megabits per second.   In the end, as I showed  before, the result you want is this kind of result,  where we have our front-facing cameras,  we have our surround cameras, all coming together. So, what is our solution? It's Simcenter  SCAPTOR and it's made up of 3 parts:   a recorder, an analyzer, and a replay solution and  I'm going to talk about that in terms of a process flow.   So, what we have here is: typically, you would  have a test drive, ingestion, you then go into the   data visualization, you then have some replay,  validation and, afterwards, you're going to deploy   and this is at the, say, in the development stage  or in the final validation phase, you do some   fleet monitoring, and then you come back in with  all of your data that you've collected, and you go   out and you collect some more. And this whole  process is something that we're covering today   with our Simcenter SCAPTOR solution. Now, there  are parts of this where you have to create your   MPCs, you have to analyze your data, that's  all in between, let's say, and we've talked   a little bit about the perception, the path  and the control earlier on   in the session. Our solution, the acquisition system,  is a modular system. So, it's made up of a storage   module which goes up to 32 terabytes. Now, we  have then a recorder which has some nice   interfaces in there - for 1-gigabit and 10-gigabit  Ethernet - and also your standard USB ports, etc.   And then, we have these modular ports that you can  connect with a CAN-FD or a 1-gigabit Ethernet.   We also have a very important point here, in  terms of the raw cameras. So, when you're bringing   raw cameras in, these are typically serialized  interfaces and what's really important is    to timestamp that information accurately, so  we have a process where we deserialize   each packet, we timestamp, we then do a cycle  redundancy check, and then we package that   together in a UDP and we export that out via  a 10-gigabit Ethernet connection.    So, the overall data that you're getting, the quality  of the data is accurately time-stamped throughout   the entire process. The nice thing about these  MDIs, the modular data interface links, is that   you can get them as close as possible to the  ADAS ECU as required. Now, this is important   because, when you're timestamping, you want to  timestamp the information as it enters the ADAS ECU   there might be some delay there, and you want  to understand exactly what that delay is.   Overall, the system, it has extremely flexible  interfaces, from the different types of cameras   that we can support, going into 10-gigabit Ethernet,  the 1-gigabit Ethernet connections, taking   into account your lidar, your raw radar, your CAN-FD, and then the 1-gigabit unit extension cards.   The system has an extremely accurate time-  stamping, as the GPTP protocol that we're   following. And then, the synchronization, well,  we've talked a little bit about this earlier on,   it's got the scalability.  So, you can add on more modules   and increase the overall throughput   through our scalable interface.   The data cycle for all of this is important  to understand as well. So, after you've gone   out and you've done your test drive, the  most important thing is to get the data   to the people that need them as fast as  possible, which means you don't want to be   taking up the time of the vehicle on the recorder.  So, what we have available is a copy station. So,   you take your smart storage, a cartridge  out, you slot it into the copy station, and the   copy station smartly transfers that over  to an on-premise or private cloud solution.   And from there, you can start doing your data  labeling, your algorithm training, your   MPC development and your system validation. Now,  this was all made possible with a company    called b-plus. It's our partner and I'm  going to hand it over to Mr Alexander Noack,   who's now going to tell us a little bit  more about what they do.   Well, thank you very much, Ian, for the short  introduction! Welcome to our premises, here at   b-plus, my name is Alexander Noack. I'm the head  of the product center Automotive Electronics, and   I would briefly just like to introduce to you  with the experience, we have from various projects,   with the expertise we put into our products, which  you can see in the back of myself, and I would   like to just explain a little bit how we started  to work in this area. We mainly work a lot along   the autonomous driving development, starting at  driver assistance solutions, 20 years back in time. So, 20 years ago, we started to develop the  first camera systems together with our customer   in the tier-1 area, with a global customer  over there, and we worked a lot in the software   development at that time. Software development was  mainly focused on ECU series software development,   so to embed the algorithm, the functionality of  the device into software. Somewhere in the course   of these developments, we started to also see a lot  of tests and validation system needs at that time.   So, we started to design test systems, we started to  design test adapters, and one of them is shown over   here. That's an automotive Ethernet development  tool which makes it easy to really address   the specific world of automotive Ethernet, for  instance. In the course of these developments,    a lot of tools arise at that time and also a lot of  custom-specific solutions, so we built up systems   for test drives, we built up systems for  data recording inside the test vehicles.   And, about 10 years ago, we started to design  our own kind of portfolio out of these kinds of   projects. So, until that time, we  designed custom-specific solutions   mainly for the sake of this specific  customer, this specific use case.   We designed it, we produced it,  we shipped it out into the world,   and we supported It. These systems, basically, were  in numbers like hundreds or even a thousand units   out there. When we started to convert that  experience into products, like 10 years ago,  we set up systems which were helping our customer to  design his specific ECU or his specific solution.   For instance, one of these devices over here  was, at the very first time, designed for   the test of various images for the next generation  of cameras. So, this is why we've designed these   kind of interface units, just for the sake of this  specific process. Nowadays, we use this kind of   technologies for converting the high-bandwidth raw  data interface coming from sensors - usually, it's a   series interface - serializer/deserializer interface -  which we convert into a standard 10-gigabit Ethernet data stream  Why do we do that? Basically, we do that  because in the car the complexity of the network   is pretty hard. So, this is why we use standard  technology like Ethernet technology.   With this in mind, we can combine things like that together  with recorders focusing on Ethernet technology   as we see it over here. And this is basically  the products we have launched 5 years ago   out of these kinds of requirements, having a very  robust, very high-bandwidth recording system   for the in-vehicle use, for the sake of data  capturing, for the sake of validation and verification,   for testing algorithms in the field, in the test  vehicle, and for giving purpose to the designer   to really test his algorithm at the end of the  day. So, data capturing over here happens onto   specific kind of storage solutions. So, this is  basically state-of-the-art today. In the future,   once we look into topics like data-driven  development, we look into much much more data,   we look into terabytes per day, per vehicle, and  this is why we brought data center technology   into the vehicle as well, as the next step for the  future, which is shown over here. So, basically we   have a data center, a data lake inside the vehicle,  which makes it easy to take data out of the car   into the data center, into the collocation space of  the data center provider, and to really bring data   to the point where it can be used for artificial  intelligence training today, for designing new   algorithms, for designing new functionality, and for  doing tests at HiL benches at the end of the day.   And this is why we have set up this kind of   toolchain, which you can see over here, and brought it   into a wider field of standard products, which  can be addressed in various projects, due to   its modularity, long-term availability, and also  the reliability of the systems. While we have that   in place, we covered a lot of projects, at Tier-1 and  OEM level, for the last 10 years with these kinds of   standard products. Well, today, we joined forces  with partners like Siemens to widen our   addressable market in the field, to really  approach other international areas, to use   our joint forces to really bring solutions to  the customer, and also to combine technology - the   technology of the vehicle together with  the technology inside the data center -  in tools, in software, in services, to really  widen the whole range of development cycles.   So, with this, we basically try to share expertise  and share also knowledge about different   scenarios, well, and basically, put on that, with  these partners, we really can address a wider   range of customers and cover a wider solution. Well,  in this way, I would like to hand back to Ian for   these next topics. Thank you very much, thanks  for being here, and thanks for being part of that! Thank you Alex, it was a great overview! I really appreciate it! What I want to do now is kind of introduce, well , what happens after you have  collected all this raw data and you have trained   your MPCs, and you then need to do some testing. And  what we have here is a nice example of an obstacle   avoidance with a real target, where we have a  vehicle again driving along at 80 kilometers   per hour. It approaches the obstacle, makes a  lane change maneuver and then comes back in!   Now, the technology that we have been working  on is a combination of our simulation and our   testing solutions, and we have a very cool software  called Simcenter Prescan which I can inject   into the vehicle as a virtual target.  I can trick the vehicle into thinking there is a   vertical car or a virtual cyclist,  and have it make that emergency lane change   maneuver. Now, for testing, this is a great way  to test efficiently and accurately. Looking   a little bit closer at the Prescan solution and  our Simcenter SCAPTOR, our Simcenter SCAPTOR   goes out and captures all of the raw camera, radar,  lidar data that you need. We can then convert that   into a virtual environment, and we do that in 2  steps: we first have a static environment where   we have, you know, the roads, etc. and then we  have the dynamic environment, which would be the   people. In this case, we're looking at a very cool  rally car simulation with Simcenter Prescan   and the reel on the right where the  vehicle is driving along and we have   added additional spectators for the purpose  of improving spectator safety. This is all done   to train the algorithms and  train your MPCs to accurately break, avoid,   maneuver, etc. So, I've shown a lot of interesting  information related to our Simcenter SCAPTOR  solution, to our Simcenter Prescan. Below,  you're going to find a lot of useful links.   And there are some great upcoming webinars,  please register for them! Thank you very much! 