 Every time we get on the road,  we’re faced with tradeoffs… Convenience or climate?  Speed or safety? Convenience or climate?  Speed or safety? But what if we didn’t  have to choose? What we’re going to show you today is  not an improvement on the car. It’s completely different, and  it’s what you’d build if there  were no cars. It’s not a product you buy.  It’s an experience you share. Meet the Cruise Origin It is self-driven.  It is all-electric.  It is shared. It is a production vehicle. I think the first thing you  notice about this is that it looks really big. But it’s actually not any  bigger than a regular car -  it’s just more efficient. On the Cruise Origin the doors just do this which is really cool. So if you look at the opening  here another thing I want to point out is this is 3x more area to get in and out than on a normal car. On the inside, I’ve got a ridiculous amount of space here. Basically every seat is like  an extra legroom seat on an airplane. This is an engineering prototype of one of our new  sensors. We've got 2 of them on the Origin , up front there. It can see things that you won't see. And it will react faster and more safely to the things you can see. The Origin can see pedestrians at night even if they're not visible to the  naked eye. And this is for just one of our  new sensor systems. Just in the last year alone we accumulated almost a million miles of autonomous driving in San Francisco. And that's a lot of mileage. But what's more important to us is the data that's contained within those miles. If you were to stretch San Francisco across the entire continental US from coast to coast, our AVs would go from one coast to the other from coast to coast, our AVs would go from one coast to the other without even a fender bender. We have an awesome experience  riding in the Origin as well as  superhuman levels of safety. and those are two big parts of  the equation. But we’re just as  obsessed with making the Origin experience as inexpensive as  possible. Most cars sit parked 95% of the  time, racking up expensive  parking fees while depreciating in value. The Cruise Origin will spend  most of its life in motion. The Cruise Origin will have a lifespan of well over one million miles. And that's at least 6x more than today's  average car. No doubt what we’ve laid out  here is ambitious. But we’re moving as fast as  possible to make this happen. But we’re moving as fast as  possible to make this happen. And while what you’ve seen  here tonight has focused mostly  on helping people move through cities this is just the beginning of  the Origin story. 