 As of today, we’ve received a permit from the California DMV to remove the human backup drivers from our fleet of  autonomous vehicles. I started Cruise seven years ago, and since then thousands of people  from Cruise and GM have worked together to build the fleet of autonomous  vehicles we have on the road today. And, the upcoming Cruise Origin, the first production vehicle designed from scratch to serve the passengers, not the driver, so there’s no steering wheel and pedals - and, related to  today’s announcement, there’s no human backup driver. We’ve accumulated over a million miles of fully autonomous  driving in complex urban environments, and built an AI that can not only handle the mundane parts  of driving, but also handle the crazy stuff that we see on the roads of  major cities every day. The easy part of driving is actually pretty easy, but it’s about a hundred times harder to build an AI that can safely and comfortably navigate through cluttered scenes filled with people doing rare or  unpredictable things. But safe driving isn’t just about building the AI that  drives the car - it’s about building a hardware and software system that  can handle rough roads, bad weather, or even quantum bit flips caused by solar flares it’s rare, but that can actually happen. So we’re testing our system now on a private testing grounds and there’s literally no one in the car here, to ensure that no matter what happens, our system can safely  come to a stop. Because unlike your cellphone or laptop which maybe can freeze up and reboot every once in a while, because it’s not driving your car, that’s obviously not okay for an autonomous vehicle. It takes a great deal of effort, care, and diligence to  build a safe and extremely reliable system. We’ve got to get this right. As a society, we’ve become too complacent with the million injuries and tens of thousands of deaths caused by car accidents in the US each year. It’s 2020, and the technology to drive change this is starting to appear. And while the global pandemic has all of us re-evaluating our priorities, ours have remained the same. We want the world to start to look more like it does in the  simulations we use to test our software. So when you see one of our vehicles on the streets of San Francisco with nobody behind the wheel, think of the thousands of hard working people at Cruise and GM and the humble beginnings of our journey to build the future we all deserve. 