 - Good morning, everybody, and thank you, Gary, very much and for the Graziadio Business School and all our sponsors for bringing us here today. It's a beautiful audience and it looks like sunshine inside, even if it's raining outside. So, I'm really happy to bring this symposium, The Future of Healthcare to you and particularly, the focus of this year, leaders who are directing change. We have some great examples of that in an industry that's undergoing great transformation, and those folks are here to share what they're doing today. It's an honor to introduce our keynote guest speaker, who I'll be having a fireside chat with, Dr. Vivek Murthy. We are honored to have him here. His expertise, experience is from December '14 through April '17, he served as our 19th Surgeon General of the United States of America. And as our nation's doctor, he brought passion and innovation to the challenging issues leading America's national healthcare initiatives. We've seen great change. We've seen great positions and opinions declared through reports and findings. Now, we need to act on those. He continues to influence leadership and discussions in our country across a spectrum of issues and trends and he's impacting the transformation underway that is in healthcare today in the US. Before serving as Surgeon General, Dr. Murthy practiced and taught internal medicine at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Massachusetts and he studied at Harvard Medical School in Massachusetts. He also earned his MBA at Yale. He co-founded several healthcare community organizations and grassroot citizen movements, including VISIONS, a peer-to-peer HIV/AIDS education program in India and the United States that reached thousands and thousands of students. He found Swasthya, a community health partnership that trained women in small villages in India to become better health care providers and educations locally. He also co-founded Trial Networks, which is a software company that developed collaborative technology for accelerating clinical trials. And a nonprofit organization of Doctors of America, 15,000 doctors that organize physicians in all 50 states to advocate for high-quality, affordable healthcare for all. As one of the most passionate and innovative voices in US healthcare, Dr. Murthy brings a unique, non-partisan perspective and deep experience to the debate about healthcare reform. He understands the concerns of all the stakeholders we have now, and how the system works, and how it needs to change and could be better. Dr. Murthy emphasizes emotional well-being as the unexpected key to a healthier and stronger America. He talks about the science behind emotional well-being and its implications, the addiction crisis in America, chronic disease, community violence, education, creativity, workplace productivity, and educational outcomes as a holistic approach to healthcare in the U.S. We're pleased that he's joining us today and we're going to kick-off a fireside chat together as the keynote, so please give me a hand in welcoming Dr. Vivek Murthy. (audience applauding) Thanks, Dr. Vivek Murthy. We've had some great phone conversations and we only have an hour today but I think we could talk for hours. - Probably, and I'm really glad to be here. - Yes, thank you very much. So, one question. What made you enter healthcare as an industry? What was your passion as a child that led you to healthcare? - Oh, that's a good question. My interest in healthcare actually started really early on in my life when I was probably six or seven years old and I credit that to my parents, who were immersed in healthcare growing up. They started and built a medical practice in Miami, Florida where we lived and that was my earliest exposure to medicine. I would spend my weekends and evenings in the office opening mail, filing papers, greeting patients as they came and went, trying to understand a little bit of the conversation that happened, although I didn't understand much about the science at the time. But regardless of how much science I understood, I understood something that people of all ages really grasp, which was that there were these beautiful relationships that were forming between my parents and the patients they cared for. Relationships that were, in many ways, mutually therapeutic. They were good for patients but they were also good for my parents, and that is what gave me my first view of what medicine could be, that it was not just an opportunity to diagnose and treat, but it was opportunity to build that relationship based on trust, to be a part of a community, and ultimately to contribute to the betterment of people in that community and that's what inspired me, ultimately, to go into medicine. - [Kathleen] Excellent. And that prepared you for the phone call you got from Obama? How did that work? - Well, I had a number of rude awakenings along the way, I should say. But when I actually got to medicine when I was in medical school and then later when I joined my residency program, I realized that the vision I had for medicine was more complicated than the reality of what was being played out in hospitals around the country. And I actually saw that with many of my peers, that many of us actually come to the profession with high ideals and with hopes that we could help people, that we could spend time building these amazing relationships with patients, that we could feel that we were contributing to the betterment of people's families. But instead, many folks found themselves entrenched in a system that didn't always allow them to do that as readily as they thought they'd be able to do. And so I found that to be the case as well. It wasn't just a challenge in terms of making sure that physicians were happy and that people were getting good care, but I think that it was an important contributor to burnout, which, as many people know, is an incredibly burdensome issue in the medical community right now with more than 50% of doctors exhibiting at least one sign of burnout. And the rate's actually just continuing to go up. But while we have focused a lot in the burnout conversations on the amount of work that doctors have to do, I think equally as important, if not more important, is their sense of self-efficacy. When you take people like doctors or nurses or anyone who has come to their work because of a cause and you say there's a problem that you want to fix but you don't have all the tools to fix it, then experiencing that day after day after day contributes to an eroding sense of self-efficacy which can wear on people's spirit and ultimately can contribute to burnout. But I was really grateful that, despite all of those challenges, I was able to train in a program that really supported us, that I was able to build wonderful relationships with patients, I was able to intellectually enjoy medicine, and along the way, because I had, for various reasons that I am happy to get into, I had the opportunity to build other organizations in the public health world, I was also developing more of a sense of what was happening outside the walls of the hospital. And ultimately, the call that you mentioned, that I received on July 10, 2013, from the White House asking me if I'd be interested in serving, and being considered for the position of Surgeon General, that was a very unexpected call. I had never expressed an interest in the position. I had never realistically thought that I would ever serve in government, period, much less as Surgeon General. I was, at the time, involved in practicing medicine and teaching and also building a few organizations, a technology company, a nonprofit organization. I had my hands full, sort of, outside of government. But what ultimately happened is, when I got that call there was something that clicked in me in the moment. There was a moment of intuition where I realized that this is probably one of the only roles in government that I could serve in because it had an unusual degree of freedom to be able to craft your own vision and to implement your ideas. It was a position that was rooted in science where your primary allegiance was to the public and even if that meant opposing the views and positions of your President, that's what you were supposed to do, and that independence was very appealing to me. But it was just completely unexpected. So I actually called my wife, Alice, and I said, "Alice, I just got the most bizarre call." And, of course, I expected her to be completely stumped, but she said, "Was it the White House asking you "to be Surgeon General?" And I said, "How did you know?" I said, "I had no idea." She said, "Women's intuition. "I just know these things." But, yeah, so it was an unexpected call but I just feel incredibly grateful for the opportunity that I had to serve as Surgeon General. To me it was, the credit for that really goes to my parents because I was really the last person who should have been expected to serve in that kind of role. My parents came from really humble beginnings. My dad was a poor farmer in a small village in India and my mom grew up in a pretty modest family. They didn't really think they'd ever be able to leave the country, but somehow they found their way to America, driven by the same thing so many immigrants are driven by, a hope that they could find a better future for their children, where we would be, not only have opportunities, but we would be embraced by a community that looked at us, not just as people who had dark skin and a funny-sounding name, but as people who had ideas that we wanted to work on, people who were committed to a community that we were willing to invest in, and they found those opportunities for us in the public school teachers who looked out for us and the neighbors who reached out to make sure that we were okay. But they never dreamed that I would have this opportunity to serve our country. And as I said when I was sworn in by the Vice President at that time, to serve, I said to him and to those who were assembled, I said that there are few other countries in the world where the grandson of a poor farmer from India could be asked by the President of the country to look out for the health of an entire nation. That is really the power and the promise of America and I am truly, truly grateful for it. - We're so happy you served, thank you. (audience applauding) You know, I think the confidence that you had in growing up, and the support that you had gave you that background to be able to take on some of the most compelling issues. And while you were in office, you provided reports around drugs and alcohol addiction and gun violence. These are statements against some pretty incredible organizations that are out there pushing their agendas and you had the guts to go ahead and present those reports that are sometimes opposing. How did you address those, knowing that you needed to take care of all the stakeholders who were interested in certain issues? - Yeah, that's a really important question. I'll tell you something most people don't know about the role of Surgeon General, which is what the actual job entails, and this gets into the issues you mentioned. The job of the Surgeon General is really two-fold. It's, number one, to communicate with the public about important public health threats. It's also to translate science into a language that's applicable and understandable for the public. But there's another role of the Surgeon General, which is to oversee one of the seven uniformed services in the United States government. We're familiar with the Army, with the Navy, with the Air Force, with the Marines, with the Coast Guard but we don't often think about the Public Health Service Commissioned Corps, which was a service that I had the privilege of overseeing. These are 6,600 doctors, nurses, physical therapists, public health engineers, and pharmacists who all work together to improve public health in communities all across the country every single day. They're extraordinary people. In that job, though, of wearing these two hats, I had to make decisions about what issues I chose to focus on. It's the same set of decisions that anyone in any leadership position has to make, which is where do I focus my time? There are always a set of political considerations there too. How much political capital is it going to cost me to focus on this issue and will it detract from other issues that are important? Should I focus on this stuff that's non-controversial because I can get something done versus taking a bigger risk on something that is controversial? To me, those kind of calculations were worth thinking about, but what was more important than that was a deeper question of asking what is fundamentally needed by the country right now? What public health threats are so immense that if we don't address them, even if they take great risk, that we will set ourselves up for greater loss of life and for greater costs in the future? And when thinking about it from that lens, issues like the opioid crisis stood out. Issues like the broader issue of addiction that includes opioids but also includes alcohol, for example, also stood out. And I'll just tell you parenthetically, while we read about opioid, there's a lot in the news now, while I built a whole campaign around opioids and still focus on that issue, alcohol actually causes more deaths and more cost to us than opioids do. And so we forget about alcohol and its challenges at our peril. E-cigarettes was another issue I decided to focus on because it was a, there are now more young people who use E-cigarettes than who use traditional cigarettes and no form of nicotine should be acceptable for kids to use because there are harmful effects that it has on our children. And, you know, the issue of gun violence I also talked about before I was confirmed, during my confirmation process, and after I was confirmed. I will tell you that on all of these fronts, that either the reports I issued on them or the statements that I made all led to calls from certain corners for me to be fired. That was part of the cost of doing business. There were petitions that some groups started to get me fired. There were others who went to the media and said that I was pushing partisan agendas. But that is what happens sometimes when you push for solutions that not everyone agrees on. And, to me, what was important was making sure that whatever I was doing was backed by science. So when it came to gun violence, for example, we knew that gun violence was a massive public health threat. That there were thousands of people dying every year related to gun violence and two-thirds of those were actually, or nearly 60% of those were actually suicides that were taking place and we knew that this constituted a public threat that we had to address. And that meant that we had to invest in research to understand what actually does work to reduce gun related deaths. But Congress had not appropriated any money for research and that was a touchy subject among certain interest groups and, to me, investing in research was about investing in finding out the truth and that should not be an issue that we waffle on and that we shy away from saying because it's politically difficult or thorny. And so, just like that, with E-cigarettes as well, I felt that it was important for us to come out and say that E-cigarettes should not be used by young people. That doesn't mean that it may not be proven one day to be useful to help people who are smoking, quit smoking. That's an open question that we should let science guide us on, but there is really no reason that children should be using E-cigarettes. But these are things that had to be said. So, to me, this became about a larger question of, as I think of it, moral leadership. And I say this not to say that I was somehow acting as a moral leader, but what it made me think about is where is our moral leadership coming from, like in society right now? Because I actually think that that is what people want. That is what I think our society needs. And all of us actually have the capacity to be moral leaders. You don't need a title to be a moral leader, but to be a moral leader is somebody who has the clarity to see when there's a gap between where we are now and where our values tell us we should be. A moral leader is somebody who has courage to call out the fact that that gap exists and to call for solutions and support people who are working on solutions. And it also requires the ability to be uncomfortable, which means to take criticism and to take heat from others knowing that you may lose some friends, but it is better to lose some friends taking a stand than it is to keep all your friends sitting back in silence. And that was a lesson that I tried to remember often, that I was inspired to remember by other leaders that I was serving with, and that I try to remember today, as well, particularly when I'm talking to young people who are at the beginning of their careers who are thinking about what kind of role they want to play because I think that, regardless of what your title is, if we are not cultivating moral leadership in the rising generation of youth in our country, then we are missing out on an opportunity to set our country on a better path for the future. - Absolutely. Well, speaking of moral leadership-- (audience applauding) Yeah, thank you. You're going to have a lot of congratulations for taking those risks today because it's necessary. But speaking of that moral leadership, we're moving into a discussion around the transformation of healthcare and we have leaders in the room who are directing that change. It takes a lot of moral leadership to change the systems and the processes and the attitudes of the people. Do you have any recommendations on how we can tie those changes, to introduce technology and innovation and yet come back to the basic principles of helping the patient? Do you have any guidance around that moral leadership that's needed in this type of a system we have now? - Absolutely, there are, look, I think change is always hard for a certain group of people and who those people are will change over time, but as human beings, we are, in some ways, creatures of habit and security and change can be viewed as a threat unless people feel like they are part of a movement that's creating change and unless they feel clear on how that change is connected to a better life for them and for their families. And what that means is that, for all of us who may have a platform and a voice, who may have the ability to create change within your organization and your community, continually connecting the need for change and plans to change with the vision of where we're going, the impact that it can have is extraordinarily important and all of us have heard this a lot but, one of the many things I took away from my time in government is that it is very hard to communicate that enough. You're at very little risk of over-communicating that. The biggest error is in assuming that because you brought it up in a meeting that everyone's on-board and that they get the connection. You know, people need to hear this in different ways, at different times, from different people. And it's something that we have to think about because the nature of communication's really changed today compared to 20 or 30 years ago. As somebody whose primary job was to communicate with the public as Surgeon General, I realized that there was very limited, I was limited to the extent that I could look back on past Surgeons General from 20, 30, 40 years ago and take a leaf out of their book in terms of communicating because everything's very different right now. So I realized that if we want to get messages out there, there're not just, obviously, two newspapers and three news channels that everyone reads and watches, but we need to have different messengers, different messages, and different channels through which those messages are being deployed. And I think that's true within organizations, as well. That it's important for the leaders of organizations to step up and to be clear about what the vision is to continually link that back to the actions we're taking today. But if that message isn't also reiterated and deployed by people throughout the organization, then not everyone is actually going to, ultimately, resonate with that vision and remember it at all times. So I think that that communication piece is exceedingly important. I think a second piece of this, though, is about how you involve people in the process of change. I think, a misconception that I fell prey to earlier in my career was thinking that because people were really busy in their current lives that they didn't have time to get involved in causes that they believed in. This was one of the things that almost stopped me from building the organization, Doctors for America Physician Advocacy Group, that my wife and I and several other colleagues built. We were, at that time, recognizing that there were a lot of challenges in our healthcare system, that doctors often had a lot of front line experience and ideas about how that could be improved upon, but they strangely felt that they had no voice. As a class of people who are seen as privileged by society, they paradoxically felt quite disempowered. And our initial thought was, "Wow, these folks "are really busy. "Do they really have time to get involved "in doing advocacy and learning about policy "and meeting with legislators to talk to them "about their ideas?" But what we underestimated was the fact that when people feel connected to a cause and to a vision, and when that's paired with giving them concrete steps and action paths that they can take, that they will often respond in surprising ways. And one of the people who surprised me most was an allergist in Tampa, Florida who joined our organization, Doctors for America. She had four kids under the age of 10. She had a husband who was a physician who also had his own private practice just as she had her own private practice that she had just started two years ago and was actually building up and you would think, wow, if anyone doesn't have time, it's this woman who's wearing so many different hats. But when we started engaging with her, she dipped her toe in the water by writing an op-ed to talk about a series of health policy proposals that we made in in her community. And much to her surprise, her op-ed was accepted. And she was like, "Wow, I guess maybe I have "something of value to share." And one by one she started doing more and more. She eventually became a leader for all the physicians in that region. She eventually became our state director. Then she joined our board. Then she became our board chair and led the national organization. She was an extraordinary woman. But she stands out to me as a clear example of how people, when they're connected to a cause and connected to a plausible path for action can unleash extraordinary energy and their potential for change is quite enormous. The flip, though, is when people don't feel connected to a clear vision, then they become cynical and resentful. When there is a vision out there, but there's not a path for how they can engage in it, then they become distant from it. They see it as worthy but somebody else's job and it recedes to the background of their mind and they stop coming out to support initiatives. They stop changing their behaviors in ways that support that ultimate vision. So, communication, engagement, both are extraordinarily important as we're seeking to create change within our organizations or within our communities. - Excellent, and part of your role as the Surgeon General was engaging these populations. But you've talked about, since you left the role, you've even investigated engaging unexpected populations and harnessing their power and participation in the process of change. Can you talk a little bit about that? - Sure, sure. So this is, I think, connected to probably, if I had to lay out three or four areas which I think are real opportunities and challenges for us in the future, this would actually be one of them, but I would say, number one would actually be around technology. I think the challenge for us right now is, how do we use technology to bring both care but also prevention to where people are? That means moving it out of the hospital and the clinical settings into, not just homes but really actually into neighborhoods, as well. It means also thinking about how we use technology to communicate with people so that they have accurate information. I remember in the early days of the internet, I remember reading an article that said, once the internet is universally available, people won't be able to lie anymore because you'll just be able to Google stuff and find out the truth. I think we all know how that worked out. It didn't. And that means that today people have a real challenge in understanding what's true and what's not. We see it in healthcare issues all the time, when people are trying to figure out, are vaccines safe or not? Does this treatment work for opioid use disorders or not? Is this methadone stuff truly evidence-based and scientific or is it just a hoax and a way to get people hooked on a different type of opioid? These are the questions that people are searching for on the internet, and finding wildly varying answers. So, to the extent that we can start to use technology in more savvy ways to bring accurate information to people to identify what is, in fact, evidence-based is the extent to which we can actually truly improve health. So technology, I think, is a powerful player. And when I say use it extend care to where people are I mean that particularly for rural areas where we have such a challenge in our country of ensuring that people have access to sub-specialist providers and to mental health care. But this is a place where, through telepsychiatry and other uses of technology, I think we can really bring those services to people. The second area, I think, that's a real opportunity is our own workforce. So, this, I think, has a few different dimensions. When we think about workforce, we have to think, not just about the workforce we have, but the workforce we need. And I think, increasingly, we're realizing that if we want to train, for example, nurses and doctors to be the kind of clinicians they need to be for the 21st century, we need them to not just be able to diagnose and treat individual illnesses for individual patients, but we need them to be able to communicate effectively with patients and with the public. They are credible voices who can help people distinguish what is truth and what is false when it comes to health-based information. We also need them to be adept at learning how to engage with other organizations in the community as we recognize that we have to build more community collaboratives to improve care. But the other element of workforce is around tapping the power of unexpected populations. This is, actually, you look at your life in retrospect and everything kind of makes sense. But this is one of the earliest experiences that I had when I was 17 years old and my sister and I were starting VISIONS, our first non-profit organization to address HIV in India, and we had recognized that HIV was a growing problem, we saw that it was, the WHO had predicted five million cases by year 2000 in India. But we looked around and the public sector seemed to be turning a blind eye to it. The private sector said, "Hey, this is a western disease. "Not our problem." And meanwhile, the disease was spreading rapidly. And so we said to ourselves, "Well, is there somebody "there in the community who could help?" And the group that we found ourselves drawn to were students, a population that people had often written off as not really being able to contribute much other than studying and, hopefully, getting into a good school. But we said, "Hey, hold on. "These are extraordinarily talented and energetic kids "who, if given the right support and the right training, "could go out and make a massive difference "in terms of public education and prevention." And that's why we built our organization. To me, at a time when we are struggling with the question of how do we pay for more services? How do we pay to hire more people to do healthcare related jobs? We have to think about these unexpected populations. The UK, for example, has been thinking about this and has realized that firefighters are one of those populations. They don't have an MD or an RN behind their name but firefighters often respond after someone has fallen at home. So the UK decided, "Hey, you know what? "Why don't we actually get them engaged "earlier in the process? "Why don't we have firefighters involved "in doing fall assessments ahead of time in homes "so they can feel like they're helping prevent "the issues that they're actually responding to." And that's what they've been doing. In the addiction space here in our country and in other countries around the world, we normally think if we want to get people access to treatment, it means we have to hire more doctors, it means we need to hire more addiction psychiatrists and specialists, we need more counselors, social workers, et cetera. And all of those populations are important. But it turns out that people who have struggled with addiction themselves, the peer recovery community has become an extraordinary force in helping to contribute to the treatment and healing of people who are dealing with addiction. Many of those people are doing it on a volunteer basis because they find deep meaning in it. Because that psychic income, to them, is in fact often more important than monetary income. But just like this, I think that this comes back to the earlier point we were talking about about the fact that people, when they're connected to a vision that has meaning to them and a plausible path to take action, they can unleash extraordinary energy and skill and potential. And that is true when we're thinking about the workforce for healthcare more broadly. There's a third area that's an opportunity for us and I think that's a question around leadership that we have to think about in healthcare, and specifically leadership around addressing social determinants of health. We know more and more now that people's health is not determined by what happens in the hospital or the clinic alone. That is important, and I say that as somebody who has spent his entire clinical life practicing in hospitals and in the clinic. But I came to quickly realize, as so many of you have and other clinicians have, that when people came to me struggling with obesity, that the roots of that obesity often were in their community. Maybe it was connected to the fact that they didn't have access to healthy, affordable foods. When they came to me in the hospital with a sequela of gunshot injuries, that didn't happen because of the treatment they got in the hospital, that happened because of a factor in their community, the fact that they lived in neighborhoods that were often not safe. I look back at chagrin at some of the conversations I had with patients where I would encourage them to walk, it's an easy strategy to help reduce their weight without recognizing or without asking the question of what type of environment they lived in and whether it was even safe to walk there. But these factors, neighborhood safety, access to food that's healthy and affordable, housing, transportation, the environment in school and in the workplace, these are powerful drivers of our health, this is where people spend a majority of our time, and the leadership question that comes up is who is going to convene these sectors together to recognize and embrace the role that they can play in improving health? I will tell you the desire is there. I meet with employers all the time who say, "We know that the health and well-being of our workforce "is not just important as a value "but it's important for our bottom line. "What should we do? "Should we build a staircase? "Should we change the food in the cafeteria? "Should we start mental health support groups of peers? "Where should we start?" Many of these sectors are looking for someone to help them understand the roadmap, how they can be engaged, and this is where I think leadership in the healthcare sector can be extraordinarily important. And the last area that I've mentioned in terms of opportunities is a cultural question. So we talked about technology questions, workforce questions, we've talked about question of leadership when it comes to addressing social determinants, but the cultural question might be one of the hardest to address. And this is a question around how we create a culture within the world of health, but in society more broadly, that supports well-being. And what do I mean by well-being? Well I'm not just talking about physical well-being, I'm also talking about emotional well-being. A part of the reason I started to get involved and engaged in the topic of emotional well-being when I was in office is because I was traveling to communities across the country and listening to them and asking them simple questions like, "How can I help? "What's challenging you? "What are the biggest pain points for you?" And when I was hearing the stories of people all across the country were stories of deep pain, not physical pain, more so actually a deeper, emotional pain that they were experiencing. Sometimes that was a result of chronic health challenges that they had faced. Sometimes it was a result of violence that they'd experienced or other forms of trauma. Sometimes it was a result of economic insecurity and poverty, the reasons vary, but I recognized that people were experiencing real challenges when it came to their emotional well-being. And then I started looking into the science more deeply and recognizing that the connection, which is not gonna be surprising to you between emotional well-being and health is quite powerful and strong. When our levels for example of chronic stress are high, that is connected with higher degrees and inflammation in our body, which is connected higher rates of heart disease and arthritis and dementia and a host of other chronic illnesses, but it's not just health that's impacted because our level of emotional well-being has a tremendous impact on how our kids do in school. This is a particular concern given how high the rates of anxiety in adolescents have reached. It has implications in emotional well-being for how people perform in the workplace. I wrote an article in October, or September of last year in Harvard Business Review about the impact of loneliness in the workplace, loneliness being one facet of a low emotional well-being state. And what I was really overwhelmed by were the messages that we got from people all around the country and all around the world who said, "I have been struggling with a profound sense of loneliness "in my workplace. "I don't know how to connect with the people "that I'm working with. "I feel like a stranger at work. "This place doesn't feel like home to me, "and I know it's affecting how I function, "but I'm not sure what to do about it." So emotional well-being is tied to our health, to our productivity, to our education. It's also tied to our ability to dialogue as a country. I won't ask you to raise your hands on this, but I will tell you that I have, and I'm guessing some of you have, had the experience of going home to your spouse when you've been in a bad emotional place and trying to resolve a conflict, and then realizing that you actually just made it worse. And I've done that before. And more than once. And what I can tell you from that experience is I realized as so many of us have that if I'm not in an emotionally good place, I'm not gonna be able to really sit down and listen to someone, I'm not gonna be able to work through a complex issue, I'm not gonna be able to get to a good solution. But think about how that plays out on a national level, at a time where we are feeling more divided than ever, when we are having the big challenges in front of us, whether it's the opioid crisis or violence or any host of other issues, we actually need the ability to dialogue now more than ever. But when we, that need is high, our ability to do so has been compromised. And part of what is going into that is I think high levels of chronic stress and a low level of emotional well-being among people and this is playing out in a population level. So if we address emotional well-being, we have the power to transform our society. But this is again a question of culture because to address emotional well-being requires us to recognize emotional well-being as being important. It requires us to recognize emotions not as a source of weakness, but is in fact a source of great power. People who know this, in fact, are elite athletes. If you were to talk to LeBron James or Serena Williams or any other elite athlete, they would tell you the difference between good and great is not just how much time you spend in the weight room or on the treadmill, it's how you manage your emotions when anxieties and fears arise. It's how you channel negative emotions into positive emotions. It's how you manage stress when it inevitably comes into your life. And that's the skill that we need to be cultivating at every age group in our country. We need to certainly be doing it for kids at a young age, but we have to be doing it in our workplaces as well, recognizing that many of us never receive the tools that we need to look out for our own emotional well-being, to manage our own emotions. But our ability to do so I believe is directly correlated with our ability to be productive, our ability to dialogue with others, and ultimately our ability to be fulfilled as human beings, which should really be all of our ultimate goal. - Excellent, thank you. (audience applauding) That leads me to the question of here we're asking our leaders to direct major change in healthcare transformation. They're under all kinds of stress and there's different stakeholders, that providers are told that they're greedy, and the hospitals and care facilities are told that they're charging the wrong insurance and they're not running enough tests or they've lost the test, so this puts the people that are running those businesses under tremendous strain. And how can they change a system if they're under that strain and they're told that's the right way to be, that you need to work yourself to death, you need to push, push, push for more and be measured by the bottom line and not necessarily taking into other considerations? How can the leaders direct that change under that, under that umbrella of stress? - Yeah, it's a good question. And this is a real, real challenge because the culture you're pointing at is right, like we're told that, we're told that your value is based on the work that you do, it's based on your productivity, and if you aren't doing meaningful work, if you aren't productive, then your fundamental values of a human being is lower. That's essentially what our culture is telling us. And the thing is, I don't think most people want to live that way. I think people want to be valued for who they are and not just what they do. Kindness and your ability to be compassionate, your care for other people, the values that you hold, those should matter. We actually applaud those in children, right? I have an 18 month old son and I have a seven week old daughter, and when we take them to these play groups that we have in our condo building, and whenever one of the children puts his toy forward and shares it with another child, we all applaud and we say, "That's great, "that's what we want you to do, "we want you to be kind and generous, "we want you to share." We value those in our children, but something happens later in life. Well, that recedes to the background and we start valuing people on a different set of parameters. Look, as leaders in organizations, I recognize that it's hard to entirely change a culture over a short period of time, but I will tell you that what makes it easier to shift culture is when you know that at their heart that most people are actually on your side. And I will tell you that just by virtue of human nature and informed by so many of the conversations I've had about this topic with people all across our country, I know that people are struggling with living in a culture where they feel that they're valued solely because of their productivity. People do want to be valued for who they are, they do want to see examples of their leaders taking time to invest in people and not just to improve their productivity but because they actually care about those people. Some of this involves having to lead by example. I mean, none of you can do your jobs as leaders if you are not also looking out for your own well-being, if you're not investing in your physical well-being and in your emotional well-being. We, and I say this as somebody who grew up in a profession of medicine that completely looked down upon efforts to look out for yourself. Now I didn't realize when I got to the profession of medicine that strength was not determined by the size of your heart, it was determined by the length of your workday. And that was a message that was conveyed again and again and again to us in so many unsaid ways. So I know what that culture is like, but I also know that when individual leaders would stand up and would make a decision and say, "Look, I'm actually going to take a break here. "I'm gonna take a week off "and spend some time with my family "because that is how I recharge", and that's important, and family and our relationship should be a priority for all of us, that that makes a difference, it gives other people in the organization permission to do the same. Even when you structure your day in a way that prioritizes your well-being, whether that's making sure that you have a half hour or 45 minutes to go to the gym, or whether that's taking a break, as I did, when I was in office to meditate during the day, that sends a message to other people that it's okay to invest in your well-being. When I first began my job as Surgeon General, people would almost come to me sheepishly and almost ashamed and embarrassed to ask to take time off or to ask if they could leave work an hour early, which for them often meant leaving at 7:00 p.m. instead of 8:00 p.m., "But can I leave an hour early so that I can "pick up my child from day care "because my spouse can't make it today?" And what I would try to tell them is like, "You shouldn't be embarrassed about this, "we should be embarrassed as an organization "if we are not supporting you in meeting your primary needs "which are your relationships, "and your needs for sustenance." (audience applauding) So, coming back to something we talked about in the very beginning when, sometimes cultures exist because everybody is deeply invested in them and they believe in them. Other times, cultures exist because they just have for a long period of time, even though many people don't want to live and operate that way. And the culture of work that we live in falls into the latter category. People don't want to live in a culture where work creeps into every aspect of their lives, including their evenings, weekends and vacation time. They don't want to live in an environment where they have to choose between their work and between the people they love. They don't want to have to live in an environment where they have to sacrifice their health, their mental health and their physical health in order to be productive, or for fear of losing their job if they take time off for a doctor's appointment. But the only way we're gonna effectively convey that message to people if they see us leading by example. And in this, you can learn from a mistake I think that was made in the early days of physician work hour regulations which were implemented for trainees some decade or two decades ago, which is in the very beginning. People recognized we need more manageable hours, so they put work hour restrictions in place. But the people in those organizations, the senior doctors, et cetera, they weren't living by those rules and they weren't even explicitly supporting those rules, so the message that was sent to people was that, "We may have rules on the books on paper, "but the real rules are the rules of culture, "and those tell us that we still have to work 100, 110, "120 hours a week and sacrifice our health and well-being "and families for the job." Ultimately, culture is so important because culture trumps policy every day of the week. It is what drives decision-making, it's what drives behavior, and your ability to create change as a leader is directly proportional to your ability to lead culture change. And this is where again leading by example is so incredibly, incredibly powerful. I know that we're in 2018, that we're living in an era where people's faith in leaders has been declining over the years. I know that people are questioning leaders in the private sector, they're questioning leaders in government, and they're cynical about whether anyone's really looking out for them, but I'll tell you that despite that, deep down inside, people still do want leaders who are grounded in values, who are able to lead with a vision, and who they can join together with to create a better life for themselves, for their families, and their communities. People want to be part of a meaningful cause and they do want leaders who are willing to create those causes and lead them in executing on those missions. And that's where I think your role is more important than ever because people need a source of hope. They need to know that we can do better. They need to know that there are people who are willing to stick their necks out and take some risks in order to create their circumstances for things to be better, and when you do that, you just have no, you can never really know the full impact that you have on people. I think about the people who impacted me and changed the trajectory of my life. Most of them have no idea that they did that. And it was small things that they did, small decisions that they made as a leader. When I had my first child, I was actually serving in office at the time. It was actually an unusual situation because most of my predecessors in the office of Surgeon General had been a few decades older than me, they hadn't had children while they were in office, so these questions came up, "Should I be on, "should I take paternity leave? "Does the Surgeon General take paternity leave? "What would you do in these circumstances?" And I made the decision, you know what? I'm gonna take paternity leave, and not just 'cause I need it for my family, but because at a time where we were actually discussing parental leave and changing our policy in the Commissioned Corps, an issue which I was pushing on, I wanted us to be able to set an example for the rest of the Commissioned Corps to say it is okay to take time off. You do not need to hold your head down in shame when you put forward your leave papers to ask for leave for your family. You should be holding your head up with pride and saying, "I'm investing in my child and in my family "and I'm gonna be taking some time to do that "so I can be better here at work when I come back." But that was an important decision for me to make, but one of the things that that helped me, it was Secretary Burwell at the time, Secretary of Health and Human Services, I remember she sent me a very simple and sweet card that just said, "Congratulations on your child. "I'm so glad that you're taking time to be with him." And that meant so much to me. She didn't write it because she thought it was gonna be some monumental earth-shaking event, but it really made a difference for me in my own life. So in that similar way, I think you have, you are all in positions where you can create those ripples of change, where you can shift culture, in part by leading by example. And if more of us do that in our organizations, then I think we can reset and reorder the priorities. We can help people see that they are in fact valued for who they are and not just for what they do. We can help them see that they don't have to be ashamed about fulfilling their basic needs and about taking care of their family. And I think, strangely, we will find that, and not surprisingly that when their basic needs are met, when they feel fundamentally valued for who they are that they're actually able to show up more at work, that they're able to be more fully present, that they're able to invest more in their colleagues and do more ultimately for their organization and for society. - Excellent, thank you. (audience applauding) That leads me to the question of failures. So in healthcare, when you take those risks, there's a certain amount of damage that can be done just because of the basics of the system and the way it works, but we need people to take those risks in healthcare to make that transformation happen. So do you have any guidelines on what that balance is between, it's okay to fail in trying something new versus everything needs to go right from the very beginning? I think that's why people are afraid to take the risk within this industry. - Yeah, and this is a real challenge, especially in the current age of communications we live in where people's mistakes are magnified and they're tied around their neck many, many times, and that makes it really hard. I remember being in government and working with communications teams there that were so concerned about going out on a limb and saying something unscripted for fear that even an honest slip-up or a mistake or misstatement of fact would be used to derail an entire initiative or a platform. I think this is a real issue. I think we can talk about whether that's a, primarily a problem of technology, or if we can talk, but I think it's more a problem of culture that's enabled by technology. I think we have a culture of blame. I think we have a culture of indignation that has built up over the years. And I actually do think that this is connected to our emotional well-being. When we are in a place where we are experiencing chronic stress, where our level of emotional well-being is low, we will tend to see more things around us as threats. We will tend to respond with anger to events that happen that are frustrating to us or when things don't actually go our way. And for many people, their emotional well-being reserves are really, really low right now. And the traditional sources of that emotional well-being, whether it be relationships, or whether it be practices like in your life, like gratitude practices, like exercise and sleep and meditation, et cetera, these practices just aren't either available or accessible to many people. The relationships piece is particularly important because, and I touched on loneliness earlier, but loneliness is a really big challenge for our community, ironic given how connected we are by technology, but the rates of loneliness have actually been increasing since the 1980s, whereby some studies, depending on which ones you look at, we have nearly 40% of adults in the United States who actually say that they are experiencing loneliness. And experiencing, feeling lonely every now and then is not a bad thing, that's a normal thing. Loneliness is actually similar to hunger and thirst, it's a natural response that your body is issuing indicating to you that you have a need that is not fulfilled. So hunger for food, thirst for water, and loneliness for relationships. But the problem is many people are experiencing chronic loneliness, and that is putting them actually in a physiologically chronically stressed state. And there are reasons biologically for this which we can talk about, but the point is that when you have people who are experiencing a significant degree of chronic stress, when it's affecting a large percentage of your population, it puts people more in a place where they're likely to respond with anger and they're likely to lash out as opposed to pausing and listening. In the face of this kind of culture, I think it takes extraordinary bravery to take risk and to to step up and to take a risk that may result in failure. But again, I would say that this is important to do because I actually think deep down inside, it's what people want. They want themselves to be able to take some risks, not just in terms of the decisions they make, but in terms of the conversations they have. They wanna be able to have a conversation honestly about an issue without worrying that they're gonna use a long term and offend someone and be labeled a certain way. They want to be able to just honestly discuss their thoughts without being labeled a zealot or a politician or a racist or something else, and this is really tough right now for people, so I think the challenges that we have in our culture of communication have made it hard to take a risk on a whole spectrum of choices and down to the individual level. But again, when people see you as leaders, taking risk and going out on a limb, that makes a difference, it sends a signal that, hey, okay, maybe it is okay for you to take risk. What helps a lot though I find is. and these are decisions I had to make when I was in office is how you take that risk. Do you take that risk behind closed doors, issuing a decision sort of at the end? Or do you bring people along with you in the process of making that decision, so that you feel collectively in the organization where you're taking risk? And that's what we, the latter is what we tried to do in the office of the Surgeon General, recognizing that we were doing things that were different than most people wanted us to do. Day one, when I walked into the office, I had a group of people who actually came to meet with me in my department, they said, "Look, "we have an idea for how we're gonna roll you out "to the country", even that term is a bit odd, "But roll you out to the country." They said, "We're gonna have you on Good Morning America "and all the major news shows, "do interviews with all the leading newspapers, "and you can lay out your agenda for the country." And I thought about that and I said, that is sort of like the tried and true method, like in Washington DC to roll out new principles, but something that didn't feel right, I said, "I would rather wait and spend the next two months "actually going around the country and listening to people "and ask them a basic question which is how can we help?" And the admonishment was, "You're gonna lose the major media opportunity, "the media moves on quickly, "they're focused on you now, they may not be in two weeks, "and you got to jump on the opportunity right now." But at some level, I felt that this is a risk that we had to take, but the way I came to that decision was I actually brought our team together, we laid out the pros and cons, and we actually tried to tie it back to our values and say, "Okay, what kind of office do we want to be? "If we're here to serve the people, "how do we know if we're serving them? "We have to ask them." If we come out with an agenda that says, "This is what our game plan is", and we haven't actually gone out and really given people an opportunity to talk to us, that is completely counter to the culture and the values that we're trying to live by. But it was bringing the team in to that decision that made us feel like we were taking collective risk. As a leader, you will still ultimately bear the majority of the brunt if there is a failure and if there's a backlash from that. That is part of the price I think, unfortunately, of doing business, but it is a very different thing to have a public, backlash against a decision you do when you're standing alone versus having a backlash and your company, your organization is standing with you because they recognize who you are, the process you went through, the inclusion that you created, and they see that decision ultimately as a collective decision. - Thank you. (audience applauding) So that ties into my last question before we go into Q and A and that is if we're living in that quantifiable, quantitative system with tests and procedures and a very quantifiable system, how do we change the system? Is it the reimbursement process to include this more holistic qualitative aspect of life that is important to our health plus care, healthcare, well-being? How do we get an integrative approach to that? - Yeah, it's a really good question. I think the first is we have to, we have to measure it. And all of us have heard the term if you don't measure it, it doesn't matter, and that was something I was taught very early in school, but I think that it really is true, and so we measure a lot of things in healthcare. Do we measure people's level of emotional well-being? Do we measure their social connection? We rarely actually do these things, but they have a profound impact on how people do, so I think we have to start by measuring well-being. I think the second thing is we have to shift our payment models to actually reward the enhancement of well-being, which we don't really do right now. I had a resident who I trained with who's a dear friend, but I remember when we were residents, we would get together once a week on Thursday mornings to talk about challenges that we were dealing with with our patients and with our own learnings. And she came in one day, she was visibly frustrated, and she threw down her papers and she said, "I feel like such a failure." And I said, "Well, why, what's going on?" She said, " I feel when I go to morning report "to discuss cases, everyone always has a longer list "of possible diagnoses than I do. "I can never quote and cite as many articles "in the literature as everyone else does. "I can only do five or six, they can do 10 or 11." She said, "I think the only thing that I can do "is sit with patients and make them feel "understood and cared for, but other than that, "I can't really do anything." And I think back on that conversation so many times because what she was reflecting was really the culture within that healthcare system and in many of our healthcare systems which is what matters is a certain set of things that does not include necessarily paying attention to people's well-being and to building a relationship with them. So I think measuring it is essential. I think changing our payment models to actually reward these collective outcomes which are aided by the measures of well-being, also important. And I think creating a culture that values well-being is also essential, and that starts at the top. If we can shift culture, change our payment models, and begin measuring what matters, then I think we can create the kind of healthcare system that we want and that we need. I think that will also necessarily take us beyond the healthcare system and into the community as we start to think, not just how do we provide better healthcare but how do we create better health, using a partnership of communities, other sectors in the communities, and the engagement of the public health community as well which has to be a key part of this equation. But this comes back to this question of leadership which is who is going to call for these changes for new measures, for new payment models, for a new culture of how we operate for new partnerships in the community? Who is going to go to legislators and advocate for these changes, even if they may cause more hardship within our organization? Some of us are in organizations that may be doing quite well like in the current system and we know that we could continue to turn a profit in the current world of healthcare, but that doesn't necessarily mean that that's the best world for us to live in for the benefit of the larger society. And so to me, leadership is about closing the gap between our values and where we are, even when it stands to give us some short-term pain like in our own backyard. But this is a place again where I think all of you, leaders in the healthcare sector, this is where I think you have an opportunity to step up in a way that the country really needs because people are looking around for someone to step up. They know that we have big problems and big needs. They know that in healthcare, they would much rather prevent IVs and get it in the first place, but we have a system that is focused primarily on treatment and not on prevention. They know that something is fundamentally not working and that there's a lot of people fighting about it, but what they want to know is who in my community really is stepping up to articulate a vision of what we could be? Who's creating a space for me to be a part of that vision? And who's taking some risks and implementing that vision, recognizing that even though they may fail, but if they do succeed, that all of us could benefit from that? Last thing on this, I'll just say that on the failure piece, I think as leaders, all of us have to be a community for each other when it comes to supporting each other in our failures, and in some cases, even celebrating our failures. We know that a certain failure rate is important, otherwise if we're not failing at all, we're not taking up a risk, we're not pushing the envelope enough. But being a leader is a very lonely experience as well. There's some data saying that half of CEOs in fact admit that they are experiencing loneliness in their job. It can be lonely to feel like you're taking all of the risk on your own, whether it's leading your group, leading your department, leading your entire organization. So I think networks of support among leaders become really critical. Now we, I say this knowing that we live in a culture in America that has told us that this nation was built on rugged individualism. But that is only part of the American story. The real American story I believe is not just about individual achievement, which we celebrate in the form of achievements of entrepreneurs and athletes, but it's really about collective action. The moments we celebrate most in our country, whether it was the Civil War, winning the Civil War, and keeping our country together when it was putting a man on the moon, whether it was winning rights for people and underserved minorities through the Civil Rights Movement. These were not the work of one person. These are the collective accomplishments of people who came together and recognized that there is a gap between where we are and our aspirations and values. And it is up to us, acting with clarity and courage to close that gap. And all of you will be successful in your transformation of healthcare, not because of what you do alone as individuals leading an organization, but because of the networks that you build and support around you, whether that's other leaders, your families and friends who are extraordinarily important to cultivate, and the people you work with, your colleagues in the organization. This type of interdependence is the kind of value that we need to infuse into our culture more. It is not weak to depend on others. That is in fact human nature. Thousands of years ago, the people who were out there on their own, you know what happened to them? They got eaten by a predator. They starved to death because they had an unstable food supply. And even though those are less of an issue in today's day and age, there are other challenges which we face which are just really hard to deal with alone. We have to in particular think about how, what we're communicating to young people around us. Young boys, when they're, and I know we're a little over time, I'll just take a minute to tell you about this because kids are so important here, because it starts with kids, this culture, young boys around the ages of seven, eight and nine, when you ask them about friendships, they will talk about their friendships and their need for friendships in very similar ways to young girls about the same age. They'll say, "I'm so excited to spend time with my friend, "I love being with my friend, I confide in my friend. "When I feel sad or when I feel down, "I can talk to my friend about my feelings. "My friend has my back. "I know my friend's loyal to me. "If I'm not with my friend, that feels like, "it just, it feels really, really bad. "I don't want to be in a situation "when I'm not with my friend." This is how they talk about their friends. But then you fast forward three years, three to four years down the line, and they start talking about friends very differently. There's more stoicism. Suddenly, they don't really need other friends so much. They're enough on their own. If other people want to be with them, sure, that's cool, that's okay, but we don't really need those people, save perhaps romantic relationships which are carved out as a place where relationships are okay, but we don't really need friendships. But you know what hasn't changed? What hasn't changed is their underlying, fundamental biological need for relationships, but they are now being inculcated into a culture that tells them masculinity is about cutting yourself off from emotions and cutting yourself off from being dependent on other people. And you've got to be stoic and you've got to be a rugged individual. And it's no surprise that we see in that same timeframe a dramatic rise in the suicide rates among young boys where it actually dramatically exceeds that of young girls of the same age. So I say all of this to say that these challenges we're dealing with around how we dialogue with each other, around how we create change, around how we lead, these are deeply rooted and affected by the culture that we're operating in. And the good news is that culture can be changed. The good news is that all of you as leaders have the ability to change culture by leading by example, but you can't do it alone. And the networks you build, whether it's through events like this or through other means are extraordinarily helpful because the one thing I have learned from all the work that we have done in emotional well-being is that the science and our lived experience points to one fundamental truth, which is that we need each other. (audience applauding) - Well, you've helped us to understand where there's struggle, there's also hope, so I appreciate that very much. And I'd like to open it up to the audience to ask any questions that you may have? I think there's someone going around with microphones if you'd like to ask a question. - [Audience Member] Thank you so much, Dr. Murthy, for all of the information that you're sharing with us, this is invaluable. But one of the things that you're emphasizing so much is wellness. Many of us operate in the space of health equity. Do you believe there is a concept of wellness disparities? Is there a concept of wellness equity? And how should clinical, academic, public health and other leaders be addressing that concept, if you believe it exists? - Well, I'm so glad you brought that up. Equity is so important right now. It's one of the two values that guided all the work we did in our office, the other being prevention, but I do think that there is an equity gap when it comes to wellness and I think that stems from a gap we have in structural factors that detract from wellness, that affect often people in poverty and communities of color. When we look at who actually is subjected to living in neighborhoods that are unsafe and who, which groups are more likely to be victims of violence, those end up often being communities of color. And so yes, there is a gap when it comes to wellness. And I think, when we think about equity more broadly, I think equity gets used a lot in conversations and conferences, et cetera, and it runs a risk of becoming a buzzword, but I think that to truly make it meaningful, it has to be a value that guides the work that we do in organizations, and it has to be a value that guides the policies that we create at local, state, and federal levels of government. And that means that we have to measure it and we have to hold ourselves accountable to it. I think the theme of interdependence has emphasized to me that we do fundamentally need each other and when we leave certain groups behind, we suffer collectively, whether those groups are communities of color, whether they're women, whether they're immigrants, whoever they may be. So yes, I think equity is important in health more broadly and in wellness in particular, but I think that this has to be something we measure, and if it is, then we can ensure that it's not just something that we talk about, but it's actually the value that guides us in the work that we do. So thank you for bringing that up. - Any other questions? - [May] Hi, my name is May. I'm a public, I'm right here. Okay, I'm a public health student at Claremont Graduate University, I'm here with some of my colleagues, and I really appreciate your emphasis on public health. So I was just wondering, for those of us who are just entering or starting our careers in public health, what advice you would have for us since we're so new? - Well, first of all, thank you for being in public health. I think this is a extraordinarily exciting time to be in public health because we are redefining what public health means right now and going from a more traditional model to a model that recognizes that social determinants are driving so much of health. And the question of leadership, who brings those sectors together to improve health for everyone, who holds equity again is an issue that we work together, to work collectively. This I think falls into the realm and responsibility increasingly of leaders in public health. But I don't think that that's a given that it will. I think that, as we know, that training programs in public health and medicine have been slow to change over time. And one of my concerns is are we equipping public health leaders with the skills that they need to both communicate with the public and to convene other sectors to truly play that leadership role? I think one of the best ways to develop those skills is through actual experience. And so one thing I would encourage you to do as you're thinking about the career that you chart out for yourself in public health is to look for the people who are actually taking risk, who are trying to redefine the scope and boundaries of what public health are, who are trying to create change within their institutions and bring medicine and public health together, people like Mitch Katz, who's now in New York City, but used to be here in LA, running the County Health System, people like Karen DeSalvo, who I worked with in the Department Health and Human Services and is now at UT Austin. Looking at some of these leaders and going to where they are working with them can be a powerful first step early in your career to getting a broad view, of not just of what public health could be, but how to take a risk in actually pushing the boundaries of where we need to go as leaders in public health. - [Kathleen] Other questions? - [Audience Member] Good morning. Thank you for your leadership and contributions. You talked about change and you talked about employers coming to you and asking for direction. I'm wondering if you can comment about the recent announcement by Amazon and Berkshire Hathaway about taking some leadership positions in healthcare to change the landscape for their employees, and how you see that maybe developing? - Yeah, well, it's a good question about the recent collaboration that Amazon and Berkshire have announced. Not being in the inside of that, I don't know what their plans are. What I do think is positive is I do think it's important for forces in the private sector to take risk and to lead when it comes to transforming how healthcare is actually delivered, because the truth is, it's been happening far too slowly at the federal level. And if we just wait for legislation, I'm not saying we shouldn't work on legislation, we should be advocates in calling for bigger investments in prevention, in calling for changes to our payment structure, but in parallel, I think it's important for us to take initiative on our own. So overall, I think it's good in general for that and I'm encouraged that companies are looking at it. What they ultimately do I think it's gonna be obviously really important. And I think in that, I think two things that are gonna be critical is what are they measuring to determine whether they're successful or not? are they measuring for example not just do people have lower rates of disease, but are they measuring well-being, are they measuring productivity, are they measuring connections and social connections and loneliness? Are they measuring factors that we know contribute to people's overall sense of well-being of their function in the world? And the other thing I think that matters is their process. To what extent are they engaging the people in their organizations as they seek to go about creating a new structure that is meant to serve them? If they can engage people in a way that helps us feel like a collective effort, if they can actually create the right measures that help us move more toward a global sense of well-being, and to do so at a lower cost, then I think they could set a powerful example that not only other companies could potentially follow, that could also help inform policy. So I'm eager to see what comes out of it, but I do think that we need more private sector companies taking initiative like this. - [Kathleen] Thank you. Any closing thoughts before we end our session here today? - Well, I just want to say it's been really a pleasure to be with all of you. And Kathleen, I've just enjoyed our conversations before and just this chance to be in dialogue with you. I think, people often ask me when looking at the headlines in the papers if I feel pessimistic about the world and if I feel more pessimistic having gone through the meat grinder of Washington DC. And something that I tell them, which actually surprised me to some extent is I came out of office feeling more optimistic than when I went into office. And the reason was because of what I saw in communities across the country. I saw hardship, immense hardship, great challenges that are complicated and that we're not gonna solve overnight, but I also saw extraordinary resourcefulness in communities. I saw a desire that so many people had to want to step up and be a part of a solution. They didn't always know how, but they wanted to know what they could do to help their families, to help other families around them. I met people who had sold their belongings in order to help another family that was struggling with opioid addiction. I met moms and dads who had lost loved ones, their own sons and daughters to drug overdoses and it transformed their pain into a passion for serving other families and making sure that they didn't have to endure that unspeakable pain. Everywhere I went, I found people who wanted to make things better, and who despite everything they were reading, despite their fears and their own cynicism, deep down inside believed that we have a capacity to do better that's guided by our fundamental nature as human beings, as being people who are positive, who are uplifting, who ultimately want to support each other. And that's what gives me hope. But what those communities need is they need people that they can rally around. They need people who can encourage them in their efforts and help point them in the right direction, give them guidance on what has been proven to work. They need institutions that are willing to say, "Communities matter and we're willing to invest "in our community and get our community engaged "in this solution." The big solutions of the 21st century increasingly, I believe, are not gonna come from federal government, they're not gonna come from the state government, they're gonna come from cities and communities. They decide that they are going to take challenges upon themselves, that they are gonna fashion solutions, and joining hand in hand that they are gonna lay the bricks to ultimately build the structure that they need and to create the solutions that are gonna benefit all of them. That's the spirit of America that I saw when I traveled around the country. That's the spirit that still sustains me, that gives me hope that we can ultimately do better. I mentioned to you that I have two young kids, and many of you I know are probably parents in the audience and for me as a relatively new parent, it has been a real education, the experience, and has, as everyone told me it would, has really changed my perspective on life. But when my wife and I first found out that we were pregnant with my first child, with our son, I remember still sitting together and looking at the pregnancy test and sitting down in the bed in disbelief and thinking, "Oh my God, I can't believe that we're gonna be parents, "we barely feel grown up ourselves. "How are we gonna take care of another child?" But we were so excited about it. But that excitement was tempered over the next few days as we looked at the world around us and we asked ourselves the question, "What kind of world are we bringing our child into? "Will our child face violence? "And will they deal have to deal with discrimination? "Will they not be valued for who they are? "Will they not be given opportunities "just because of how they look, "or because of the fact that they're a minority? "What kind of country are we bringing him into?" And while we knew at that moment that we didn't have the ability to fundamentally change and transform the entire country on our own, what we decided to do is to from that moment onward to do everything we could in terms of our interactions with people, in terms of decisions we made about our career, in terms of what causes we supported, we decided to do everything we could to tip the balance in the world away from fear and anger and toward love and compassion. Love and compassion are the oldest medicines that we have. They're our greatest sources of healing. I say that as somebody who has a deep appreciation for modern technology and modern medicine. But we have allowed love to become a badge of weakness in many ways. We tell young boys that they can't say I love you because that's not manly. We tell women in the workplace that seeming compassionate and caring makes you look weak, and you shouldn't do that, you should follow more of a masculine model where you don't show your emotions and your heart and strength is defined by that. But I believe that ultimately it is our ability to move more toward love and compassion as values that guide us in our work, in our families, in our society. That is what's gonna determine whether we ultimately come together and fashion solutions to the big challenges that we face. I have no doubt that we have the ability to overcome those challenges, but they require love and compassion to be our guiding lights. And that takes all of us leading by example. It takes all of us talking about love and compassion and not shying away from it, fearing that we're gonna be labeled as weak. The Mayor of Anaheim not too far from here, a man who I've been privileged to get to know ran on a platform of making Anaheim a city of compassion, thought he would be laughed out of his race when he initially decided to run on compassion, but pleasantly found that people embraced that. People are hungry for this. Nobody wants to live in a state of fear. Nobody wants to live in a society where everyone's always throwing rocks at each other and blaming each other, and waiting to jump on the latest gaffe and magnify that. People want to live in a society that is grounded in love and compassion and that starts ultimately with all of us. So I take my hope from all of you as agents of change who can bring that love and compassion. My commitment to you is that my wife and I will continue to focus on those values and the work that we do, particularly the work around advancing emotional well-being which is now becoming our primary focus for a new institute that we're building. But I take great comfort in knowing that there are people like you, who are taking those values forward in your organizations, in your communities, and in your own lives. So thank you so much for having me with you today. (audience applauding) 