 Good afternoon to those of you phoning in from the eastern U.S. Good morning to those of you in the Pacific and Mountain time zones. Welcome to today's health I.T. webinar. Today's webinar will focus on mental health specific mobile applications and video conferencing based telemental health. These webinars are brought to you by the SAMHSA Behavioral Health Information Technologies and Standards or BHITS initiative. My name is Alan Moghul I serve as an associate scientist with Abt Associates part of the BHITS Team. Just a reminder to our participants today that as usual a PDF of this PowerPoint presentation. Will be emailed to all registered participants for this webinar. This webinar is being recorded. And it will be posted to SAMHSA's YouTube page at www.SAMHSA.gov Please note that all lines are muted. You can submit questions via the chat box feature which is usually found in the lower right portion of your screen. And as usual we'll save all questions for the final 15 minutes. We have two distinguished speakers who will share some information with us and we'll get to the first speaker presently. It's my privilege to introduce to everyone Dr. John Torous. John is an M.D. and has a master's in Biomedical Informatics or MBI he serves as the Director of Digital Psychiatry Division at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center which is a Harvard affiliated teaching hospital. Dr. Torous is a member of the American Psychiatric Association Committee on Mental Health Information Technology. So Dr. Torous the microphone is yours. Excellent. Thank you for having me and thank you for all of you guys for tuning in and listening so perhaps the next 25 minutes we're going to talk a little bit about mental health apps. What are they doing right now. And what are some ways that you can make informed decisions about if a patient or a client brings you an app and says What do you think of it. Should I be using it. I guess the backbone question of how would you respond? What would you say today? What would be your kind of tool kit or go to responses? Hopefully at the end of this twenty five minutes you'll have a better idea of what these apps are doing where they are heading and what are some kind of strategies you can use to make sense of this space. So let me advance to the next slide. So the goals of this talk are provide an overview of the current landscape and future of mental health apps to provide an overview of the American Psychiatric Association APA valuation model for informed decision making using apps. The first objective is to describe privacy and security issues regarding the smartphone apps. Second is to describe current evidence for as well as against using apps. Third to describe usability issues of apps that patients may encounter and fourthly describe appropriate data sharing and interoperability related to these apps. So I think oops I went one slide too far. We'll go back there slightly. The reason that we're talking about apps in mental health today really starts with the idea of access and we all know that there is a crisis in accessing mental health services no matter what country you live in or where are you. There's always an access problem for mental health. And one thing that there is not an access problem for smartphones increasingly people have smartphones today. The graph on the left is a review paper we did with Joe Firth who was in Australia. But you can see that we looked at the literature for those with psychosis which is the darker blue line and you can see those people psychosis or owning phones this wasn't smartphones but look at how quickly the rate of phone ownership in those with psychosis increasing the top line that is duller the general population. But you can kind of see the closing of the digital divide. People with psychosis with schizophrenia are increasingly owning technology at a rapid rate. So while there may have been a digital divide in the past, some patients have mental health disorders couldn't access technology increasingly that's not true today and what I have on the right is a screen shot I have no affiliation or linked to QLink but what QLink is claiming is basically if you're eligible for government subsidies to get a phone what some of the patients I see are calling Obama phones. Actually every smartphone now if you qualify through the right programs. So in some ways it's actually hard to not get a smartphone if you're seeking a phone today. And I think we know that if you go to a retailer for 50 dollars you can probably have a smartphone. So I think the access issue really has driven interest in these mental health ASP because increasingly patients can own them and do on down. And I went one slide too forward. So again what is the potential that people are owning these devices. What can you do with them and on the left. I have a picture we took of a study that we did a couple of years ago where basically we asked people the PHQ-9 which is a depression screening scale that we use in a clinic it's used in primary care and it's used in psychiatry and we ask patients with depression to fill out the PHQ-9 paper you see below there and then we ask them to do the same scale on a smartphone app that we develop we that do this every day on the smartphone app for 30 days and come back after 30 days then take the paper survey again. And what we found was people report symptoms differently on a smartphone. People reported more thoughts of suicidality and self harm on the smartphone than they did on paper. So it's certainly very interesting you can kind of get daily and some has even more than daily surveys via these devices you can learn about how patients are functioning how they are experiencing their mental illness on a day to day basis not just what you see in the clinic. The right panel is this idea of passive data or sensors and this was a picture of a popular press magazine. You guys will have the slides to look it up and get to details but the ideas is Smartphones have a lot of sensors on them that are collecting information passively or automatically your smartphone knows where you are all the time because that's how you're getting caught your smartphone has an idea of how many outgoing incoming calls you've got is just being a phone. So the question is are some of these sensors useful for learning about people's behaviour. So one word can be digital phenotyping that was coined by JP Onnela at the Harvard School of Public Health but could we use the smart phones to understand behaviors that people are doing and you can imagine for smartphone sensor as long as you have a smartphone on there are some data being collected if you're doing surveys like on the left panel. Sometimes people may not want to take surveys. Certainly people will stop taking surveys after a while and that brings us. Sorry Double Clicked again. I'll close that. So There is a lag on so that's where we should be the potential of interventions. So on the last slide we talked about there's new ways to learn about how people are experiencing mental health conditions. The surveys or using the sensors and I think there's also the potential of using the Internet especially smartphones to deliver interventions and offer mental health services. And bigger too is actually something that is more is a survey results came out from a group in San Francisco called the HOPE Lab and they did an interesting cross-sectional survey of how youth are using the Internet towards mental health. And that's a very interesting report that you can download and read for free. And what they show in my summary of it is that youth are turning to the Internet and online resources like Web sites and apps for mental health. Some people are finding it helpful. Some people are finding it unhelpful. We don't really actually know a lot how youth are using these resources for mental health. What's interesting on the right is a figure of a smartphone app. You can see also a tablet and a web program that was developed by Joe Tighe and the Black Dog Institute in Australia. And they actually developed this program to help address suicidality in Aboriginal population of Australia. Because there's always there's limited access to mental health in regions of Australia. And working with these indigenous populations. They were saying can technology used to reduce suicidality. So tackling a very difficult issue in mental health and they actually publish some interesting results in that citation showing the potential technology to actually decrease suicidality in a community using technology. And the reason you see on the front is he didn't focus just on technology as a broader picture he did a lot of work on community stakeholder work they didn't just drop in and say here's an app use it but it certainly is a case that you can read about where these interventions are being used for very important often difficult psychiatric issues. So Reality today though is just because we can build an app or have an app and it's accessible to people it's free to use a smartphone. Doesn't mean it's going to be used or it's going to improve mental health. My group at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center here we do a lot of work in psychotic disorders. We look at Schizophrenia especially and we were interested in learning about how a popular app that targets schizophrenia is being used by the general population. So we had a research agreement to look at this app called SARDAA health Storyline's which is free to download. You can find it on the iTunes or Android store by typing in the word schizophrenia. And what we were interested. We've had this app had been out for about a year and a half. When we find a research agreement and we're able to get the anonymized data of who logged in and who use the app and as I said this app has been out for a year and a half and the US is free to use. We are interested how many people have downloaded the app and actually started to use a feature and have a medication tracking feature and what you can see on the left is a screenshot of what is the commercial marketplace for it. It kind of tells you it's on Google Play. It's on the App Store and you can use it on the Web. And on the right. What we did was using anonymized data we didn't know who the people were. We just knew that 225 people had used that medication feature or what. So across all of America over more than 12 months 225 people have once used the medication feature. And what you can see is this decay curve in some ways that a lot less people used it twice and by time you get out to who is actually using feature 50 times that's less than 100 people who has used this feature 100 times that's about 50 people. So you can see just because you have access to an app and it's free. We really have to say what happens next. Access is the first step. Are people using it. Are people engaging with it or are people dropping off very quickly. So I think that's one of the realities  we have to think about today. The other thing that we have to think about is there's a lot of data being collected by these apps. Actually they're collecting sensor data. The app may know where you are. It may have access to your call t& ext records your contacts. Where is that data going. And I like to tell patients we work with Sometimes the price of a free app is often yourself and you may say what does that mean you are price free app. The point being A lot of these apps actually fall outside of HIPAA and federal privacy protections for health information. And in essence we'll talk about later the privacy policy may not favor people using the app. Again you may be giving the company that built the app access to much of your information return for using it. Another issue is these privacy policies are often very complex to read. I think anyone who has ever looked that or clicked on Windows our privacy policies has seen what someone once called Mouse print just kind of scrolls and scrolls and scrolls all of this text and certainly things that we don't want to happen you have to opt out of happened that picture on the right is a news story from this year in Australia's medical appointment booking app health imaging sharing clients personal information  with lawyers. So if you booking using it after booking appointment they were selling your information perhaps to lawyers to inquire if you want file malpractice claims or other insurance issues. and certainly that caused an uproar. But the case that what happens here data when you use an app may not always be what you are expecting or hoping. The other reality today is not all software is good or useful. The figure on the left is an interesting one called The MOMO challenge. It's not app based it's software it's kind of you can read about it. No one quite knows what it is but there are some concerns or some software to kind of has challenges in encouraging youth to hurt themselves. This article was saying perhaps that if someone commits suicide because of this online program or challenge last year there was something called the Blue Whale challenge that there was some concern was or kind of software running around or social media groups encouraging suicide. One that's perhaps more tangible on the right. This is a short personality test a person entered I don't like to talk a lot and you could click a button and this actually is Cambridge Analytica that led to that Facebook privacy scandal that we all have heard of and know of. But it actually started as kind of a mental health personality test that you were taking and you gave it access to Facebook and other parts and information. So certainly not all software or mental health around health is good. Or some event can certainly be used for nefarious purposes. But the real question is what is stuff doing today. Does it work. And how does it work. So highlighted Below are a summary of two meta-analysis that we did with Joe Firth. The references are there. And what's interesting is we look for randomised controlled trials of smartphone apps on the left you see for anxiety on the right for depression we said what are.. What is the evidence that these smartphone apps are actually working? And what we've found it's most interesting I want to highlight is a lot of studies will say to the smartphone app works very well we say compared to what? And if it's compared to a waitlist i.e. someone is not offered any services. and one group got the app you can imagine the group that get something is always better than nothing. And a lot of studies are reporting if the app is really great compared to nothing. And when you give an active control you can see on the bottom left of that figure an active control being a different exercise extra therapy sessions a self-help book an exercise plan some type of control the effect size for the apps for anxiety. What half of the effects size went away, right? from 0.45 to 0.19 for depression with similar versus waitlist it was 0.56% active control it was 0.22 So when you see a study that says this app is effective. The question you want to ask is again effective compared to what? What type of study was it? And again so that's understanding the context. We do think these apps can work. Again these studies are not negative but the effect size of these apps may not be as big as maybe currently promised or that we kind of see another question is people are certainly using apps today. People are certainly interested in apps and this is unpublished data that we haven't reviewed. But what we did is we asked about 100 patients at a private insurance space clinic in Boston on the left and about 87 patients in a Department of Mental Health outpatient record on the right. And what you can see is the legend is the black line is who owns a smartphone. So the left will focus on in the private clinic. Many people in Boston the urban setting owned a smartphone and red what many people have owned a smartphone downloaded apps. Green was we asked people have you actually ever downloaded and tried mental health app. And you can see just because you own a smartphone and you're in a mental health clinic for treatment a lot less people had actually downloaded a mental health app. You can see the younger group under 25 percent. 80% had tried a mental health app at one point. Blue was... are you currently using that mental health app. And you can see that again we actually didn't have very many people in under 25 group But the younger group said they were using a mental health app. But in general we found a lot of people are not using mental health app. If we switch over on the right panel to the state clinic where people mainly have schizophrenia or bipolar disorder you can see a smartphone ownership is a little bit less. Less people have ever tried to download a mental health app and even less they are currently using mental health app. So it's one thing for people to be interested in apps. It's perhaps the love of self disclosure thing. John are you interested go to the gym. I'm very interested going to the gym. Do you actually go to a gym and everyday and use it. Those are very different questions though everyone may be interested. Are they actually using it. And what we can't assess on this data is just because you're currently using it. Is it impactful or is it like going to the gym and not doing the right exercises or not using it in the right way. So I think what I've just presented to you guys is an overview of the landscape. We have a lot of access. We have a lot of potential we have some issues on are these things working. And who is using them. And it can be very challenging in that landscape. What is the right app. What should I be using. And I think something that I initially thought was a nice way to kind of understand Aspe well if I log onto the commercial marketplaces the iTunes or Android store and look for apps that have high star ratings it has five stars that probably giving me it's a better app and there's a very interesting paper by Karan Singh that you can look up into reference I have. A screenshot on the left where he basically showed that. The apps star rating doesn't really tell you much about the clinical utility or the usability of the app. It's a pretty unuseful metric. There was actually a paper that came out in the last week that showed there's an app for blood pressure and the app for blood pressure  had a problem always basically said your blood pressure. was too low. You are healthy no matter what and they found that because the app told people they were healthy all the time it got reviewed very highly and when the app actually told your real blood pressure that you weren't doing as well. It didn't get reviewed as highly. So star ratings can actually be very subjective and there's a lot of concerns about what they actually tell us. So and I said expert reviews can be useful but think of your phone right now and think how many apps want to update my phone wants to update 23 apps right now. I had updated everything two weeks ago. So even with an expert of the very good job reviewing an app how quickly is that review going to be out of date. In a world where apps change very quickly. So in some ways it's nice to have an expert review but it can quickly be out of date. And become misleading. Another point is it's. tempting to kind of say can we have different scores for apps can we have a point based systems. Can we have a kind of repository that say these are the best apps and the reason why it's challenging to have kind of a score based and these are the A+ apps  these are the B apps for these are 80th out of 100 is we don't yet know what. makes a good app. We don't actually know what is in that figure or what is the what are the bull's eye? What does a great app and. We actually don't know what is a way that we can reliably -- that different people can look at and agree and we'll talk about it. Just  think about usability for a mental health app. Different people that you work with. you see some younger people may find the app very usable. Some people that are more tech literate may find an app very easy to use and intuitive. Other people may find it really hard to do. In some way it's almost like saying are we ever going to say medication X is the best medicine for depression and CBT is always the best medicine for depression also. No! We're never going to find it. We're going to personalize. our recommendation. We're going to personalize the treatment. What we're going to use the tools the medications to -- Who is a patient at hand? What are the clinical needs? What works for them? What are they comfortable with? And as I said we certainly don't have an index with the best medicine is always going to be X or this or the best therapy is always going to be problem solving therapy. So in some ways we don't really have good metrics for what's reliable or what is valid in the smartphone app. So what we've done at the American Psychiatric Association is we've built this hierarchy or framework and the idea is not to give an arbitrary score or we don't want to give a metric which would be misleading and say this is 85 of 100 app because again these apps are going to update. We don't have a gold standard of what is the best app. We're also not formally endorsing an app. Instead we're focusing on shared and informed decision-making What I mean is -- what I'm going to cover now is you can use a hierarchy to guide a discussion with a patient to guide a discussion with yourself on -- What do I know about the app? Does it make sense? And we're going to cover these different parts in the hierarchy. You don't have to know the answers to all of them. We don't have a cut-off. But by even thinking about the risks. The evidence of ease of use and interoperability. The hypothesis is that will lead you to make a more informed decision or you can use this to talk about with a patient. Here some risk to consider. Here's some evidence. Is this something you want to do? And again considering risk and evidences as risk/benefit that common decision making As clinicians as we all do considering usability adherence is also something we do we want to make sure that recommendations we give can fit into people's lifestyles needs considering interoperability is considering how. If we're going to use an app. How is that that information get back the treatment plan? How are we going to learn about it. We don't. want to silo people's information where an app knows your medications. A different one knows your therapy a different one knows your exercise. Who is overseeing all of it? So the first risk I think to consider or talk about is privacy and security. There's some evidence and there's increasing evidence that a lot of apps don't actually offer the right security that our patients or us would want further data. And this happens again partially because a lot of the apps fall outside of HIPAA. HIPAA does not apply in the top right corner to many health apps because they're considered wellness apps. That means the privacy policy ends up dictating what happens to the data that you or a patient puts into the app. So one very quick test to understand if an app is protecting information is there even a privacy policy? We've done research and we've found that many apps actually won't even offer a privacy policy. So just by checking the presence of a privacy policy you may be able to screen out half the apps or at least get a majority of them. And certainly reading a privacy policy is not fun. But there's a couple apps that you're interested in. It may be worth investing some time to understand what actually happens to your patients data or your own data. Are third party is having access to that data. We talked about earlier some apps just are misleading or not great. There's the blue whale challenge app we talked about that was running around perhaps again encouraging people to commit suicide. The schizophrenia Don't lose it app is an app that tells people not to lose their mind in schizophrenia. It actually becomes a pawn game where you try not to lose. a pill. This was an addiction app this screenshot. You can be addicted to being right or are collecting things so someone just kind of put up these things that different addiction and you can manage it didn't really have any medical backing to it. This was a screenshot from a different app that said basically a part of your job is to dedicate your. health to your your own healing and therefore avoid being re-admitted. Help yourself by helping others be your own MH App  (Mental Health App). And again these are perhaps not some perhaps the right one's or harmful but this is not the right information you want to be telling people per se. There is more evidence based information to guide people to than telling people help yourself and don't be admitted to a hospital. So what we're saying. I said we proposed some questions on the right in in that right box and they are on the APA website. They are free to access. We're going to be doing more work to simplify these questions in a couple months ...upcoming months. But what you can say is We're saying have a conversation and document. that you tell patients that we considered a risk. We look at the privacy policy. Some people may say hey in the digital world I'm okay with sharing my data. I understand my data is not private. Some people may be very concerned and say if this app is sharing my data what is being shared? I want to know the details so there is no hard and fast rule. The questions we propose on the right such -- Is there a privacy policy? What data is collected Is your data de-identified? Can you delete  that? Etcetera. These are meant to be used to inform a decision. Think about it and to come to a sense of does it make sense for the person at hand with the clinical need to use. And as I said we'll be providing more filled out examples on the APA website soon. So talking now about evidence. I think evidence in these apps is very tricky and I said headspace is an app that's very popular. many people use it. This is one study. There are many studies that are positive for Headspace and they've done a good job doing research. This study came out this summer and what was interesting about it is they actually made a placebo version of the Headspace app. What does a placebo app? In this case, a placebo app was they had the same person who narrates the mindfulness give narration but they were not actually clinical mindfulness they were they were just basically telling people to close their eyes and in this study when people were given the placeobo app they kind of had the same effect of mindfulness that the people that got the real headspace app does. And so in some way the picture on the right that have book vs. movie is if things like Mindfulness and CBT work well face to face in person just because we put them on an app or  digital format it may not -- we there are going to be ways to translate them but we may have not got that translation perfect so I we all know a book that we like but the movie wasn't as great and vice versa. So I think it's worth considering just because CBT works well face to face in clinic has great evidence. How are we translating it onto smartphone apps. What is the best way to make it work and not. And I think certainly people are looking at new ways of doing CBT. David Moore at [?] now at UC Irvine has some very interesting work on intelicare looking at new ways to kind of deliver therapy and CBT via apps. The other partners a lot of the apps out there just don't have evidence. This is a reference from a recent paper in NPJ (Nature Partner Journal) digital medicine  where the authors looked at all the apps out today and you can see from the figure very clearly not many apps have actually been rigorously tested and it's a useful paper to read to understand the kind of limited evidence we have about apps today. So again just because we don't have much evidence for apps. Doesn't mean. You don't want to use them but it's worth making sure that you are aware the patients are aware that hey this is an evolving field this is new. We may not have a lot of evidence it's worth discussing it. It's worth us documenting it and saying that everyone is informed. It is interesting with data could be useful but maybe it's not evidence based today. And some apps do have evidence. If you actually do a quick Pubmed search there are some that have done some very impressive studies. The Intelicare group being one of those that we just mentioned So we talked about engagement There's evidence there is engagement. We already talked about with example from the schizophrenia app that hey people were not using that for engaging it. And I bring up an example from asthma. This was a study that was published in Nature Biotech last year where there was a large crowdsourced study of asthma. So not a mental health study and idea was you would download the app and it would learn about where you are. You are telling your asthma symptoms and we can learn about how the environment asthma symptoms interact and you can see from that figure that has the graphs coming down and the numbers there even though almost 8 thousand people enrolled there were only about 2300 robust users that were taking a lot of the surveys and at six months they only had one hundred seventy five milestone users. So engagement with apps is hard just because you build an app does not mean people are going to stick with that. And I think all of us know in the mental health perspective coming from engagement is hard. Behavioral Change is hard. And we have a paper it's actually free online this month to read so I highlighted it. Where we did a clinical review not a systematic analysis but we looked at -- we called a clinical review of user engagement with mental health smartphone apps. Evidence there were improvements highlighting some of the things that are kind of going well with using these apps. But some of the barriers that make these apps perhaps harder to use. So I'm biased but I would recommend reading that especially because you can download it free this month through the journal. So again so talking about engagement just like anything you use if you're giving people medicine you have a plan for it. If people are doing homework for CBT you woulld have a plan about that. It's worth thinking about that too and understanding that apps are not going to be inherently more engaging. If anything people perhaps may stop using them quickly from the evidence. So the questions that we propose are not the gold standard questions. But again they are to spark a discussion to give an idea to say  would this app be easy to use in the long term are the features of it customisable. Is that something I could see myself using. Would it work for someone who has vision impairment or disability. Is it culturally relevant. So again worth considering the easy of use factors in it. Then moving up to the fourth levels interoperability the picture on the left being again you don't want to silo information where one app is doing therapy. One app is doing medications one is doing diet. One is doing scheduling and then you have fragmented mental healthcare that would be were an error. We want things to be integrated care we want to have medical homes within the right. We want things to be connected appropriately. We already saw some smartphone apps may maybe sharing data with the inappropriate parties but how can we kind of make sure that the right data is getting to the right people. And I think what is most important is if we're using an app how is that data get back to a clinical session where you're going to use it to inform clinical management from a critical point of view. How is it that if you're a person using it for healthcare. How are you going to know it's working. How is it effective how are you getting your data out of the app. These are important things to consider. And so again we pose some questions about this on. Can you share the data with an EHR  Electronic Health Record the bottom right box. Can you print out your data at least can you export your data. Can you share it with different services like a Apple Health Kit. I think there's no right or wrong for reference apps. it may not even matter so but like any decision it's worth thinking about when is this useful when do you need it. What is the context one is  the patient One is the clinical need. So to if you look on the American Psychiatric Association Web page you do a quick google search will get to the page where everything I've talked about is also outlined. We're going to have some more build out examples coming soon. And the point of this is not to endorse certain apps it's to give you a framework to think about points to consider so you can have a structure or a conversation about apps and come to the right decision for the right patient in the right context. So I think clearly we realize this is just a start. This is one effort and I think I point you guys to that text blocks in the right. This is a paper that came out that said mental health messaging of prominent mental health apps came out a couple of weeks ago saying you know a lot of mental health apps today really present a biased image of mental health they say almost everyone should be using an app. If you look at the app and they kind of say to self efficacy you have to do self care because that's what apps perhaps are easiest to offer self care to all so the apps themselves may not be offering a good image of helping people understand what treatments are out there. They may be presenting a biased image of it. So I think we want to make sure that as we're learning to use mental health apps as a field evolves we don't want to be kind of perpetuating what is not working well the mental health system we have a great opportunity with apps but we want to make sure we're not kind of sending people to the wrong apps. Sending people to dangerous apps or kind of if we don't like were apps are today codifying that. So I think what I presented with the APA Framework is a first step. Clearly we need to have more stakeholder engagement which is on our agenda to do. And something that every all parties will have to be involved in it. As I said there is no one single solution to apps. Again what I presented is a model that may be useful for having conversation in some cases but certainly not the panacea or the ultimate fix for it. So I think with that that may be my last slide. Our lab group has a Web site digitalpsyche.org and that's that email to contact me if you have a further questions I know we have a Q and A afterwards. With that I will hand it back to our moderator. Thank you. (Dr. Moghul) Thank you Dr. Torous thank you very very much for this very fascinating glimpse into something that is very very cutting edge. The world of mobile technology. With that let us move to our next speaker today and he is. Jay Shore. Dr. Shore has an M.D. and also a Master's in Public Health and he serves as the director of telemedicine at the Arthur and Helen E. Johnson depression center. Which is located at the University of Colorado and Anschutz Medical Campus. Dr. Shore is the chair of the American Psychiatric Association's committee on telepsychiatry. So with that Dr. Shore the floor is yours. (Dr. Jay Shore) Thank you for the introduction and John thank you for the wonderful presentation on the apps. I decided I debated I I'd like to start with the joke is I'm not a doctor but I play a play one on TV and I debated whether to use web based video conferencing. But since they use such a youthful picture of me I don't want to spoil your image of me by showing you what I look like now. They also gave me an MBA. I have an MPH but I would love I'd love to have an MBA. I don't have one. so OK. There's a little delay. as John pointed out in the slides. What I want to talk about today is really give you. I won't go over the learning objectives. In the interest of time though. First of all this is just to say I do work for multiple different organizations and that content is solely my opinion and responsibility and doesn't represent any official statement. The organizations I work for. I'm also in the interest of discloser Chief Medical Officer of AccessCare Services. And I will not be talking about that today. And I'm also author of a book on Telepsychiatry Health Technologies by APA publishing with Yellowlees, in terms of disclosure. What I want to do is give you give this audience an overview of videoconferencing based telemental health and you can assume for the rest of the time that I'm talking if I use the term telemental or telepsychiatry I'm really talking about video conferencing. Certainly those are broad terms that may be used by people to represent everything from mobile technologies to e-mails. But today I'm focusing on videoconferencing. I want to talk about its history which brings us to important emerging models of how care is being delivered. Then I will make some comments specific to the use of videoconferencing and substance use services and conclude with offering up some beginning resources for people on the call who are interested in getting into more deaths on these topics. This slide is a collage of the history of telemental health and you can see in at the top left corner is a plague doctor just to point out that although videoconferencing has has only been around for about a half century now the concept of communicating medical problems at a distance is is not new in medicine. And in the bubonic plague they used to use bonfires to signal a town was under quarantine and for people to stay away. The next picture is of the York retreat which was a mental health asylum, in England. There was a nice review of letters back and forth between the doctors at the Asylum and patient's family members so this was sort of the first example of a very delayed e-mail communication between between doctors and patients families. As you see the black and white pictures on the right side of the slide this is taken from the University of Nebraska which had one of the first tele- psychiatry telling mental health videoconferencing based services in the late 1960s. So a lot of people are unaware that videoconferencing has been around for quite some time. They actually in addition to doing grand rounds and digital treatments over videoconferencing in this pilot. They also provided group therapy and the initial sort of feasibility riding around this was that this was very successful. The history of telepsychiatry from that time really occurs in three distinct phases beginning with pilots that were often grant funded because the cost of technology was so much and moving into that 1980s and 1990s. As a technology cheapened and we began to see sustainable services arising out of institutions like prisons or the Department of Veterans Affairs or transitioning to large hospital systems. And then the third phase that we're in in the field now is really the use of these portable mobile almost ubiquitous videoconferencing platforms which is really opening up how videoconferencing is being use. Within this context, Yellowlees and myself have made the argument that there's really conceptually based technologies that all clinicians are now really using in most of their practices that include things like e-mails or EMRs (Electronic Medical Records) Apps are beginning to be increasingly used in daily clinical practice. As Dr. Torous pointed out it's certainly patient portals. Mobile phones are and then you have a series of emerging technologies that are that are still haven't been widespread. And we are still trying to wrestle with how to leverage them in mental health care. Things like virtual reality treatment which in terms of phobia and anxiety treatment has been around for two decades now. Social networking search certainly we're going to see the rise of artificial intelligence machine learning cognitive computing in mental health and videoconferencing. But again those are not part of clinician's daily practice. If you trace really the history that I talked about video conferencing what the field of mental health did was in the beginning we used  videoconferencing. And we used it independently of other technologies to really replicate what we were doing in person. So you see even nowadays you know sort of the common things that happen in mental health like initial assessments ongoing management therapy that's really where videoconferencing began and certainly in in the in the 2000s in the early 2000s that's where we were. As the decade evolved we began to see additional technologies being used in synergistic ways and videoconferencing systems. Nowadays you see some EHRs (Electronic Health Records) with  their own embedded video videoconferencing. The mobile videoconferencing on phones and tablets. And even more importantly as we move to the end of the 2000s and in the last decade what we've also see is we're now using videoconferencing to restructure how we deliver care and how mental health care is delivered. So we're not only just replicating what we're doing in person but we're putting together new modes and ways of care with videoconferencing that begin to shift the model of care delivery. How access can be increased for certain populations and how the quality of care can be enhanced. I think another really important concept in the field to be aware of for videoconferencing is this concept that was originally discussed by a man named Prensky and that's the concept of digital immigrants versus digital natives. Basically this is the idea that I'm not saying my exact age but I'm certainly getting close to 50 and someone in my age group would really be considered a digital immigrant. I really didn't begin using technologies in my life and in my professional life until my late 20s. This is very different than our children now who are growing up immediately with access to mobile technologies iPhone. iPads, apps. It changes really not only the way we communicate as a society each other but how the individual patient regards and approaches technology. One of the things that I think we're seeing more more in videoconferencing is that it gets more widespread. And diffused across systems some of that is being driven by patient patient expectations and demands and certainly digital natives are much more likely to expect the ability to communicate with their doctors through a range of technologies. And there are other mental health care providers. Regardless though we know through a huge bulk of literature that in all forms of care in medicine and particularly mental health that the primary relationship between a patient and their provider drives the outcome. The context of how and where that care is delivered is is crucial and critical and so there is an emerging concept now in the field of telepsychiatry and technology of hybrid care and hybrid space and this really means that as we are evolving our systems of care with technology that the way providers and patients interact now is through multiple mediums so they don't just interact in person and they don't just interact say in a telepsychiatry, telemental health videoconferencing clinic. But one often sees a patient in a blended approach meaning one 1) that you may see a patient in your office. You then may follow up with them via videoconferencing and mobile technologies. You may communicate with them through patient portals. You may communicate with them through the phone or mobile technologies and so that doctor patient relationship is really moving more and more into the virtual space. And like any tool in medicine this virtual space has its strengths and weaknesses. Certainly there's a number of advantages of virtual space and for particular types of patients. There may be an advantage to see them virtually all through video first. For example I work with many traumatized females. Who have suffered abuse and trauma at the hands of men and so often when I work with them they tell me that they've been able to feel comfortable open up and share in the initial assessments and ways they weren't able to. And when I queried about why they were able to do this it's that feeling of safety and control that they get by being in the virtual space and not being in the same room with a provider initially which really helps the rapport, the relationship. And this is borne out not only in my observations but a number of areas of both the descriptive literature as well as the quantitative literature. I think both for the patients in terms of both access to care privacy and decreasing stigma feelings of safety can be some of the advantages of virtual space. For the provider it certainly is a different experience seeing someone over video conferencing and the you certainly maybe give up a little bit of that in person presence but you gain a little bit more objectivity. It certainly is very helpful in more dangerous settings and from sort of a workplace recruitment and retention. We see this video conferencing opening up all sorts of environments for providers to work. And so myself and our programs we have providers working in a number of virtual spaces including their home environments being able to keep  continuity of care when they're on travel of course adhering to the rules and regulations of jurisdiction when we do that. So in addition to this virtual space we turn to the topic about how video conferencing in particular and technology is restructuring these models of care. And I'm going to give you a few examples of these. So there is first of all direct real time what we consider synchronous video consultations now. And I think most people are fairly familiar with that. There is also the ability to indirect or what we call Store-and-forward telepsychiatry asynchronous consultations in telemental health and Dr. Peter Yellowlees and his team at UC Davis are really leaders in the field in this. To just give you a brief example how this works is that a patient may come into your primary care clinic. They would have a structured video interview recorded by a Health care professional a standard psychiatric interview that takes a good mental health history and that is forwarded to a mental health provider. And in the case of the initial pilots the psychiatrist who then reviews the interview and provides a treatment planning and management back to the primary care team without ever having to see the patients. This increases both the efficiency of getting the consultation done but also this asynchronous allows the consultation to often occur much much quicker because you remove some of the barriers that can occur with scheduling with a remote mental health provider. Certainly the technology has been key in psychiatrists managing population health. I think the best example of this is integrated care that is providing care in the primary care settings through a team based approach and so often as you read in the literature we're involved here in a number of services where both psychiatrists and other psychologists and social workers work across multiple clinics in rural areas and we have blended teams. We have the mental health team which may be virtual working with the in-person team which includes primary care and case managers and their patients. Again it's this video conferencing and then these other technologies such as obviously email in EHRs that allow us to work as as virtual team members. Again these are all being models and this is where I really feel the field of videoconferencing going is this virtual teaming model. And you see it occurring right now in a number of settings. You see it in emergency departments, forensic settings have been doing this virtual teams for a long time. Inpatient and residential care and particularly alcohol and substance use treatment where we're having blended teams where you have in person team members and team members who joined via video conference and can be very effective and create -- in both creating access for patients who need it but also sort of shifting the model of care delivery and make our models more efficient It gets into developing services and the concept of tactical flexibility. I love this slide. People may recognize it from the the Princess Bride where the Dread Pirate Roberts is is fighting the giant who gets defeated by the single man because he's so used to fighting big groups of people. And so as we develop these telepsychiatry services and programs and particularly for substance use services having tactical flexibility in the way we roll out these programs and models is critical to their success. And again I think I've talked a little bit more than a little bit about this concept of tele-teaming. And again it's relevance to substance abuse services as as we do more and more team based work our traditional training doesn't often do a great job except through exposure and training mental health professionals how to work in teams in formal ways. And then when you add the components of virtual and in person and blended teams it becomes even more complicated. And so there is a whole host of emerging literature not really in healthcare so much but in the business about best practices and virtual teams. But there's also a lot of lessons learned by groups that are doing this about some of the important important techniques and tips about how to facilitate appropriate virtual team communication and the importance of team building. And I think this this area of both in terms of research and just applied knowledge in training will become more and more critical in our health care systems. So I'm going to shift gears now and talk pacifically about telemental health very briefly. For substance use services I'm going to go through some of the basic issues and these apply to both substance abuse services and obviously non-substance use services. But I'll tailor my comments to those substance use services. First of all I think most people are aware that licensure of professionals MDs (Medical Doctors) councillors LPC social workers or psychologists through the 10th Amendment is is regulated at the state level. And so the basic roles of licensure is that people need to be licensed where the where the patient is physically located at the time of any virtual video conferencing based session. Now there are exemptions for federal systems including the DOD (Department of Defense) the V.A. the Indian Health Service where you can hold licensure in the federal system. Just one state licensure and be able to work across state lines but outside of the US federal systems is the brief summary on licensure. Standard of care is also a moving target and when a very interesting dynamic. Today's standard of care has really been focused on where the patient is located. But as we add more and more virtual services and videoconferencing are available there begins to become a dual set of standard of care not only what the standard of care is where the patients are located but what are sort of the national standards of people doing this work and work across state lines are engaging in. I think in particular I want to mention prescribing there is an act called the Ryan Haight Act. So if you're a prescriber you need to be very aware of this Act which basically prohibits the prescription of controlled substances including some suboxone, a MAT assisted therapy without seeing a patient in person first and then once every 24 months there are exemptions of the Ryan Haight act which I won't get in to the details. In addition when prescribing controlled substances across state lines you need to not only be aware of this Act and the federal rules and regulations of government but each state has may have a different set of rules and regulations for a provider license in that state. Around around the controlled substance prescription and so prescribers need to be aware of all of these these and adhere to them. Moving on administratively a couple high level things to consider that every Telemental health services I've ever been involved in has a workflow and protocol that helps people clarify communication particularly as I mention these teams that may be working across large distances with each other that delineates roles and responsibilities as well as how to manage contingencies such as loss of technology loss of communication and address mental health emergencies such as medication side effects, suicidality homcidality, great disabilities which have all been very successfully managed over video conferencing and there's a whole literature around emergency management. Very nice case examples to give people guidance on best practices here. The other thing about administration of particular relevance is of course funding. And the sustainment about these types of services and we are in a very complex and dynamic funding environment and most large successful programs may have a blend of funding that includes both direct services contract billings and grants and really as people develop services thinking about sustainment issues in the beginning. There the country is replete with amazing telepsychiatry telemental health services that were very effective in treating patient populations and helping increase access but because sustaining a sustainment it wasn't wasn't paid attention to faded away after after the initial granter bolus of funding that got them started. Within substance abuse services were seeing a range of provision of videoconferencing based care. It's being done in outpatient services substance specific substance disorder services in outpatient clinics integrated care with specific subs and services teams to provide primary care consultations. There's a number of examples of inpatient residential treatment programs that have videoconferencing team members and aftercare via video conferencing. There are important process issues to attend to with regards to this. I've alluded to previously my comments again the how to work with Hybrid Relationships and particularly in substance use services when there is both medication that's occurring. But also maybe monitoring in terms of monitoring that sobriety and biological monitoring and so having clear boundaries, rules communication and guidelines about how this is going to work across various teammates technologies and the patients to successfully accomplish this is critical also of being able to one of the nice things about the video conferencing technology can really enhance getting families involved in treatment even at a distance as well as enhance getting collaterals through various opportunities videoconferencing and and engaging families more in treatment. Obviously clinicians doing that need to be aware of how to manage group and group dynamics over videoconferencing. And then some concluding comments on resources. Before we move onto Q&A I'm just going to highlight a few. And I'm here today as already discussed it and so is John wearing our American Psychiatric Association hats. The American Psychiatric Association has a really nice web based tool telepsychiatry information page you can see the address on this slide. Most of the content there is open to the public. I think there may be a few sort of member only content but there's a lot of content available within that telepsychiatry site. We have a document available called the Best Practice in Videoconferencing Based Telemental Health. This was a recent guideline best practice document done in partnership in conjunction with the American Telemedicine Association and that really provides a high level overview. of guidelines. I'll talk a little bit more about that. And then we also have a specific tool kit which I'll talk about a little bit more detail. Here is the best. Here's the guidelines that were published in April 2018. And basically this document as I've mentioned before was a collaboration of the ATA  (American Telemedicine Association) And it really correlated a number of documents guidelines and best practices between these organizations in a summary format to provide a high level overview of the sort of the state of the field and best practices in telemental health. It's broken down into three main sections administrative, technical, and clinical and so it's a wonderful place to start. For those not familiar with sort of best practices guidelines in the field of which there is a host of In fact a recent review. There are over 50 sort of best practicing guidelines resources in telemental health now and you can see we took the main ones coming out of the APA and ATA and updated and summarize them in this document. Again it's available on our website. So that is the best practices. And then our tool kit. If you go to our Web site it covers 30 plus areas in telepsychiatry and you'll go on and you can see you can look on the left. Your left side. You click on telepsychiatry and then this is media communications. One of our thirty areas we cover each area gives a high level bullet point of what are the key takeaways in that area and may provide some additional reference and linkage. And then each area has one of our committee members and or an Ex... all who are experts in the field of telemental health giving about a 2 minute high level narration an overview of that field so you can save media communication skills. That's Dr. Peter Yellowlees. giving a highlight and giving you a brief demo. Especially for those new to this area I think it's a wonderful place to start to get some overviews of key topics. This is just a very brief suggestion of some places to start of reviewing. I did not focus on the literature and the evidence as much today but I would say there is three decades now worth of evidence around using videoconferencing and telemental health. I would argue it's an evidence based practice. There's about 50 to 60 good RCTs (Randomized Control Trials) now all demonstrating at the end of the day equal outcomes when comparing videoconferencing based treatments with in person treatments. Although there are nuances and differences and strengths and weaknesses. So here here's some recent good places to begin. There is a large growing literature in this area. You can delve into So here are some beginnings suggested references. And so I believe now. So that's the end of my remarks and I'm not sure Alan how to do this but I believe we're moving into Q&A and I will turn it over to you I believe to guide that Q&A. We will, yes thanks, Dr. Shore. Thanks so much. Yes some questions have come in. So I'll ask the questions and of both of you and you can provide your answers in just a minder to our listeners that you can submit your questions via the chat box feature on your screen. Going back to John Torous with the mobile apps We were wondering have you come across the web site Cyberguide.org? And if so do you have an observation about that particular resource? (Dr. John Torous) Cyber Guide is one of the many repository Web sites that kind of offers scores or assessments of apps. There's one called Mind tools.O There's one in the UK called ORCA so there are plenty of repositories. And some people may find repositories helpful I think as we all know from looking at our own smartphones it can be challenging for any repository to keep up with the changes in mental health apps and it can be hard for any repository to give recommendations that are relevant to a patient. Again it's one thing to say advancing medicine X is the A+ plus medicine or we scorn it because we don't know what a gold standard is. We don't know who the patient using the app is and these apps update. I think repositories have a pretty hard challenge and what they want to do (Dr. Moghul) OK thank you. And staying with you. John Torous, with regard to this very new world of mobile apps and mobile technology. Do you foresee a potential for regulation say by the FCC or the Federal Trade Commission or perhaps the issuance of guidelines from either the APA or SAMHSA? (Dr. John Torous) So I think the regulatory landscape is in flux. A new program from the FDA that's going to look at software as a medical device. It's called a precertification program. So the FDA is considering moving entire regulatory process for apps towards app developers because they have to realize the proper repositories is the apps up been changed too much so the FDA has proposed what we regulate app maker. For example if Apple were to make an app would Apple get FDA approval to make FDA approved apps and the FDA would do post market surveillance so that's something the FDA is considering because they've also realized it's impossible to keep up with the landscape and the repository way is not going to work. I imagine that the FDA will reach out to groups like SAMHSA and APA and other expert groups to offer their expertise to different patient groups [?] to learn about what are all the things we need to consider. So I think we will see changing regulation. Right now I think we are seeing a Free-For-All and again there's advantages. We want to encourage innovation. But you also don't want her to be dangerous and unhelpful things out there. (Dr. Moghul) Great thanks so much. Well turning to you, Jay Shore. With regard to telemental health and video conferencing is videoconferencing considered face to face time with the patient and provider as defined by CMS? The caller asked some billing practices restrict covered services to a face to face encounter. So is that considered face to face time (Dr. Jay Shore) It is but the billing area is very complicated. There are different regulations around Medicaid and Medicare and of course Medicaid is state based. And so each Medicaid plan may have different reimbursements additionally, Then you have private insurance which is more and more frequently reimbursing and beginning to allow the videoconferencing as equivalent. You also have a number of states who've enacted telehealth parity laws that say specifically that if basically if a service can be rendered with the same quality of care in person as it can over videoconferencing then insurance companies and providers must reimburse it at comparable rates as the person service. And so that APA actually has And I think most of this the American Telemedicine Association website is available and public facing to the public and they do a pretty good job of keeping it updated about a particularly Medicaid and Medicare. And what's going on at the individual state level in terms of billing and reimbursement in telehealth. And then also they may have some information as well for the with the private insurance. And so that's sort of what you need to do is wherever you are located you have to figure out what the local payers are doing around that. (Dr. Moghul) Great. Thank you. Well the next question I think is directed to either one of you. So perhaps we can have both of you take turns at this. Is there any evidence that the difference in technology used has different effects on patient outcomes? John Torous, maybe we can go to you first. So I think I'll take a quick answer I think where the evidence that how these apps There's a lot of evidence that are collected on the smartphone apps but a lot of studies may be done recruiting people on Craigslist who may or may not have a mental health condition. We actually don't have a lot of evidence on the populations that were interested in that we want to target these things too. So we don't know I think we have some interesting pilot studies but how do these things differ by age. by technology literacy by where people are on stages of change. We haven't done a great job customizing. What are people's needs what are their demographics and how can we match those to the best kind of digital health resource out there I think we're still kind of in the early days especially for apps out of that where we're creating them but we're not doing the kind of implementation assessment research that may be necessary to fully answer that. Very good question. (Dr. Moghul) Great. Thanks And Jay Shore. So the same issue Do you think that there is any evidence of a difference in patient outcomes using videoconferencing versus not using it. (Dr. Jay Shore) So I think there's two levels to that question 1 the study to date in RCTs (Randomized Control Trials) the overwhelming weight of the evidence shows that you have equivocal outcomes in person and Face-To-Face but I think there's a more subtle question about how and when and which technologies to use with patients. I think you talk to clinicians who are doing this work particularly I've done work where it's video conferencing in person some and maybe using apps as well in the treatments. You know there it's learning which tool to use with one patient when and they're really really done. Poor job. You know we researched these kind of gross equivalent outcomes looking mainly a symptom remission and control which is right with the standard literature does. But we haven't delved really deeply into the impact of hybrid relationship and sort of the strengths. You know my experience again as a clinician I'd much rather be able to see a patients who's traumatized for the first time over videoconferencing than in person. I also can tell you I've worked with mildly intoxicated patients which took me longer to pick up over videoconferencing than it did in person. And so you know all things being equal. I would maybe prefer to see that patient in person rather than videoconference. There are no absolute contraindications to video conferencing for any patients. So that's important to know. But like I said I think it's where we really need to go in research is understanding the strengths and weaknesses of these different mediums and then particularly in video conferencing. You know we now have different ways to videoconference. So myself and colleagues are doing some in home video conferencing and you may be seeing patients. You know there's a real strength to see them in their in-home environment but the platform may be a little different than seeing them in a big clinic with a big videoconferencing set up. You may have less of a visual field range of what's going on. So there's a lot of nuances so even in videoconferencing when and how is it appropriate to see someone via mobile phones versus an iPad versus a large video conferencing set up versus web-based video conferencing. And we just don't have enough data research or clinical experience to make sort of definitive commonsense statements on that at this point. (Dr. Moghul) OK. Thanks very much. Just a brief programming note we may stay a little bit beyond the top of the hour because this conversation has stimulated quite a few questions and it would be nice to get to all of these questions. So gentlemen if it's all right with you we may just stay for some a little bit of time beyond the top of the hour. Jay Shore staying with you does one need a special release of information form to speak with the client via teleconference. (Dr. Jay Shore) So this is also an interesting question. I think there's two questions  there's a form and there is a consent. So every patient needs to have some kind of consent process when they first start video conferencing which includes not only I think it's implied the patients know that they are being seen over video conferencing. It talks about how you guys are going to communicate. After hours coverage of emergency that needs to be part of the consent process. Whether a signed form is required is very dependent on the organizational system you working in the state because different states have different regs and the funders. So for example in the state of Colorado to bill Medicaid you're required to have a written release and consent in terms of good practices in Colorado. You're required to do a consent but it doesn't need to be written. In the University of Colorado system. One of the systems I work. We do have a written consent that's required by the organization. Some of the other organizations I work with written consent is not required. And so again I think. Individual providers need to find out what's right for the system and organization they're working with from a regulatory standpoint including state regs. And then also again regardless of that like any patient procedure there is an orientation and consent and so typically I actually have a two to four minute spiel depending on the patient before I even begin working with them for the first time over video conferencing that involves both sort of patient education. But at the time for question and answers and verbal consent process. (Dr. Moghul) Well staying with you. Jay Shore, Now we're turning to the issue of confidentiality for substance use disorder 42 CFR Part 2. Is that more strict than HIPAA? Governing confidentiality issues for the client in using telebehavioral Health? (Dr. Jay Shore) Is that more strict than HIPAA So that's I think a lawyer is more. More apt to answer that. But so there's sort of two philosophical things HIPAA is sort of a process not sort of a one off and so when you're doing video conferencing there are some standards around videoconferencing for HIPAA which include levels of encryption that you need to follow. You can have a HIPAA compliant video conferencing system but using the videoconferencing based on all your other processes in a non-HIPAA compliant way. Then this additional consent around Mental health and particularly HIV substance use diagnoses that are required really depends on what are you within the organization if you're the remote provider videoconferencing and credentialed by them. Who are you communicating with. when and how. And so that's also kind of on a service by service case by case jurisdiction basis about what needs to happen so it's hard to answer what's more or less strict. But both of those needs to be considered and addressed when doing this and particularly the roles and regulations around. If you're doing substance use services about When and how you're supposed to disclose and get consent from patients. (Dr. Moghul) OK and staying with HIPAA but turning to you, John, Torous does HIPAA or any other privacy law apply to the suite of mobile apps? (Dr. John Torous) So I guess the first part is a lot of mobile apps if you do read that fine print will actually say "we are not a health care service or device we are a wellness. we've qualified as the healthcare realm. If you actually want to see a mental health provider go find a clinician We're off the hook." So in that case HIPAA does not apply. As Jay says a lot of it's how you use it. Who is kind of prescribing it, ordering it. Some of these apps are beginning to pursue FDA approval. But the vast majority of apps if you go to the iTunes or android store now and download it actually we're going to. Have this little clause that kind of that says we are not even in the healthcare space we're an educational wellness to all. Therefore health care laws like HIPAA don't even apply to us. Instead look at the privacy policy again which that's where. We get into some issues. They are acting like health care services but they're denying any responsibility. And it's interesting we haven't seen any class action lawsuit on this because this standard HIPAA probably applies a reasonable consumer thinks you are a health care service. You're marketing yourself like that. That's probably the legal standard. So it's interesting that we haven't seen any kind of bring legal action against some of the mental health apps that. Perhaps are giving false marketing but it's a complex question. I think we'll see in the next. Year probably case law beginning to dictate where is a fine line between mental health and wellness or device or the mental health thing. (Dr. Moghul) I was going to ask if there's been any of any lawsuits due to breach of confidentiality or anything like that. Time will tell it seems. Staying with telepsychiatry it looks like this participant is writing from Ohio. Does a virtual presence of a psychiatrist to a provider's clients constitute having met the standard for clinicians who must provide any Medicare eligible service in incident to quote unquote physician being on site during the service has required in Ohio for counselors who bill Medicare so I don't know if that makes sense to you. (Dr. Jay Shore) Yeah I won't comment on it because I just don't know the state rules and regs so I would have to take a pass on that. That's a direct you know really good direct question to either look at that Web site in Ohio or even seek clarification about what's required. And again it's that you've got requirements for billers to be able to bill and you also and again it's variable by state to state. I practice in a couple states and there are actually sort of different standards of care and some rules and regs around documentations that vary in the States I practice and so I tailor my practice to be compliant with those. And so I would just say you know probably the best thing to do is ask the local Ohio Health and Human Services about their policies. (Dr. Moghul) OK. And going back to you John Torous, with the mobile apps. What are some specific challenges or perhaps research trends in using persuasive technology to improve the client engagement with the Mobile Health application. (Dr. John Torous) I guess the interesting question kind of thing. Can we perhaps use certain can we increase the uptake perhaps engaging in these apps through different features. I think we've seen a first wave of people fight to just gamify these apps where people have tried to let people personalize the apps. We haven't really seen the kind of quality studies looking at what you said different kind of persuasion and different messaging. I think we're seeing some interesting small studies but we haven't kind of seen a direct head to head research that all of us would want to say to say hey this works best in this case. I think it's going to be. I imagine it potentially is after you can customize them and we know certain people respond better to certain types of communication or motivation. So it may be a case where eventually we figure out. Based on say, me, John, I respond best to this type of motivational interviewing and this is going to be more effective app for me. But I don't think we're seeing kind of the substantial evidence for that. And when I say substantially, I mean reproducible where one group does it in a different group does it says hey this finding holds. (Dr. Moghul) Turning to you Jay Shore, a vendor has offered tell a mental health services to support primary care clinicians who prescribe MAT an 8 to 12 week program with telemental health services. Do you have any experience with such programs are you aware of an evidence base to support this concept? (Dr. Jay Shore) So I am aware of some growing programs and discussions in this area and so it depends how you define MAT right? I think often people immediately think suboxone. But there's also naltrexone Acamprosate antabuse right? There's all sorts of medication assisted therapy that don't fall under that controlled substances. So there are some growing pilots and programs that offer that support in the primary care. And I think conceptually you know there's a lot of programs now doing integrated care via videoconferencing and Telesite So doing MAT or offering MAT is one of the contents of the integrated care support I think is a very legitimate approach. Obviously I couldn't comment on devil's in the details you know what the vendor's model is and how they're doing it and how it goes back and forth with this specific around this specific approach. But the general sort of concept is being discussed. It's certainly been being done in some small pilot areas that I'm aware of. And. it is falling you know these these larger where there is this evidence for doing that integrated care Telesite is robust and out there (Dr. Moghul) You may have touched upon this in your. remarks but what are the laws regarding providing telehealth counseling sessions for patients who are on vacation in a different state? (Dr. Jay Shore) The conservative answer to that because I get this a lot once if you look at the state regulatory boards it's sort of interesting because phone calls you know if somebody needs a little bit of help and they are patient and you call them you know and they're existing patient, they're on vacation and you help them. I really haven't heard state medical boards being concerned about that and some state medical boards made and have rules and guidelines that you know specifically say that is OK. Once you do videoconferencing the state courts feel very very differently about it. And it's very clear that the office and I've been involved in these discussions and heard clearly from them that video conference scene constitutes sort of a different animal. And so technically if you are videoconferencing with a patients you're not under federal jurisdiction under one of these exemptions you need to be licensed where the patient is. And so you know you can create a situation where you might take a phone call and and really not run you know. Against the local state medical board. Once you are video conferencing from a conservative interpretation you're out there. and that's the advice I give to people. If you're going to see a patient over video conferencing you need to be licensed in a jurisdiction in this country where they are although this is a dilemma that frequently happens is either vacation and then a lot of psychiatrists if patients are moving they want to provide some temporary coverage or someone is going off to college. But the bottom line is you know you need to follow the rules around the state licensure which is to be licensed where you're providing care. (Dr. Mogul) Great thanks. One participant offers this comment. This is with regard to the regulatory environment. The FDA is already regulating software as a medical device. The first psychiatric substance use disorder app cleared as a class 2 device is the product Reset developed by Pear Therapeutics. And as a note we did actually have a representative from Pear Therapeutics present about Reset and the Reset specific for Opioid Use Disorder. Earlier in our in our webinar series earlier this summer. I think we'll probably do one or two more questions because we are approaching 10 past the hour. On a practical basis how does the patient obtain. A paper prescription for controlled substances. If the prescriber is working from a remote location. (Dr. Jay Shore) Well so first of all if that prescribers working Ryan Haight would dictate that that prescriber as a relationship and it has done an in person exam. So once that they're compliant with that then secondarily you've got to look at the state's rules and regulations on controlled substances some have triplicates and some don't. And so I see everything from FedExing prescriptions particularly with paper prescriptions arriving in the mail is insecure sort of a secure registered mail situations through going through a larger system to working with colleagues on site with the patients. So as you develop these if you're working in the service and not just seeing individual patients then you know that's something you work through in the beginning before you start seeing patients how we're going to address this, how we're going to comply with Ryan Haight. And then as we get why with Ryan Haight we issued these prescriptions and there's a number of different solutions dealing with different systems. (Dr. Moghul) Okay let's go to our final question then. Where does one find the regulations for a specific state regarding telepsychiatry. (Dr. Jay Shore) You know there's a couple. If you're looking broadly ATA and then the Center for (I believe it's called, I should Google it right now) the Center for Telemedicine and Law they actually have some nice state by state summaries like all 50 states. So those are some good resources to start with and you're practicing in a state it's really in the medical practice acts. and you usually go to a state Web site and sort of in some states have really good and you know you put in the search in it's right there and it's very clear rules and regs around telemedicine. Other states getting the most current rules and rates can be a little bit challenging on their Web sites to navigate that. And sometimes they're not sort of consolidated in a single place. And there may be multiple statutes too. So you do have to do a little bit of leg work and groundwork with the the jurisdiction. But if you're if you're at that level clearly you're probably already obtaining a license in that state and so as you go through the licensing process. There's often education and information that you can find around this. (Dr. Moghul) Great thank you thank you so much. As someone who continues to print out his e-mails I do consider myself a digital immigrant. So thank you so much for your for your observations John Torous and Jay Shore. Thank you so much for presenting to us today. Just a reminder to our participants that this webinar will be archived on the YouTube page at www.SAMHSA.gov And there is a screenshot of it there is about a two week lag time before this webinar will be archived. So if you are looking for it give us about two weeks to place it there. So with that on behalf of SAMHSA and the entire BHITS team let's thank Doctor John Torous and Doctor Jay Shore both from the APA for speaking with us today. Their contact information is on the screen. And so with that thank you for attending today's SAMHSA webinar and we wish you all a good afternoon. Take care. 