 Hey friends, In this video tutorial series on Devops , I will be talking about Kubernetes which is the most important tool used for container orchestration. If you Like this video do leave your Comments or share your queries below and we will respond to them as soon as possible. Also, do subscribe to intellipaat channel to keep yourself updated with the latest technologies. And do not forget to share this video. Now, lets get started In this video we shall be discussing about: 1) What are containers? What does it mean? 2) And then today's topic, what is Kubernetes? 3) Then we will talk about the most important components of Kubernetes. 4) We shall then be seeing the working mechanism of Kubernetes. 5) Then Top companies using Kubernetes. 6) And lastly, career opportunities you have . Here, we begin! Before understanding Kubernetes, we need to understand what are containers as kubernetes deals with containers. So a container is nothing but a virtual, light-weight, executable software package which consist of two portions: 1) The actual software code and 2) dependencies of the software to work with. These dependencies can include operating system, libraries, configuration files etc. which are essential for an application to run. And all of them form an environment for the app or software to run successfully. So you write software using containers to enable them to be able to be deployed on different environment without any hassle. Now if you have got just a handful of containers to be deployed, you can easily manage it. But what if you have got 1000's of containers and need to deploy them into different environments, keep track of which container got deployed to which system and also manage all the complexities related to the containers. What will you do then? How are you going to manage this huge number of containers effectively with proper accuracy? And hence you need a platform, may be something like a ship which would carry all the containers without causing any harm to the stuff inside the containers and making sure that each of them gets delivered to its specified destination. And also maintain the entire track of the containers. And, this is what Kubernetes broadly does. It is an open-source software orchestration management tool, which helps in automating the deployment, scaling and managing the applications containers. SO in brief, Kubernetes can be defined as a platform which helps in deploying thousands of containers effectively without damaging the application in there. It, also, keeps track of all the containers location and activity. There are many components which enable Kuberenetes perform all these tasks. And some of the most important components are: 1) Pods: This is a collection of containers. Usually it holds two containers . 2) Volumes: It is used to keep all the versions of an application or software so as to assist the user to go back to which ever version the user needs to work on. 3) Namespace: This ensures collaboration amongst pods and at the same time it gives the required isolation to the pods so that they can work independently. 4) Replication Controller: This component is used to create replica of the pods. And it manages arbitrary number of pods. Lets now move on to the working mechanism of kubernetes. It has got one master node and several worker nodes. And a worker node contains many pods inside it. SO whenever you write an application or software using pods, you deploy your pods to the master node and tell it how many pods do you need?? So Kubernetes takes the instruction form the Master Node and comes into action and hence distributes the pods on the relevant worker nodes. It not only does the work of deploying the containers but also exercises self-healing process. That is to say when ever a worker node fails or does not respond to user command, Kubernetes reschedules the containers to other nodes. And if containers are not working, again it would kill the container and would replace with others. Lets us now see various top companies using Kubernetes: Samsung SDS, Philips, ebay, SAP and soundcoud to name a few. Now lets us talk about the career opportunities, it has for you: So any software organization, if they want to grow big and work smoothly, they got to have DevOps and Kubernetes in place. They don't have any other option. And hence employment is never a problem. As far as money is concerned so you will be earning a handsome salary certainly. Around $ ( hundred and twenty thousand dolars) 120,000 per year, according to Indeed.com. So lets recap on what we covered so far - we started off by understanding what are containers? Then we learnt, What is Kubernetes  Its components How does Kubernetes work? We saw different big companies using kubernetes. And finally the growth it offers for you. You can get a 360 degree DevOps course knowledge here at Intellipaat with 32 hrs of instructor led training, 16 hrs of self-paced training, and Hands-on projects, all designed by industry professionals. Also , Get the DevOps Industry certification For any enquiries contact Intellipaat anytime In the subsequent videos, we shall be going through the practical session of kubernetes. Thank you for watching the video. have a great day and career ahead. 