Business Our BusinessXerox is a print technology and intelligent work solutions leader. Our experience and broad customer base gives us a unique perspective and understanding of the inner-workings of business, and our technology allows us to add intelligence to the development of solutions to connect the physical and digital worlds of work.  We apply our expertise in imaging and printing, data analytics, and the development of secure and automated solutions to help our customers improve productivity and increase client satisfaction.  Every day, our innovative technologies and intelligent work solutions - Powered by Xerox ® - help people communicate and work better. In our core market, we compete with our traditional print technology and related services. This core market is estimated at approximately $67 billion(1). Our primary offerings in this core environment span three main areas: Intelligent Workplace Services (formerly Managed Document Services (MDS)), Workplace Solutions and Production Solutions (formerly Graphic Communications). Our Intelligent Workplace Services offerings help customers, ranging from small businesses to global enterprises, optimize their printing and related document workflow and business processes. Xerox led the establishment of this expanding market and continues as the industry leader. Our Workplace Solutions and Production Solutions offerings support the work processes of our customers by providing them with solutions built upon our broad portfolio of industry-leading printing and workflow offerings.We also have digital solutions and software assets to compete in an approximately $31 billion(1) adjacent Software and Services market. Our main offerings in this market are focused on industry-specific Digital Solutions, Personalization & Communication Software and Content Management Software. Our Industry Digital Solutions leverage our ConnectKey software platform to enable integration of technology, software and services to securely design and manage the digitization and workflow of content for our clients. Our main products in this area are Digital Patient, Digital Insurer, Digital Retailer and Digital Citizen. Our Personalization Software and Content Management Software are products designed for security, cloud and digital enablement. Our main products in these areas are XMPie and DocuShare. Our XMPie offering is a robust personalization and communication software that can support the needs of omni-channel communications customers, giving them the bridge between print and digital, which is a critical element for that market.  Our DocuShare enterprise content management offering provides a better way to manage paper and digital content from creation to retention to transformation. Capture, store and share documents either on-premise or by cloud while automating time-consuming, document-heavy processes like accounts payable, HR onboarding, contract management and mortgage processing.  _____________(1) Market estimates are derived from third-party forecasts produced by firms such as International Data Corporation (IDC).Our Strategy and Business ModelOur strategy is to maintain overall leadership in our core market and increase our participation in growth areas, while expanding into adjacent markets and leveraging our innovation capabilities to enter new markets. We are simplifying our operations through Project Own It, an enterprise-wide transformation program, which we believe will create a more frictionless business for our clients and enable us to invest in our business while growing our profits. (Refer to the Optimize Operations and Establish a Culture of Continuous Improvement section below). We have a strong and sustainable cash flow business model that supports both investment in our business as well as direct return of capital to shareholders.  We have outlined the following strategic initiatives for our business:Optimize Operations and Establish a Culture of Continuous ImprovementIn 2018, we started the design and implementation of Project Own It, an enterprise-wide program aimed at re-engineering the organization to create a more frictionless and high velocity business for our customers and partners. Project Own It targets seven key areas for transformation - Shared Services, Procurement, IT, Delivery, Supply Chain, Real Estate and Organization Design.  It seeks to deliver at least $640 million of cost savings in 2019, or $1.5 billion in the three-year-period between 2019 and 2021.  We expect that the savings generated from Project Own It will allow us to expand our margins while also allowing us to make investments in the business that will help us improve our revenue trajectory. This program is managed with strong discipline and accountability and is focused on changing our work processes and designing for end-to-end operational efficiency. Xerox 2018 Annual Report      1Table of Contents Drive Revenue We are a leader in our industry and have a strong and valuable global brand. We have a three-year revenue roadmap that includes five major strategies to drive revenue improvement, including:  •Improve our core technology business by building on our leadership positions in our core technology and services markets. Within the workplace, we plan to leverage our ConnectKey software platform to redefine the multi-function device user experience. Within production printing environments, we plan to bring unique and higher value printing capabilities to our customers while also lowering the cost of entry into the growing inkjet printing category.•Expand our services and software business by building on our leadership in Managed Print Services to deliver more intelligent workplace solutions with targeted, industry specific offerings as well as achieve greater penetration of our personalization and content management software solutions.•Capitalize on the opportunity in SMB by increasing our investments in indirect channels to market as well as our Xerox Business Solutions (XBS) operations (formerly Global Imaging Services or GIS).•Transform our client's digital experience by building a world-class digital experience and enhancing our e-commerce sales platforms.•Drive innovation and new growth businesses by increasing focus and investment in our four innovation programs (Digital Packaging & Print, AI (Artificial Intelligence) Workflow Assistants for Knowledge Workers, 3D Printing / Digital Manufacturing, Sensors & Services for the Internet of Things).Geographically, our footprint spans approximately 160 countries and allows us to deliver our technology and solutions to customers of all sizes, regardless of complexity or number of customer locations.Re-energize InnovationWe believe that a critical role of our research is to identify new competency areas with attractive addressable markets for the future. Our expertise in technology and printing also uniquely positions us to discover those areas and leverage our innovation to move into adjacencies beyond our current core technology. Accordingly, we have prioritized investments in four key areas: Digital Packaging and Print, AI Workflow Assistants for Knowledge Workers, 3D Printing / Digital Manufacturing, and Sensors and Services for the Internet of Things.  (Refer to the Innovation and Research Enabling Growth Beyond our Core Markets section below).  We also see opportunity in our core coming from our ability to deliver physical devices that connect with the digital world as well as purely digital offerings that improve our customers’ outcomes.  As a result, we direct our research and development (R&D) investments to areas such as workflow automation, color printing and customized communication, as well as to improving the quality and reducing the environmental impact of digital printing. We invest in bringing new capabilities to the market such as our ConnectKey™ software to enable our devices to integrate into digital workflows, as well as in technologies to improve the security of our devices and offerings such as our recent market leading FedRamp authorization for MPS services. We will continue to invest in innovations to improve the reliability, IQ and cost of our printing devices, as well as in new services and software that improve our customers’ ability to manage their document oriented workflows.  We expect that our investments in innovation for our core, adjacent and new markets will deliver incremental value for our customers and drive profitable revenue growth for our business.Focus on Cash FlowOur business is based on a model with a large portion of revenues under multi-year contractual arrangements with more than 75 percent of revenues coming from the most profitable post-sale revenue stream.  Additionally, there is low annual Capital Expenditures (less than 2 percent of revenues) required to support our business.  These factors result in stable gross margins and operating margins as well as strong and stable cash flow generation.  We will deploy our substantial cash flow to drive shareholder returns through:•A commitment to return over 50 percent of our free cash flow (Operating cash flows from continuing operations less capital expenditures) to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases; and•Selective pursuit of acquisitions in targeted growth areas.  We target to manage our core debt (debt excluding financing related debt) to under two times expected free cash flow.   Engage, Develop and Support Our PeopleOur offerings are supported by a global workforce focused on delivering value to our customers. We continue to develop our employees by investing in the processes and systems that enable them to perform their jobs more effectively. We had approximately 32,400 employees worldwide at December 31, 2018.Xerox 2018 Annual Report      2Table of Contents Innovation and Research Enabling Growth Beyond Our Core MarketsXerox has a rich heritage of innovation, which continues to be a strength of the company as well as a competitive differentiator. As we invest in our core market technologies, we also aim to create value for our customers, our shareholders and our employees by driving innovation in new markets beyond our core, where we have differentiated capabilities. Our research and innovation efforts to grow beyond our core markets can be categorized under four focus areas:Digital Packaging and Printing - Improve the cost and capability of digital printing for packagingAdvances in digital printing are enabling mass customization at a run cost approaching the cost of analog printing. We are continuously investing in research to reduce the cost of digital printing consumables while maintaining the high print quality that our customers expect. Our research is focused on developing new printing technologies to enable us to print digitally on a broader range of media and substrates such as foils, cartons, and directly on end-use products, which could enable us to compete in growth markets such as digital packaging. AI Workflow Assistants - Create intelligent assistants that help knowledge workers in business workflows, resulting in lower cost, higher quality and increased agilityEnterprises of all sizes require agility in order to quickly respond to market changes and new requirements. Our goal is to deliver artificial intelligence that works collaboratively with knowledge workers to perform document-based and physical workflows with greater efficiency and quality. We continue to invest in new capabilities to help people in collaborative authoring workflows, such as writing proposals and other business documents. And we go beyond that to develop innovations to assist in physical workflows, such as machine-servicing, using augmented reality. These capabilities leverage our research in image, video and natural language processing, as well as machine learning. The application of these methods to business workflows could enable the automation of repetitive tasks, thus allowing workers to focus on higher value activities.3D Printing and Digital Manufacturing - Enable additive manufacturing of high volume production parts through new print processes, materials and design softwareThe current 3D Printing and additive manufacturing offerings in the market have mostly been limited to low volume prototyping due to limitations in print process productivity, breadth of materials, and design software. We expect our research to lead to technologies that improve the manufacturing productivity, robustness, and designs of 3D-printed parts so they can be used in high-volume manufacturing. In addition, our research in 3D design software could enable the creation of “better than” parts that go beyond the limits of human design expertise, and are also optimized for specific production equipment to enable higher quality and lower cost production.Sensors and Services for the Internet of Things - Democratize sensing technology by reducing the size and cost of sensors to enable new disruptive applications The Internet of Things (IoT) is transforming the world, enabling real-time visibility and optimization of physical systems. Today, size and cost of sensors, has been a limitation of this technology. One of our key research areas is miniaturizing and reducing the cost of sensors through semiconductor and printing technologies. A second major research area focuses on video and image processing to make sense of the sensor data, leading to actionable insights. We see opportunities to apply these methods to potentially generate new disruptive applications and customer value in areas such as healthcare, packaging, logistics and supply chain. Our innovation goals are supported by cross disciplinary research programs in our different research centers. PARC, the most prominent of these centers, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Xerox located in Silicon Valley, California. It provides Xerox commercial and government clients with R&D and open innovation services. PARC scientists have deep technological expertise in areas that we consider fundamental to bring high-impact innovations to our customers and the world; such areas include big data analytics, intelligent sensing, computer vision, networking, printed electronics, energy, and digital design and manufacturing.Investment in R&D is critical for competitiveness in our fast-paced markets. One of the ways that we maintain our market leadership is through coordination of our R&D with Fuji Xerox (an equity investment in which we maintain a 25% ownership interest).Our total research, development and engineering expenses (RD&E), which include sustaining engineering expenses for hardware engineering and software development after we launch a product, totaled $397 million in 2018, $424 million in 2017 and $463 million in 2016. Fuji Xerox R&D expenses were $586 million in 2018, $536 million in 2017 and $628 million in 2016.Xerox 2018 Annual Report      3Table of Contents Acquisitions and DivestituresWe had no acquisitions or divestitures in 2018.  Further details about our acquisitions and divestitures in prior periods can be found in Note 4 - Acquisitions and Note 5 - Divestitures, in the Consolidated Financial Statements.Segment InformationOur business is organized to ensure we focus on efficiently managing our operations and serving the customers and markets in which we operate. Since 2017, following the spin-off of Conduent Incorporated, our Business Processing Outsourcing business, we continue to maintain a geographic focus and are primarily organized from a sales perspective on the basis of “go-to-market” sales channels. These sales channels are structured to serve a range of customers for our products and services.  As a result of this structure, we recognize that we have one operating and reportable segment - the design, development and sale of printing technology and related solutions.  As part of our strategy, we also aim to expand into adjacent markets leveraging our industry-specific Digital Solutions, Personalization & Communication Software and Content Management Software, however the revenues generated and expected from these areas at this point are not material. Accordingly, the section below primarily discusses the business based on our primary offerings (Intelligent Workplace Services, Workplace Solutions and Production Solutions) that are brought to market through our geographic-based sales channels. RevenuesWe have a broad and diverse base of customers by both geography and industry, ranging from SMBs to printing production (including graphic communications) companies, governmental entities, educational institutions and Fortune 1000 corporations. Our business does not depend upon a single customer, or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business spans three primary offering areas: Intelligent Workplace Services, Workplace Solutions and Production Solutions. In addition, a smaller portion of our revenues comes from non-core streams including paper sales in our developing market countries, wide-format systems, licensing revenue and XBS network integration solutions.Our Intelligent Workplace Services includes a continuum of solutions and services that helps our customers optimize their print and communications infrastructure, ensure the highest levels of security and productivity, and enable their digital business objectives. Our primary offerings in this area are Managed Print Services (MPS), a range of Industry Digital Solutions that leverage Workflow Automation, Personalization and Communication Software, Content Management Solutions, and Digitization Services. •In our MPS business, we help companies assess and optimize their print infrastructure, secure and integrate their environment and automate and simplify their business processes. We provide the most comprehensive portfolio of MPS services in the industry and are recognized as an industry leader by major analyst firms including Gartner, IDC, Quocirca, InfoTrends and Forrester. Our MPS offering targets clients ranging from large, global enterprises to governmental entities and to small and medium-sized businesses, including those served via our channel partners. Our Next Generation Xerox Partner Print Services is a comprehensive suite of services that allows channel partners to support their SMB customers with some of our best-in-class tools, processes, and workflow solutions developed by Xerox for large enterprises.•Our Industry Digital Solutions leverage our ConnectKey software platform to enable integration of technology, software and services to securely design and manage the digitization and workflow of content for our clients; our main products in this area are Digital Patient, Digital Insurer, Digital Retailer and Digital Citizen. •Our Personalization and Communications Software and our Content Management Solutions are products designed for security, cloud and digital enablement. Our main products in this area are XMPie and DocuShare. Our XMPie offering is a robust personalization and communication software for omni-channel communications customers, giving them the bridge between print and digital, which is a critical element for that market. XMPie offers a range of platform-enabled digital services that deliver relevant and timely communications focused on customer acquisition, onboarding or retention. Our DocuShare enterprise content management offering provides a better way to manage paper and digital content from creation to retention to transformation. Capture, store and share documents either on-premise or by cloud while automating time-consuming, document-heavy processes like accounts payable, HR onboarding, contract management and mortgage processing. In addition, we operate a network of centers that digitize and automate paper & digital workflows, enabling our customers to operate cost-efficiently in a fully-digitized environment with speed, quality and 24x7 availability.Xerox 2018 Annual Report      4Table of Contents Our Workplace Solutions area is made up of two strategic product groups, Entry and Mid-Range, which share common technology, manufacturing and product platforms. Workplace Solutions revenues include the sale of products and supplies, as well as the associated technical service and financing of those products.•Entry comprises desktop monochrome and color printers and multifunction printers (MFPs) ranging from small personal devices to workgroup printers and MFPs that serve the needs of office workgroups. Entry products are sold to customers in all segments from SMB to enterprise, principally through a global network of reseller partners and service providers, as well as through our direct sales force.•Mid-Range are larger devices that have more features and can handle higher print volumes and larger paper sizes than Entry devices. These products are sold through dedicated partners, our direct sales force, multi-branded channel partners and resellers worldwide. We are a leader in this area of the market and offer a wide range of MFPs, copiers, digital printing presses and light production devices, and solutions that deliver flexibility and advanced features.Our Production Solutions are designed for customers in the graphic communications, in-plant and production print environments with high-volume printing requirements. These solutions enable full-color, on-demand printing of a wide range of applications, including variable data for personalized content and one-to-one marketing. Graphic Communications Solutions revenues include the sale of products, software and supplies, as well as the associated technical service and financing of those products.•Our cut-sheet presses provide graphic communications and commercial printers with high speed, high-volume printing. They are ideal for publishing, transaction printing, print on demand and one-to-one marketing, offering the best in high speed, productivity and resolution and color. We are the worldwide leader in the cut-sheet color and monochrome production industry.•Our inkjet presses offer a broad range of roll fed, continuous feed printing technologies, including waterless inkjet and aqueous inkjet for vivid color, and toner-based flash fusing for black and white. Our portfolio spans a variety of print speeds, image quality, feeding, finishing and media options.  We continue to develop and integrate our production inkjet business to bring the high-end capabilities of toner-based presses such as speed and inline color correction to the more price sensitive market of inkjet.•Our FreeFlow portfolio of software offerings brings intelligent automation and integration to the processing of print jobs, from file preparation to final production, for a touchless workflow. It helps customers of all sizes address a wide range of business opportunities including automation, personalization and even electronic publishing. In 2017, we sold our FreeFlow Print Server (FFPS) DFE business to Electronics for Imaging (EFI).  Under the terms of the sale, we established a strategic partnership that will bring to market a next generation digital front end (DFE) solution with more efficiencies, performance and quality to meet the most demanding production requirements. Additionally, EFI will continue to supply and support the current range of FFPS. It should be noted that the sale agreement comprises only the small FFPS business and does not impact our FreeFlow portfolio of software solutions which remains a key plank for our customers’ workflow strategy.Geographic InformationOverall, approximately 40% of our revenue is generated by customers outside the U.S. Additional details can be found in Note 3 - Segment and Geographic Area Reporting in the Consolidated Financial Statements.Patents, Trademarks and LicensesIn 2018, Xerox and its subsidiaries were awarded 450 U.S. utility patents. Including our research partner Fuji Xerox, we were awarded 975 U.S. utility patents during the period. Our patent portfolio evolves as new patents are awarded to us and as older patents expire. As of December 31, 2018, Xerox held approximately 10,307 U.S. design and utility patents. These patents expire at various dates up to 20 years or more from their original filing dates. While we believe that our portfolio of patents and applications has value, in general no single patent is essential to our business. In addition, any of our proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide significant competitive advantages.In 2018, we were party to numerous patent-licensing agreements and, in a majority of them, we licensed or assigned our patents to others in return for revenue and/or access to their patents or to further our business goals. Most patent licenses expire concurrently with the expiration of the last patent identified in the license. We were also party to a number of cross-licensing agreements with companies that also hold substantial patent portfolios. These agreements vary in subject matter, scope, compensation, significance and duration.In the U.S., we own about 191 U.S. trademarks, either registered or applied for. These trademarks have a perpetual life, subject to renewal every 10 years. We vigorously enforce and protect our trademarks.Xerox 2018 Annual Report      5Table of Contents Environmental Social Governance (ESG)At our core is a deep and long-lasting commitment to ESG, a pledge to inspire and support our people, conduct business ethically across the value chain and preserve our planet.  This commitment stems from the corporate values established over sixty years ago.  We continue this legacy by turning investments in innovation into products and services that help our customers be more productive, profitable and sustainable. Driving efficiency in our business operations, smart investments in technologies that afford our customers added agility-personalization, automation and better workflow-as part of our customer-centric approach, will underpin our corporate social responsibility efforts. We do this in our own operations, as well as in workplaces, communities and cities around the world. We recognize the world’s challenges such as climate change and human rights and understand the role we play. We are constantly thinking about how we can simplify work, deliver more personalized experiences and improve productivity through new technologies. We strive to connect the physical and digital worlds without adversely affecting the environment, human health and safety.Our pledge to inspire and support our people, conduct business ethically and protect our planet remains at the core of everything we do. The Xerox 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report, available at www.xerox.com, provides an overview of our progress for the year 2018 including these achievements: •100 percent of supplies and consumables returned by customers at end-of-life were diverted from entering landfills. Instead, we remanufactured, reused, recycled, or provided the waste to suppliers who converted it into an energy source.•100 percent of newly-launched, eligible Xerox products satisfied the Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT®) and EPA ENERGY STAR® eco-labels.•Six percent of our U.S. employee population is military Veterans representation bringing us closer to our goal of 6.7%.•Worldwide Total Recordable Injuries (TRI) rate of our employees dropped by 5.3%.•Supplier spend with suppliers representing small Tier I, minority, woman or veteran-owned businesses accounted for 9% of our total spend.•Employees gave over 91,000 hours of their time for local community involvement.Marketing and DistributionWe go to market with a services-led approach and sell our products and services directly to customers through our worldwide sales force and through independent agents, dealers, value-added resellers, systems integrators and the Web. In addition, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Xerox Business Solutions (XBS), formerly Global Imaging Systems (GIS), an office technology dealer comprised of regional core companies in the U.S., sells document management and network integration systems and services. We continued to broaden our distribution to small and mid-sized businesses in 2018 through expanding our network of resellers and partners (including multi-brand dealers) as well as through integrating a significant number of our small and mid-sized government, healthcare, education and graphic communication accounts into XBS. This realignment of our SMB business not only creates synergies that will simplify our business, but it also gives us the ability to leverage XBS’s high-touch, locally accessible model to provide our customers with the best experience.We restructured the way we serve our customers globally into two units:  the Americas, with Mexico, Central and South America joining the U.S. and Canada; and EMEA, which includes Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India. We have also implemented a common global delivery model that aims to provide a consistent customer experience worldwide. We believe that these changes create a flatter and more effective go-to-market model that will streamline our supply chain and provide our customers with best-in-class services.  In Europe, Africa, the Middle East and parts of Asia, we distribute our products through Xerox Limited, a company established under the laws of England, as well as through related non-U.S. companies. Xerox Limited enters into distribution agreements with unaffiliated third parties to distribute our products in many of the countries located in these regions and previously entered into agreements with unaffiliated third parties who distribute our products in Sudan. Sudan, among others, has been designated as a state sponsor of terrorism by the U.S. Department of State and is subject to U.S. economic sanctions. We maintain an export and sanctions compliance program, and believe that we have been, and are, in compliance with U.S. laws and government regulations for Sudan. We have no assets, liabilities or operations in Sudan other than liabilities under the distribution agreements. After observing required prior notice periods, Xerox Limited terminated its distribution agreements with distributors servicing Sudan in August Xerox 2018 Annual Report      6Table of Contents 2006. Now, Xerox has only legacy obligations to third parties, such as providing spare parts and supplies to these third parties. In 2018, total Xerox revenues of $9.8 billion included approximately $8 thousand attributable to Sudan.CompetitionAlthough we encounter competition in all areas of our business, we are the leader - or among the leaders - in each of our core offering areas. We compete on the basis of technology (including our technologies for security, automation, personalization and mobile-ready and cloud-capable devices and solutions), performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, distribution and customer service and support.Our larger competitors include Canon, Hewlett-Packard Inc., Konica Minolta and Ricoh. Our brand recognition, reputation for document management expertise, innovative technology and service delivery excellence are our competitive advantages. These advantages, combined with our breadth of product offerings, global distribution channels and customer relationships, position us as a strong competitor going forward.Customer Financing We finance a large portion of our direct channel customer purchases of Xerox equipment through bundled lease agreements. We also provide lease financing to end-user customers who purchased Xerox equipment through our indirect channels. We compete with other third-party leasing companies with respect to the lease financing provided to these end-user customers. In both instances, financing facilitates customer acquisition of Xerox technology and enhances our value proposition, while providing Xerox a reasonable return on our investment in this business. Additionally, because we primarily finance our own products and have a long history of providing financing to our customers, we are able to minimize much of the risk normally associated with a finance business.Because our lease contracts allow customers to pay for equipment over time rather than upfront upon installation, we maintain a certain level of debt to support our investment in these lease contracts. We fund our customer financing activity through a combination of cash generated from operations, cash on hand and proceeds from capital market offerings. At December 31, 2018, we had approximately $3.5 billion of finance receivables and $442 million of equipment on operating leases, or Tota