 The application of scientific knowledge for practical purposes is called technology. This application at the stage of an early human was different from now. Technology is updating itself every second and it can't wait for anyone. Also, we humans are using that technology to improvise our lives. Some new ideas are taking birth in technology which can show a newer dimension to us. In this process, let's know the top 10 ideas that are going to change the way of our lives in this video. Tease: Hello everyone. Welcome to Fact space. For more useful information, subscribe to Fact Space and click the bell, Kris: so you don't miss upcoming amazing stuff waiting for you. Number 10: Internet for everyone We all are connected through the internet. Web surfing for us is only possible because of the Internet. Without it how can you watch the videos of Fact Space? But some areas in some countries are not accessible for this. They are not accessing the Internet as they don't have a connection to it. To achieve this, already some companies did some ventures. Alphabet recently launched a helium balloon into the sky for making the people of Kenya access the Internet. Facebook tried to provide the Internet using its drone system, but eventually, they abandoned it. But a company called Hiber took a very different approach to solve this problem. They launched their own network into micro-satellites of a small box size into the lower orbit of Earth. Then the modem in your computer receives the data, as those micro-satellites fly in the air. The best part here is these satellites orbit the Earth 16 times a day and the organization British antarctic survey which is striving to provide internet access to every extreme end of the Earth is already using these box-shaped satellites. Number 9: Self-healing 'living concrete' Concrete is very useful for construction purposes of roads, buildings, bridges, and dams. It is the second most-consumed material on the Earth after water. But the building or bridges can fall at any time if there is a minute flaw in the concrete. Due to sudden earthquakes, some cracks may occur naturally. To avoid this, scientists found self-healing concrete. It is a living concrete developed by using sand, gel, and bacteria. They said that it has a structural load-bearing function and automatically heals itself if there are any cracks. It is more environmentally friendly than concrete. The team from the University of Colorado Boulder strongly believes that this can help the future buildings to heal themselves, get rid of the toxic air that causes cracks, and protect themselves. Very thoughtful idea right! Number 8: Heart Monitoring T-Shirt We have smart bands that can measure our heart rate which is not new. They are also helpful for counting how many calories we have burnt during the workout. But accuracy is the most important thing for professional people. Most of the smart bands that are available in the market right now won't guarantee that to you. So, if professional athletes rely on these smart bands, they can't know exactly what's happening in their body every second. For more accurate results, the Heart Monitoring T-shirt came. A smart materials company KYMIRA developed a T-shirt in which ECG is printed into the fabric, measures heartbeats, and uploads them to the cloud via Bluetooth. If one wears this t-shirt he can escape from almost all of the heart-related diseases as the data uploaded will be checked by algorithms for any dangers. Arrhythmia, heart attacks can be easily detected using this. Surprisingly, athletes are not the only people who can take advantage of this, but also normal people can. Number 7: The AI Scientist Suddenly while chopping, unfortunately, you cut your finger. It will be a terrible situation for anyone. But in this situation also one living being can regenerate the lost part in its body. It's a flatworm. Try to cut the head of it, it regenerates again. Try to cut it into half, the same happens. Whatever you do, it can create the lost part. Scientists worked day and night to find the mechanism of this being, but it was quite tough for them. But an AI coded at Tufts University, Massachusetts analyzed this and produced the results in just 42 hours. What took months of time for Scientists, was solved in 42 hours. It produced a detailed report on how this Flatworm is regenerating itself and built its own model in a different comprehensive way. Scientists are feeding AI with more information, to get the output even faster. The AI has built its approach in a prudent way. Scientists used AI to connote the advancement in its power. Number 6: Space Balloon We love to know things about the mysterious space. What we have known in the space is very very less than that we haven't known. That's why everyone wants to travel to Space. But it takes so much money to travel and it's a difficult process also. The concept of Space balloon rose from this. Traveling in a balloon to space is the fastest way if you want to go. To make this dream come true, World View Enterprises are striving to send tourists into the Stratosphere, 32 km above Earth on hot air balloons. Typically space means 100km from sea-level. But 32 km is enough to witness the curvature of the Earth. The company was successful in its first flight. If you are interested, why can't you do an adventure? Number 5: Robotic Guide Dogs Pets are a great solution if you want to relieve stress. But what if there is a robotic guide dog, instead of our cute friend. A student at Loughborough University has designed this Robotic guide dog named Theia, which will be very helpful for visually impaired people who can't raise a normal pet. Theia programs very quickly and processes real-time online data such as traffic density, weather and creates itself a map of routes that are safe for the owner. It uses a control moment gyroscope(CMG) and physically leads the owner as it will be similar holding the leash of our pet dog. It's an intelligent one that can predict any dangers. Dogs are very lovely and we love their presence and activeness. But this one is very different. Number 4: Living Robots The idea that Robots take over humans as AI is dominating in every field is shivering. But Joshua Bongard, a computer scientist and robotics expert at the University of Vermont, developed the millimeter-wide bots, known as Xenobots. These are capable of doing way more advanced things than what you think of a robot can do. These are helpful to clean up radioactive waste, collect microplastics in the oceans, carry medicine inside our bodies, and even scrape out plaque in the arteries. A hybrid robot made using stem cells from frog embryos can entirely change the world. Joshua said that those were novel living machines. Those were neither robots nor a species of animal. Let's see how it can bring a change in the future. If you want to know more about robots check out the video made on them. Number 3: Smart food labels Most of the food items we buy in shopping were thrown out as they are expired or something happened. In a hurry, we forget to see the expiry date. So, almost 30% of the whole population throw bought items out. To avoid this, 'Bump mark' was developed. Originally developed for blind people, but it's a solution to the problem we are facing. The mark will be very accurate than manufacturing dates. It decays as the food slowly starts to decay. It is connected to the food inside the packet and if the date is expired the mark that's decayed shows us accurately not to buy it. This saves a lot of time and money. Very thoughtful! Number 2: Pain-free tattoo removal Tattoos are thought to be a fashion some days. If you have a tattoo that you don't want to have, here is the solution for it. Ph.D. Student Alec Falkenham in the US has worked hard to harness a property of our body's own immune system. He created a cream that delivers drugs to white blood cells called 'macrophages' which means big eaters, making the skin to slowly drop the ink that is stuck deep into the muscles and remove the traces of the tattoo entirely without any pain. Number 1: Tactile Virtual Reality We know that VR games are way more advanced than the normal gaming as the experience would be better. Using the same VR experience scientists developed a flexible material which enhances the experience of VR and takes it to the next level. The system is called epidermal VR, which helped a person far away from the family, to experience the touch given to a child. As you can see, flexible material is the key to all of this to happen. That is attached to both the child and the man and they are trying to access it through the connection to the software. The material is free from batteries and wires. It has 32 vibrating actuators on a thin silicon polymer that sticks on skin without any tape. It uses NFC to transfer the data, which is the technology that most of the smartphones use today for payments. Scientists believe that it provides a new kind of experience for everyone including gamers. In gaming, if something dangerous is going to happen the flexible material warns us through small pressure, which alerts us. If this is fit into clothing, the experience will be way more different and we can communicate using our fingertips. These are the top 10 upcoming ideas that are going to change our life. If you are interested for part-2 comment down "part 2". For more useful information subscribe to Fact Space and click the bell so you don't miss upcoming amazing stuff waiting for you. Also follow Fact Space on Instagram for latest technology updates. Ok, folks. See you soon! 