 - Here are a couple of nuggets to throw out at parties: about 71% of the Earth is covered by water. The other 29% is land, and dry lands and deserts cover about a third of that land. Now I've got nothing against sand, sun and blistering heat, but I'll be honest, too much sunscreen makes me break out a skosh. One problem that's slightly bigger than my sunscreen issues is that very little of anything green can actually grow in the desert, until now. (gentle music) From sprawling barren land to a flourishing agricultural paradise, inventor Kristian Olesen is on a mission to green the world's deserts through his innovative technology called liquid nanoclay. Kristian spoke to me from southwestern Norway. Kristian, hello, so glad to have you on Innovation Nation. - Hello, Mo, thank you for having me here. - What inspired your idea for your special plant growth material? - The reason that I got the idea to work on this issue was that we worked together with some Egyptian science people, who has been doing research in clay for many, many years. I said to my colleague that I'll look into the problem to see if we can solve that sandy-soil problem in the desert so we maybe could grow things in the desert. - Kristian knew the key to growing in sandy soil was to get the sand to absorb more water. After several attempts with different ingredients — he even tried glue — Kristian eventually landed on the exact ingredient earlier scientists had started with but found too expensive — clay. - Clay was maybe the best thing we could use, but then we had to split it apart in individual flakes. - How does this mixture get plants to grow more rapidly? - The clay act as an activator or, can you say it again, you'll get 20 to 50 times more transferring of the good things for the plants, like water and nutritions. - All told, we can describe the material as clay, split up into the itty bittiest particles you can think of. Those tiny particles expand when mixed with water in a patented process, then become a compound, which is simply sprayed onto the desert land through a sprinkler system. That causes the land to retain the water, kind of like a sponge. With this treatment, Kristian says deserts, like the one he started with in Egypt, can grow grass and crops just as well as normal soil can and even save up to 65% of the water used during irrigation. Kristian, thank you for greening our deserts. - Thank you for having me, Mo. 