 Most people have no idea how many options they  have for treating mental illness, and many   people feel hopeless or stuck in their anxiety  or depression. But modern imaging technology is   allowing researchers to look into our brain in  ways that was never possible before, and they've   been able to see that you can actually change your  brain's structure function and brain chemistry.   By changing how you think and changing how you  act. This is called neuroplasticity. I feel like   it's really important to help people access  these mental health resources and education.   So I made this online course, and it's about two  and a half hours long and it's on udemy.com and it   includes 10 other principles 10 other ways you can  change your brain chemistry other than medication,   and it's based on the most current scientific  research. So this is research backed ways to   change your brain without medication. Now i'm  not against medication, I believe it should   be considered as a treatment option i just  know a lot of people want to know what their   alternatives are. But I wanted to make some  of its information more accessible to everyone   so i'm including a couple of chapters for  my course right here on Youtube for free   this first chapter that i'm going to be sharing  with you is on neuroplasticity. What that means   and how that applies to mental health. If you  want to see the whole course it's on udemy.com   and i'll include a link in the description um  with a special coupon code so it's 9.99 to take.   But in this introductory video i'm going to  explain the fundamentals of neuroplasticity   which is how you can change your  brain, its physical structure,   and your brain chemistry, by changing how  you think, and how you act. So let's jump in. In the first segment of this course we're going  to talk about how changing how you think actually   changes the chemistry, structure, and function of  your brain. Hi I'm Emma Mcadam, and i'm a licensed   marriage and family therapist and I get really  stoked about helping people improve their lives.   I've been working in this field since 2004,  and I've worked in a lot of different settings   like juvenile corrections, wilderness therapy,  residential treatment, outpatient treatment,   and I love the change process and walking with  people as they're making these great changes   to their life. I just love it when people start to  feel that excitement about how good their life can   be. So, let's jump into this course and see what  small changes you can make in your life that are   going to make a big difference. This course has  nine simple not easy but at least straightforward   ways to change your brain and one complicated one.  This first segment is the most complicated one   and changing how we think is really difficult.  Now, of necessity we have to start with this one   because it lays the foundation for all the changes  that we're gonna make. So understanding how we can   change our biology by changing how we think is  really essential groundwork for understanding   how the other nine principles can work. So if  this topic seems a little overwhelming just   stick with the course because it gets easier as  we go on. So let's jump in. There are two ideas in   psychology that have been proven wrong. The first  one is that once we hit adulthood, our brains   really don't change much, and the second one was  that we can separate the psychological disorders,   these problems in living, from the biological  disorders, this chemical imbalance and so   someone might have depression and it's caused by  a chemical imbalance. And the only way to treat   that is medication and someone else might have  depression which is caused by choices they've made   and the only way to change that is by making  them change their behaviors. So new research   is showing us that our brain chemistry  does impact how we think, and how we feel,   but how we think and how we feel changes our  brain chemistry. This gives us more power   and more influence over our lives  to make them happier and healthier.   So new imaging technology has changed  our understanding of how our brain works.   And new research in the field of neuroplasticity  has shown us that our brains they don't even stop   laying down the hardware until we're 25, but they  can continue to change and grow and develop our   entire lives. And this is called neuroplasticity,  meaning that our brain is moldable and shapeable   and changeable throughout our entire life.  One of my favorite examples of neuroplasticity   is the stories of people who are blind who have  learned to navigate using echolocation. So they've   developed the ability to locate objects in their  environment using sound waves in the same way   that bats do. This is an ability that their brains  didn't have, but developed after they went blind.   If you haven't seen the videos of these people you  should check it out. It's really inspiring to see   how much our brains can change and this applies as  well to people with anxiety or depression or other   difficulties, that thanks to our brain's ability  to grow change and adapt throughout our life,   we can improve our brain functioning and abilities  in really dramatic ways. This again I love this   principle because it gives us room to influence  our life we are the agents of our own lives and   you can create the changes that you want to  make in your life. It's become increasingly   evident that biology impacts thinking, so this  idea that you know you have a chemical imbalance   that's causing depression, that's true that does  happen. But it's also become more and more evident   that the way we think impacts our biology. So  if we consistently think hopeless thoughts,   then we're going to be more likely to have biology  of depression. So we might have what's considered   a chemical imbalance. Or we might have lower  levels of serotonin or dopamine when we have   these depressing or hopeless thoughts. So to  understand what we're going to talk about in   this segment we need to do a little bit of brains  101. So there's four aspects of brain performance   that we're going to talk about. Brain structure,  chemistry, function, and genetics. The first   one is brain structure. There are physical  structures in our brain and each performs   a specific function and we're not going to learn  about all the parts of the brain for this course,   but we're going to talk about a couple of them.  Our brains are made up of distinct structures   that change and adapt based on how we use them.  For example, there's two structures in our brain   that are impacted by depression. The amygdala  is the part of the brain that processes fear and   the fight flight freeze response, and in people  with depression the amygdala has been shown to be   larger and more active. Another part of our brain  that's impacted by depression, is the hippocampus.   The hippocampus processes emotions and it's  been shown that in people with depression,   the hippocampus is actually smaller,  it shrinks when people are experiencing   depression. The the really cool thing is that some  recent research and multiple studies have shown   that the hippocampus has the ability to regain its  size after a bout of depression. So in in patients   who were experiencing depression they attend  eight weeks of therapy and their hippocampus was   measured before and it was shown to be smaller and  then after therapy was measured and shown to be   larger. So the hippocampus can can change its size  just based on something like talking with another   person who's helping you change how you think.  When it comes to brain chemistry, our brain uses   chemicals to communicate and these are called  neurotransmitters. The main ones we're going to   be talking about in this course are serotonin,  which has to do with confidence and happiness.   Dopamine which is kind of the reward chemical and  pleasing chemical. Norepinephrine which has to do   with decreased pain sensitivity and feelings of  elation. Oxytocin which has to do with bonding and   love, and GABA which is associated with anxiety  and stress. Medication is not the only way to   treat a chemical imbalance. So while depression  or anxiety can be seen on a chemical level inside   the brain, that doesn't mean that your only option  is to change those chemicals by adding chemicals   to your body like medication. Now  again I'm not against medication. I   often recommend that my clients go to see a  doctor to get some some medication options.   However, it's not the only way to impact our  brain chemistry. So cognitive behavioral therapy   changing how we think and act has been shown to  be as effective as medication as a treatment for   mental health disorders like depression and  anxiety. How we think affects our brain chemistry,   so here's an example. If we interpret a situation  like a work assignment as being threatening   or impossible or overwhelming, then our brain  releases chemicals like adrenaline and cortisol.   Now people with depression and anxiety have higher  levels of adrenaline and cortisol in their brains,   and this this creates a heightened stress  response, so a cycle of being stressed out   about being stressed out and they they tend to  get more stressed out than the average brain,   than a person who doesn't have depression. It has  been proven that with many people, if they are   taught how to think differently about a situation  how to interpret that work assignment as not being   stressful or overwhelming, then the brain releases  less cortisol and is less flooded with adrenaline   and therefore creates a more healthy balance  of chemicals inside of it. So we can actually   change those stress chemicals, we can decrease  the level of the stress chemicals in our brain,   by changing how we think. The third aspect of  our brain that we're going to talk about very   briefly in this course, is brain function.  How we think changes our neural pathways   so we think along these little neural channels and  they're like roads and the ones we use the most   become broad like highways. The ones that we  rarely use are narrow and thin and when we   don't use them at al,l they get trimmed  off because the brain likes efficiency.   So when we start thinking negative thoughts like  this is hopeless or i'm no good or nobody's gonna   like me. Then those pathways become thicker and  broader and easier for the brain to send signals   on. We become habitual in thinking that way, and  that shows up in our in our biology. But when we   change how we think, and we start thinking  hopeful thoughts, like I can do hard things   or I can reach out and love other people and  they're going to respond with love to me.   Then those neural pathways become broader and  wider and those physical structures in our brain   actually change. The last aspect that  we're just going to talk about briefly   is our genes. Now we know there's a genetic aspect  to mental health and mental illness. So depression   tends to run in families and anxiety tends to  run in families for many people this feels like   we're predestined to feel the way we feel. Now,  there's some recent research that's coming out   that's really exciting that has shown that we  have the ability to influence which of our genes   get turned on and which of our genes get passed  on to our descendants based on the experiences   that we have. So how we respond to our experiences  and how we think can impact which genes get turned   off and this emerging field is called epigenetics.  It gives us some degree of influence over a very   impactful part of our mental health our genes. So  therapy isn't the only way to change our thinking,   it's just the one that has the most research  behind it. So cognitive behavioral therapy   has um lots of research showing that it's  effective for 65 or 70 percent of people,   when it comes to improving their symptoms of  depression and anxiety. And we know that it works   because it not only changes how we think, but it  changes the biology that's going on in our brains.   There are other ways to change how we think  things, like self-help and courses, and seminars,   books, and and new experiences can all change how  we think. Cognitive behavioral therapy is just one   way that's been refined down to a skill that is  a very efficient way to help people change their   brain chemistry. Now I realize that this segment  has kind of been more of an overview and if you'd   like to learn one specific way to change how  you think, check out this video I made on black   and white thinking. When we resolve black and  white thinking, we increase our brain's ability   to be healthy and happy. So, if you want to change  your brain chemistry start changing how you think. 