 Hello my name is Louise Pigden. I'm Deputy Dean here in the College of Engineering and Technology at the University of Derby and this is a short overview to give you hopefully a good feel for the subjects that we teach our staff, our research and a feel for the ambition we have for our students and enabling them to succeed in the future. This presentation is correct at the time of delivery April 2020 and is subject to change. We review the content of all our courses regularly making changes when necessary to improve your experience and graduate prospects. For the latest information please visit our website derby.ac.uk. The College of Engineering and Technology has a broad range of programmes at both undergraduate and postgraduate level. These span across the full range of engineering disciplines, so covering mechanical, manufacturing, production engineering, civil engineering and architectural technologies - the built environment, electrical and electronic engineering, audio lighting and sound engineering in the context of live events and a broad portfolio of computing programmes, not only core computer science but computer games programming, computer games model and animation, network and forensics and security and all of the subjects are under pinned by very vibrant mathematics discipline which teaches and supports students across all of our programmes but also across the wider University and into schools in Derby and the surrounding region.This range of subjects underpins the industrial sector in which Derby sits so Rolls-Royce has, for example, has its global headquarters here in Derby and is a huge employer in the city in the region with 14,000 employees and they actually send their Engineering degree apprentices to study at the University of Derby. So they study the same courses alongside our on-campus students and have the, enjoy the same, high quality education and facilities the on-campus students have and similarly we also have around a hundred Civil Engineering degree apprentices studying with us and again these come from local and regional, large multinational civil engineering and construction companies such as Akon and again these high quality brands entrusts their graduate their degree apprentices to study at University of Derby and that's an excellent hallmark of the quality of our courses and I've included on this slide a couple of indicators of student satisfaction from the recent National Student Survey again just to give you a feel for the high regard in which the students enjoy and benefit from their studies here at University. We have really excellent, quite phenomenal, physical resources, workshops, equipment and teaching spaces here at University of Derby and we've invested heavily in those facilities over recent years. However of course what really makes for an amazing educational experience for students is the teaching staff and it's such a pleasure for me to work alongside such a high caliber team here at the University of Derby with staff who are so committed to their students development and well-being, certainly very ambitious for their students but also understand the students need support in transitioning to university and particularly at the start they need the great deal of help until they really find their feet and become independent learners and really confident in themselves and their own future and success and our staff are with the students every step along that journey and they're pushing the frontiers of knowledge themselves in terms of their own research and love nothing better than to feedback that back into the classroom and really ignite the students passion for learning through sharing their own passion for the subjects that they teach. At all excellent universities are striving to achieve is marrying together that care for students and their education together with harnessing the passion and the excitement academics have to creating new knowledge and solving tricky industrial and societal issues and problems and making the world a better place to live and engineers, technologists, computer scientists have all the tools in the repertoire in order to solve those grand challenges that society in the world faces around climate change and energy transitions and sharing and information knowledge connecting people and we have teams who are working on projects in sustainable living and smart cities so developing the vision and ideas around autonomous vehicles, thermally efficient buildings that are comfortable and efficient to live and work within and that connectivity that Internet of things around smart cities that is so exciting. And organisations have been developing what they call digital twins and we've been working with large organisations such as Bombardier who is seeking to replicate their real-world production line in a digital twin space. So this is an incredibly sophisticated model of the real world that enables the organisation to test out different approaches to manufacturing and design and delivery without actually having to invest in the physical resources and facilities of people to prototype those ideas so it gives organisations enormous insight into developing innovative solutions a step ahead of that prototyping and real-world development and in our computer science area we have a very strong computer games programming group who have been phenomenally successful and placing students in industry but also using that virtual reality and augmented reality space in our godly western data visualisation lab to support other industries and not just the gaming industry but say construction and architecture to provide customers with the immersive experience of how the building will look be or to live and work in before a brick is laid and computing is not simply displaying data on a screen. In Computer Networks and Computer Engineering, we are very keen to encompass the cyber-physical concepts of collecting information from our surroundings, manipulating that data to achieve an objective and then applying that as a control to change our environment and this cyber physical systems approach crosses many traditional boundaries and requires a multitude of skills and this is epitomised by an example of an autonomous vehicle project which is undertaken by one of our Motorsport master students under the supervision of one of our computer networks lecturers and the aim of the project was to determine an ideal racing line for any given racing circuit. So data was collected from our realistic simulator vehicle and then processed in new real-time using AI and machine learning. Real-world physics were applied using a game physics engine and the output supplied back to the simulation in order to control the vehicle. The same principles are now available to be applied in our physical model. Maybe one day back to a real vehicle on a race circuit and the skills that were required in this project included many facets of computing, electronic design, manufacture control systems, mathematics mechanical and fabrication and it's just a wonderful example of the interdisciplinary nature of the subjects that we teach here in the College of Engineering and Technology and gives you an insight into how engineers and technologists in the real world, working those multi skilled interdisciplinary teams to solve those grand challenges and innovation problems that I described. Another area of research within the College of Engineering and Technology is led by Dr. Adam Hill and Dr. Bruce Wiggins and their work mainly centers around the quantification and optimisation of multi speaker audio and the impact this has has been tremendously varied and international in scope and the immersive audio work and software they have developed has elicited impact in the production of world leading audio software VLC and is used in immersive audio stage at Glastonbury Festival. Here sub-woofer array design and optimisation work has led to impact an improvement of subwoofer reproduction on the Prodigy European Tour and in jet aircrafts and in work featured in the BBC's Blue Planet concerning coral reef health. So enormously broad in application, terrifically exciting. Meanwhile over in data science, distributed data stream analytics - DDSA - is the application of deep learning to networks of sensors and systems that gather and process huge amounts of data in real-time, for example, network of traffic cameras. The research led by Professor Ashik Anjem and his team of colleagues here at the University of Derby has combined cloud and edge computing with a partitioned convolutional neural network CNN model to several applications including the pharmaceutical industry, high-energy particle physics and rail management and the benefit of the DDSA solution is to reduce the network bandwidth requirements and platform costs while maximising the utilisation of available resources. This enables the network to respond to tasking and queries in near real-time - phenomenal work. Hopefully that's giving you a really good for feel the subjects we teach, the staff here and also some of the flavour of the research that were involved with. So now let's talk a little bit more about you and what studying at the University of Derby would do for you in terms of your personal development but also in helping you achieve your ambitions in terms of your future career. This slide should hopefully give you a feel for the range of companies that we work with and this will be on a range of fronts, so it could be in terms of those research and consultancy projects that I described but it's also in terms of the students and all of these companies have taken students from us for industrial placements, they've provided live client briefs into the classroom students to work on on their assessments, they have provided inspirational guest speakers from industry, they have supplied degree apprentices to study onto our programmes and they also guide the college in terms of its curriculum development through a membership of our industrial advisory board. The quality of the courses here at the University of Derby in the college of Engineering and Technology is evidenced by the professional body accreditations which they attract and these accreditations are established and understood within the industries by the employers of the future for you and they really underline both the quality of the content of the programmes but also the quality of the staff delivering them and the quality of the physical resources, workshops and facilities in which you learn and study. So these accreditations are absolutely vital in order to evidence the high quality of the courses here at the university. And just how far you go, how much you would achieve in terms of your personal development and academic achievements while at University is partly about what goes on in the classroom and the quality of the courses but also partly about what you get involved with outside of your degree and here at the University of Derby we offer a very comprehensive, broad and deep range of opportunities to augment what you study and learn in the classroom. So the Union of Students supports a very broad range of academic and social clubs, societies and teams which students set up and run themselves and then draw membership from fellow students and the students all have a lot of fun in terms of these societies but they also have a serious edge because you're learning by doing outside of the classroom. And new societies this year included motorsport, which actually won a national prize for being one of the best university societies in the country and similar to all universities we also have a really full careers support offer for every student of the University and that actually lasts three years following graduation as well, as we have an alumni promise here at the University of Derby and you can see there some things which you'll be familiar with terms of expecting to see industrial placements supported so we have such good employer links and relationships within the college of Engineering and Technology that any student who wants to do an industrial placement year, we can help and support them to find a good placement. We don't guarantee a placement because of course the student has to, you yourself have to apply and succeed in passing the criteria but we can generate enough opportunities for every student to take a placement and there are shorter opportunities around internships, summer internships, work experience, every student does thirty hours of work experience on every programme within the University and then there are some offers there which are unique to Derby so the Futures Award is a certification which illustrates that students have taken part in a range of developmental activities that include work experience but also volunteering and supporting other students in their courses. We have an employment agency where we place a lot of students either here at the University and paid work, student ambassadors, also in local companies that require student work and we support students by a personal academic tutoring system whereby every student has a nominated academic point of contact who's responsible for their academic development over the course of their time here at University and really supports that student in understanding their learning journey, their assessment, what they can do to improve on where they currently are and understand where they want to be in the future and help them plan to get there. We offer GRIP fair; that's graduate recruitment internship and placement fairs, where we have employers meet up with students and of course we support students in preparing their CVs and interview practice and self evaluate self evaluation questionnaires so students feel really well prepared for what they're going to encounter when they do apply for jobs, either as a student or as a graduate. In the next few slides I have great pleasure in sharing with you small number of student success stories and very difficult to choose from such a broad range of successes that we have here from our students but hopefully this will give you a feel of what our students gather / - after graduating and we always encourage these students to come back to talk to current students because we find they have a really powerful voice, they understand how to be effective while learning at University and to bettering yourself so that you can achieve that success you want following graduation. Here we have Mechanical Engineering graduate Sorria Douglas who is used to getting firsts. She achieved a first class honours degree with us and she's now a Design Engineer with Nottingham based LAC Conveyors and Automation. The first female engineer at that company. Our Motorsport Engineering students study a Mechanical Engineering course in the context of motorsports. So obviously they have that real passion for speed and optimising vehicles for racing and Kaushick Raja Mohan combined his passion of actually racing cars with also the academic success of studying a motorsport engineering and that has positioned him quite uniquely to succeed as a racing driver but who also understands how to talk to the race engineers to really optimise the vehicle for success. It's his dream job. Daniel grows the flowers, turns the leaves gold, makes the snow fall. Our graduate Daniel Fern is working for Microsoft Xbox at their play ground games studio as an Environmental Artist. He says "I'm humbled to work with such a talented team". Most recently he worked on the critically acclaimed racing title Forza Horizon 4. Take a look his names in the credits. He says "I have to pinch myself sometimes because I'm sure I wake up at some point". And while Daniels talent is clear to see, he's keen to lay some of the credit for it achievement at our door. "I can say with some confidence if I had not attended the University of Derby I would not be where I am today" he says. Ryan Wheeler a student on our Architectural Technology and Practice course was due to work as a CAD - computer-aided design - and space position during his placement but he brought skills and benefits to our estates team they were not expecting and he ended up working at a much higher level and project managed schemes to redesign and rebuild parts of the University including our main entrance. And Ryan says "I confidently say but I'm have delivered over two hundred thousand pounds worth of works for the University. This is my proudest success so far. I've learned new skills, faced fresh challenges and worked on designs and schemes for the University's main entrance, computer labs, office spaces and student halls allowing me to see the results of my concepts. Dan Elsley, Ryans line manager adds "Ryan used photo shop to render some outline designs and give us an edge and design development of visualisation. Alongside his strong CAD skills he excelled at the day job the to extent he is undertaking delivery of two version projects as well as assisting other project managers and countless others, what a terrific placement year". And last but not least Charlotte Tolley another wonderful female Engineer role model now working as wheels and tyres Engineer at Jaguar Land Rover. Charlotte says she would definitely recommend the BEng Motorsport Engineering. It's very specific enough that you learn to solve real-world problems. Studying at Derby has definitely enabled me to shape my future and pursued the career I want. Well done Charlotte. I hope you've enjoyed this presentation and it's given you bit of a feel, abit of a flavour for the subjects, the staff, the research and the opportunities for you here in the College of Engineering and Technology at the University of Derby. We are University of ambitious minds and we welcome ambitious minds who want to come and study with us and I do hope that includes you. 