 We're live. Okay yeah thanks very much. Alright, hello everyone. Welcome to AMA number 37, the fourth of May, a month since our last AMA. Introducing Art Brock - Co-founder, Mary Camacho - Executive Director and myself David Atkinson - Commercial Director. A few announcements, for those of you who want to know sort of the official events, if you search for or load holo.host\events you can see that we've got an online Holochain meetup in Cape Town on the 5th of May, so coming up tomorrow. The demo, another online demo for the Holochain Wiki on the 6th of May, an online Holochain meetup in New York City on the 7th of May or for the New York City area. In Seoul, South Korea an online Holochain meetup on the 9th of May and then we also have a few people, Grace Hedayat and Guillem, various members of organization and community presenting together the OPEN 2020 webinar on May the 21st. A quick other event announcement shoutout, if you go to forum.holochain.org\events or search for that in your browser you can also look at some of the community events, for example we have a Virtual Hackalong running at the moment. So a couple of different places to look for events. I don't think there are any other announcements so I think we'll go straight into answering the questions now. So let's see, there's sort of normal 25 questions or so, so we'll see how we go through this month. So they're actually contextual questions here here. So Mary can you tell us how does a typical working day look like and has anything changed because of the quarantine? You know it's interesting, in a lot of ways we're working very similarly to how we were before but with a few exceptions. You know, back in February we had some travel scheduled but we saw what this might mean for a few people who were afraid of getting stuck in different parts of the world and so we cancelled some travel basically for our product dev team. They were all planning to meet the UK in March for an intensive get - together and I think a bunch of you probably saw some of the community events that we canceled or moved or changed but a lot of those as David has just said have gone online. I think for a lot of us our experiences are similar to the rest of the world really, I mean, some have been in more harsh lockdowns than others, like in Spain, but really we've just been working and we were working from home before and we're continuing to work remotely today. But really, I'd say the Coronavirus or COVID-19, it's been tough on our team and I'm sure it's been tough on a lot of people but we've had family of team members affected and the trauma's been hard. We're doing what we can to support people but at a distance that's not always easy. Some folks on our team have stepped away, they're working on projects directly related to the pandemic relief efforts. I'm sure we'll have more to share about those sorts of things in the future but right now we're just heads down doing the work, and yeah that's that's what it looks like here. Super, thank you Mary. So on to delivery timeframes, I'm just wondering as probably many others are, is there a rough time frame for when we'll be able to test our ports with open alpha? 1 month, 2 months? And a couple of follow-on questions, so when will the HoloPort admin panel open? We've been waiting since January, and nearly halfway through the second quarter, would you say you guys are right on schedule for a beta release before the end of the year? So sort of a batch of questions there. Yeah I think these are a bunch of different questions that got all put together into one because it's probably easier to answer that way. Yes, I'd say that we are on schedule for a beta release this year and we've really been making a lot of great progress for end-to-end hosting even in these strange times. Specifically we've been going through several rounds of testing that have us take the the sort of integrated or end-to-end experience, we go into an internal QA testing where our team is doing the work and we're testing, doing automated testing and manual testing and that's before we deploy it into what we call our field test environment. That's where we're set up with a small group of Holochain app developers and a few other community members that have been doing real user testing in there. We're also working this week to expand that group into what we call our pre-release testers. This is a group of volunteer hosts that have gone through a process with our team and they're going to be starting up this week, I think this week actually, I didn't actually validate that piece earlier, but we've been talking with them getting them prepped to support us in that environment. Up until now what we've been testing is the host experience of the HP admin as well as HoloFuel. If you're on Telegram or in the forum you're seeing nearly daily updates right now about what's going on in dev and so what we're doing right now is working to get it to the next round. This past week we were working specifically on a GetLinks issue that we discovered in the HoloFuel DNA. That one looks to be resolved but we're also enhancing the ability for the the app the HoloFuel DNA to know when it's disconnecting from the conductor so that users are getting more clear errors for instance if their local connectivity goes down or isn't constant. Also the Holochain team has really learned a lot from these test cycles, that's been super important for us. It's really the first intense test of Holochain with HoloFuel that we've been doing and it's allowed us to run a successful test on our testing rig, for example with 500 HoloFuel nodes working, that's been steadily going up as we've resolved issues that we're finding during the test, which is exactly how it's supposed to work. This last one when we made the leap to 500 nodes that was because of some changes that we made where the nodes are now looking for data that the host is the author of. So for instance if I'm doing a transaction I should know that I'm the author of that transaction so I can look to myself, and that speeds up, it gives us efficiency and so that's one of the ways that we've been able to bump these numbers up in our tests. We're doing another round right now of testing so hopefully this week we're gonna be getting it into an integrated QA, so that means we are going to be doing the testing early in the week, and then our plan is to get that into our field test again later this week. In some other news though we've just completed some work on the USB reset for Holo Ports. One of the things we really need to avoid during the larger alpha test is that we don't want our HoloPorts to get into a state that they can't get out of. That's really important because normally when you're testing in an alpha test you control all of the hardware, you control the environments, you need to go change something, you go do it, well with this all of the HoloPorts are distributed around so if something goes wrong, it's a lot more difficult to make sure that they can get reset. So one of the ways that we have to do this, it's not the end-all, be-all replace everything, but what it does is it does a reset to the source chain on HoloPort and so what we're getting ready to do is put that out in such a way that not just the people with monitors and keyboards can do this but also people who don't have that and just have the USB that's in the back of their HoloPort So we're getting ready to take that out into our field test this week and get that tested and get it out hopefully to the wider environment. It may actually support some of those folks who were having difficulties getting their HoloPort connected to the network in the first place. Super, thank you Mary.Art, in your last Medium article you talked about people getting reports on the health of an organization in new ways and you described it in terms of a visualization of an underwater ecosystem. Can you tie that possibility together with Holochain? Is it Holochain apps that could be designed to gather and display the kind of data you were talking about? Would the scene be visible to just the participants of an app or could it be public? How would people know what it meant? And how could people trust the data or moreover how could they trust the app developers knew how to identify the good in an ecosystem pattern? And just Art, before you jump in, I think could you just remind us what the article was? And someone could you please post the link so people listening get a chance? The article was one of the ones in my sort of Nextnet unenclosable carriers series. There's a whole series of these articles which I ended up having to break actually into multiple parts, started breaking into three parts and even had to break one of those parts into four parts so I think there's six parts. Anyway the thing that we're talking about here is something that we call Holoptinets, this is a made-up word, but it's basically about networks of data flows where any node in that network can see patterns of the whole. So I sometimes use the image of the aquarium screensaver for those of you that are familiar with that as an example of kind of the seeing engine or visualization framework that it would be possible to compress essentially millions of simultaneous data points and patterns into and our perceptual system can actually take that all in kind of in a glance, kind of how you can absorb the gestalt of what's happening if you see you know different species of fish in different quantities swimming at different speeds or at different levels and the cloudiness of the water and how many bubbles are rising. You can you can configure lots of different variables and we have the ability to take in that data all at once in a way that somebody who for example might be the CEO of a multinational organization who gets a 400 page printout report plopped on his desk where he is trying to read about everything going on in the organization, that's a form of data that we cannot process quickly. If he or she is lucky there are graphs and charts that help summarize some of the the numbers and things like that, but often even those things take a lot of interpretation. So being able to have data like, our perceptual system is designed for these immersive natural environments and when you can translate data into that kind of format then suddenly people can see larger patterns in the whole much more quickly and that's what we're talking about here. This was a conversation that actually came out of Ceptr, the kind of predecessor project to Holochain that we prototyped a lot of things in, and it was designed with the semantics and self describing protocols to make something like this easy. Holochain is just a partial step in that direction. The DHT in Holochain is how the parts can see the state of the whole but we've tried to limit how steep the learning curve is in Holochain, so it doesn't quite have like all the same semantics and universal pluggable protocols and that kind of stuff, instead we've just tried to connect it with kind of widely accepted existing standards like JSON, MessagePack, that kind of thing so Holochain can connect with existing systems and data but it doesn't have kind of the universal pluggable semantics of the data in the way that Ceptr is designed to, so it'd be much harder to run something like this on it. So the other questions as far as how public it is, that would be a function of who makes it and what kind of permissions they set up, what kind of access they set up, and who they're trying to serve. Then the question of how can you trust the data, well I would ask how can you ever trust data? Holochain provides a huge upgrade from normal data because all data is immutable and digitally signed as far as where it came from, so that's a huge upgrade. Right now, on most data it just sits there as if it's natively true but it isn't right, it all came from somewhere and if you hide where it came from then it makes it that much harder to determine how to trust it. So in summary TLDR, Holochain's a step in that direction but it's not designed to run like full-blown Holoptinets, out of the box. Super, thanks Art. Alright so I've seen a bunch of voting app discussions on the Holochain forum - I've got a bit of an echo here - with a variety of use cases or requirements. Have you had any NGOs non-government organizations or municipalities chat with you about the possibility of using Holochain for governance? Is this area something you're pursuing partnerships and projects for? Mary, I think... Yeah, I can say a quick thing on this. We were approached by someone and we've actually put in a joint application to the European Union's Horizon 2020 grant fund with a project very much in this area. It's not focused specifically or simply, I guess, on voting but it's also about all the decision making, you know, making better decisions as a whole. We think these kinds of issues are a little bit more deeper than just the vote and it would be a lot better if the proposals could be developed through more collaboration and better coordination and then maybe we wouldn't have to be choosing two things that we don't want when something's put up for an election. Anyway I think David you probably have more to say about this. Yeah I think I want to chime in and say yeah we've had lots of conversations with major institutions and communities, all sorts of organizations in this area ranging from what we do at the human and community level through to the institutional level, and right now just really clearly, we are building relationships and in those relationships highlighting new patterns and possibilities for collaboration but we're not focused on building those solutions out right now. Actually I should just say so for those of you who would like more information about this kind of partnership or adoption questions there's a few members in different communities you can find on Telegram or on the forum that organize sort of more closed phone calls with members of the team where we talk through solutions and opportunities in more depth, so please come and join those calls. Art, something you'd like to chime in with? Yeah just, it's interesting because there's a project that's been created where there's the H-wiki, the Holochain based Wiki that is actually set up to be able to be kind of a side chain Wiki app for DOAs on Ethereum and that kind of thing and now they are doing most of the the voting using tokens on on you know I'm DOA stack or on Ethereum and that kind of thing and yet because it's so expensive to store data and have the discussions and interaction and that kind of stuff in those mediums, but they still want to make cryptographically signed connections between things, H-Wiki was designed to be able to be kind of an interface between these sort of things. One of the things we're looking at fairly soon once we get the Holo hosting framework up is ways of providing Holo hosted apps as sidechains for blockchain apps and that kind of thing, which takes a portion of this away and connects it in with a place that people are already doing some of this voting framework stuff. Okay, super, thank you. All right, Art another one for you, going back to basics, can you explain the role of HoloFuel in Holochain and how this is different from other tokens on Holochain? Yeah, well first of all as you probably know Holochain doesn't have a built-in token unlike most blockchains which basically have to build in tokens because they're so inefficient to run that most end-users can't realistically run it on the devices that they use on a daily basis like phones tablets or laptops, so you have to pay a special class of users like miners or stakers for using a lot of their computing power. Holochain doesn't have that problem so we don't have built-in currencies, so HoloFuel doesn't have some special status in Holochain in terms of it being a king currency or something like that. You can build currencies on Holochain and HoloFuel is an example of a currency built on Holochain. While Holochain doesn't have this problem of sort of this imbalanced load, Holo does. Holo is this hosting framework designed to let mainstream web users have full access to the kinds of P2P apps that are built in Holochain but they are not peer, they're not running a full peer, they're not serving themselves in the way Holochain peers are. So it's actually designed to be able to take Holochain apps mainstream to web users but because they're not carrying their share of the load, others have to take that up for them and that's where HoloFuel comes in to pay sort of a peer hosting network to be able to carry this additional load of peers that are not hosting themselves. HoloFuel is the micro transaction accounting based currency for serving that purpose, for doing a high volume of daily tiny hosting transactions. That's one of the pieces that we need to take Holochain mainstream and so it's special for us strategically but it isn't special in terms of having any other kind of status versus other kinds of currencies people would make on Holochain. There's some really great projects out there that are steps in this direction. My favorite is actually Holo-REA which is REA accounting built on Holochain which kind of has the potential to turn any unit of account into a type of cryptocurrency, a type of crypto accounting based currency. Mary do you want to jump in here? Yeah I just want to reiterate this because this is one of the things that comes up the most in terms of the confusion and it's the first thing Arthur said, Holochain does not have a built in token, Holochain doesn't have a token. It's not like blockchain that has built in tokens, Holochain doesn't. Holo has a currency. We could just keep saying that over and over I think because as anybody new that comes into community it is fundamentally the most confusing thing. Maybe we should tweet it once a day. Yep, thanks very much guys. Well maybe maybe once every few hours I think will help with some resources for people. It definitely takes a while to get the people to get their head around it, once people do then it becomes pretty exciting. A question about getting up to speed on Rust. So what were the resources that the Holochain team used to get up to speed on Rust? I'm a full stack developer but brand-new to Rust. Do you have any recommendations about how to approach as documentation is quite sparse? I'll take this one. We we get a bunch of questions that are technical and it's not that I'm gonna answer all the specifics of the technical but I did go out to our dev teams and pose the questions to them so over the course of this AMA we have dev speakers and they just have my voice today. So Tom shared a couple of resources, and if you guys could go ahead and put the links out there that would be great. He said Rust Book streams small challenges and asks questions. These are each links to places that you can learn about Rust is what I understand. He said really most devs are just friendly and helpful, most Rust devs, so if you like there's some nano tutorials, but just ask questions and start building something, really, anything he says. David M says this, strong coffee and make space for time to engage in spirited debate with the compiler. That's a fun one. He also says a lot of the resources tell you what you can do but not what you can't and that there's a huge amount of knowledge embedded in the compiler that's just not documented well but it's readily available when you run into it. Yeah if I could just say something on the heels of that, Rust's compiler gives far better errors than most compilers, like it generally is telling you a lot about what the problem is and may even tell you a little bit about what it's expecting and how to fix it and that kind of thing and so it's worth experimenting. It's a very informative compiler but as David's saying a lot of times the challenge is just getting the code to compile if you're doing something complex, you know, like just representing it in a way that will meet all of Rust's strict requirements for managing the lifetimes of data and memory and that kind of memory usage that kind of stuff. Part of the thing that we've been saying to ourselves is it's worth this extra time wrestling with getting things to compile because Rust's strictness helps prevent you from introducing problems or making mistakes with memory management or memory leaks or reentrant code or things changing that shouldn't have changed while somebody else was using them and that kind of stuff, Rust is very strict about all that kind of stuff especially for running a distributed system that has lots of different people could be stepping in running things at different times, it's really important that we get this stuff right. That's what we've been leaning on the strictness of the Rust compiler to make sure that we don't make some of the kinds of mistakes that are you know famous for having introduced bugs like the big DOA thing that caused the Ethereum hard fork and things like that with reentrant code issues and stuff like that. So it's worth learning to wrestle with the Rust compiler. I say that having done only a small portion of Rust coding, I'm not one of the main Rust coders here. Thanks Art. Okay on to the next question. There used to be a lot of talk about distributed energy in the past, is there any news on that front? What are people doing right now and will they still build on Holochain? Yeah so RedGrid, redgrid.io in Australia is one energy network that has fully committed to building on Holochain. They coordinate pretty closely with us and and they even hired one of our Australian team members after he took a leave in January and then resurfaced ready to work again. There's a few other companies that have been exploring it, maybe David you could talk about some of those, but part of the key here is that Holochain is actually light enough to run on these kind of end-user smart grid devices and then be able to provide this immutable cryptographically signed data to keep the network honest essentially. You can have a counter signing of interactions of energy trading between nodes and things like that and it's hard to get that kind of thing and it's hard to build that kind of infrastructure and that's what we've built in Holochain. We've got a paper coming out on that some time in May and there are a few other parties that we're talking to, so I think we'll just keep moving the questions on and cover a bit of breadth here. So, a question about a HoloFuel transaction - when Alice is receiving a HoloFuel transaction from Bob, a node has to check his entire transaction history to make sure he legitimately has the necessary funds, will the HoloFuel app check the entire history every time or are there optimizations built-in? For example Alice's node could only check Bob's history until she comes across the last transaction between the two. So Mary and Art, Mary you want to take this. Well I'll start it, this is a great question. People understanding how HoloFuel works I think is critical. The validation that's happening on HoloFuel is really about the source chain and it doesn't check the entire history every time. If you think about it that sort of design would just degrade over time because you would just keep adding transactions and everybody's chains would get longer and longer, but it's not just looking for the last transaction between those two parties either, that would be a little odd. It's looking at the last transaction on the counterparties chain regardless of who that was with. Really what you need to think about are two things - is that counterparty, source chain valid? That is, has it been tampered with in any way and what is that person's balance? You want to go into some of the details about how that's accomplished Arthur? Sure. In the in the question above - Alice and Bob, Alice's node does need to validate Bob's chain and yeah you can say if she's validated it before maybe she could just go back to the last transaction that she did with Bob but generally speaking the validation process is fast enough that it's worth making sure when you're doing a transaction, because this is a moment at which you could potentially be party to fraud because remember our transactions are doubly signed by both the spender and the receiver so even if you're receiving the funds it's your job to audit the other counterparty because you're going to sign this transaction so you want to be crystal clear there's no funny business going on, now the auditing their chain essentially is like fast-forwarding through it, doing the math of doing the adding and subtracting based on whether somebody was spending or receiving funds and also checking the signatures of the counterparties and making sure that all those counterparties have not been blacklisted or a warrant hasn't come out on them, and if a warrant has come out on them that it was after any transaction that was party to in this chain. So there's a few types of things but that's actually not all that much. Checking, doing the math superfast, checking signatures, we use elliptical curve signatures that most CPUs nowadays can do about 20,000 signature verifications per second, so then this comes down to checking to see if any of the users are warranted and you've got your own warrant list locally, so that's just a local check to see are these people on my warrant list and then, only then, if somebody is on the warrant list then you might have to do a network lookup to see when that warrant actually happened relative to the transaction on this chain. So that's a pretty fast process that only has a couple of delays if you've actually had some fraudulent parties in the mix in the transactions where you'd actually have to do a network call and look up something. So that's pretty light weight and it's worth doing at the time you're doing a transaction. Now what let me just say one other thing about the counter signing of the transactions that's really important to the security model of Holochain, because what it means is you can't create a Sybil account that's going to generate a bad transaction to send yourself money for example, because you have to sign as the receiver of that transaction and when that transaction gets identified as invalid because the Sybil didn't have the funds, now you are party to the fraud. So what that means is we don't have to, like Mary was saying, we don't have to sort of like crawl all of the dependent forking history of where the funds came from, we only have to crawl the one person's chain because if any party was partaking in fraud, even on the receiving side, then they get flagged and that carries forward, it's sort of this transitive property of the warranting system, the immune system in HoloFuel. So one other thing is that the next version of HoloFuel that we're working on does have a performance optimization and in some ways it's more for the UI but it could be also used as an optimization for validation where we're carrying forward balance information in the transactions themselves. So that means that the as from a UI perspective you just have to look at the latest transaction and you can display the balance instead of having to actually go through the history and add up the chain, so that's an optimization there. But it could also mean, since Holochain is designed to be this micro transaction thing and they may be low risk transactions, that maybe we only have the network peer validators validate the whole chain maybe every five transactions or something and they can otherwise just be validating the chain since the last transaction, which would significantly decrease the load and allow things to be sped up. We're gonna experiment with the assurance levels that that gets us so there are some things that we can do to optimize performance and we're experimenting with that. Super, thank you Art. Okay next one. For decentralized communication system like Holo I don't understand how you handling the DNS or domain name system sort of services, how will web users find apps? How do apps resolve the address of back-end services Art? First for people just to clarify what DNS is, DNS is the translation of a human readable name like google.com or whatever to an address that is going to actually route your information to, because all network packets are routed by address not by name, so you have to be able to translate to an address. In Holo hosting there are two layers in which we use DNS, one is the typical public DNS and the public DNS is provided by CloudFlare who has consistently measured as the fastest DNS service on the Internet, typically can resolve DNS queries in 10 or 11 milliseconds. There's actually some DNS performance sites out there if you want to go check this, they always come out on top. So they provide secure encrypted DNS by default, they don't keep their logs past 24 hours, so there's that sort of additional privacy concerns here, and we use their JavaScript service workers to translate an apps domain name to a random handful of hosts, to a set of hosts essentially, host IDs. So that runs in their 190 plus data centers spread across thousands of servers so that even our sort of centralized parts of the Holo hosting framework in terms of DNS are more centralized than most blockchains super nodes or block producers and that kind of stuff which are already running across the thousands of servers and very fast. However there's a second layer of DNS that most people don't know is in play which basically translates a host ID to their current VPN endpoint address. So we're using zero tier VPN for being able to route traffic to peers that may for example be running behind NET firewalls and they have to have a way of reaching them, and this second layer of translation is what we call our Holo Router system or Holo Router layer. At the moment we're the only one running Holo Router nodes because this is still kind of in testing and logging and supervision while we're tracking all this, but it's actually set up to be able to have posts that have public facing IPs. One of the things is you have to have a public address to run a Holo Router node. Then the the hosts actually update, they re-register their addresses on a periodic basis so that we can actually route it to the correct IP address. So the two layers are domain name to host ID to IP address and that requires two layers of translation going on. So I hope that explains how we're doing the translation. Thanks Art. This also reminds me of a couple of the long-standing community members were a little bit skeptical when they first heard about Holochain and they were sort of filing a dossier of your responses to their Mattermost questions or forum questions as well as other members of the team and sort of ended up with a forty page document of all of the responses as they were trying to build a detailed understanding of what we're doing. So it's definitely appreciated by people. On to another question. The immune self-healing system will surely require lots of monitoring and republishing of data whenever the redundancy level goes below the required level, how do you ensure a balance of data availability resilience while still being resource efficient and high performing? Holochain's data integrity layer kind of has these two dynamics to it, these two patterns, we call fast push and slow heal. The fast push is for establishing the initial data integrity trying to get that time of eventual consistency down as short as possible and what you're asking about here in sort of the self-healing system is what we call the slow heal pattern and that is about maintaining a healthy distribution of data throughout the network. That's managed through peer gossip, so neighboring peers periodically update each other with new data and I say periodically, we'll come back to that, when they connect with each other they actually keep track of the statistics on how often they are able to reach their neighbor when they try to gossip or not so this allows them to build average uptime estimates of the nodes in their neighborhood so that they know the health of the data that is happening in their neighborhood. We have validation receipts from which nodes are holding this and then they can see okay I've got these 20 validation receipts but I've got 25% uptime in this neighborhood and I want to have you know a target of 10 copies of this data live and so that's essentially giving me five online copies at any time so I need to recruit more nodes and to expand my gossip boundary to get more nodes into the network, into holding this data. So that's a part of the kind of self-governing dynamic, it's a combination of who has validated they're holding it and then what their uptime is when you're chatting with them. You're computing your own uptime data from your attempts to talk with them. How this becomes efficient is part of this is in our simple representation. We have a way of being able to represent based on your address translated to 32 bits plus a 32-bit integer of how far out from your address you're holding data, so just in 64 bits we know exactly what data you are accountable to be holding, so that allows us to have a model of the data universe that's very efficient. In terms of the gossip we also have basically exponential backoffs type things happening where if there's frequent changes happening, then the gossip is more frequent and if the activity levels are slower then they can back off and let apps that have higher activity be doing more of the gossip so that it doesn't have to create too heavy a burden on your system and still can be efficient for when there's lots of changes happening. It occurs to me not everybody knows what gossip is and I didn't define that at the beginning and let me just say that gossip is called what it is because it's modeled sort of on the human phenomenon of when you run into somebody to say "What's new since the last time I saw you?" and that's essentially what these nodes are doing with each other. They're saying, "What's new? What new data have you seen since the last time we talked?" And then it allows them to keep each other up to date on changes that are happening in their neighborhood. Thanks Art. So, Mary are there any shoutouts in our dev team right now? Anyone doing some really amazing stuff? I love this, thank you for whoever contributed this one. Love getting it, love to talk about it but I also put this question out to the devs themselves to see what they had to say about each other, so I got a couple of those. David M gave a shoutout to everything related to stabilizing HoloFuel and simplification of the protocol that makes it easier to formally represent the Rust type system directly and more scalable and secure. What he's talking about there is some of the recent work we've been doing to refactor Holochain. As we've been sharing, you know, the testing that we've been doing on the HoloPorts has really allowed us to get a lot of direct feedback that we couldn't get directly from just running on test harnesses. There's just been a ton of work on that, some of which we're seeing in the immediate releases and the fixes that we're doing and pushing out again, and other of that is coming back and influencing larger work efforts of Holochain that are more transformative so it's really exciting. I'd like to add that our newest contributors on the team are working in dev ops and Holo Central Marek and Oleksi and they're doing great work. They were two of the folks that helped get Hydra rebuilt recently if you guys heard about that, that was kind of great. I know it's not exactly on our team but sometimes it feels like it is, we just have amazing community contributors and I just really wanted to appreciate Guillem in particular, he's from Barcelona, and he's not the only one out there by a long shot but he's been a huge part of getting the H-wiki Holochain app built and we've recently been sharing a lot about that, I think Arthur has talked about it here, and also he's been working on the Holochain playground which is pretty awesome. David Meister, he answered this question but I wanted to also do a shoutout about him. David's awesome, he has been working extensively on some of Holochain's refactor work that I shared about and in particular he's one of the people who's been working on the changes to WASM and so we expect to have these changes by themselves really catapult the speed and efficiency of Holochain. So it's really exciting work. Zippy had a couple of shoutouts. Arthur do you want to take those and speak a little bit more? Sure, let me just also mention the WASM changes should also significantly reduce RAM usage making nanos more feasible for hosting than they are on the current version because the web assembly packages are so large at the moment. Zippy was contributing, Zippy Eric Harris-Braun by the way for those of you that don't know that's his user name, that Michael Doughtery's been contributing tons to making the impossible possible, like really leveraging Rust's compiler and type system and traits and and things like that to really enforce the correctness of the coding on Holochain. That's one of the things that in working a bit on the refactored state model of Holochain we've been emphasizing correctness. David Braden, who's been tackling the complexities of Async so that we actually are writing on the Tokio library and having things really be efficiently called for asynchronous code to get rid of bottlenecks in the processing and increasing performance. Also I want to give a shout out to Philip in Australia who's been working on a really kind of sexy set of experimental tools for generating Holochain apps and UI's and tests and being able to kind of mash app code together in a way that could actually make it feasible for kind of power users to assemble their own variants of existing Holochain apps without really needing to be coders. I think that's going to allow some fun experimentation to emerge in the ecosystem and one of the things about that is I hope it also makes it just more accessible in general, like building crypto apps can seem very intimidating because they're like in many cases are written in stone and involve currencies all that kind of stuff and if we can provide these kind of experimental places to play then I think that that's a really powerful thing for inviting new people in to play. Just finally, I'd like to add one thing because, not quite this question, but something came up along these lines on a call last week and let me say, I get a lot of the communications around what we are, what we aren't doing, delays etc. and I spend a lot of time with people and their frustration and I think like one of the things, I'm not sure what picture people have in their minds. As Art mentioned earlier when we're talking about getting people to understand the difference between Holochain and a blockchain the difference between HoloFuel and currencies and I know no one knows where I'm quite going with this so I'm enjoying seeing Art and Mary's faces as well saying "We're at the end of the AMA, where's David going?" Just stick with me for a second. We have base level of a really deep series of explanations and insights and mindset shifts as people get into this world, and I really encourage any of you who are sticking on this call to make another mindset shift. If we think of Eric Harris-Braun, the last two years he's spent pretty much seven days a week, 12 plus hours coding Holochain. So firstly a massive shoutout to him building the team and all the devs on that team, but for you guys who are sitting there trying to conceive of what's happening, where the Lamborghinis are or whatever else you've got in your minds, just keep that image. This is what has been happening for the last two years, this is what will continue to happen as we get to beta and beyond. It's really really really important for people to hold when they're thinking about what we're doing here and if you have any ideas, you're watching now, you have any ideas of how we can communicate that more effectively please jump in the chat and tell us because I would like to get to a place with all of you where we're not spending time justifying or explaining what we're doing from the mindset you are applying to other projects or whatever else is going on, but you're actually coming to us with a base understanding of the efforts that have been put in over the last two years and we'll continue to put in as we get to beta and beyond. All right, so just like to finish with that. So anything anyone wants to add? Well I think we're over time already. I think we've got a few great questions for the next AMA stacked up here. Just a reminder if you'd like to be part of either the events that are coming up that I mentioned at the start, so some of the various online meetups please join those at events.holo.host\events and if you're really excited after what you've heard today to join some of the community events forum.holochain.org\events to join the Virtual Hackalong and other places. Mary's also already referenced Guillem and other members of the community who are such a treasured and instrumental part and influential now part of what we're building. So please for all of you get involved. All right, thank you very much Mary, thank you Art. Have a great month. 