 All right. Good morning and thank you  for joining us for this webinar of the US-MAP   Consortium. We’re going to get started with all  the good technical details here in just a second.   But I’ve got a few quick housekeeping items  to run through before we can kick things off.   To answer our most asked question, yes, a copy  of this presentation will be available on the   US-MAP site in a week or two. We just have to  process the recording and get it put up there.   So if you see anything interesting today you’ll  be able to go back and check it out again   once we post it there. If any of you are having  audio issues or other weird issues, the most   common fix for those kind of issues that we see  is switching from computer audio to phone audio.   If problems persist you can either first type the  questions, the chat there on the Go To Webinar   control panel on the right side of the screen.  I’ll do my best to help you answer it. And if   I can’t you can always contact Go To Webinar  technical support at the number shown there. We are going to be taking questions  for our presenter at the end of the   presentation. So if you have a question  at any point during the presentation   just type it into that questions panel. We’ll keep  an eye on those as they come in and we will do our   best to answer as many as possible at the end of  the webinar. Finally I just want to note because   sometimes we get some confusion over this. If you  have a colleague or a friend who might also want   to see this webinar and they haven’t registered  yet, don’t worry. It’s not too late. If you just   share that Go To Webinar registration link with  them they can join and come into the webinar at   any point during the presentation. So with that  I’m going to hand it over to Joe Berry who is   going to introduce our speaker while we get our  speaker’s slides queued up. Thanks for joining us. Joe: Well, welcome everybody  to this second US-MAP   presentation and webinar. It’s a great  privilege today to introduce Dr. Michael   Irwin of Hunt Perovskite Technologies who will  be our presenter today. I got to know Michael   from his work as a graduate student when I was  a young staff member because he was actually   working on some competing activities at another  institution with some of our contact layer work.   And then I had the privilege of meeting him  almost – it’s almost a full decade ago now at an   ICRM workshop on _____ solar cell materials that  was held at Santa Barbara. And we had kept in   contact off and on since then and when he moved to  Hunt to begin looking at solar cell applications   for them we started a partnership on a number of  different technical activities. So it’s been a   lot of fun working with him and he’s going to  talk today about de-risking metal halide for   semiconductors for PV applications. So with that  I’ll turn it over to Michael and take it away. Michael: Thanks   Joe for the kind introduction. I appreciate  it. So thanks everyone for joining today. Hunt   Perovskite Technologies has been around for  about seven years or so and our core focus   since the beginning is on the most important  question I feel in perovskite technology,   metal halide perovskite technology. And it  is the material itself, is the perovskite   semiconductor viable in these applications, in  particular solar PV? Is it a viable semiconductor?   We know we can build these different stacks,  right? We have these different devices, thin   film devices that have been constructed and you  can buy them today in cadmium telluride. Cad tel   panels are available, been researched a long time  so we know how to build a thin film device. But   can perovskite actually function in that role of  cadmium telluride. But something that has a lot   of benefits, cost and otherwise that I’ll get  into. And so that’s the approach we’ve taken. From the early days it was clear  that the perovskite semiconductor   made an excellent PV cell in terms of efficiency.  The efficiencies rose very, very quickly.   The record cell 25.4 percent out of Korea  exceeds both of more now legacy thin film and   cadmium telluride and _____. So we know there’s  lots of value but everyone knows the system is   not durable. So since the beginning we’ve always  focused on the durability of the perovskite. But   from a fundamental standpoint in  order to build a strong foundation   for a solar technology. So that’s what  we’re going to focus on a little bit more   today than some of my earlier presentations on  the material itself and some of the approached. So real quick who is Hunt? It’s in our  name Hunt Perovskite Technologies. Hunt has   been around since 1934. It’s an oil and gas  company originally based out of east Texas,   my neck of the woods. But now it’s currently  headquartered in downtown Dallas. It’s got a   quite diverse portfolio even though  it’s originally an oil and gas company.   We are also involved in power operation, real  estate, other investments, ranching and so on. But   it’s a great company, been around for a very long  time. Family owned so owned by the Hunt family,   something that’s not very common right to be  family owned and be able to persist such a long   time really shows the strength of the company  as a whole and the leadership that drives it. So overview of the company. I mentioned some of  this but what are some of our kind of claims to   fame. Well, we’ve been in stealth mode the  entire time. Right? So there hasn’t really   been the opportunity to share with others  what we were doing. So some of the things   that we have been able to accomplish is one first  to that we know of isolate the pure alpha phase   formamidinium lead iodide back in 2015. We  were an early adopter of the PIN architecture,   something that a lot of folks  switched to few years ago but   it took quite some time. We have  one of the largest patent portfolios   in this space. We’ve been avid filer but we’ve  also been avid inventors to be able to do so. All of our processes even though this is more of a  lab skill in the current time are all commercially   scalable methods. We have scuttled other things  that are not feasible for commercialization.   Further we focus on high throughput durability  testing. We’ll get into some of that in a moment.   And in at the core like I said in the beginning  I value a strong foundation. That is how   great organizations are built and  it’s built on the shoulders of really   wonderful individuals who  comprise the Hunt Perovskite   team. A couple of notes about the facility. Our  lab is actually in downtown Dallas. This is an   empty space we built bespoke for this application.  So it's got optimized egress and space for things   like slot die coaters, vacuum laminators like  you can see in the lower left hand corner. So the matter at hand metal halide perovskites.  So I like to present this part in terms of the HPT   Perovskite. Not just Perovskite in  general. For those on the line you   know that Perovskite is actually a crystal  structure. It’s not a material. And so to   avoid the misnomer I talk about what is the Hunt  Perovskite? What is its value proposition? And   asked this question many times. The best  answer I have for us, what I feel is the most   compelling for what we do is we have developed  a new, a revolutionary new class of ink based,   printable, yet high performance semiconductors. We  know those two things are individually possible.   You can print a semiconductor like an organic  photovoltaic which is what I got my PhD on.   You can make a high performance semiconductor  in _____. This has both been done but can you   do them both together at the same time? And my  opinion, no, we’ve never been able to do this   until Hunt Perovskite, until the metal  halide perovskite came into being. So our particular value proposition, people  do – there are other people working on this,   other start ups, large corporations working on  perovskites. They have different approaches.   Our approach is we try to utilize added  manufacturing techniques to leverage industry 4.0,   automation, printing in an additive way. So you  print the material just where it needs to be,   not where you don’t. Right? So that makes  cleaning easier. Patterning is easier and it’s   more conservative the material you have to extrude  in the process. That keeps cost down. That leads   into a very low opex. But more importantly here  a low capex, less eight cents per watt so that’s   less than $80 million per gigawatt and a panel  costs less than 9 cents per watt based on current   materials. And without leveraging additional  economies of scale that would come to be   once the printed technology, printed  semiconductor becomes more mainstream. Also a small footprint of the factory.  That is again in part due to the printers,   the slot die printers that you would use,   high throughput manufacturing and inexpensive  drills. And also I think from a social standpoint   we, you have to be aware of what it takes to  make your materials. And so even in the case of   a battery we’ve talked a lot about cobalt and how  cobalt can come from places that have significant   political and labor issues. Also lithium. Right?  Lithium has to be mined and still have to be   mined. Elon Musk is talking about mining basically  the entirety of Nevada to produce enough lithium   to drive his Gigafactory. And that’s great  because we all need electric cars I think. But   at what cost. Right? So everything  that’s in the Perovskite solar cell   is not only readily available but  also cheap, right? So the lead,   we would never need to mine for lead. You  only need a very small fraction of lead   currently in the recycling stream from lead  acid batteries to produce terawatts of power. But again with all these virtues there’s always a  catch, right? Nothing, there’s no free lunch. And   here the cost of lunch is durability. So we’ve got  to focus in on how to make this material durable,   how to make the cell durable, and how to make the  module durable most importantly in that order.   And so our two primary approaches to date have  been on materials level durability and then device   level durability. We’re now we’re focusing  on module level durability. But we didn’t   feel that was important until we had a durable  material, that strong foundation that I say is   so important, that I believe is so important.  And then the device level. Perovskite is a unique   material compared to other semiconductors and so  it has unique considerations for it’s stack. Now   nothing particularly I would say special,  just unique so all solvable problems. And so on the durability side of materials  we have composition of matter so the cubic   FaPbI3. In chemistry because this is printed  and so you have to have an ink, right? So the   precursors are dissolved in solvent and they  have some additives all mixed in and then this   is printed. And then annealed in some form  or fashion to make the semiconductor in situ   on the substrate surface similar to what you  can see in the lower right hand corner, a cross   sectional scanning electron microscope  image of one of our perovskite materials   to highlight processing. If you process  well you can make the perovskite very flat.   And then also the architecture. And we have patent  protection in all four of these core pillar areas. So today like I said I want to talk more about the  perovskite material itself. There’s a certain sex   appeal with efficiency. I think people love  to focus on efficiency but to be efficient   and to be durable all at the same time, that takes  something special. Right? You can be efficient and   not durable and durable but not efficient. They’re  not all that hard. People make high efficiency   cells. But can you put them on a roof or out in a  field and have them last 30 years? I don’t believe   that is the case. And so you have to get both  into the same bucket. That’s really important. So I will admit chemistry is used on this slide  three times. I am a chemist. I love chemistry.   Chemistry is really fun. When I get to do  chemistry in my job it's the best part of my day   in addition to electrical engineering,  mechanical engineering, so forth.   But we’re going to look at bulk chemistry,  defect chemistry and then the surface and   grain boundary chemistry. Now obviously  this is not a ten hour talk. This is not a   lecture series. It’s just one talk so we’ll only  touch on these three different areas. But these   are the approaches we’ve taken to be able to  establish this robust perovskite material. So starting off with bulk chemistry, that’s the  one I think that most people focus on currently.   And in our case here we’re utilizing formamidinium  lead iodide. I’ll make no secret of that.   What’s actually in it is where, that’s where the  IP lies. So this case here you can see it starts   at the top as a pure FaPbI3 material that is  loaded into a damp heat oven that’s sitting at   85 degrees Celsius 55 percent relative humidity  at 85 C. So this is a very nasty environment. And   so we took our pure material, put it into this  environment unprotected. There’s no coatings,   no encapsulation, no nothing. It’s just  the bare naked material in this oven. And   you can see actually it stay quite robust for  almost up to 300 or so hours it persists. But   not this 1,000 hour magical marker number we  like to rely on. And so there’s a particular   additive – no, I won’t tell you what it is – that  we put in in increasing concentration going down   the slide. And you see when we got to the final  concentration x that material persists for over   1,000 hours. You can see some color change  there. That’s mostly from mass translation.   That’s not actually from degradation. The  material by spectroscopy is all still there. Further we have a nice little Anton Parr set up  that I’ll talk about in a minute for our XRD, our   thin film XRD and it allows us to load materials  in, control the atmosphere and the temperature of   the stage and you can see in this case here that  same material without the additive we put it into   the Anton Parr about 135 Celsius and it starts to  decompose a little bit. You start to get a little   lead iodide peak. But then which is denoted there  about 13 degrees to theta, the end of the fraction   pattern. Then we put the [Break in Audio] into  the original ink allowing it to incorporate   into the solid and we can allow it to heat all  the way to 195 and the material remains stable.   There is a little wiggle of lead iodide there  but nothing as we see here with no additive. Again all the peaks are highlighted and  labeled there, a fraction pattern, lead iodide   pointed out. Big improvement, right? 195 Celsius  is not a problem for this material that previously   135 started to be an issue. This is something  that’s really common in the literature back in   the early days. I think Joe actually sowed this  data first or these data first before they were   published that in the annealing process you  actually had an intersection between annealing   and degradation where the material would  actually start to degrade before it fully   annealed. And that’s certainly an issue,  right? If you can’t fully anneal it,   form the perovskite in situ by which the  process progresses then you’ll never make   as good of perovskite as you can. So you’ve  got to be able to isolate these two things.   So having this high threshold at 195 C allows  a large window of processing temperatures. Next also with XRD we had noted in the past  also with the literature but in our own samples   particularly in the early days you’d actually  see lead, metal, crystal and metal in the SCC   structure grow into the thin film diffraction  pattern. Well, how the heck re we making   lead metal. And so this to me seemed like a great  opportunity to dig into the durability in a unique   way. So we took this Anton Parr attachment. It’s  there in the right hand side so it’s right here.   And you can see the stage there kind of  nested inside this temperature control   stage. And what we did is we loaded the sample  in. we have four difference incidences here   and we exposed it to different atmospheres.  And I believe this is 75 Celsius persistent.   And under oxygen you can see in  the upper right hand corner here   that the D spacing of the Perovskite unit  cell decreases significantly over time. Now that is also supported here. You can  see that actually over the course of about   50 hours Perovskite actually decomposes. In  this case this is actually open atmosphere,   the one I just drew the arrow on versus  a pure oxygen atmosphere in the upper   left hand corner. And you can see that the all  the Perovskite peaks, this is the intensities,   summation of the signal intensities or just  the 001 peak which is the preferred orientation   of the material. See, they decrease with time to  about 50 hours while the signal for lead iodide   increases. But then the signal for lead iodide  also decreases so where the heck is the lead   iodide going, right? That’s a big question.  But certainly under this elevated temperature,   under a bombardment of x-rays, in an  oxygen atmosphere we have an issue. Right? So we tried it again here in vacuum, right? So  we did an inert – so just no atmosphere, right?   So it’s just under a vacuum so a minimum number  of gas _____ floating in the air. And you can   see there is no change in the D spacing over the  course of this 50 hour period from left to right.   In fact, there’s actually a volume increase. We  think that’s important. I won’t get into those   details today but we think that that’s actually  important and relates to the defect structure.   Now what happens if you take the sample and  heat it in vacuum under vacuum conditions and   then expose it to oxygen? Is there  something we’re doing to achieve a   unit cell volume increase that’s irreversible?  Are we changing the material in a fundamental   way? And you can see no, we exposed the system  to oxygen right after being under vacuum   and you get the same change in the unit cell  volume as you do if you just do oxygen by itself   so it’s not solvent degassing or any of that  kind of stuff, things that would be irreversible. There is something different going on under  vacuum. The material is changing in a different   but yet positive way under vacuum versus  the negative way it changes under oxygen.   Same thing under nitrogen. We also  had this reduction in the D spacing   over time with exposure but not  as intense as with oxygen. So   what do we think is happening? So starting  here in reaction four and five this is kind   of the supposition that the _____ here being  x-ray photons are creating some type of plasma   to create free electrons near the surface  that can react. Nil is the initial perovskite,   unaffected perovskite. So electron can react with  the surface in some way to create iodide and Fa   vacancies, reform the helium making a catalytic  reaction but this results in the loss of FAI. So the vacancies represent the new material, the  new perovskite material that now contains these   vacancies and the FAI is the species that has left  the system. So again we have this kind of cyclic   system here that is resulting in vacancies and  these vacancies at some point will decompose the   material. And so you can see here to the left  of that where you have three other reactions   where you have kind of standard decomposition  in reaction one so FaPbI3 decomposing into   lead and iodide and FAI. This is the opposite of  how it's formed. But if you form _____ defects   in some way, i.e. what’s to the right here this is  a different way for it to decompose. And then you   have more pure FaPbI3 without vacancies react with  this material with the vacancies so the vacancies   cause an overall decomposition to lead iodide.  And that’s another way for us to get to that final   decomposed product so loss of FAI in the  creation of lead iodide. So I did mention   the creation of lead zero also. I’ll come  back to that with a different data set. So defect chemistry. Our defect chemistry   approaches, there are several. Today I will  only focus in on density functional theory.   And so we’ll have atomistic representations  here of perovskite. The lows along the top   are monomorphic meaning you add a defect and you  maintain the cubic structure so everything is at   90 degrees. A is equal to B is equal to C. And  then we have polymorphic so you add the defects   going from D to E to F and then we allow the  structure to relax or undergo polymorphism.   And this is really important and so  the energetics of a monomorphic defect   versus the energetics of a polymorphic defect  will be highlighted in the slides to follow. So one of the ways we kind of covered here  with XRD, the XRD approach is vacancy mediated   degradation. So again nil, that’s the initial  perovskite, that’s the cube here or the supercell   we’re using for our DFD calculation. And we show  what happens if we form these same _____ defects.   We remove an Fa and an I separately. We’ll  represent them as one here combined. But we have   now in this structure an Fa and an I vacancy. So  if the monomorphic degradation you actually have   an exothermic reaction, very small but there’s a  little bit of energy release there, negative 60   MeV for the delta H. But if it’s polymorphic it’s  actually quite positive, 810 _____. I’ve shown   previously we can actually assist this process as  it’s now endothermic by the addition of water. It   will actually lower the energetics required to los  e the FAI but we’re not going to show that today. Now but if you can form those vacancies, if you  are able to have the extra energy to allow them   to form then this decomposition from FAI of FaPbI3  to lead iodide becomes highly exothermic -800 MeV   so in the polymorphic state. So once you have the  vacancies present these now mediate and guide the   reaction forward in degradation from FaPbI3 to  lead iodide. So this may be obvious for those   who make the devices but now we know exactly or  we have a very good idea of one source. So if   we could control the defects it’s not just about  efficiency, right? It’s not about mid gap states.   Defects that form that interject states into  the conduction band, the de-flow energy states,   mid gap states, whatever it’s also about  durability. So the defects here play a much   larger role in the ability for this material  to make it to market than initially thought. Initially so _____ published a paper and others  have that show that these defects that form the   iodide vacancies in particular result in these  shallow traps at the conduction band if not   mistaken. So if it’s a shallow trap it falls  in there with the conduction band, it probably   won’t cause a problem. Right? You don’t have  mid gap states that will act as charge traps.   So yeah. So who cares, right? Who cares if it’s  those defects because it now is defect tolerant.   Sure. Energetically but not structurally.  Structurally this is bad news   so it has to be addressed to  make the material durable. Further there’s another issue that’s near and  dear to my heart. I firmly believe that there’s an   amorphous material that comprises the perovskite  thin film. We know there’s a crystal material.   There are crystallites, there are grains. That  is the perovskite itself. But there’s a second   fraction to the thin film that exists  that I believe is actually important.   I refer to it internally as colloquially as the  glue that kind of holds it all together. But there   is something I believe is super stoichiometric  that exists outside of the crystallites.   If you don’t have this material you don’t have a  good function anymore. Now the problem is that you   have an exchange, right? So you have this super  stoichiometric material that lies on the surface   or on the grain boundaries and it can go  from there into the crystallite and the   crystallite can move mass, translate mass  from inside itself into the grain boundary. So you have this exchange and so  we’ve been doing some calculations,   DFD calculations to represent this but this  is more a transition to the next stage here   where we’re focused in on those components  of surface and grain boundary chemistry.   So we’ve been able to link perovskite  stoichiometry to durability.   Now this may sound like a bulk attribute but  in reality I think this is a surface attribute   because even when you modify the perovskite’s  stoichiometry it still functions as a solar cell.   So the bulk of the internal like the Tootsie  Pop, the caramel center is still caramel.   Right? We’re not really affected it. It’s the  crunchy outside candy that we’re affecting.   And so when we say we’re losing FAI where  are we losing it from? Not the middle. We’re   losing it from the outside. So again this is  why I think perovskite stoichiometry is more   of a surface property, grain boundary property  than that of a bulk within our context here. So there’s two things I’ve come to understand.  So first is that if you have super stoichiometric   film as represented here as a swing to the left,  we actually get a relatively high low frequency   capacitance here, say close to 200 _____ per  centimeter squared by admittance spectroscopy   whereas a good functioning cell in our  case is closer to what we believe is   stoichiometric material is closer to 100 down  here. So we believe this is related to this   or this is related to this. Probably  somewhere in the middle. Can’t go too crazy. So if you have too much ax of the  abx3 structure you get this high   low frequency capacitance. If it’s  stoichiometric you get a lower one.   Further if you swing to the other side we have  the opposite issue. Now we have excess bx2 in   this case lead iodide. Lead iodide is also a  semiconductor. It’s a wide band gas semiconductor   around what 2EV- ish. Something like that. See  here in our spectral response to the right,   that is the red edge or the low energy edge  of the spectral response of the lead iodide   producing what we call internally the lead  iodide shadow. So if you have too much lead   iodide in your system you have actually see  a reduction in this spectral response at less   than 500 nanometers. So we have two really great  kind of key indicators from our other battery of   tests that give us a strong indication of what the  stoichiometry of the surface of our material is. So how does this reflect on durability? Right?  That’s the big question. There’s been papers   published that show that maybe a little bit of  extra lead iodide, right, you kind of overbake   your film. You form this lead iodide shell and  it improves your durability. This is an older   thought. I don’t know if this really persists as  much in academic circles. but it’s clear here on   the right and if you do have too much lead iodide  and you take our cells and we’re stressing these   under light plus heat. So this is one sun light  intensity. It’s 75 degrees Celsius persistent   and concurrent. You can see these cells  quickly decompose at around 25 hours they   just die right away. And we can see why here  so the spectral response of those same cells   show a very strong lead iodide shadow. Counter  to that we have the same but opposite effect.   We have a high capacitance there at the  low frequency response in mid spectroscopy.   And these cells also decompose very  quickly, about the same kind of timeframe. But we also have two cells on the same  substrate that have a proper stoichiometric   low frequency capacitance and those persist  so even on the same substrate we’re able to,   by doing certain things in the process we can  control stoichiometry across the substrate to   make it super stoichiometric in one location and  stoichiometric in another location make devices   out of that and see the response and that’s one of  the things that we did here. Though I will admit   this wasn’t on purpose. This was found in the  aftermath. But we can do it on purpose now but   in this case it wasn’t. But it’s clear I the trend  that if we have a stoichiometric film as evidenced   by admittance spectroscopy the device is stable.  If its super stoichiometric it is not stable. So this is some more new data. Just like the  XRD this will be published soon. This is nearly,   draft is nearly finished. And how do these  stoichiometric effect really register on the   surface, right? So to really see exactly  what they’re doing on the surface, not   more collectively closely in the bulk perspective  like you see with XRD we utilize XPS, x-ray photo   electron spectroscopy. And what we’re doing here  is we are taking two different stoichiometries of   perovskite so a lead to iodide ratio of 3.8 versus  a lead to iodide ratio of 2.8. So the 3.8 being   super stoichiometric and 2.8 being what we call  near stoichiometric. It’s within the err of the   fitting of the XRD or the XPS system so 2.8 plus  or minus, 3.8 plus or minus. And then we bombard   these samples under constant XPS measurement  with blue light and see how the samples change. Now I’ll bring your attention here to the bottom  of the screen. You can see we have the two samples   are actually remarkably different. And so the  super stoichiometric composition here has a weak   red edge versus the stronger red of  the near stoichiometric material.   Now you take that up here. So that’s to  link this back to the previous conversation,   expose it to blue light under constant  XPS measurement and you can see that the   formamidinium lead iodide in blue decomposes  while the lead iodide grows and then eventually   decreases. But then the lead zero grows in. So  there is evidence from XPS that we’re actually   forming lead metal at the surface as the lead  iodide decomposes. So this is exactly what we saw   in the XRD measurements but we can see discretely  where it’s forming there on the surface via XPS. Now if you compare this to a  near stoichiometric composition   nothing really happens, right? the lead iodide  is a little bit in the initial measurement.   That’s from fabrication. It doesn’t really  increase. It decreases just a little bit.   I’m sorry. Doesn’t decrease a lot, just a little  bit. We see the growth of a lead zero signal there   in the green. Not a lot, just a little bit and  the perovskite persists quite strongly. I will   also indicate that if you did this with red  light you would see no decomposition at all   or even less. The blue light tends to drive  the segregation. If you want to know why you’ll   need to read the paper when it comes out.  I'm just giving you a little teaser here. But what we believe is happening is  again since this is photo aggregated   that we have some sort of photo mediated reaction  where you have three lead iodides plus light   to make a tri-iodide molecule plus those three  electrons. Those electrons can then react with   the lead to reduce it to form three moles  of lead for every six moles of iodide   consumed so not only does this consume the iodide  material which is bad. Right? So as we described   before you cannot lose your Fa or your I while  consuming it but this photo mediated reaction   but then furthered converting the lead into  lead zero making this a far more difficult   reaction to reverse. In this particular  environment we could call this irreversible. Now so that’s the material stuff. So how does  this effect devices? So again device state.   And so we use again the pi in architecture  highlighted in the green box. We also like to   utilize slot die coating. And doctor blading with  the FaPbI3 material. Now what we actually have in   our stack some of that is known, some of that is  secret. The chemistry itself is quite close to   chest. I won’t reveal what’s in there other than  it contains FaPbI3 and a dash of something else. And now how do we make out devices? Again  slot die coating and blade coating. Here’s a   little indicator here so in a PIN architectural  first coat the whole selected contact coat the   perovskite anneal to form the perovskite in situ.  The orange here is represent a precursor film   that’s formed on the surface and then requires  annealing to have a fully formed perovskite. On   top of that we will coat the electron selected  contact and finalize it with thermal evaporation   of some back electrodes or what have you. But  deposition of back electrodes and then full   encapsulation with back glass and an edge seal and  there’s probably some laminate stuck in there too   in this sandwich. So this is a representation  of our newest module. It’s 150 millimeter   module we’re making so trying to replicate  a standard kind of form factor is in silicon   so something that the community can relate to.  This is how in a nutshell we are making them. So on to durability of the cells themselves.  So these are all 50 millimeter size substrates,   not the 15- so 50 millimeter on  a side. Forgive my hen scratch.   Test architecture here off to the left. And  so what we want to highlight is there is a   piece of glass on top of the stack but  it is not hermetically sealed. The sides   are still fully exposed and so egress is no  problem. The water vapor or what have you,   oxygen or what have you can just quickly run  through an epoxy or a laminate back cover and   have full access to the device on the side. With  that test architecture we have submerged these   devices that you can see here in some boiling  water in the video. Hopefully that is for you. But more importantly things that are more aligned   with the kind of IEC type test, the IEC  plus because we don’t have a fully packaged   device is that we have a 1,000 hours 85 C and the  cells are able to maintain more than 90 percent   their total power output. Further we can take 85  C combine it with 65 percent relative humidity,   also maintain more than 90 percent of their power  over 1,000 hours. Further light plus heat so UV   light plus heat and one sunlight and we have these  devices quite, quite stable and quite durable   maintain 90 percent of their power under  all of those conditions. And I will tell you   I think I’ve evidenced this pretty strongly in  the previous slides. Every time I show degradation   there was AU involved so light is a strong  driver of the degradation and so this last test   was one of the harder ones for us to pass. It took  special chemistry for us to stabilize the material   fundamentally to be able to pass this test.  This is not something you can package out. I can   package out humidity. I can package our oxygen,  whatever else, cannot package out light or heat. So an example of this durability data. So  you can see over the course of 1,000 hours,   concurrent one sun 75 C. We have some cells that  drop down to about 80 percent of their power   and some that maintain more than 90 percent of  their power. But I wanted to show you several   different examples so you can see kind of the  gamut. Of course there are some that do this   but I’m not going to show you those. I showed you  some earlier. We don’t need to get into that. But   we know we have demonstrated that these cells  can be made quite durable particularly with our   latest configuration in device architecture and  chemistry. That new chemistry and architecture   will reside in this area. And to show  you what happens during degradation   we have spectral response plot here  in the lower right hand corner. And so you can see the solid lines are the  spectral response of the device before testing   before the light plus heat testing. The dash is  after. And you can see that the dash and the solid   more or less superimpose. The integrated current  densities highlighted here in _____ per centimeter   squared are virtually identical virtually  identical so I'm going to actually go up   a little bit but the material is maintained.  We're not actually showing any degradation of   the perovskite material. the current density is  maintained from time zero to time 1,000. If you   add decomposition typically what we see is it's  elsewhere in the device, usually at an interface   or an electrode surface, something of that nature  so itself the device itself that tends to fail   under these stress tests. Not the material. that's  something I wanted to highlight. And we begin this   is again in large part because of our chemistry  approach. we are making the material itself is   fundamentally as robust as possible and then  designing a strong architecture around it. Now on to efficiency. everyone wants to know  about the efficiency. this is important. And so   as I mentioned in the beginning you have to have  both these thighs in the same bucket. all right.   so you can't have durability without efficiency or  efficiency without durability if you want to make   a product. And so as I like to promote us we have  the most durable devices but and at a respectable   efficiency. In this case I call respectable 18  percent. I like to present our efficiency data in   stabilized power output or steady state format to  show that this is persistent efficiency. This is   not just scanned efficiency which a lot of people  on this call will know can be manipulated. we   also like further like to toggle the light to look  for any transient. so light on, light off, light   on again. And so if there was some sort of light  soaking effect you would see a transient here   when you turned the light back on and it would  be something with a slope, not _____ transition   as you see in all three examples. So power,  current and voltage all display the same effects. Further this cell also has a very small thermal  coefficient. We measure about negative 0.03 to   negative 0.05 typically, somewhere in that  range and we'll show you how we do that   here on this next slide. So we've built a large  number on the system. I didn't actually mention   this earlier, in our lab, the bespoke systems.  They aren't really bespoke but bespoke PV really,   not the perovskite. But we have these specific  systems that we've built to test durability.   We've taken an architecture and other similar  architectures and developed other systems so the   ones that I showed previous to this is a [Break in  Audio] control stage with persistent white light   and electronics so we can make constant  measurements, regular measurements over a 24 hour   period of 1,000 hours so about six weeks’ worth of  time. But everything is concurrent and persistent. In this case here we take a  similar setup and we can actually   modulate the temperature over time.  As you can see here on the top curve.   And what happens, right? So we start from 10  delicious and heat to 70 Celsius. now if we   were silicon or as is published I the series six  data sheet online you would see a significant drop   in power, something of this very exaggerated  nature. It's not that low. But there would   be a significant drop in power as the  system went to heat. in our case we see   the requisite drop in voltage as expected  by physics. there is a small drop but our   fill factor again also a little small drop, but  our current density completely flat. so overall   we do have a negative thermal coefficient. But  a small one about an order of magnitude less   than that of silicone. Not quite, maybe 8X, 7X,  9X somewhere in that range but it's quite robust. So what does this mean? Why is this important?  Obviously the temperature cycles throughout the   course of the day. As the panels heat up they  produce less power and produce less power over   time that's less energy. So if you have a smaller  thermal coefficient you have three panels of equal   name plate power output and the one with the  smallest thermal coefficient will produce the   most energy throughout the course of the day. So  this is on the lab scale. We have not moved this   up to full commercial scale, two meters by  1.1 meters. So there's a big fat Barry Bonds   asterisk on that. However if this persists from  the lab scale to commercial scale the perovskite   panel will produce more energy throughout the  course of the day than any of the competition. Now another aspect of durability is that typically  when we do durability measurements they are   accelerated lifetime tests meaning we are  stressing the cell in a way that hopefully   you can collect a vast amount of information  on how the cell will perform over time but in   a short amount of time. So in this case here we  wanted to more replicate the day night cycle.   So we hold ourselves at 65 C in one sun  for the course of the day in 12 hours,   turn it off, cool the 25. So off for 12  hours, on for 12 hours. What happens?   What I want to highlight we have three different  substrates with six solar cells each here and   these are not special cells. These  are like leftover extra ones. This is a test. I actually found these data kind  of hidden yesterday when I was looking because we   hadn't really been highlighting this. This is sort  of a test we were doing on the side for fun. And   it turns out it was quite remarkable because then  these are leftover cells they had nothing better   to do with. They weren't purposed for another  durability test. The better ones we make more   focused ones go into durability testing. These  weren't destined for that. But to do day night   cycling you can seem they're really robust over  the course of that, almost really, they're really,   really flat over the course of 1,000 hours. To me  this highlights that self-healing capability that   when you're testing these perovskite solar cells  at persistent conditions, high temperature and   high light flux that whatever occurs, oxidation,  whatever, high migration is irreversible and   accumulates over time so these accumulative  effects actually make the device fail faster. It's this chicken and the egg argument right  where if you incubate a chicken egg, you create   a chicken. if you want to create a chicken  faster and I want to put it in boiling water,   I have a hardboiled egg. I don't have a chicken.  And so even though we feel like our accelerated   light kind of testing is valid we're perhaps a  hard boil egg that produced every once in a while   along with some chickens. And so to kind of  take a step back from that and make it more   realistic we can see that if you give  it a chance to rest overnight without   heat and without light as would be occurring in  nature, the perovskite cell, this indicates is   vastly more durable than we're actually giving  it credit for. Not going to carve that in stone.   I don't have a piece of granite in front of me  chiseling away but it does indicate this may be   a self-healing mechanism that really  extends the lifetime of the device. Very quickly to wrap up so I can leave some time  for questions. We're working on 150 millimeter   modules currently so 50 millimeter is where  most of our data has come from today presented.   Here's a shot of 150 millimeter module, one of  the first ones we produced. and then a prototype   to go around it for demonstration purposes. we're  making another one out of machined aluminum right   now as we finalize the prototype demonstrator.  As we scale the 150 obviously we have a 9x area   increase from 50 to 150 so how do we compensate  for this in our coatings? And so you can see   here kind of early stage coating on the left. So  you have these smearing marks Marangoni effect,   coating didn't work out so well. We have a  second sample here. It's got scratch marks   on it for profilometry. Clearly there's a color  gradient which means that the thickness is not   persistent. So we have inconsistent chemistry  as noted by the photoluminescent image on top   and then inconsistent thickness as  noted here by the color gradient. Then we modified our processing parameters a  little bit. Modified the chemistry a little bit.   Now by PL imaging we have a very homogeneous coat  particularly compared to what it was. And then   the gradient is all but gone.  Further that is composition.   This is the stoichiometry we're talking  about but what about the bulk property,   the crystallites. And so we take a similar  substrate, cut it up into nine sections,   observe all of them by XRD. And you can see they  all have the same pattern with an ITO background   reference. So crystal graphically, structurally  material is the same across all nine areas. And with that I do want to conclude again to leave  some questions time. But not without thanking   everybody who is involved. Again I know I'm giving  this presentation but I didn't do any of this   work. This team here is fantastic, did all the  work. They're quite wonderful, quite industrious.   And quite intelligent. And I'm very, very,  very lucky and blessed to work with them.   I'm also lucky and blessed to work with  the NREL team, particularly Joe Berry.   We've had a great relationships. It's been  very conducive for both of our careers.   He's helped promote this work. He's helped  drive it. He's given me inspiration. Great guy. And then last but not least the Hunt family.  They are true believers. They value themselves   as an energy company. We all need energy.  Right? You on this line may not necessarily   care for oil and gas. That's an opinion that  varies geographically in all kind of ways.   But they're an energy family at their core and  they've been very supportive and very wonderful   to work with and I really thank them for the  opportunity to even get this far. And then   finally our gracious audience. Thank you for your  patience and I'm very happy to take any questions. Joe: Thank you very much Michael. I  also wanted to mentioned Michael is,   Or Dr. Irvin I should say is one of the advisory  board members and today's US-MAP presentation is   being held jointly with the energy frontier  research center that we do at NREL on CHOISE, the   Center for Hybrid Organic Inorganic Semiconductors  for Energy which Michael is also an advisory board   member of. And so we have a lot of attendees  from that group as well today So with that note   I will turn to some of the questions. One comment  I'll highlight before we get into the questions   was the kudos that were given on the Barry  Bonds reference so well done Michael. Michael: For me _____ there. Joe: Yeah. As noted by at least  one or two of the attendees. So   let's go back here. I guess one question that came  up that I think is an interesting one is - let me   find it here. Near slide 18 you mentioned  the importance of the super stoichiometric   and amorphous phase. The question is what evidence  for this is there and where is this phase located,   ground boundary interfaces or volt form. And  maybe you'd like to discuss that a little bit? Michael: Sure. So again my firm belief is that  this super stoichiometric material exists at   the surface. These are calculations  that are ongoing in our DFD group.   But when you do have excess FAI you can  have some of it exist in interstitials,   in iodide interstitial is highly feasible. Forms  something like an H center or a V center so maybe   like a di-iodide bridging an x site and an  interstitial. So you can house a certain   composition or a certain percentage or  concentration of FAI into the structure   but not nearly to what we see. Meaning that the  super stoichiometric material as represented here   must exist on the surface. And this representation  here is to show there is extremes. Right? So if   N equals one you have just FAI and that FAI can  actually - there should be a second arrow here,   the forward and the reverse reaction of  FAI going in and out of the material. So if FAI goes into the material you actually  convert this structure, the crystalline structure   into this amorphous structure. And if excess  FAI leaves then this amorphous material becomes   crystalline, right, so there's a cycle there, a  symbiosis that may actually be important for the   stability of the material where if you have the  amount of the amorphous material at the surface   it acts as a well for FAI exchange that if you do  form a defect which I’ve highlighted several times   these defects are [Break in Audio] right? Go back  up. This structure here. Yeah. These defects are   very bad, right? They direct the decomposition  of the perovskite by our calculations. So if you have this well of FAI at the  surface you can satisfy those vacancies   and maintain the durability  of the film. So if you some   have any of this amorphous material  the film is likely to destabilize.   And the evidence again here is through _____.  We can see that if we have super stoichiometric   is decomposes quickly. Just remember we’re only  measuring down about ten nanometers into the film   versus if we have stoichiometric the film does not  decompose. So that’s what I consider the evidence,   the direct evidence at the moment. We’re  working on DFD calculations for this purpose. Joe: I’m going to go to a question  from an international attendee.   And was wondering if you could comment on if you  have on prospect technology roadmap for PCs up to   29 _____ devices and this kind of thing and  what thoughts you might have on that front. Michael: Yes, we do actually. I anticipated a  question like this quite some time ago. And so   we’ve been doing some modeling work like SCAPS for  example to see the feasibility to 29 percent. And   after some extensive modeling work we can answer  yes, 29 percent for a single junction cell,   no tandem is completely and totally feasible.  The _____ limit for this _____ is 33 percent of   maybe 32 depending on how you count.  But we believe that 29 percent is   totally achievable with this material. How we  get there is yet to be seen. We’ve still got to   get there but it is absolutely achievable.  And yes, we have a roadmap to get there. Joe: All right. Let’s see here. I mean I guess  there are a number of questions coming in so I’m   trying to pick ones that might be kind of the  most apropos given some of the subject. But   another question that you kind of touched on was   related to the IEC test. And why do you think IEC  tests are relevant given that the acceleration   factors for perovskite degradation modes are  likely different from those in silicon modules.   And have you done any work to define  perovskite device acceleration factors? Michael: Great question. And I totally agree. I  feel – not everyone shares this opinion but I feel   the IEC test is simply the barrier to entry to  sell your modules on the market. Right? So is your   cell good enough in its initial state. And I don’t  feel that IEC testing is really representative of   what it would require to get a perovskite source  at a 20 plus years module durability. And so part   of that is that the IEC is accepted. So we do root  ourselves in it. But there are some significant   changes. Right? So the persistent light test for  example is not part of the IEC. There are other   things we do that are also not part of the IEC  but inspired by the IEC in some way I suppose. Further our cells are not hermetically sealed.  Right? So an IEC test is typically a module that   has standard packaging. It’s tabbed and everything  else. So for example the three stall cycling in   the IEC test is to test the solder durability.  So typically the solder will delaminate or crack   and then you’ll lose connection to the cell. We  obviously don’t care about that because we don’t   have contacts yet. We don’t have tabs. We just  have contact pads that are thin metal and we   have pogo pins that connect to them all  individually. So it’s not an issue. Right? And so absolutely yes. We’re taking  an Arrhenius type approach looking at   the different thermally or light activated  degradation mechanisms, calculating their   energies of activation and then estimating actual  device lifetime based on the Arrhenius equation   or applications of the Arrhenius equation. So  we’re digging down into that. So we want to get   real numbers and understand exactly how long  the device would last far beyond IEC testing. Joe: All right. Well, listen. Again I’d like to  just thank Michael for the nice presentation today   and all our attendees for the excellent number of  questions but not going to be able to get through   more as we’ve reached kind of the end of our time.  And so with that I’ll note we will be posting   our information on the US-MAP website  usaperovskite.org for the speaker for next   month. We’ll probably take a break in December  but we’ll be getting that information out shortly.   Again I’d like to thank Michael for his nice  presentation and the audience for attending   and hope to see a lot of you again kind of in  our next seminar. So with that we’ll close out   and end today’s presentation  and webinar. Thanks very much. Michael: Thanks, Joe. 