 Hello everyone my name is Kelton Glewwe with  Roadware Incorporated and today we're going to use   our Roadware Flexible Cement II to try and see  if we can use our Easy Injection tips with it,   and fix this piece of concrete here. To  represent a slab on grade or a parking deck.   So our first step is we're going to take our... we have our holes drilled here in our concrete sample.  We're going to take some of our special  tape here, this is a very thick repair tape, and it holds onto the concrete a little  bit better but we're just going to   tape it right on over top of our holes like  this. Then i'm going to take our razor   blade and we're going to cut a little  slit right in every hole just like so.   Now this is our Roadware Flexible Cement II. It is  a product that we made for oh almost over 20 years.  it's a little bit thicker than our  Concrete Mender as you're going to notice.   What i like to do with Flexible Cement II is  warm it up a little bit because you'll see here,   instead, some of the colorant settles out over time and so   we like to warm it up to about 80 degrees  fahrenheit and shake it before we use it.   If you can, if you can't hear this in here  but, there's a steel metal ball inside the   this side here that's going to help me,  there it is, loosen everything back up   and get everything all mixed up ready to go. So  you want to shake this back and forth like this. I've already preheated the cartridge  so it's uh it's nice and warm for me.   That'll help us out a little bit quicker  too but also makes the product thinner.   Like that, so let's go  back and forth a few times   Flexible Cement II is a two-part polyurethane,  but it also has a little more give to it. It has   some elongation properties. I'll put that in  the specs below, but i believe it's about 170%   movement. About as hard as the rollerblade wheel. if  you imagine that. Very similar technology so... Okay,   so it looks like you got that much more uniform  in color. So we're gonna always put on our gloves, we're working with products like this.  You don't want to get it on your hands.   and I got glasses on here. Let's see here, this  is the mixer that it usually comes with. it's shorter than a Concrete Mender mixer. It's a square  one, but for today for our purposes, we're going to   use the Easy Injection Mixer because this is a  test. We're gonna take this off here like so. Remove these two little D plugs. You can see that, just like that. No   floor restrictor this just goes straight on.  That goes on the top and we're ready to go. Now i want to put this in my my gun  here, but i'm going to get it started up real quick here. There we go. A little bit of a gun cam  here so you can see what i'm doing   and we're going to hit record there. So this pulls  back like this. This comes on here like so   and we're just going to get it started.   Coming up and it's going to start mixing in  that mixture. I don't know if you can see that,   but I'll even shoot a little here  so you can get an idea what it looks like.   It's kind of a gray color like that. Here's our  crack let's give it a shot. Put this right in here   and you should be able to see that I hope. And we're going to start shooting some product. And you can see it goes through the end of that  crack, it's going to fill that up just like that. Go over the next one. We're basically doing, is putting a flexible  polyurethane right injecting it into the crack. Go back over to here. If i can see it, yeah what goes in there  so apparently i can just keep pumping   it. So, if you have a deeper crack you  just let it go. Fill it up like that. And there.Interesting... looks like  we've filled our crack. See how its come all the way down over here like  this. And we filled this one up here. So let's see how we did. I got good coverage all  the way down through here. It went down the crack   came up the other end. Product is going to be  setting pretty quickly. Just to give you an idea. Yeah, I think it's a pretty successful test. Okay,  now we're going to let it sit for about 20 minutes   we're going to pull the tape and then we're going  to see how we did. Well it's been a couple hours since we made our repair and let's take a look and see how we did. I think if i can pull this tape... Maybe we'll cut it... As you can see, I think we did pretty good. i do have a few hollow spots which i could address  with some more product up here but the repair is   the [ __ ] the crack itself is actually really  well filled if you look here went all the way down   in here get down below started running down here  this is all filled in here i have a few little   open holes here but i wasn't too careful i  should add some more product in it but all in   all i think it's a pretty successful and possible  repair to do injection with flexible cement too   as long as you have uh enough you know width of  a crack this one was about a sixteenth of an inch   i would say and uh and depth and width so  it was a little bit bigger um but yeah and   actually i think we could actually uh take a razor  scraper to this let me grab one here real quick and here we can just take it like this and shave it off and you can get an idea you know how the repair  looks and yeah it went right in there very nice   and tight so that would be our repair using  flexible cement and the easy injection system   you need to have an open crack that's about  a sixteenth of an inch and uh the clear tape   drill the holes into the crack and go with  it makes a pretty good repair comments   please leave them below please subscribe  to our channel and we'll see you next time you 