 5G promises to connect more things and people than ever, creating limitless possibilities for innovation and new revenue streams. But 5G requires creating a 5G Telco Cloud, which introduces complexity, risk and new models and processes. To mitigate risk and complexity, HPE has developed the Telco Software Defined Infrastructure Toolset, known as the Telco SDI Toolset and Telco Blueprints for cloud deployments. The HPE Telco SGI Toolset is designed to simplify and speed up 5G deployment. It helps you automate the design, deployment and scaling for 5G Telco clouds, reduce risk and achieve faster time to value and predictable performance. Here's how the toolset helps you design, deploy and scale your 5G Telco cloud. Once you have reviewed your workload requirements and determine the attributes of your desired infrastructure, such a CPU, bandwith and storage, use the Telco Network Interface Controller Characterization Report to determine network I/O performance requirements. The report provides benchmarks and tuning guidance for optimizing performance. Next, the Ceph Characterization Report helps optimize storage cluster designs with performance benchmarks  for various storage media types and their impact on CPU, memory and bandwidth. Armed with the Telco Cloud Nic and Ceph storage characterization reports, you can select and customize a Telco Core or Edge Blueprint reference designed to meet your specific needs. To help you configure your rack, the Telco Infrastructure Configuration Generator or TICG prompts you for information about your selected HPE infrastructure components and then generates a master configuration file. With the HPE NFV Platform Software Toolkit and this file, you can automate deployment of your cloud infrastructure. You will virtually eliminate human error and reduce typical Telco rack deployment time from 40 hours to just 9. For performance benchmarking, we recommend the open-source Yardstick tool based on ETSI specifications and to simplify its installation, we have developed the Telco Installer Utility for Yardstick. To determine when you will need to expand your Telco cloud to maintain the highest possible customer satisfaction, use the HPE Telco Ceph Performance Tool to simulate the addition of new subscribers. Regular performance benchmarking will tell you exactly when to expand your Telco cloud platform to maintain peak performance. The HPE NPS Toolkit can help there, too. Evolve to 5G with greater peace of mind with the HPE Telco SDI Toolset. It will simplify and automate the process, reduce complexity and errors, speed time to value, and help you achieve the infrastructure performance you need. Validated HPE Telco Blueprints will help you build your 5G cloud with speed and ease. Frost and Sullivan agrees. That's why they awarded us the Global 5G Infrastructure-Enabling Technology Leadership Award. Visit us online to learn more. 