 Dan: All right. So Guy, we've been stalking each other on LinkedIn and a number of other social media channels for quite a while. It's nice to finally meet you. Guy: Yeah, indeed Dan. Dan: Awesome. So I see, because we can see each other's lives online, I can see from your background. that you've spent a lot of time in Business Process Outsourcing or BPO as some of the old-school people call it, and more recently the much sexier sounding Robotic Process Automation or RPA. How did you end up in a process-focused world? Guy: Well, 20 years ago BPO was just as sexy as RPA is now of course, but I joined Business Process Outsourcing work pretty much when it first started. My background... I was talking to a journalist the other day and they were they were asked me about my career and I laughed and it's you know, I haven't had a career. I've had a collection of jobs that led up to my current role. So I spent the last 20 years or thereabouts in BPO and the thing about BPO was that it was taking work from expensive locations and moving it to inexpensive locations. Dan: Sure. Yep. Guy: What had happened was that organizations that went through this process... At the start it was driven very much top down. It was driven by Visionary CEOs of client organizations that went to outsourcers and said can you run this for us. So those organizations tended to be based either in the US or indeed in low-cost locations, particularly India, and but what happened was that they become a victim of their own success. So these organizations grew very fast, attrition became an issue and they then moved from Tier 1 cities. So someone sitting in Michigan or Manchester was three times the cost as someone in Mumbai then... But then they moved to tier 2 and then tier 3 cities where you could have cheaper people providing the same service. And by the way, I've defined a tier 3 city as having a university but no airport. So you can train these people, but they can't leave. I know, I've sat on buses for five hours getting to these places. So from an outsourcing perspective, what tends to be missing was... In terms of the business was, it was the lift and shift of that work, but the transformation was actually quite slow. I mean, there are some organizations that are extremely good at it. So GENPACT for instance was extremely good. It's still I think the strongest organization in the finest accounting outsourcing market, Yes, I've heard that... ...outside of Accenture. But that type of business became more and more difficult for the customers to manage. And that's the situation that I got into. So my previous company before I joined UiPath, I worked for a BPO business and we did a deal with a technology business to outsource order processing, the offline order processing for that technology business and we were going to do the typical BPO-y stuff of you know, consolidating into a shared service operation, do Lean Six Sigma Process Improvement, consolidate that to an offshore location so it costs less and then provide that service back to the customer. At a reduced cost, and an increased efficiency. And the customer turned around and said, "Yeah that's a great idea, but we've already done all of that." So of the 1,000 people around the world doing that 98 percent were in best or low-cost locations already. So we scratched our heads and realized that we couldn't make any money doing this because there was no fat in the operation unless it was [...] related, and this was back in 2013 early 2014. We went to see a British company called BluePrism, one of the vendors in the RPA space. Then we went to see this chap called Daniel Dines in Bucharest, and at that time he had seven people in an apartment block in Bucharest, Romania. And the reason that he understood what we were trying to get involved with was because he previously worked with Microsoft. So it worked out in Redmond for five years developing automation through the user interface for Microsoft. He had a couple of patents to his name as well. And as a result of that he, understood that you could automate activities. In the same way that you would normally do using macros across multiple operation, multiple systems using the user interfaces the as that of the platform that kept the company of that time was called desk over so we used that technology and it was the first deal that became UiPath and the results were staggering. So not only do you get a reduction in cost to the customer and bear in mind that there was very little normal BPO-type costs you could remove, but also the attrition rate of the remaining people actually went down. So you had increased efficiency, decreased cost, and it appeared as though the people actually operating on that liked it. That was a pretty critical moment. And I realized that the future of work, you know that everyone talks... Yes. about the "future of work," but the work potentially could be this automation stuff. So I started talking about it and started writing about it. And then Daniel and his happy band got their seed funding from Earlybird Venture Capital, which is a German fund, and then I was approached by Daniel to join the business to help him grow. So I joined as employee number 27, wind forward to today and we're three and a half thousand people across 26 countries. And you know, we're number three in the Forbes 100, Cloud 100... The journey has just been staggering. I mean, it's both just been unbelievably fast. I'm still involved in process, still involved in those business processes, but now using automation as opposed to people or a combination of both to actually provide services. Now, we don't provide the services, we provide the software, but our Implementation Partners provide the service to customers who are going through that digital transformation journey and, you know the digital transformation journey that we all know and love, and a journey that has no end by the way. it's all part of that same mix really. Dan: Yep. Okay. Wow. Yeah, so I got some of that from your background and I wasn't aware of Daniel's... Well, I knew about Daniel's background at Microsoft. I hadn't quite understood the nuance there, but that's quite a story and from an unlikely part of the world to seems like. Guy: Yeah, we were the first, think we still are, the first Romanian Unicorn. And I was at my local pub and [...] knew I was in software and there was a venture capitalist who came into the pub. It's quite unusual. Anyway, he knew of us and he said, you know, that UiPath is now considered legendary amongst the Venture Capital Community. Community From 1 billion to 7 billion valuation in 12 months. Never happened before. Dan: Right, right. Yeah, that's wild . You never know what life is going to throw you, huh? Guy: and it's all luck of course. Well, you know part of luck is being in the right place at the right time. So, when I was at Delphi Group, we were acquired by Perot Systems, that was back in... 2004 I believe 2004 through 2007 and I'd heard of Business Process Outsourcing but I didn't really understand it until I was in a 15,000 person organization that that was what they did 99.9 percent of the time. Yeah, it's an interesting model it and it always seemed a little jarring to me because I was more focused on technology and automation... Guy: Well, it's ironic that you were acquired by Perot Systems because it was Perot Systems that got me into Outsourcing in the first place. [laughter] Dan: Oh, no kidding. I was I was a recruiter, I was a headhunter and my first customer was Perot Systems. And what was interesting was that this was their first European deal, which was East Midland's Electricity and they had outsourced the IT and the IT for that organization was completely shot, Dan: Okay. Guy: But they then put in if you remember these BPR Consultants, Business Process Re-engineering, to actually use the IT to transform the business, and as a result of that three things happened. First one was the size of the deal doubled. From 300 to 600 million dollars. Second one was that the value to the customer... They went from 12th place out of the 12 Regional electricity companies in terms of shareholder value to 6th. And the third thing that happened was that Perot Systems then won California Light and Power, which was 1.2 billion dollars, which was a lot of money back then, using East Midland's Electricity as a use case. So yeah, it was Ross Perot and his Bunch that got us here in the first place. Wow. Oh man. What a funny small world, huh? Guy: It is very small. Dan: Awesome. Well, so in the set up to this, I told you that you I've been really interested in evangelism ever since I first read about Guy Kawasaki and I've had the chance to talk to him and interview him, he's the most famous technology evangelist ever probably, and just an amazing Guy... Probably a whole shelf here on my bookshelf is a Guy Kawasaki book since he's written 15 books or something like that. And thankfully he gave me a lot of them, so that made it easier to afford the full collection... but for people don't know what an evangelist is, your role is a "Chief Evangelist." What does that mean? What's the purpose of an Evangelist? Guy: I describe it as the best job title and he worst job title in the world. It's the best job because as Guy and we're both Guys... Dan: Yes, all three of us... ;) Guy Kawasaki described the role of Chief Evangelist being bi-directional, and that's very much the case. Not only am I broadcasting out, telling the stories about about us as an organization and the market as a whole so it's not just I don't just talk about us, I talk about our competition, I talk about the ecosystem, I talk about our implementation partners and how that all joins together. So it's broadcasting out is telling those stories but is also I spend most of my time actually listening. So it's gathering information from our customers from our partners from analyst firms like Forrester and Gartner and Everest and so on, and then feeding that back into the organization, into our sales and marketing operation, into our product teams, so we can stay agile, so we can move the business. To accelerate the speed with which we can normally grow. And our growth has been described as "Blitzscaling." So it just happens incredibly quickly. I mean, we recruited a thousand people in the last hundred days of last year for instance. Which is unbelievable. So that bi-directional nature of what I do is what I really love. You could describe me as a Storyteller because no one sells effectively by going through product capabilities... It's how it relates to you as an individual. So the classic example is that very early when I joined this was early 2016, we put together a Response For Proposal, you know, an RFP, to an insurance business in France. So I went to do the verbal presentation of going through our answers to the headquarters of this of this organization. And I took along one of our technical gurus with me. And so we sat there and and the room was a circular room with big screens all around the outside. And so we bought up the the paperwork and they said, "We want you to go through your answers" and I said I'm not going to do that. That's boring. Why don't you just tell me? What the thing that you hate most about your job? What is the bit that you really hate to do? So Christian, who was sitting next to me, as they were describing it, you know that they need to download data from Bloomberg and then update that and then transfer it to an Excel spreadsheet and then probably put that into Salesforce or whatever it might be. And he did it while they were talking. The look of shock on their faces as they saw this thing. And the look of you know "Thank God I don't need to do that anymore." Dan: There you go. It was that revelatory, that "Road to Damascus" moment. There's a lot of energy, you know, that organizations and individuals have when they realize that they don't have to do the boring, mundane, repetitive stuff that they've had to do for the last 30 years. Right, right. Yeah, did you get the deal? We did get the deal. Nice. I was hoping for a happy ending. Well, yeah, so that's that seems you got some interesting nuance and I do think having found you on LinkedIn. I think you do especially nice job of sort of being you know, you sort of Switzerland sort of approach which I think is smart. There's other competitors that are more of an attack on others or other techniques that make and... Sometimes I get in trouble Guy: internally for doing that but you know, but we're all part of the same family. We couldn't be where we are today without BluePrism for instance. BluePrism invented Robotic Process Automation in about 2002, was really about 2006 and actually it was Pat Geary, who was the CMO, now Chief Evangelist. We will go on and blue prism along with Phil Fersht of HFS who came up with the phrase Robotic Process Automation. So you say that success comes from standing on the shoulders of giants, you know BluePrism has done a phenomenal job of creating a category and now you know through through our development and through the development of our partners and that's both implementation partners and Technology Partners. UiPath has come out on top in the market, but that just you know, what's interesting is that RPA has just been described as the new BAU the "new business as usual" for organizations, and that's appropriate because you've got the B from BluePrism. You've got the A from Automation Anywhere, we've got the U from UiPath which is serendipitous. So yes, I do talk about you know, what competition is doing or where they're getting things right, and so I've because people are interested in the broader scope, the broader scope and potential of automation rather than just us banging on about you know, how wonderful we are. Right right, no,, I think Dan: it's interesting because I've been in evangelist rules too and there can be a tricky dynamic there on are you sort of neutral and trying to push a Market or an Idea that's bigger than you and probably you know, I would hope focused on customers versus being very self-centered and that's you know, I've run into situations where that was... You know, what I thought the job was and what they thought the job was not the job, so you know, it's a little bit tricky but you know, and you know, I think that's the approach the Guy Kawasaki has always taken although he's always been very pro whatever company he's been involved in and he's much more aggressive than than I would normally be. But you know, there's standing for something I think is what it comes down to and for me, it's really trying to stand for the customer to make sure that they're represented and we don't lose sight of that and it sounds like that's what you're approach is. Yeah, I mean it's more than just the customer. You know, I think that. Well, we think that we're moving into an "automation-first" era and what we mean by that is that if you think about the development of Technology, it goes through phases. So it started really with with the with the first Industrial Revolution. So, you know turning physical human power into into mechanized power through steam and so on. But if you think about the the technology age, started with with internet first. So if I had have a website and they went to mobile first and we'll have have a mobile site, you know, maybe operate on mobile apps and so on. And now we're in Cloud first, so organisations are recognizing that public cloud is just as secure. In fact sometimes more secure than keeping stuff on-prem. And then we think it's going to be automation first. So automation first is in that mindset is that is actually being driven by customers. So customers are now saying can a robot do this? Then looking at the way that they work on day-to-day basis and say can a robot do this? And so we're changing from a, from a push market where us, Automation Anywhere, BluePrism. KOFAX and workfusion and all the rest of the other vendors are pushing their product out to the market saying, you know, we've got this really cool software stuff. Do you want to buy it? It's now turning from those organizations that have actually inculcated automation into their business are now saying, It's turning from a push market to a pull market. So as people in the organization see the value of this not only in terms of the efficiency gains that they get, but also in terms of the employee engagement you end up with happier employees as a result Dan: ... Okay. Yeah, yeah. Guy: that is turning into a pull market. That means that the growth we've seen in the market so far is TINY compared to the potential. Dan: Yeah, that's right. Yeah. Guy: And ultimately we think that everyone's going to have their own robots. If you think if you think that Bill Gates in the early 80s got laughed at for saying that he envisions a time when every household and every desk would have a computer. Guy Kawasaki, of course, you know what with with Steve Jobs and Steve Jobs said, you know, your job is to sell Apple to everybody and he said well, I can't do that because the windows users and the DOS users are all zealots, because that's... We want to sell to the agnostics, and there are an awful lot of agnostics still out there for automation, that all of us can help. Dan: Right, right. Yeah, so so many so many things the potentially talk about here. Let's so let's briefly touch on what is Robotic Process Automation anyhow. Also for those at the you know, I mean people can look it up but. You know, so I bought for everybody, you did notice my Isaac Asimov book back there, which I bought on purpose this summer because you know all this talk about Robotic Process Automation. There's been a lot of thinking about robots over the years and why not go to like the master the guy who actually coined the term and maybe there's something we can learn from that these days but what is RPA in a business sense it so this is not robots assembling cars or developing or filling drug vials... Yeah, I mean the industrial robots, so physical robots, car making robots and robots for you know, creating anything physical have been around for 30 years. RPA, robotic process automation, is a software robot. So software that runs software. And the difference that it makes to an individual is that it does the stuff that you find that humans find really really boring, moving information through and between systems is what RPA is really really good at. And pejoratively, it was called macros on steroids at the start because if you think about an Excel macro, it takes you know an operation of an Excel sheet and that carries out a function based on what you write. Right. The thing about RPA is that it cuts across all software. Think about three years ago. We had questions from from customers, you know how to stop the robot pressing the screen too hard. You know, we don't have that now as the market has become more educated. But essentially the robots they're called robots, but the software will actually run anything to do with your the software that you could be running within your organization. Ian Barkin, who I worked with in my previous company. He's now head of strategy for Sykes and was one of the founders for Symphony Ventures which were a service provider born to provide implementation services for RPA. Ian described the way that process is built up in organizations as being processed sediment. So it builds up in organizations in the same way that sedimentary rock builds up over millions of years you end up with layer after layer after layer. Dan: Doesn't take millions of years though. Right, it doesn't take millions of years. It'll probably take millions of years to get rid of the damn things. So the beauty about RPA is that it acts as the bridge between those different technologies. If you think about it, there are 1800 shared service operations. Sort of like Global Business Service Units. So bits of companies that run the internal functions of a company. So finance, accounting,procurement, HR and so on. There are 1800 in Europe, 80% of those do not even have a single instance of ERP. So on that basis, and you think about all the multiple different systems that exist in organizations, particularly when they grow through mergers and acquisitions where you're hammering organizations together, ending up with systems that don't talk to each other. They have to have people that transfer information from system A to system B to system C. That is what RPA provides. Dan: Right. Yeah, so it's like a virtual human essentially doing the same it well in some instance doing the exactly the same things that a person would do what they call "swivel chair integration." Yeah, so structured processing it's also called. Move information from here to over there... The only exercise some people get yes. Guy: So what's changed over the last few years is that the robots have become much better at dealing with multiple different systems across multiple different operations. And so that's so much so that all eyes I should like Oracle for instance now have worked out that it's much faster and cheaper. And more efficient to use RPA to do that final yard, final mile, whatever you have You turn integration to their customers multiple different and bespoke systems using RPA than it does to do that with APIs. And it sort of makes sense, you know system A has a user interface and system B has a user interface, and you can join those things up using RPA and that's UiPath comes from. UiPath is the user interface path. Okay seems obvious, and better than whatever the title was before. Deskover. There you go. So I think one of the things that I like about so I've done, process consulting work and I've been involved in integration that's a nightmare behind the scenes rebuilding systems. And you know, I worked for Jim Champy when Perot Systems acquired us we were in his office and you know Champy and Hammer, Hammer especially were famous for "your process is terrible. Let's just blow it up and try it again" and you know, sometimes that's actually that would be the right thing to do. I think it's interesting that RPA has brought sort of a different option to the table that lets you leverage, like I used to have a lot of fights about silos and most people think silos are bad because you could have the largest that I know of any client was over 2000 when they stopped counting and they just said, you know, we need to stop counting and do something about this. So that I think that that awareness that there's a problem... But what's the right solution? So I see RPA as at the least a way to buy back some time and energy so that you can do automation that takes advantage of what computers are capable of. And then say all right. So now we're not dying because we carved out this piece, and it's at least faster and maybe and hopefully customers are happy over this and then, now that we're not on fire we can go and attack bigger issues and maybe rebuild a system or replace it entirely. How do you see it at you UiPath? Guy: Yep, you're absolutely right. And in fact the operative word that you used was time. So when RPA started it was quite interesting that that every business case was predicated on job cuts. Headcount, cut out, but actually once organizations put automation into their business, they find that what they get back is time. So it's the time is what you mentioned so what you do with that time, is material to the circumstances of the organization where they are on that transformation Journey every organization has a transformation journey. And by the way, that's a journey That Never Ends. So the use of RPA in that circumstance is a really good way of giving you back time. And so. Where it interlinks with the different technologies, is that because RPA is agnostic, you think of it like a like an operating system so you can put all of these automations onto that operating system and it and it breaks down some of the silos. But it helps, it doesn't do the transformation itself, but it helps provide the time and the knowledge then to do that do that transformation that that organization is to do. So, it's a facilitator that way. It's not a Silver Bullet by any means it's certainly not a Panacea. But you end up with some quite interesting results. So let's take compliance and governance as an example. We went to a bank about three years ago, and we said we've got this great new thing called RPA. With it, you can increase your efficiency and decrease your cost and they said go away. We've got other things to worry about, you know regulation communities and so on and so so I thought this is just could be appropriate. So I went to see the SEC and the FCA in the UK, but said we got this RPA stuff and and it records activities. And provides you down to the keystroke level an audit Trail. Could this be appropriate for governance? So when oh, yeah bring it up and so we went back to the French back and said we found a way of stopping you getting fined and they went "Okay. Yeah now we're listening." We sold to five French banks in two months just a result of changing that conversation. In terms of know your customer KYC, anti-money laundering, GDPR - all of these capabilities are facilitated by a mechanistic deterministic type software solution that the regulators like. Now interestingly, the regulators won't countenance machine learning because machine learning, the answer changes depending on the data set you looking at. Yes right, I see that. So the answer that will give you in six months is different from the answer today, which Regulators really don't like ML, but RPA, they really really like. There's recent examples of where the spread of this stuff is predicated on ideas that we have no idea about. So it spreads through that use cas methodology and that democratization really of automation that we're seeing increasingly. Dan: Right, right. Yeah, that's interesting. So I often see the first step that a company needs to take is that they don't really know how their processes work. So we need to put visibility in first and I have an information security background to so having visibility into what's going on very specifically is KEY to surviving online these days, so that's. Yeah, so that first stage... You can't optimize something that you can't even see and recording the data then sets the stage for a whole lot of things which you know and like its it is funny the vast majority of consulting engagements I've done the last 15 years have always had a governance component to it. One because nobody knows what that means if they don't have it and two, it's not fun to do so. It's not like I enjoy doing it but I've done it enough that you know, I can say here's some guidelines and by the way if you try to do a sort of super tight governance than my security background will say people will find a way around your governance. Humans cheat, you know that it's. And actually that raises a really interesting point. So when when organizations start doing automation, they will have the same question. Where do we start, what processes do we start with? And so something like a Process Discovery tool or Process Mining tool would give you that information. What we're working on now because we've got four development teams in places all beginning with B for some reason. So we've got we've got Bangalore in India. Bucharest in Romania where we were born. We've got Brooklyn in New York. We've got Bellevue in Washington. So they're working on four elements where we're baking AI tools into our platform. One of those is around Process Discovery/Process Mining and actually Process Discovery is involved two parts. The first part is figuring out what that optimum process route through any particular process task is. And then it's based on multiple different things and there could be multiple variants, bottle necks, exceptions and so on. So you have to figure out what that is. At the moment the type of technologies that organizations use produce a picture, a map of that process. The optimum route through. That what some organizations called the "happy path" until I spoke to someone in the in the NHS in the UK and they said, you know, we can't have a happy path for you know, when people die. Yes. Although there's a process route there, that's not the happy path. Dan: No, right. Guy: So that optimum process route, once you figure out what it is, with all the variances, then you can automate it. So what we're working on is to take that data about what a human is doing, and bear in mind, having said that human's cheat, that even people in the same team who are normally doing the same task in the same way all doing in different way. Yes. And as outsourcing passed, that's exactly what we found. It was the knowledge transfer from the customer to the outsourcer was always had that sort of "hypercare" time when what you've been told was actually the way that operations worked was nothing like what was actually happening. And it is exactly the same for automation. So you're going to analyze a process, the output of... The way we're working on will output what's known as XAML script which will become the robot. So basically what we're building is self-building robots. So the humans will... the system will watch what a human does, work out the optimum route, recognize that there's replicable or automatable elements in that and say I can automate this process for you. Not yet, but that's the direction in general. So that's the first part, the second part of automation or Process Mining, Process Discovery,, is the processes always change over time. We talked about the fact that these layers keep getting built up through changes in technology different systems or changes in marketing or changing in the way that organizations run themselves. The key indicator that something has changed is when the exception levels go. Dan: Right. Yep. Guy: Then you kick back into that Process Discovery work out the new optimum path automatically and then create the new robot without breaking system. That is self-healing robots. So if you've got self-building robots and you've got self-healing robots... That's going to scale out incredibly quickly within organizations. And that's just that's just one of the things that we're working on because of AI. Yeah, yeah, so does that make RPA bots the cockroaches of automation? Guy: Well, I'd actually we talked about InfoSec. I was talking to a guy whose name escapes me now who's one of the key cryptography professors I will track his name down later sorry. Is it Bruce, Bruce Schneier? Yes, Bruce Schneier. I went to see a University, Heriot-Watt University and he was presenting there, so I sat and listened to what he was talking about. Someone in the audience talked about how data was the new oil and he said data is not the new oil, data is the new pollution, there's so much of it. Yes. That digging through that through that pollution to get what you actually need is actually really really critical. Yeah, that's a good example. Dan: Yeah, see multiple layers in here. It's fun. Awesome. Guy: That leads us into another thing which is, if we do with getting into automation first. If everyone's going to have their own robot ultimately then we've got to make sure that no one is left behind. It's our responsibility, RPA vendors and the service providers who are implementing it and the customers who are implementing it who are putting in their business to make sure that no one is left behind. So the reason that I was at Heriot-Watt University was because we've set up something called the Academic Alliance. So we've grown incredibly quickly because we give an awful lot of stuff away for free. So any organization below 5 million dollars could use our software platform for free. And individuals and universities and non-governmental organizations, but actually and we set up something called our Academy for training up people to develop robots in April 2017 it was created. And as of I think two months ago was the last time I looked 357,000 people have been through that course. Dan: Wow. Guy: We've got five people in the Falkland Islands that have gone through.. of course I don't know why. How many people are there on the islands? Exactly there's nothing else to do except play with penguins. So the Academy was set up to provide training for people to build robots. Then we extended again to for the business people around to create a Center of Excellence or Robotic Operation Center and spread communication and all the rest of the tasks necessary for spreading automation. Now we've extended again. So the Academic Alliance which is for universities, we've committed to trade up a million students in the next 3 years. Now we thought it was going to start fairly slowly. So what we wanted to do was was put RPA into the curricula of universities. First of all, it's the technical courses, you know, the computer science courses, but also into business courses because it's going to have a fundamental impact. A fundamental impact on the way that organizations run themselves. In five months, we have over 250 universities now signed up around the world who actually baking RPA into their curriculum.Apart from that is that the universities can now use UiPath to run their universities for free. So that's that's where we win. But the students are now learning about RPA and we've gone further. So we're now teaching school children. So 8 to 14 year olds, they're now using, their building robots to play games. And feeding back to organizations, we know that organizations, that people within organizations are worried about automation. They're worried about this aren't they? AI and all the rest of it. You know, how what impact this can have on their jobs and livelihood. So we're setting up courses for upskilling and re-skilling people who are worried about automation. And the thing I'm most proud of is that we're starting courses to provide training to immigrants, to economic migrants, to refugees because we want to make them as productive as possible net tax contributors, if you like, to the society to which they move as fast as possible. Because that gets rid of the us and them mentality. So all of this is more than just us running a software business that wants to sell software to businesses. Because the changes that we're going to see will be societal in their impact and that's not me, you know being my evangelist stuff. This is basically what's going to happen. Dan: Yeah. Yeah, it's happening much faster than people would have expected. Exactly. Yeah. Well, so we're covered a lot here. We covered the vast majority of the topics that I thought we would cover. One thing, since I do think you really do, you as a person and UiPath as a company do nicely, I mean, especially based on what you're just talking about as far as sort of giving back to the community, which also self-servingly preps people to be ready for this and to potentially use UiPath sometime in their professional future, but... So RPA can do a whole lot of things but it's not magic. So what are some areas where you think that maybe people tried RPA and it didn't work or just you would recommend they not do that because it's not the one tool that they ever going to need in the future. What's an area where you can say, you know, just if that's what you're trying to do. I would use something else. Where you've got very fast tasks that are always the same, then it's always going to run faster to use APIs directly. And in factwee are actually launching an IT testing business. You come from a technology business. I'm from a services background. Most of the people that came into RPA right at the start were commercial services providers. They saw us initially either as a distraction or at worst as an existential threat because you know the entire raison d'etre of CIOs is to bring another bright shiny new system with straight through processing. If you've got that you don't need robots was we heard. You know, if 1,800 shared service operations across Europe 80% don't even have a single instance of ERP, we'll never get to that Nirvana. IT was was slow in order to provide what business wanted. So businesses came to us the RPA vendors and saying "can we have some of what you've got" Yes. RPA is just as applicable with an IT world as it is and with a business process world. And so that's why we're setting up launching, I think launching next week actually, I think... The IT testing automation business, because that talks to IT in the same way that F&A talks to business. Dan: Yep. hmm. Guy: So it's applicable across ITSM. It's possible across SIEM and so on and so forth. That move from business process, to include IT in that will really help I think in terms of the mindshare the mind ownership, if you like, of organizations, soup to nuts across the organization. But RPA is applicable to any industry., and across any geography, across any service line within that industry. That's what we found is that can spread very fast across an entire business from from where it starts, it tends to start in finance, its procurement into HR, then industry-specific processing functions. So an insurance will be claims processing, first notice of loss and so on and into the front office into customer service, customer experience, attended robots. One of the things I expected to happen or I predicted to happen in November last year was that the number of attended robots in other words robots to help humans as opposed to do take on the work and replace the work that they do would accelerate past the unattended at some point this year. That happened in May, so not by revenues, but number there are now more attended robots than there are unattended and one of the things that were working on, has been codenamed PAL 9000 for those.. You're a science fiction aficionado, so you know very well, that remembers 2001 Space Odyssey the computer that ran the ship was called HAL 9000 HAL. There's an apocryphal story that how that was the letter before IBM in every case Dan: Yeah, I forgot about that story. But HAL, if for anyone that remembers the film, killed all the crew. So Brandon Nott, who runs our attended business, created PAL 9000 as the codename. So PAL is your friend, it won't kill you. Is that the tagline? That's the one I made up anyway. So we want to be in a position where... I'ss certainly not gonna be called PAL 9000 when it's launched but the idea behind PAL 9000 is that it has a mixture of both unattended and attended activities. So it was your own personal robot that can help you automate not only your work tasks, but also your home tasks as well. Not that we're going to launch a, you know, consumer version of our robots, but that mixture between you know work and home as we know because we're sitting at home both... Dan: Yes, right. ...blurring. So, you know getting that balance right is something that is going to be... Matter to businesses as they as they grow and expand and change over the years. Dan: Yeah. Okay. Awesome. Well, this is a this has been a lot of fun. I'm so glad we made this happen. It's nice to have a chat. It's we can get a little deeper than just typing a sentence or a hundred forty characters at each other. So that's that's that's been fantastic. And yeah, I'd love to stay in touch on this. I think RPA is... I mean clearly it's a super hot space, and as somebody who's been involved in process stuff since 1994, completely by accident. It's it's it's kind of amazing to me to see like on Forbes. You know, when's the last time you saw anything about process on the cover of Forbes? It's insane. Well, Daniel said we went from, in four years, we went from ten people to you know, number three on the Forbes Cloud 100 and he's on the front cover of Forbes, and he said he used that word. He said it's insane. Dan: Yes. Guy: And the great thing about Daniel is that he's stayed humble with it. So the great thing about that article written by Alex Konrad, brilliant article, because he really captured the man. Was that you know, Daniel spends a lot of his time actually reading outside of the subject. So reading philosophy and and so on and it's not in sort of the bull****y [...] thing because he learns the whole time and what he learns, he then [...] about the business. So we're quite an unusual business in the way that our employees, we keep winning Awards in terms of happiness and you know diversity and so on and it's it's all down to that one man is without a doubt. Okay, he needs clones maybe robots won't be enough. Yeah, I think it is both, you know, actually if you read the article you need clones for people to work before 11 a.m. because he doesn't actually start work until 11:00. Then you see all these reports, you know sort of the hustle there where people work from 5 a.m., all rest of it, you know, he reads for a bit goes back to sleep gets up again 11 a.m. And it works on... But it's a different way of thinking Dan: Apparently works. Well, I definitely don't get up at four or five in the morning just to start work, but ya know it seems [...].  ...that's you know, Jack Ma from Alibaba has been talking about ,the 9 9 6 and so from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., six days a week, that's the Chinese way. And I tweeted and sent a post saying this is so fundamentally broken. You know, it's actually a disease, and RPA can help with that disease. Awesome. Okay, so many topics we could continue talking for days months years. Well, thanks for thanks for agreeing to the interview. It's been a great chat and I look forward to seeing where UiPath goes and hearing more about whether it's PAL 9000 or whatever it ends up being called but where this all heads off in the future. Thanks Guy. Guy: Bye. 