 Dr. Sandra Charles: Good morning, everyone. And thank you for being here. I'm Dr. Sandra Charles of the Library's Health Services, and the Library's Physician. And I welcome you to this joint program with Dr. Tomoko Steen from Science, Digital Technology Division of our library services. And today's lecture is what we've been looking forward to. We actually started this thought process along these lines last Wednesday when we had our Family Health and Wellness Day and featured different alternative approaches to pain management and emphasized a lot of our alternative medicine practices then. So this is very timely. And it's in sync with our theme, which I think will continue for some time, being that pain management and alternative medicine as such, topical items. So, we have with us today. Dr. Hakima Amri, from Georgetown University. And the she will be leading us along, and guiding us, and giving us all the various options as well as the latest in the light of alternative and complementary medicine. And you know, as a physician, we generally, at least the traditional schools are trained in traditional practices. But complementary and alternative medicine definitely over the past I'd say 10, 20 years, maybe even longer have captured the imagination, and rightly so, of many of people who are having different ailments. And so much so that NIH has been conducting certain research into different practices. And certain ones, such as acupuncture have become mainstream. And actually covered by many of our insurance plans. So, it is not a fly-by-night. Any of you who grew up outside of the city know that there be many practices that were used when you had a cut or an ailment, or a bump on the head. And myself, having grown up in the islands, I always thought it was fascinating. If you had a really bad bump on your head, they would give you some super sweet sugar and water to drink. And I really didn't understand it but learning medicine. When you have head trauma to reduce increased intracranial pressure, you're given 50% glucose solution to prevent the swelling. Somewhere along the line, there was a connection made. Now, whether or not the oral intake is equivalent to the intravenous is a whole different story. But nonetheless, it was going along those lines. And of course there are many teas, and salts, and lotions that were used then. So, it's always been a fascination and something that we're open to. And I think 21st-century medicine is a combination of traditional, and complementary, and alternative medicine. Hence the term integrative medicine. So I'm going to ask Dr. Steen to introduce her speaker. And then we will sit back and get to learn something. So, thank you so much for being here.  Tomoko Steen: It is wonderful to have the more audience today. But last Wednesday I had 130 people stop by for the tea and the health, you know, lecture and discussion, I had. We had many tables you know thinking about how to manage pain and health in general. So, I'm so delighted to have my dear friend and expert in the field, Professor Hakima Amri coming. And she is a professor at the Department of Biochemistry and Serum Molecular Biology in the Division of Integrative Physiology. That's the department she is in. And she holds a master's and doctorate degree on reproductive physiology, and steroid biochemistry from the Pierre and Marie Curie University in Paris, France. And she is a co-founder of the CAM program at the Georgetown Medical School. And that she has been raising experts from 2003. So, you know we have more young people learning about this topic. And her approach is scientifically approaching you know traditional medicine and how to access them. And that's a wonderful, you know her background is biochemistry. So this is a wonderful way of doing it. And we have some books from you know, my division and my colleague Ashely Coffier [assumed spelling] fixed up and that's include a book just published by Professor Amri and so that is focusing on Greek or Arabic medicine, is it? Yeah. And linking the 21st-century biomedicine to Hippocrates. And maybe I'm pronouncing it wrong. Anyway. Without further ado, please join me welcoming Professor Amri. [ Applause ]  Hakima Amri: Thank you. Thank you, for this very nice introduction from the leadership and from my colleague Dr. Steen. I'm very delighted to be here today and sharing some of my work with you. And speaking here at this very prestigious institution. So, thank you very much. Today's talk, I think you made the ground for me. You are making my talk very easy now. It's about integrative medicine. And we are going to discuss a few points, in addition to what has been said. Actually I was going to say, I wish I was here for the tea party, the real tea party from last week. So, today we are going to talk about complementary and alternative medicine, and integrative medicine. Define that field of medicine. Review the history of integrative medicine. We try to do that very briefly. So we have more time for discussion. We are going to examine the role of integrative medicine in the management of chronic diseases. I think that's the focus of this month, or this week topics here at the Library of Congress. And then, discuss its emerging role in healthcare. We will try to save time for questions and answers. Okay so, let's start by the first point here, which is defining complementary, and alternative medicine, and integrative medicine. Here we are noticing already, that is a mouthful actually. So, how are we going to define this complementary alternative medicine and integrative medicine? So, before I go to my next slide, just to the raise of hand, how many of you have already heard of complementary and alternative medicine, or integrative medicine? Very good. And if I ask you to tell me a little bit what it is, any volunteer who can tell me what that is? Yeah? Okay, I don't meant to put anybody on the spot, but just to be interactive. Okay, so what it is really the definition is very simple. And I always get that look on my student's faces when I say okay the definition is simple. Because they don't expect it. Complementary and alternative medicine is the therapies that are not usually taught in medical schools. That's all. Are not generally practiced or available in US hospitals. So, that was the definition from back in the '90s. So, that's a question on the test for the students actually. So the definition is very literal to the wording of it. It is complementary when it's used together with conventional medicine. Makes sense, right. It's complementary when it's used in addition to antibiotics, or to painkillers. So, that's complementary. And then it's alternative, because it's an alternative, it's used instead of the other medicine. So, instead of taking a blood thinner, for example, the patient will start taking ginkgo biloba, for example, right. Which is known as a blood thinner. So that's alternative. We don't want that to happen. So, and this is integrative, when it's basically used together, when it's combined to a conventional medicine. But those therapies that are combined to call it integrative medicine have to be supported by science. So, that's when it's integrative. So basically, as it was mentioned before, acupuncture has been studied a lot for the past now 20 years. And science has shown that acupuncture works for pain management. So now, acupuncture is incorporated in the medical treatment for pain, for example. It is reimbursed by many health insurance companies. So that's real integration. Acupuncture is supported by the evidence, by the science. Are we clear on that? If we're clear on that we can proceed. You have questions, I can go through that again, okay. Clear. Okay so, these are the basic definitions. And the latest consensus that to define really this field came from the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Health, which is a center at the National Institutes of Health. And I want you to keep in mind that that's the authority on all published on the science behind integrative medicine. So, if you have a question about any aspect of integrative medicine go to the NIH website, and specifically the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health. That's the authority. So their definition, "The National Center of Complementary and Integrative Health, generally uses the term complementary health approaches when we discuss practices and products of nonmainstream origin. We use integrative health when we talk about incorporating complementary approaches into mainstream health and these complementary approaches are the ones that have been supported by science." Okay, so that's their definition. And that's what has been actually put out there and that's what the people should follow. The scientists, the educators, the private organizations, and all that. So they divide integrative medicine into different categories, or different domains. And there are five domains for integrative medicine. The biologically-based therapies or practices, and that's when you are using herbs. How many of you are using just supplements, herbs for health? Yeah, so these are the biologically-based practices. Herbal products fall under that category. Mind-body medicine practices or mind-body medicine. How many of you are doing MBSR, or yoga, or? Yeah. These practices fall under the mind-body medicine. Energy medicine, that's where it gets a little bit murky. Now, I'm just saying that because energy medicine depends who you are talking to, but here we are talking about energy medicine like biofeedback, Tai Chi, Chi Gong, where they really, these practices call on the inner energy of the body to heal itself. And then, manipulative, and body-based practices. And those, how many of you go to see an osteopath or a chiropractor, massage therapist, yes. So, these are the manipulative and body-based practices. Osteopathy, chiropractic care, massage therapy, where they basically manipulate the body. And then, you see under that circle, the whole medical systems. That's the fifth category. The whole medical systems are those medical systems that are used by 80% of the population on the planet. And those are traditional Chinese medicine, it's a system. Ayurveda is a medical system. Unani medicine, or [inaudible] medicine is a medical system. So, the people around the globe are using these other medical systems. And they're part of their healthcare. n China, for example, you walk into a hospital and you have the conventional medicine, what we call by our definition conventional, which is conventional, which is maybe unconventional in other countries. So you can see the conventional physicians and next door is the traditional practitioners, in the same institution. So, it's really integrated into the medical system. So, into the medical healthcare system. It's the same thing in India. So, in India you have the conventional medical system which is similar to ours here in the US. And also you have the Ayurvedic doctor and then the Unani doctor. So, it's all handy working together in parallel and in collaboration, of course. So these are the whole medical systems. These are the five categories of that medicine. And this is just another figure to show you what it is. So now we know right. So it's practices like the yoga, massage, chiropractic, all those. Then, there are other definitions by private organizations. So, if I tell you today that 1/3 of our medical schools, our health medical centers are part of the consortium that's called the consortium of academic health centers for integrative medicine. So, we have what, we have about 150 medical schools. About now 70 of those medical schools are part of that consortium. The consortium includes all the 17 medical schools in Canada and the medical school in Mexico. Guadalajara University Medical School is part of that consortium. So, and they define, they the lead on that and the consortium is really very active. And you can check also their website. They have a lot of information there. And they define integrative medicine as follows: "It's the practice of medicine that reaffirms the importance of the relationship between practitioner and patient." Very important. "Focuses on the whole person, is informed by evidence, and makes use of all appropriate therapeutic approaches, healthcare professionals and disciplines to achieve optimal health and healing." Optimal health and healing. Very important. We come back to that. So, that's the definition by the consortium. Now, any questions so far on that first section? Okay? At the end? Okay, she is the boss. So, wait until the end. A brief history of integrative medicine now. So, what really feed or trigger a change if I ask you. What really triggers a change? If you think about, yes? [ Inaudible Audience Comment ] That's, yeah. Herb Benson's book from Massachusetts University is about medication. Yeah. So, that the science. And then also the people who know about these things. So, what triggers really a change, you need grassroot movement, right. So, in the '90s people were ready to really take control of their health. So that's the grassroots movement. And then it takes also the science prove that this medicine works or is used by the American population. And also, it takes politics. Without the politics we cannot do much. And without the money we cannot do much. We know that. So part of the history that I'm going to share with you is basically these three elements that were happening in the '90s until now and really coalesced together to create that field, if you, of integrative medicine. So, the science. In the '90s there were surveys that were published from a group at Harvard University. And they showed that when they surveyed the population, they showed that more than 1/3 of the people surveyed used one or more complementary and alternative medicine therapies. So, 1/3 of the population was already using it. That study also showed that the visits to the CAM providers exceeded the visits to the primary care physicians. Yes, and they estimated the out-of-pocket expenditures to exceed $27 billion. So, that's the science. And so, the people were ready and the science were showing it. So, who are these 1/3 of the population? It's mainly the segment between 50 and 70 years old. They are the most who have been using this practices. But you can see, I mean it goes, it's all different segments of the population. So, here, yeah. And if you look at that was published in the '90s. So when you look at this segment of the population it's basically the baby boomers who wanted to take charge of their health. Okay. Then these studies also show that these people didn't necessarily reject conventional medicine. But they found it really congruent with their beliefs and with their philosophies towards health and life. One of the major points also that were shown in this paper is that less than 40% of the CAM therapies used weren't disclosed to a physician. So the patients were going to their physicians and not telling them of what they were doing. And even today, I think many patients are not disclosing what they're doing with their primary care physicians. And that's where the danger lays. It's that if the patient is taking as I mentioned before, blood thinners and in addition they're thinking that ginkgo biloba is good for them because it improves memory and blood circulation. They're adding on top of the blood thinner another element that might cause problems. That's why it's very important to know, or very important that the patient disclose this information with their practitioners. But back then in the '90s there was no training whatsoever of our physicians on these things. So, even when the patient goes very well-informed and knowing about all these practices and all that. The doctor doesn't necessarily know what to say. So, they start really mocking the patient and not answering the patients and ignoring the patients. And that created a big issue in the doctor-patient you know satisfaction outcomes. Okay, so that's just to show you in diagrams who are those who answered yes or no, who reported to the practitioner or not, their use of for these therapies. And how they heard about it. So you can see here that the patients are the ones who talk about it most. They know, they're very informed. And it's around 25% they hear about it from a practitioner. So, as I said, our physicians are not trained in this field, at least until a few years ago. So, that's science. Now, the politics. We need the politics to make things happen. So, in October of 1991, the US Congress passed legislation that provided $2 million in funding to establish an office at the National Institutes of Health to investigate and evaluate promising unconventional medical practices. So, $2 million sounds a lot, right? No. For research and for do it nothing, right. So, they started, it start at least it started somewhere and they created the Office of Alternative Medicine back then, and they gave them this $2 million. When you think that the budget for the National Cancer Institute is in the trillions, so this is really nothing right. So, and this was facilitated by Senator Harkin from Iowa, who was instrumental. He was the chair of the Appropriations Committee back then. And he had a very good experience using bee pollen for his allergies. So he was like okay, let's try it. You see when the politics meet the science. So, that's how it started. He took bee pollen and it worked for him. He has been suffering of allergies for many, many years. He's like okay, let's study it. Let's go to NIH and see if we can bring the evidence to that. So, that's what happened at NIH after the Office of Alternative Medicine was opened, or launched in 1991, then a few years later, it changed from an office to a center which is already a good progress. And it was called the National Center for Complementary and Alternative for many years. And then, they started acting as a center, they created the council, advisory council. And they started giving grants out and doing research and all that. And in 2007, the clinical center. You know that NIH has a hospital trains protocols and they see patients and all that. So they started this integrative medicine consult at the medical center. And Dr. Berger is the one leading that. So at NIH, they're giving some of these therapies. People don't know about that. NIH is giving some of those therapies inside NIH. And in 2015, the center changed name, because the word alternative is not really a good fit for this medicine. We don't want anything alternative to our conventional medicine. We want complementary. We want integration, but no alternatives. So, the name changed to the national Center for Complementary and Integrative Health in 2015. See, this is just to give you an idea about what's going on. So, they do lot of research at NIH, in their intramural labs, through their intramural funding. And they are studying a pain and natural products. There is a new director who just joined this January 2019. So, she's an acupuncture researcher. And we are hoping that we will see more research in that field. And so if you want authoritative information about integrative medicine, please visit the website of NIH. That's the website we have to go to. Now, outside of that. So, now we have the politics, we have the grassroots movement, we have the science. Things are happening. But what has been happening also in other, you know organizations and other academic institutions. So, for the past two decades, so we created the National Center of Complementary and Alternative Medicine. But also, I don't know if maybe you know that already, President Clinton called the commission it's called the White House Commission on Integrative Medicine, so he called the commission to really inform the politicians about integrative medicine. Is called the White House Commission on CAM Policy. The consortium as I mentioned before, was created and also another consortium on policy in particular. So that was happening around 2000. There was another academic consortium for the allied health colleges. And the VA started offering chiropractic care to veterans way back then in 2004. Of course, the Institute of Medicine also wrote a report on that. And the conclusion was like integrative medicine is here and is going to stay. So, you better get together and make it you know a practiced right. More, also on that. So, conferences, research conferences taking place. And there was as I mentioned before, the NIH clinic that opened around that time. The other organizations also started. Like the WIN, which is the Wellness Initiative. There was also a national movement. The second IOM report, the second report from the Institute of Medicine. And a lot of things happening at this, you know throughout these years. All the way to 2019. Where, as I said, the new director for NCCIH. Okay. The VA has always been ahead, it seems. So, early in 2004, they started offering benefits for chiropractic care. And now they are leading the way by creating this health and wellness at the VA. They're offering more now; acupuncture. They have battlefield; they developed actually a protocol called the Battlefield Acupuncture. That's offered on the battlefield to manage pain, and yeah. So, they're really ahead of the game. And they are really working on this model where the patient is at the center. That's me, the patient. And then, it's the patient should take care of his or her health. Take care that, you know, really be in charge of their health. So, self-care, then professional care. They think that the workplace should be also favorable to develop, to have you know this wellness. And of course, the community. Very important to have family support and community support for better health. So, they're trying to develop this model which I think, the way I teach it to my students, it's called the biopsychosocial model of health. And I mean I have been following this movement now for the past 20 years. Being you know really in the middle of it. We are moving from the biological model to the biopsychosocial model, which is more comprehensive. And the VA is following that. So, the other player in this are the hospitals. And there was a survey that was sent to many hospitals, around 2010. And they were asking if they have any integrative medicine practice in the hospital. So in 1998, only 8% of our hospitals were offering one or more of these care modalities. Then this number started increasing and in 2011, 42% of the hospitals around the country are offering one or more of these modalities. And I'm sure by now, which is almost 10 years later, this number is even higher, I'm assuming that because I see the change. Unfortunately, there haven't been any new surveys for the past 10 years. So that's what's happening. And the key reasons, the key reasons is the grassroots movement. Patients are asking for it. Patients are demanding to have choices, to have an interdisciplinary approach to their health. And then the other reason is that there is clinical effectiveness. People who are practicing it, or doing you know, adding these other modalities to their health or to their health programs are seeing an effect. It's effective. And of course there's always the economic component. Hospitals are doing it to attract more patients. Okay. Integrative medicine and the management of pain. Chronic diseases is a big issue in this country. Six in ten adults in the US have a chronic disease. And four in ten adults in the US have two or more of them. And this has been really an issue for our country. And that range from heart disease, to cancer, to chronic lung disease, to stroke, Alzheimer's, diabetes, chronic kidney disease. And I would add to that list obesity. Obesity is also big issue in our country. So here, this graph shows the years lived with disability, that's in 2013 in the United States by cause and age. These are the age segments. And here it's the percentage of years lived in less than ideal health. So, people who are living with moving around in some kind of, all kinds of illnesses. So, you can see here, the green is chronic respiratory disease. The red is diabetes, urogenital, blood, and endocrine problems. The yellow is the mental and substance abuse disorders. And the blue is the musculoskeletal disorder, the pain basically. The lower back pain, the shoulder pain, the osteoarthritis pain. So, these are the musculoskeletal diseases. And here, you see that the mental health early in age is prevalent, but then it switches to these pain problems. Okay, so the chronic diseases are going to increase until 2030, this is the estimate until 2030. And in parallel, our spending of course on healthcare is going to increase. Because these are debilitating issues. And healthcare needs to spend on that. So, the healthcare spending here also increasing. And it's going to reach of our, I think we're going to meet somewhere our GDP [laughter]. The surveys, I mentioned the survey from the Harvard University, but the CDC also conducted two surveys which were bigger than the study from Harvard. They conducted a survey in 2002, and a survey in 2007. The difference between the two is that in 2007 they included children. And integrative medicine used by the parents, you know on their children. And why I want to share this with you is that pain is the major condition that was reported by these polled people. So, back pain, neck pain, joint pain, and arthritis. These are all pain and disability. Okay. Pain and debilitating diseases. The survey in 2007, independently showed the same trend. Back pain, neck pain, joint pain, arthritis. The major four issues. What is used? They use natural products, deep breathing, yoga, Tia Chi, Chi Going, chiropractic, or osteopathic manipulation, meditation, massage, all these other modalities. That's what the survey showed. Now, do we have any idea what's the share of this integrative medicine in our healthcare spending. So, this is back in 2012, our spending for 2018 was 3.65 trillion. So back in 2012 when this was done, it was 2.82 trillion. This is the share of the pie for integrative medicine, very small. But it still in millions. And the blue part here is the conventional out-of-pocket expenditures. So people are willing to pay out-of-pocket to feel better. That's what it is. So, if we if we increase that part here, then you see where it goes. To the complimentary practitioner visits, 14.7 billion. Self-care purchases 2.7 billion. Non-vitamins, non-mineral, natural products, 12.8 million. So, that's the share of the market. So, there is also this global movement of wellness which has also big share of the economy here in the United States and around the world, actually. So the global wellness economy is 4.2 trillion market. And the industry is growing really fast. In three years from 2012 to 2015, just in two years it grew over 12%, right. So that is all that is also happening in our country. This is just to show you what are these key sectors. And I'm going to focus on healthy eating, nutrition, and weight loss. There is a lot happening there for our wellness. People are willing to spend out-of-pocket to feel good. That's the message. So what are the key points so far? Let's recapitulate. What have we learned so far? That integrative medicine is used by the American people and not only disclosed to the physicians. That government agencies are incorporating integrative medicine in the healthcare program and we see that at NIH and at the VA, right. The third point is that private organizations and academic health centers are promoting and teaching integrative medicine. As I said 70 of the 150 medical schools here, and Canada, and Mexico are the teaching some kind of integrative medicine. So, we are trying our best. And Georgetown is part of that consortium, I forgot to mention that. We have the highest expenditure on healthcare in the world. And yet we are the sickest nation. So, yet, pain and the use of painkillers are not adequately managed. We know that. The opioid epidemic is ravaging and we need to do something about it. So let's switch gears a little bit now to talk about the management and the best practices. This is a report that just came out of the HHS. And it was called, of course, from the leadership there, from the HHS. They put together an interagency commission to look into how to manage pain and how to put their best guidelines for it. So NIH was part of it, the FDA, of course the HHS, ARC. All these organizations were part of that commission. And the recommendations came out a few weeks ago, few months ago. What does it say? So, they have this long report. And of course, what are the alternatives to the opioids? You can read the report if you are interested in that. So, they have in section 2.5, the behavioral health approaches. And these are some, they kind of intersect a little bit with integrative medicine. Because it behavioral therapy, instead of giving the magic bullet to stop the pain, maybe direct people, or the patients to do some behavioral therapy. Cognitive behavioral therapy, biofeedback, relaxation training. So looking into other alternatives rather than the magic bullet. Okay. Now, section 2.6, they have a section 2.6 on complementary and alternative medicine and integrative medicine. And they list acupuncture, massage, and manipulative therapies, mind-body stress reduction, yoga, Tai Chi. So, they're listing some of those modalities, which is great right. So it's under the radar for the HHS. The way it was written, though, is like yeah, they are there, they exist, but more research is needed. More proof that they work is needed. So basically, that's how it has been for the past 20 years. We need more research. We need more research. Although there are so many studies that have been showing that these modalities are working, okay. Now, what is the evidence? We talked about acupuncture. Acupuncture has been shown in many, many studies that it's efficient in reducing postsurgical pain, when they compare it to sham acupuncture, when they compare it to other controls. And it's also effective in reducing the side effects of opioids; reducing the intake of opioids and the side effects from opioids. So this has been studied and shown, that acupuncture is effective in acute pain. Even in the emergency department. When people go with the shooting pains, you know to the extremities and that, they have been managed through the acupuncture, in the emergency department. Acupuncture has been shown to be superior to sham and control for chronic pain like osteoarthritis of the knee, neck pain, shoulder pain, nonspecific back pain, low back pain. And these are the studies, if you're interested in that you can go and check the literature. So, the evidence is there. We know that there is evidence. Is it getting to the right policymakers? We don't know. So we are trying our best to really make these studies known out there. So this is, I mentioned the consortium at the beginning. The consortium is very active. So there is already a response to that draft, contrast from the consortium. And the response is that there is the science behind it. There are studies. There are systematic reviews. There are clinical trials that have been showing the effectiveness of acupuncture. So, I'm focusing here on acupuncture, because it's the most studied. But there are also studies on biofeedback for headache pain, biofeedback for anxiety. So there are other studies for other modalities as well. You guys, very good, there is a whole field of science of yoga out there. Actually, we offer a course for our students on the science of yoga, where they go and look at the literature. And it's taught by a PhD, actually. The science of yoga, who's a Yogi herself. So there is a lot out there. The other obstacle I think to really talking freely, or incorporating 100% integrative medicine, are the insurance companies. The insurance companies are following the guidelines that come from the government, right from the HHS and all that. So if the HHS is reluctant, of course the insurance companies are not necessarily going to go on their own and start covering all these modalities. Acupuncture is the most covered by many insurance companies. Some massage therapist, some companies cover that. If it's specified, coded for the right you know, patient and the right code. Under pain, muscular pain, or something like that. Then it's covered by some insurance. So here, so what if acupuncture were covered by insurance for pain management. This is a cross-sectional study for cancer patients. It's a big study. And the conclusion was that one in two cancer patients was willing to use insurance coverage acupuncture for pain. So, again the grassroots people are willing to use it, if it's covered, if it's available, if you know the politics follow. There is another study, which analyzed also, the state of insurance coverage for nonpharmacologic treatment of low back pain as recommended by the American College of Physicians Guidelines. So when all this opioid epidemic you know came to light and all that, many of these organizations became very active and wanted to really help on managing this crisis. So the American College of Physicians came out with a number of guidelines on how to do it. But nothing was taken into consideration. Now, it has been a few years and nothing has been happening. So, what are the conclusions are that essential health benefits are routinely excluding nonpharmacological therapies. So they still believe that the magic bullet works better. We don't necessarily send the patients to anxiety management, or to behavioral therapy, or, we don't do that. Insurance coverage discourages multidisciplinary therapies for chronic pain. And of course, they make their guidelines so ambiguous that nobody can read or understand what they cover and what they don't cover. And they have many restrictions on ongoing complementary therapies. This is what we need is really to have enlightened EHB coverage to really help alleviate this opioid crisis. So we need to be very active and bring our two cents to the table each time, whenever we have the location to do it. What is the take-home message? Integrative medicine considers the body as a whole unit and not as independent parts. So it's true, we are the most sophisticated machine. We are body's most incredible machine, one can design. And the way we have been really looking at that body is in parts. If you have chest pain, you go to a cardiologist. If you have knee pain, you go to a rheumatologist. If you have, I don't know diabetes you go to an endocrinologist. So we kind of divided the body into these different parts. But in fact, the heart could be affected by the mind. It's that easy, we need to treat the mind so the heart can feel better. So we need to think of the body as a unit. And that's what I mentioned earlier, the biopsychosocial model where all the components should work together. I designed this model a couple years ago. I adopted it from the HHS services. And so, the patient should be at the center. It doesn't matter, I think, that's my opinion. It doesn't matter which therapy you're going to get, or which practitioner. As long as these doctors are putting you at the center. You are the central focus. And the main goal is to make you feel better. You are at the center of this model. And then, you have the MD, you have the osteopath, you have the chiropractor, you have the natural path helping. What we need to do with our healthcare system is move from this very siloed medicine to a comprehensive, integrative medicine. Where the patient is at the center. And then all the physicians and practitioners and the allied health providers are working together to make you, the patient, us the patients, to make us feel better. And we are the center of their focus. That's what we want. And maybe we'll get there one day. In conclusion, integrative medicine offers a multidisciplinary patient centered approach to treatment by focusing on the mind and the body together. It promotes complementary modalities in addition to pharmacological. So integrative medicine, what I want you to really keep in mind is not to reject our conventional medicine. It's to integrate it to our conventional medicine. And please don't think that if it's natural, it's safe. That's the biggest mistake. Natural doesn't mean safe. As I mentioned ginkgo biloba, which is natural is not necessarily safe if you are taking other drugs. Because the drug herb production could be really detrimental. So, these are the two messages today, take-home messages. So, the other thing is integrative medicine treatments have been shown to be cost-effective. And there's a few studies on the cost-effectiveness of these therapies with insurance coverage. And they are way cheaper. We need to teach integrative medicine in medical schools. I think we got to a point where we want to go to an informed physician who can make informed decisions about the referrals, where to send you. If you have back pain and you go to a physician, maybe surgery is not the first option, right. Maybe you need to ask your physician, okay, let's do some imaging to remove all kind, you know, of other issues. But if it's musculoskeletal, or as it is the case in many patients, let's maybe go to explore other options before we go to surgery. So, you need to see an informed physician. And this cannot happen unless we teach these modalities in our medical schools. So if we do all that, it could contribute to providing a better quality of care. That's what we want. Before I end, here, I want to make you aware that you have a program at Georgetown University that I launched 15 years ago, already, on integrative medicine. So, my goal is to train a new generation of physicians who look at health care, the patients, with different eyes. So, that's the goal of that program. And it's really to educate open-minded healthcare providers and scientists who are eager to explore the state of the evidence in areas of complementary and integrative medicine with objectivity and rigor. As a scientist, always you know, after objectivity and rigor. So, that's what we need. We need the science to support this integrative medicine. And this is the quiz. Don't think you are you going to leave without the quiz. Taking the quiz. Okay, so let's see, what is this one? Echinacea. And it's used for? Yeah, for cold. Yeah. Mild cold, right, don't wait until for it to happen and then start taking echinacea. Start taking echinacea. Next one, that's an easy one. That's ginkgo biloba, yeah. It's used for memory and because it works for blood, it improves blood circulation. Then this one. Very easy, yeah. Good for digestion, right. Oh yeah, we cannot miss that one. Cholesterol reduction, blood pressure. Very good. This one. it looks like chamomile, no. No, it's not. It's yellow like chamomile. Okay, let's go to the next one, we'll come back. Ginger, digestion also. Some here are some wellness products. Okay. Yeah, turmeric, cumin, yeah absolutely, star anise, yes. Star anise. And this is cardamom I think too. Okay, so these are some spices and herbs. The picture is too small I think to see that. So, let's go back to this one. This is St. John's wort, yeah, and it's used for mild, not all depression, used only for mild depression, that's what the studies have shown. It cannot be used for severe depression. Okay. St. John's wort. Like St. John, the Saint John. It's called St. John's wort because it really it blooms, it flowers, it blooms on the St. John day in June. That's the reason, I think around the 20th of June. It's called St. John's wort. Okay, this one here, is ginseng. And you see a lot of drink, and tea you know using ginseng. But what they don't tell you is that ginseng is only effective, if it's really old. If it's a young ginseng, it has no effect. So, just be careful when you go by ginseng ask for how old is the root. For this one, for example, which is a 300-year-old, it was sold for $400,000. So, you can see it's very expensive. And all this tea that you see around, I don't think it's from that batch [laughter]. Okay with this, I thank you and I'm happy to take questions. [ Applause ] Questions? Yes, ma'am. [ Inaudible Audience Question ] The leadership is here, ask them. You have it. Okay, very good. Yeah, absolutely, it's very important because you, I mentioned; the question is to encourage exercise and movement as part of health. And it should be part of health absolutely. So, there are two fields of medicine that deal with that. Osteopathic medicine and chiropractic medicine. And they are both really focused on the alignment of the spine with the brain, basically, with the head. And they think that this alignment is very important in maintaining health. So, it is. And we should all promote that, absolutely. I don't know if you know the difference between chiropractic and osteopathic. They are two different fields of medicine. Although, osteopathic schools now, they don't want to consider themselves as alternatives. They are really, they're operating as conventional medical schools. So, chiropractic really focuses on the alignment of the spine with the head, you know. And osteopathic medicine, they tend to expand a little bit to the musculature. So, it's the musculoskeletal alignment. They are very close. They were also founded around the same time, here in the United States. So, these are two fields of medicine that have their origin here in the US. And we don't know, you know when we talk about it like oh, it coming from different planet. No. Chiropractic and osteopathic were founded here in the United States, as well as naturopathic medicine. Founded here in the United States. And I'm glad you mentioned the islands before. There is also use of integrative medicine in these practices among the Native Americans and the Alaskans. So they can still use the traditional approach to health. Okay, other questions? Yes, ma'am. [ Inaudible Audience Question ] Yeah, absolutely. You all heard the question. Okay, oh for the camera, yeah. So, the question is what is the regulation of herbal products. How do we know about the quality of the herbal? The quality, and safety, and efficacy of the herbal products. Very good question. In the United States, the herbal products are not regulated as drugs. So if they're not drugs, they're regulated as foods. So, if they're not drugs, they don't really fall under the same scrutiny as a pharmaceutical drug. And that's what's creating all this confusion who is controlling the safety and efficacy and all. So the drugs, this is different than other countries. For example, in Germany they have a book called the Commission E, "The German Commission E" and there it's basically a repertoire of all the plants that they use. And all the amount, the content, you know, the scientific name; everything. How it should be taken, the dosage and all that. So, that's called "The German Commission E." In Japan it's regulated as [inaudible]. yeah. It's very well regulated. Here, in the United States, it's a little bit different. So, it's regulated as food. And there is a regulation that went through the regulatory bodies called the [inaudible]. I don't know if you are interested in reading about that, where they tried to regulate it. So, the pharmaceutical companies didn't want herbs to be regulated as pharmaceutical drugs, which is maybe not a bad idea. But there isn't much money in it. The pharmaceutical drugs are surviving because; I mean surviving, they're making lot of money because any compound they create, they patent it and they make a lot of money out of that patent. But herbal products, you cannot patent it, it's part of nature, right? So, that's why there is no interest really, there is no money in doing these big clinical trials, multicenter clinical trials with herbal products. The standardization is getting there. For example, if you go to buy ginkgo biloba, again, I will stay with that example, it should be standardized to an active element in the mixture. Ginkgo biloba, I think it's standardized to 24% of ginkgolides. So, ginkgolides are chemicals inside and every batch has to have at least 24% of that. And I think 2% of bilobalides or something, something, or [inaudible]. And so, every herbal product has to be standardized to a certain chemicals inside. And that's when you know the quality. So when you go to buy your product, you need to read the small print standardized to so-and-so percentage of the active ingredient. The standards are put by the science, yeah. I mean the standards are by the manufacturers and the manufacturers are standardizing to that. So, what you need to do is to go to the NIH website, and say okay the standard for ginkgo is 24% of this, and for echinacea, it's the high percent. So, we need to look for this active ingredient. If it contains the right percentage and all that. Yes? [ Inaudible Audience Comment ] I agree with that. There were even worse cases than you know just misleading the labeling. There were cases of [inaudible] of the products. I don't know if you want to read about that. It's called the SP SPES, sorry the PC SPES, which was a compounded mixture that was funded by the NIH to do clinical trials for prostate. And they found that it was [inaudible] by pharmacological drugs. So there is, out there, there's a lot to you know sift through absolutely. Yeah, thank you.  Tomoko Steen: Every good thing comes to an end. And we thank you very much. It was absolutely a good thing [applause]. 