 Here's how a nonsurgical face-lift works. Typically, a surgical face-lift would include cutting, pulling, stitches, and six weeks or more of downtime. With this procedure, you're able to go about your day immediately after, as long as you stay out of the sun. We talked to board-certified dermatologist Jason Emer to find out more about this procedure. Jason Emer: The plasma fibroblast device is one of the newest noninvasive aesthetic treatments to use energy on the skin very focally to help improve wrinkles, pores, and complexion. Narrator: Plasma fibroblast is a radio-frequency machine that's compared to a tiny lightning bolt on the skin. Emer: It uses electrical energy on the surface of the skin, or right above the surface, that interacts with the air. That electrical energy then goes into the skin and forms little, teeny dots. Those dots then cause new collagen development, tighten the skin, and, overall, improve the complexion, fine wrinkles, pores, and sun damage. With any energy devices used on the skin, there's always some sort of risk, and new treatments like the plasma fibroblast pen need to be studied, and researched, and used by those that are experienced to make sure the risks are minimized. The risks can be prolonged redness, scarring, wounds that can develop. But, overall, if they're used by a trained technician, energy treatments build collagen, they tighten the skin, and this is a really great treatment because the downtime is minimal and you can focus very small areas, like around the mouth and eyes, and it can be very safe in the right person's hands. Narrator: And now, it's time to see it in action. Juliette Spink: So, when a client arrives, I immediately go in to the before photos, and then we're gonna go right to the consultation form. Once we consult and decide what we're going to attack, then I'm gonna kind of do some markings and measurements on the face, and then it goes into applying the numbing cream, I apply the saran wrap in a certain way, just piece by piece, and then I do apply the towel over the skin, which creates a little bit of a heat, and I believe allows the numbing cream to kind of penetrate a little bit more. And then, after that, we take the numbing cream off with some alcohol, and we start the plasma fibroblast treatment. Narrator: The procedure can take anywhere from one to four hours to complete and can cost anywhere from $50 to $2,500. Juliette, the medical aesthetician today, says the procedure is painless, only causing slight discomfort, like a rubber band to the skin. The procedure performed today would cost about $1,100 overall: $600 for the neck area and $500 for the upper lid. Client: I am super excited to see the results. Narrator: Following the procedure, you're sent home with a healing spray, healing cream, and a zinc oxide sunscreen. The scabs will stay on for an average of five to seven days and naturally fall off until the healing process is complete around four to eight weeks. Emer: With surgical face-lifts, you get a lot of skin tightening, you get contouring of the face, and you get improvement of wrinkles. So, although the pen itself may not be a replacement for surgery, it can give you some of the results of surgery, like tightening of the skin, improvement in wrinkles, and overall better complexion. 