 M: A warm welcome to all our viewers to our series Natural Medicine. Did you know that Tesla was an unknown healer? Unknown, well, why unknown, that is the question, that we want to answer today and for that I invited a health analyst and expert in the field of Tesla technology, a warm welcome, dear Peer Zebergs. G: Thank you. M: Welcome. So, the unknown healer Tesla, I know Tesla from many stories, he was the one finding the Tesla wave which is also called Scalar wave or hyper sound or however you want to call it, which has so much more meaning than we thought but in connection with healing or medicine, I can't really place him. That's why I'm asking you, where is the connection? G: First of all, Nikola Tesla lived from 1870 to 1943. And we can definitely say he was the biggest inventor of all times. And even Albert Einstein called him the most intelligent person in the world. He also worked with him regarding the Scalar wave, in the implementation of the Scalar wave. Just a few inventions that you don't know were his. Eventually the radio goes back to him. You can't use a radio and not pass by at least eight of his patents. He is the inventor of the electric motor. Recently, I was working on ozone, because ozone kills and neutralizes all viruses in the air, so I worked on this, and who was the first one having a patent for an ozone generator? Nikola Tesla. Nikola Tesla was the first one who could separate electricity cables. Nikola Tesla invented the remote control. Alternating current, he is the father of alternating currents. And he also talked about it and that is something only a few people know, there was a project which was called Montauk, it was from the American Military and they made a movie which was called Philadelphia Project, it was about using a very strong magnetic field to make a battleship invisible. We call it tele-deportation today, we try this somehow with the smallest subatomic particles, electron  accelerators, to do this. M: And it works, Anton Zeilinger at the university in Vienna documented it. G: Yes, but he let a battleship disappear. This guy, he was already 100 years ahead of us. And he is now still 50 years ahead of us. And he discovered the Scalar wave, which is a second electromagnetic wave. The first one, most people know it, it's metric wave signals, we have a carrier wave, 95.8 and on top we have the information frequencies which are the speaker or the music. And Tesla discovered a second one. Which is called Scalar wave or longitudinal wave and I can't just put information frequencies on top of this carrier wave, on this carrier wave, I can also put energy frequencies and distribute energy. And this used to be called high-frequency energy. And now, that's the entrance into the health application, he used to treat very bad diseases with high-frequency energy and used his Scalar wave as a carrier wave. And this Scalar wave has a special characteristic. There are no particles of matter in it. It is pure energy and he managed, with his technologies, to get to the quantum vacuum. The quantum vacuum is 99.9999 % of our body's volume. Why is that so? It is built by following the structure of an atom. We have the nucleus as matter, sometimes we also see the electrons as matter, however, they are also partly waves, but these electrons are so far away, that the space between, the void, the vacuum is 99 followed by nine times nine per cent. If we took the vacuum out, we would have to search for us with a microscope, we would only be nanometers tall. And this quantum vacuum, it was used to be said, was nothing, today the science knows much better, it is endlessly, virtually charged with energy. And it is endlessly, virtually charged with information. And if we look at the energy, a famous quantum physicist once said, if you take the volume of a light bulb from the quantum vacuum and would extrapolate how much energy is inside, someone else said, the energy is 10 to the 94 grams per cubic centimeter of the quantum vacuum, so, infinite. So the volume of this light bulb would have so much energy, we could bring all the oceans to boil. On the information side, it looks the same, it is pulsating energy, pulsating information. And Tesla was the only one who managed to get to this energy, without side effects. In 1931 he had a car and the sole power source was the free energy of the quantum vacuum. And he used his technology in the field of health. So this high-frequency technology, let me show it quickly. M: I will also take a light bulb to show this experiment. G: The point is this, he even built towers that conducted electricity wireless. He built huge towers and sent enormous electric tension in the atmosphere and downloaded it at another tower somewhere else. That cost him his sponsors, they didn't want that because they had the rights to put cables for electricity. So he did some things that his sponsors didn't like. But he managed to transfer energy, wireless, through Scalar waves. M: Can you show this? Because we have the same wireless energy transfer, don't we? G: I'm not touching it, I don't have to touch it, it is wireless energy transfer. And here we have, and he knew that too, the electric cell membrane voltage for us in a healthy cell is at least -70 millivolts. In a bad cell, an unhealthy, a mutated, and inflamed cell, a cancer cell, it is 50 millivolts or less and the lower it goes, the worse it gets. A tumor or cancer cell always just has -15 millivolts. And I can do this here. I am bringing energy into the light bulb and I can also bring energy to the body. There are two electric aspects that play a role. One is the electric cell membrane voltage. It should have at least -70 millivolts. Only then I have a good exchange of ions, only then, the sodium-potassium-pump will work, only then enough red blood cells are attracted for the oxygen supply. Only then, the system will work, only then the cell can recognize the signals. M: Can I try? Is it long enough? I'm going down a bit and I'm moving it to my ear. G: Now you are putting energy into you, that is the electric aspect of the cell, the second is, how does M: Now it gets warm. G: How does the energy find the cell that needs it? The worst cell has the lowest electric resistance, so this electric impulse finds the worst cell, it can be used diagnostically, if I don't know where a problem is and I use this and at the same time use an infrared camera to show the smallest temperature difference in the tissue then I will find the location where it is the worst. I will find the problem. With athletic injuries it has been done many times and then it was found that many muscular problems are in other places than expected when it was not in the knee but in the muscles, tendon or something. M: It is interesting, I had it up here, no change, down here, it gets warm. So, I have a cell down here which has too little energy, that's why the electricity enters. It becomes very hot now, but if I touch it, it is cold. G: The antenna, when it is switched on, it has no change in temperature. It is just the reaction of the cell. And the ear, for example represents the whole body, we have all the acupoints there, like we have them in the palm of the hands and the soles of the feet. I am communicating with the whole body. And I get a reply from specific points, and if we would check which acupoint is getting hot then we have communicated with this organ, so to speak. And then there is another point. M: So, if the ear gets hot, it is completely normal because somewhere in my body there is a problem. G: Or a lack of energy or something. So, one thing is the cell membrane voltage, very important aspect, if it is high, the cell is healthy and young. If it is low, the cell is old and unhealthy. M: So again, you are so fast, that means, if it gets warm somewhere I actually have a diagnosis. G: Then, I have another subject. M: Is this true? I have a diagnosis, so, I have the diagnosis that the cell that gets hot has a lack of electrons, that's why it takes it in. G: It takes it in and then something else happens, we have mitochondria in all our cells. These are our most important organelles, our energy centers. And if there is an inflammation in the cell, or there are pathogenic germs, or viruses, or bacteria, or fungi, or spores, or something that does not belong there, which is not good, then the mitochondria are activated so much, I'll come back to this point later, through this impulse, that they will produce an artificial fever in the cell. They will imitate what nature does automatically, to kill pathogens, germs, viruses, bacteria, and so on, by creating a fever. Bacteria and viruses die from 41 degrees Celsius. That's why we should not take any antifebrile agents, if that's the case, nature takes care of it. And here I support nature by activating the mitochondria so much that that they can create hyperthermia from the cell, an artificial fever. M: A local fever, the immune system is activated locally, the self-healing rate is immense. Energy is coming from outside and inside, so it heals faster. G: However, as the base technology I need this carrier wave. It's this scalar wave, this longitudinal wave and on this I have, we spoke about the energy impulses already, -70 millivolts impulses that enter my body. And there are a few areas where it works very well, for example in the back here. Here I will reach with only this spot the main nerve network, which are also electric semiconductors, so the information and energy enter. In the back there is also the center for our motor control, the cerebellum. The cerebellum is only 10 % of the volume of our brain but it contains 50 % of the neurons. So we can see how important it is, that it has a lot of energy and power. And another part that it is in the back there, at the upper end of the spine, is the pineal gland. Plus, there is also the second part of the parasympathetic center, the part of the nerves responsible for regeneration, recycling and so on. So I can reach many parts in this one spot. M: Now, let's go back, this is a discovery, an invention that Tesla made sometime in the 19th, 20th century, 1900 something? G: His first inventions were in 1900, and then later on they have been taken over from others. There is a very well-known engineer, his name is Dr. Lakhovsky. And he continued on a grand scale, it was called multi-wave oscillator. M: So he took over this technology from Tesla. G: And he took many separate carrier waves. So he didn't just take one wave and then the information frequencies, but had millions of carrier waves enter the body and could see from the reaction that it works. There were also a few disadvantages, for example it was not possible too use it too much on the head, it was a bit critical. And back then these devices were also not responding to metals, so an artificial hip or something, back then it was not that common yet but some people already had an artificial hip joint or metal implants or metal parts in the mouth, or things like that. That was not ideal. But still they had good results with the worst diseases you can imagine, it is unbelievable. He collected all of it in a book in 1934. And he only added, there are all the reports from the different countries, and in the foreword, page 10, top right corner, I remember this very well, it only says. The device was used in these countries, so Belgium, Sweden, Italy, up to Uruguay and everywhere and then there is the crucial sentence. Everywhere, the results exceeded all hopes. He worked in a clinic in Paris, there was a woman with black cancer, which can't even be healed today, and they managed to do it with the high-frequency energy. And the effectiveness can be seen only from the number of devices. Today, we can't believe it anymore because nobody knew about this technology anymore. In 1930, 1934 there were in total 500'000 of the different high frequency devices in Germany alone. It is hard to believe now. M: Where are these devices and why does the majority of people not know about it? G: Many good things have disappeared. Also, let me tell you, this generator regarding free energy doesn't exist anymore. Because back then, the Nazis prohibited it, around 1938. I think some pharmaceutical interests might have played a role there. Or you mentioned it in a talk before, that Lakhovsky was Jewish and that did not go down so well with the Nazis and that's why they worked against it. There was a similar phenomenon in the USA, there was somebody who worked with a similar technology, Royal Raymond Rife. In the same period, they gave him 16 cancer patients that already went through a therapy. He healed 14 of them in the first four weeks, with the other two it took a bit longer but then he also healed them. Only with high-frequency energy. It was worthy to be on a front page of the New York Times or something like that but that was the last report about him. M: Was that the famous Rife frequencies? G: Royal Raymond Rife, he worked with all the frequencies. And also Tesla always said if you want to discover the secrets of the universe, you have to think in terms like energy, frequency and vibration, nothing else. And all the quantum physicists say the same and it is known since the 60es, 70es, but nothing more happened. But what else did Tesla do as the unknown healer, he did a lot of self-treatment and he also used it for children. He had a project in a school with mentally disabled children. And with the approval of the headmaster of the school, he installed his coils in the walls. And there were two groups of disabled children, and neither the children nor the parents knew in which room they were installed, so it was not the Placebo effect. But in one room they became so much smarter that the headmaster said afterwards if we continue here, they will be smarter than the healthy children. M: How is this explained? Just because they received more energy? G: They get an endless amount of energy and they get, let's say, if some cells don't work properly, then I need the right information, I need the right frequencies, so that the cells can go back to doing the job. Maybe they are denatured, they got poisoned, got an unhealthy radiation. But we can recover these cells. Alexis Carrel received the Nobel prize in medicine in 1912 for saying that a cell, in theory, is immortal, it is the medium of the cell that decides about the life span of a cell. Today we have to see it a bit differently, there are also other aspects but the principle is right.  If I create a good environment and I can do this by, for example by giving the proper energy signals, for example by generating hexagonal water in my body. As a drink, as water, but also in my bodily fluids. M: And this can also do this? G: This can also be done with the Celltuner. For example, if I want to have hexagonal water structures, I just need to irradiate the water for a bit. M: So, what is coming to my side is also working on your side. G: I could also put in in the water or into a pitcher by using a test tube, if I have a special appliance, I can irradiate 15 liters at the same time, in five minutes they will be hexagonal. And it has another advantage. On this carrier wave there are the most important information frequencies of the cells, let's say the native frequencies. And these native frequencies are in phase with the natural oscillation of certain cell units, the most important ones. And they are in phase with the natural oscillation of the mitochondria. And that's important, because if they are in phase and I overlay it with a second oscillation, then they oscillate synchronously and the amplitude is added. I have the oscillation, put the second one on top, then the amplitude gets added. So, the natural oscillation of this cell unit increases and the natural energy increases. So what I can do with the mitochondria, that are in all cells, they are our energy centers, if I increase the oscillation and bring in more energy, the cells automatically have more energy. Plus, I'm addressing the different cell units directly, we have 200 different cell units in our body, I address them in their own oscillating circuits and increase the energy oscillation. It all goes back to the energy. M: So, if we take this energy and say, a disease is defined as the lack of energy, doesn't matter which kind, I could actively bring in more energy from outside to speed up the healing process. G: Let me say. M: Is it true? G: Sure. Nature is a miracle. Nature doesn't make mistakes. We are a part of nature. So, nature has the potential to fight every disease, to almost stop aging processes, if I live in a healthy way, we can see it on the people who live in the high mountains of Himalaya, they roughly live M: Stopping the aging process,  I can do this with oxidation, by taking in the energy that I lose through oxidation, I can actually stabilize it. G: Sure, I have to neutralize the free radicals, that's the point, and I can do this by having electrons available. M: So it can do that too? If I add electrons, I neutralize the free radicals. G: That is the crucial point, because free radicals cause over acidity,  free radicals damage mitochondria, free radicals damage the membrane, many processes, many metabolism processes are obstructed. If I want to follow the formula of nature I have to say, I have to eliminate disturbance and bring my body back to a good state. I age during the day and become younger at night. So at night I have to give my body time and energy so that it can do it. M: So this is basically a normal and natural process, but nowadays, the time we live in now, there are just more free radicals that affect us than before. G: From all sides, there are so many toxins now that we can't actually avoid. A lot of artificial or genetically modified food, or also alcohol plays a bigger role nowadays. Maybe smoking does not play such a role as it used to be. But then there is also all the electric smog. We have blue background light in all screens possible that actually impair us everywhere and cause more free radicals. Or 4G, 5G, the main problem is that we have more free radicals in our body. So I have to support my own defense mechanism. This doesn't work that well anymore with common methods, I really have to add energy, to have additional free electrons. And that works best, and this is the third function of this of this antenna, it makes the hexagonal water. And hexagonal water has a ring structure a hexagonal ring structure and this has unbelievable health advantages. I have a better flow rate of the blood, I can transfer more oxygen, it prevents the clumping of the blood so that I have a high flow rate and an improved oxygen transfer. Also, with a higher flow rate, it is much easier to discharge toxins and waste products, also from the lymphatic system, because also the lymphatic system works better due to the flow rate. Many causes for diseases are on the one hand, inflammations through the storage of toxins, for example, also cysts, myoma, or even tumors it's mainly due to storage of toxins that they become inflamed. And basically all autoimmune disorders are caused by inflammation, by not discharging toxins. And there is another huge advantage of this hexagonal water, these hexagonal structures, they are not six separate ring molecules, they are in layers, you can imagine it like having one million layers of honeycombs on top of each other. And these honeycomb layers are negatively charged and have another special feature, there is no room for another atom, for another molecule, for another virus, because it is so tight, it pushes everything to the edge. And on the outside there is the normal water. So it can easily be discharged with that. We call this feature of the hexagonal water exclusion zone, nothing can be there apart from these circular  water structures. And these circular water structures are also quite firm, even though it is still water, it is quite firm, it is similar to being crystalline. And the biochemical  formula is not anymore H2O, but H3O2. M: So with this device you can irradiate water and make it to H3O2, we have more oxygen, more hydrogen, more electrons. G: Less hydrogen, more oxygen. M: Okay. And by drinking it I can neutralize and detoxify better. To sum it up, basically, nature is perfect, everything is balanced, but we created sources of interference that let us oxidate much more and cause a lack of energy, a lack of electrons. And the Tesla technology made it possible that we can add electrons to our body that can bind these excessive free radicals, stop the oxidation process, and through an artificial fever help regeneration locally. G: And can speed up important healing processes. M: There is no limit, there is theoretically no disease that it doesn't support. G: No, and basically the most important aspect is this hexagonal water. It has an extremely  antioxidative effect and that is because we have these layers, millions of layers, in in this ring structure, the atoms can use electrons together. So, suddenly I have free, excess electrons available. They are combined, on the top and bottom of all these layers, as electron plasma. M: That is the big difference to antioxidants that eventually release electrons on the one hand but then turn into a free radical. G: There is a cascade, especially in competitive sports the people have to be careful. If I take antioxidants for a long duration I weaken myself, it weakens the function of my mitochondria, if I form a cascade of free radicals. So this is the best solution to neutralize the free radicals, by the way, the number of free radicals, that basically affects us daily is a ten with 18 zeros. So one glass of orange juice won't help much. You have to do it another way. M: Dear Peer, our time is already up, I know you could, you're in the zone and could easily talk for another half an hour about it. Let's talk about it another time. I want to thank you for giving us insight in this Tesla technology, is there a platform if I want to have more information? G: You find it all on  quantisana.ch. All and perfect. M: In Tesla therapy. G: Yes. G: Celltuner, or Tesla Celltuner. M: Okay, thank you, dear Peer. Dear viewers, you saw it too, that was a lecture of the professor Peer Zebergs, who taught us quite a lot in a bombardment, with fireworks-like information. I will watch this video again a bit slowed down so that I will understand everything. There was so much. So, I hope you also enjoyed finding out more about this genius Tesla and the kind of technology that is available again today that can make this unbelievable therapy. And I think there are many therapists and doctors that work with it and will make it come to full circle to recharge the human as a battery so that their self-healing capacity increases. G: Actually, there should be a Celltuner in every doctor's practice. That would be my opinion, as I said, 1930, 34 there were 500'000 devices.  And they are much better today, they have been developed further with the science of today. You can't have more. M: Haste makes waste, it will take some time. All the best, dear viewers and see you next time. 