 Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to the second session of the second day of NEXT Innovation Week,   with a very hot and interesting topic which is: "The Conversational AI transformation of   Pharma". Very glad to welcome Sophie Ghazal from MSD. Hi, Sophie, how are you? Hi there, I'm good. Thanks for having me. - Thank  you, Shwen Gwee from BMS. Hello, Shwen, same question   to you, how are you? I'm good, thank you. How are you, Dario? Good to see you and   wish I was in Croatia instead, but this is good enough for now. - Yeah, I agree, but hopefully next   year or, at least in the decade, right?  And Dr John Reeves from conversationHEALTH.   Hi, John, same question, how are you? - All is well here in Toronto. Thanks, Dario, for having us.   Thank you very much. So let's kick up this very interesting and promising session.   And first of all, I would like to mention, and maybe even open this session, with welcome, finally,   to the era of digital transformation. But maybe this is even not so appropriate to claim,   because when we speak about digital transformation in Pharma, we speak about technology like zoom, like   Teams, newsletters, triggered e-mail, webinars, etc. and in my opinion it's just the dawn   of the new era in which we're entering and part of that is definitely conversational AI,   AI machine learning, etc., so this is the tech which will definitely make the big shift towards this   full capacity of digital transformation and our industry, of course, can take the path like other   industries. And cases like Disney or CNN, Unicef or some other companies who leverage this technology   in the most appropriate way, but let's dive deep into the conversation, also I encourage everyone   to raise questions, if anyone is having any kind of question, please feel free to ask, our panelists   will be glad to answer on that. But before we start the interactive discussion, I would like to   pass the stage to John, who can set the stage with some very interesting insights, as usual, because   conversational health is definitely having state-of-the-art technology, when it comes to   conversational AI. So, John, the stage is yours. Let us know about the latest trends and learnings,   which you have, which you are facing during the COVID time. John? - No, absolutely. So I just want to   start off by, kind of, level setting and getting everyone up to a 101 speed. So you know we   often get the question "what is conversational AI?", so literally it's just the ability now for   you, customers, whether it be consumers, patients, physicians to interact with brands through a   channel, whereby you're not speaking to a human but you're speaking to technology and that technology   now has the ability to understand what you are saying and to respond to that, so literally, just   as you have, you know, text or voice conversations with your friends, family and colleagues, your   customers can now have a conversation with your  company or your brand. And ultimately, where   we're on this journey now is getting to a point where that response feels incredibly human and   then, of course, that brings along all the benefits of a human conversation. So because it   is powered by software, there's a huge advantage in that it's available 24/7, and we know that not   all customer queries come in between, you know, 9 o'clock and 5 o'clock, you know, healthcare isn't   based on that kind of a time system. Of course it's incredibly scalable, right. There is   no limitation, because it's not a human, there is  no human constraint and, of course, one of the key   things is that any response, that comes, that is  generated out of a conversational AI platform,   because you control that content you can always be as, you know, as expert as you can make it   and of course it's consistent and compliant. So that's really important. so net is that you   know it, for Pharma brand or a company, gives you a kind of a unique and new way to engage and   and support your customers and, you know, as Dario mentioned, this is probably even more relevant or   certainly is more relevant in this moment, where face-to-face interactions, between both your   sales force, MSLs and physicians, but also between physicians and their patients, has been   drastically reduced due to COVID. And I think we're seeing the   early signs now, that this is not going to be coming to an end. I think we have a good year plus,   where this is definitely going to be an effect and I think that almost all humans are adapting   and finding themselves incredibly  comfortable living in this new virtual world.   On the next slide we kind of just talk about the context of where this is over the kind   of the historical horizons that we've had, so we've been through the web and the app horizons. I was actually involved  in this business back in 1995-96 and that's   when I first went into the practice of medicine and was there when the web became available, and   all of a sudden every piece of information that  we kind of dreamed of having was at our fingertips,   as well as the fingertips of our patients. Of course, that became overwhelming and we had   difficulties in actually finding great information. We went through the app horizon.   One of the consistent insights from that was that we were expecting our customers to learn   fairly complex information architecture to find the information that they were looking for, right.   They would have to learn a new navigation system for every digital property they would go to   and then at the end of that search  you literally got to a big piece of text that   you would then have to wade through to find the  answer to your question that you were looking for.   So, that kind of worked then, but doesn't work now, right. Humans are now in this new snackable   on-demand world and so, literally, as we move into this conversational AI horizon, and as you see, as   of March 2020, we've got this huge  kind of bump up in the interaction   or growth of this. In this new world we're saying  you don't have to search for information, you can   simply ask for information. So that does a couple things. One, it does give that quick response, but   then gives the opportunity for us as brands and  companies to carry on a conversation way beyond,   what the customer has asked us, which is really,  really important. Won't spend any time on the   data, this deck will be available, but all the data points are kind of showing that   humans actually really like working with AI based solutions, as long as that solution is   well developed. So let's not kid ourselves, not all conversational AI solutions are the same.   We are early in this new "horizon of digital", so  let's put that in the context to where we are now,   where we were, say for example, 2 years ago and where we're going to be in 3 and 5   years, is really going to see a lot of a lot of development, of sophistication in these solutions.   On the next slide, I think what's super important for us, Dario, is that whether you are   consumer, patient or physician, as you access conversational touch points, it's actually an   expanding set of touch points and so we're all probably very familiar with web chat, we've seen   that, and as we know that can be deployed on brand.com sites, on that info sites, wherever   that may be, but that's also available through messaging apps and mobile. Of course, one of the   interesting now new ways you can deploy those conversations, is on third party properties, such   as a Banner Ad on another site, for example, a physician portal, etc., so what that literally means   for a brand is that you can intercept your patients or physicians during their digital day on a third-party property.  We can't always get our customers to come to us,   so why don't we start the conversation where they  are? And as long as we know what they're looking   for, that conversation can be very contextual and therefore not appear to be a marketing, but   more of a self-service model, right. Of course, IVR is a kind of a rapid growth area, so can   we replace those humans with voice solutions, and we're seeing that come through voice devices,   Alexa, Google Home, so those are now going into market and I think what we're starting to see now   is a bit of a growth into this digital human, where really that voice interaction is taking place   through a human-like avatar. And in case people  haven't seen it, these are becoming incredibly   human-like, to some people very scary, to other people not, but it really brings a face   and a kind of a personality, a deeper personality to those interactions. So there are certainly some   scenarios or use cases with patients, where this will be incredibly powerful. On the next slide, Dario. So in Net Net, I think they're kind of  like three areas, where you should be thinking   of where conversational AI can be relevant or beneficial to you, so I think the first one really   is, you know we've all invested a lot in creating digital touch points, I mean way back in 95, we were   building a corporate site. Now every company, and Sophie and Shwen can attest this,   has hundreds of digital properties. All of those digital properties have the same   constraint, that we talked about earlier, in most cases which is they are content based and require   our users to search for information. So can we take all of those digital properties, or the key   ones, the relevant ones, and turn them away from a content exercise, to one where a user can simply   interact with a bot, ask a question and have that bot respond and become the guide for them, to take   them through, not only the content on that website,  but also the ability to deploy or bring in content   from other digital assets, that may exist. So that's  one, just taking existing digital touch points,   replace the concept of search and looking for  information, replacing that with a simple ask   confined. Of course, that means that all that content that you've created, now turns into   a conversation, that kind of core theme we talked  about. Second one is, of course, the virtualization.   So wherever we are having human interactions now, human-to-human, so for example, a   physician and sales rep, physician MSL, or the  physician doctor, which in many ways we look   to influence, how can we virtualize those? And that, of course, does not mean, and I'm sure we'll talk   about this later, the replacement of those humans, but oftentimes it's really about complementing   them, right? So how do we open up actually more conversations for them and support them in their   interaction with their customers? Of course, not all physicians not, all patients have the largess   of having a human interaction with a brand, so this also provides an opportunity for those low   see, or lower value doctor, no see doctors, to actually have a bit of a sales rep or human   interaction. Last but not least, of course, then is this concept of voice, right. So this is a net new   channel for us, so the ability to be there, in the physicians clinical day at his office,   through a voice device, it's literally like having an MSL or a sales rep in the office with you  and available for you to ask some questions at any  point, right? So those are, kind of, three key areas   and on the last slide you're going to see that our clients are taking those concepts and   deploying them right across the enterprise, whether  it be clinical trials, the medical affairs   type of the business, marketing sales. There are lots of great use cases. I'm sure we'll talk about   those shortly, but suffice to say that those three principles are being applied across all of   those, so hopefully that's a bit of a quick intro, so that everyone has a little bit of a lay of the   land as we dive in deeper into conversational AI. - Thank you, John, for this very insightful opening.   Let's move forward to our first poll. I would kindly like to launch the first question to   our audience which is: "Which Pharma 'Business Unit' will obtain the greatest benefit from   tapping into the opportunities presented by text/voice bots?". Please, feel free to   reply to answer we give one minute  time and looking forward for the answers. Okay, let's see. 20 seconds to go. Oh, some very interesting results, actually. 40% already voted, let's wait for 50% and I will close the poll and share the results.   58% Patient Solutions and Support. Who would like to give a comment on that? Very interesting, actually. I'm happy to get started here, Dario. I think, and maybe what's driving this 58% is, we're seeing   patients increasingly want to use symptom checkers, apps for mental health, etc.,   so I think what's driving that 58%, is the acceptance from patients and users and the   increasing use of some of these solutions. One more, that I will add into here, actually   that was not mentioned, would also be supply chain. We've seen some good examples in MSD   of using supplied bots to inform about the status of an   inventory or shipments, etc., and they've been  rolled out globally, so maybe one more to add   to the list in here. - Thank you, Sophie. Anyone else would like to comment these results?   Yeah, sure, Dario. I'll jump in. I think it's not surprising to see this as a first choice. I think,   you know, the other choice you might have wanted to put in there, which is you know your   typical sort of high school question, which is around all of the above, because I think there   is value in everything, but it's not surprising to see people go to patient solutions first,   because I think that's automatically where we see these kinds of tools and platforms and   just to make sure that we define  this well, I mean, this. While we talked about   conversational AI, I think if you want to simplify it, really what we're talking about is mainly   things like chat bots and voice bots, right, as a delivery mechanism for these conversations.   And so I think, what's important to  understand, is that when we think about where these   types of tools are most utilized right now. The patients are the ones that are seamlessly   interacting with them across multiple industries, as part of their daily lives, whether it's you   know, probably in the past not so much now, but like calling your airline to change a   seat on your flight, or whether it's some other way of interacting with a customer supports line. A lot of it's now being driven by conversational AI, so I think   the immediate place where people veer to, in terms of the value for Pharma and healthcare, is   going to be in the patient solutions and patient support programs, because there's an automatic   sort of seamless flow, right, into what they do in their daily life in other industries, as well.   Thank you, Shwen. Dr John? - Yeah, I mean, to me  that's really interesting, because   that's actually the, almost in many ways, the opposite of what Pharma's invested in to date.   So I think that, you know, on the surface, yes, you  might see a number of consumer/patient bots   out there, but for us, you know, as we go beyond 20 global Pharma clients, the vast majority   are investing in conversational AI solutions,  that are actually cost reduction, right. So they're   looking at Med info enterprise solutions, that are literally automating a lot of that   inbound touch point. I think it's easier in many ways to look at cost reduction, as you move into a   a new horizon, as an easy way to get involved.  That said, because the poll's being taken   today, I would say that over the last three months we've seen 3-6 months a huge growth now   in this patient kind of concept of investing in that, and I think we'll probably talk more about   that, but I think that, as companies venture into  conversational AI, the least expensive, the easiest   area to go into is a very simple conversational  AI solution for a patient that's deployed on a   brand.com, right. There are many things you can do to scale back the difficulty of that   or the complexity of that investment,  both in terms of time, technology, etc. So it's a   great way to get involved in conversational  AI early on for companies. Thank you, John.   Let's proceed with the first panel question,  which is that: there is a trend and need   of course to align digital and human activities  within Pharma. Shwen, can you maybe share your   thoughts and experiences based on this hybrid  model, if you can call that as a hybrid model?   Yeah, I think, you know, as we, you  called it out at the start, as we start to move   into this era where digital activities  and human activities are seamlessly, sort of,    part of our daily lives, whether it's calling a customer support line, or shopping online versus going to the store, and then now in this current pandemic situation,   everything's being driven online, as well, I think. There's no   longer this differentiation between what we do in real life and what we do online anymore,   because we've had to shift a lot of our activities one way or the other, and so in the   same way as Pharma starts to prepare for this. And right now you're seeing this acceleration of   an adoption really starting to shift all the traditional ways we did, did things, to a digital   world. You're starting to see that acceleration of the digital trends, of starting to make this   move for what we used to do in the  human face-to-face world, to an online world,   driven through both digital engagements, as well as personal engagements, driven through   digital platforms. So I think that's where you're starting to see this huge move now,   the acceleration of this and adoption of this has been a lot driven by the necessity, right?   Because we don't have face-to-face interactions anymore, so how prepared are we to really start   to move into this world, to make it seamless and easy for the patient or healthcare professional,   to engage with our organization or parts of it that need to support those stakeholders? Any thoughts from other participants of this panel? One thing I would add here to Shwen's point, I  think we've seen those type of thoughts   and conversation and AI be very, get a lot of attraction and engagement, when they're part   of a broader value proposition. So for example,  in medical affairs we have, and John will   be familiar with this example, but we rolled out a bot in medical affairs in Canada,   from our team. And essentially, the bot can answer questions about 20 products. But it's also part of a broader platform through which you can actually get to a human,   medical scientific liaison, you can just search  for content, if you want to. You have an ability   to chat, so you're really trying to bring all  of this proposition into one place, so that you   create a nice user experience and no frustration, if for example the bot can't answer your question,   you always have another channel. So bringing the  channels together is always proving more successful than actually bringing a point  solution and pushing it forward. And maybe just   another thought on the investment from Pharma, to John's point earlier. It's natural that Pharma   will invest more in solutions that our customer facing, I think actually it's a good learning that   we're not quite investing particularly in patient solutions, when actually there are a lot of them   that already exist, and is there a way to partner  with some of these players, as opposed to creating something from scratch and expecting  users to start using some of these solutions   that we would build? So just a thought on  on the previous comment. - Yeah, and just to double   click on that, I mean, when you think  about health care in general, just strategically,  this is a vertical, which is predicated on human-to-human interaction, right? I mean, this is not   other industries, where we don't want to see less  of humans and our patients want   physician time, they want pharmacist time, they want  nurse time. Sometimes we want more sales rep and MSL   time, but literally those are the critical moments,  when I was practicing, this is the moment of truth,   it's that face-to-face. So as face-to-face is falling a little bit off the face   of the earth, do we want to replace that with  flat content, or do we want to try and replicate   those, the power of the human conversation? And we  we do, right? And that's the challenge for us, right?   So can we offset that loss of human face-to-face with something that is far more engaging   and human-like for our users, right?  So that's a really important part of this.   Yeah, I think, especially as we, sorry,  I wanted to add on to that, to move to this   world where we're getting information  on demand and this has been driven by  platforms like Google, right, which we type in one sentence and we get millions of results that   we can look at. That bring us to the right information, that is most accurately sort   of defining what we're looking for. I think in the same way, I think healthcare and Pharma   has a responsibility to start to move to that world where we're starting to be able to provide   the information to the stakeholders, while looking for that information in a way that they can get it   when they need it and wherever they are, in the format that they're looking for it in.   Absolutely. Next question. It's obvious that we lived, until recently, in the push era, right?   So all our efforts have been more or less pushy towards the stakeholders and customers and we   definitely see a revelation, or we're thinking into going much more to pull channels, right?   So, Sophie, where do you see the biggest potential for conversational interfaces,   in terms of HCP conversation, patient  engagement, customer engagement, etc.? Yeah, maybe there, I would focus here on  patients, since the poll results were actually   driving towards that patient engagement more and then we can dwell on the rest as needed, but again.   So coming to the point brought up earlier, there is adoption and we're seeing actually   these chatbots, conversational  AI getting traction as symptom checkers, as   triage mechanisms. We're seeing, actually, healthcare authorities using that, right? The NHS in the U.K.   made a couple of interesting moves, building Alexa's  skills to deploy some of the content that they   have on their websites using voice. We've seen them partner with U.K. startup Babylon also, to do   AI digital driven triage and it's always about getting the patient into   the right, next course of action. So and this  can range from actually self help, all the way   into visiting a GP, having a virtual consultation or actually going to A&E, so we saw, with the   pandemic of course, a couple more examples, the CDC in the U.S., partnering with Microsoft, under word   "Clara", so again we're seeing quite a lot of this type of solutions getting in the hands   of people and into channels that they already use.  Spanish health authorities used WhatsApp, to create   word also around COVID, so the pandemic is showing  us increasingly, that again, it's not about creating that new channel, it's about meeting  people and consumers and users where they are,   in the channels that they currently use.  So with that picture in mind, I think,   again Pharma usually, traditional,  the traditional approach is "let's create our own".   I think that there is merit here, in actually  using some of these channels for things like   disease awareness, of course, in a compliant way, but  making sure that the message is arriving to the   user. I think if you take this to the next level,  we're seeing in some therapy areas it's not   broad yet, but in some therapy area, some of these  symptom checkers or bots actually move into more   of a personal health companion, so you know a bud  that will ask you how you're feeling, about your   symptoms and register that and pick up on signals  in the answers that you're providing and giving   you advice on what to do next. We're seeing that  in chronic diseases like Lark in the U.S., we're   seeing that in mental health, quite a lot recently,  I think also amplified by the pandemic. So here I   think the power and the potential is in this remote monitoring potential, on a continuous basis.   What will make it even more powerful, if it's linked up with EMRs with a broader holistic   view of what the patient situation is and  their context and linked to the physician   ultimately, so that if we can predict that something will happen, based on all the information   that the bod is getting, then intervene in a timely manner. So I think these are some of the   potential evolutions of these solutions, some of  the, I would say, some of the bots are actually   driving towards becoming this personal health companion, but they still early days, I would say. Yeah, Sophie, I think you bring up a good point, and certainly want to double click on one thing   that you said, which is around triage. I think the simplistic base reason that you want to have   a conversational AI or a bot is, so that you go from having 1 000 people asking the same questions   to having maybe 10 of those with really the questions that cannot be answered very straight,  in a straightforward manner, to be elevated and  triaged to the human, that can then provide them   with the right type of information, so that you're not bombarding your resources that are very   resource intensive, very expensive, that can only operate for a certain amount of time with   all these questions that are similar, that could be answered in a very quick way.   So I think that the triage part of  conversational AI is a really important   aspect. And then what you brought up after that was  really the AI part of conversational AI, which is,   and as you start to train the bot and  as the bots start to get more data   over time to understand what are some of the key  learnings it has and some data points that it can   pull together to really help us understand  what this patient is asking for or whether   there's a certain set of symptoms that lead to a certain potential disease or a therapeutic   area or treatment, then it starts to  get smarter about identifying these and raising   these up and elevating these in the triage manner, to the right place, to get that kind   of help that the stakeholder needs. So I think, there's multiple layers to it, but more   importantly, I think, to both Sophie and John's point, that the triage mechanism allows for the   ability for us to really start to hone in on  where the most important and valuable resources   can really play a part to serve the customers, versus creating one resource that everybody goes   to and then it's tapped out, and you've just not made it very efficient overall.   I think you've, to triple click on that then, the concept of triage can be, it's powerful, but   it's also very frightening. I think we have to be clear that, I don't think the role or the place for   Pharma is in a diagnostic kind of an environment. We're not looking to diagnose patients.   There's a lot of triaging bots out there, awesome, that, that's amazing, I   think we want to take them along that journey in a different way, so to your point, Shwen, when a user is putting a query into a bot, it is super important that the bot   understand based, it's going to  have to match up to an intent. We understand   what you are asking, this is the intent or the topic you're looking for, this is what we are going   to do with you now. We are going to either engage in a conversation, we may provide you with   a simple answer and a link to further content, we  may assess that as a potential adverse event and   manage it as such, or we may escalate to a human, or allow you to do something else, right? So those,   that ability is really important, I would say that, that the nice thing is, that we know that,   there is a very common, let's say, for example, 80%  of queries that are coming in about a product or   a condition, you know that from your call centers, from your research, every single digital asset   you build is essentially designed to respond to some kind of a question. Let's manage those through   the bot and, as you said, what are the topics that we should escalate to a human, right? Let's   define what those are, that's super important. Lastly, because we are talking about pull,  I think it's, we have to recognize that consumers and HCPs are completely different in that behavior,   right, so doctors typically, when they interact with a bot, they know what they don't know and so   they don't want to be guided through some type of button driven experience. They want the ability   to open text, ask question, get answer, right?  It's a very pragmatic, clinical, transactional   experience. So open text, very important. That's  their pull. Consumers, or often times our patients,   don't know what they don't know. They're coming in, they're going to ask a singular question   and that is the massive opportunity for Pharma now, to guide them through their journey to the   point where they are going to physician and asking for a prescription, for example, in a   commercial bot in the U.S. And so I think it's super important that we understand what pull means,   in both those two, in those two different scenarios, so it's super exciting then, when you start   looking at journey mapping, so that when consumer or patient asks this question, how do we   extend that conversation and guide them through  that journey? And that's where oftentimes   button-driven experiences can be incredibly powerful for a customer, who doesn't know   what they don't know, and so I think that's really important. So it's a concept of pull, and then once   someone is asked the question, what can we then push to them that's highly contextual? I always   give the analogy of, it's kind of like when you go and see your doctor and you ask a question of him,   if he just gave you that answer and then shut down, that's kind of not what you're looking for,   right? You want to be able to ask a question, the doctor is going to respond, the pharmacist will   respond, the nurse respond and then they're going to come back and they're going to clarify, right?   Or they're going to talk about the next topic that's relevant, right, they're going to   continue that conversation on. That's ultimately one of the advantages and key powers of   conversational AI, it's the ability to extend that conversation, where you need to take them.   Thank you, John. - And I think, John, to add to that, the  other part of this, from a pull standpoint is,   when we use human resources to staff custom support lines, for example, we often, we don't have a 24/7 support line, we often only stop them during the hours where it, what's a normal   work hour, which is usually the time where, either patients or health care professionals are also   working and, so what happens after hours is where something like a bot can really be advantageous   in providing the information they need on demand,  outside of those hours and then only for the most   important questions, that can't be answered by the bot, can be triaged to a human to respond   the following day. - Absolutely. - Thank you, Shwen. Let's move forward and talk about data, the easy part, right?   Because Pharma's conversational transformation is, for sure, very data rich. Dr John, can you tell   us, maybe, what are the customer data telling us and how this can shape our business strategy?   Yeah, sure, I mean, I think the nature, Shwen was saying, is that,  because this is a 24 inbound  channel in many ways, you're getting   a massive set of queries coming in. The way we've designed, for example, our   system is, we've identified for a particular brand, or for a particular condition,   what are the, let's say, for example, 200 intents or topics that your customers are coming   in to engage with you about now. Every topic, or every one of those intents, may   have hundreds and hundreds of utterances, the way a user will ask a question to match up to that,   but in the end you have a taxonomy or a map that actually, literally allows you to look at it   as a heat map, to see where it is, what are the topics that your customers are actually concerned   about? And at what point in their journey, is it relevant to them, so that's a really, kind of, a really great insight to what do your customers really want. And I think, in many cases,   we think we might know what that is, but one of the things that's unique about conversational   AI, is that our customers don't look at it as a channel, where they're going to   be embarrassed or where there is stigma or judgment, and that actually is relevant, both   to the consumer and HCP side of things. But in particular, let's look at a patient.   There are lots of questions that patients will never ask of another human being,   whether that be a friend a colleague or a physician. They just will never ask it.   So although they know the bot has a, feels like a human, they know it's not a human, so it reduces   that hurdle to ask these very, oftentimes simple  questions, or common questions or what they would   perceive as embarrassing questions, but are also really important questions that, when answered, will   drive a patient to a successful outcome. And so I think it's a really good insight on   what are those questions, that we'll just never learn about from our patients, because they're   embarrassed to ask them. So I think that's really critical. Of course, when a customer   is in a conversational experience with us, they are going through a flow and there's so many nodes   in these conversations, so that you're  always learning about what's the next   best conversation, if you provide them  with three different options and they're   choosing, you're learning a lot about how do you carry on a conversation with a customer,   to actually get them where you need  them to go, right? That's really important, or   what is that, and that's the on the push side, right, so what's the next best action you're   going to take with them, so I think that's really important. There's tons and tons of data and how   you use that will be important and, of course, that data can also be shared, not only with the   marketing, but the sales side of the organization, right? If a physician is asking question X, are we   capturing that, are we sharing that with our sales force, so that when they have their   next interaction with that physician, that that's part of their information and the, what they've   been forewarned with, so they can come in and actually value at that previous bot experience.   I'll leave it that pass over to the  Sophie or Shwen, you want to add on to that? Maybe one thing I would add, on the patient side of things is, what goes hand in hand with   to your point the lack of judgment and maybe why we're seeing quite a lot of these solutions   in mental health, is also privacy and making sure that actually my data is not going to be   used by someone by, I don't know, the payer, the insurer, Pharma companies, having that assurance, that the data is encrypted and handled in the right way is something that is   bubbling up a lot in the conversation, especially for solutions that our patients   are facing. - Yeah, absolutely agree, Sophie. I think also, the way that bots are, sort of,   structured and the way they ask the questions, tends to be very similar to like a cognitive   based therapy type of approach, right? You can actually design it that way and, therefore for   mental health is a direct tie-in and an obvious one that becomes a real opportunity for this   healthcare world. But I think, coming back to what we're talking about around the transformation of   conversations, I think of, actually, outside of Pharma, we have the, think about the airline world,   again. In the past, we used to call up customer service and they used to have, again, the choices   by numbers, right, and we say like "for for help press one, for this press two, for that part   three" and we used to just wanna get the zero  as quickly as possible, so we can get the agent.   Then we evolved and then we got, basically, being able to speak the number, so you just say   "one" or "two". Now we're in a place where you just have natural conversations and they ask you   "what are you looking for, please tell us your name, what is your membership number?"   and it can answer you. So I think in the same way we're starting to evolve our conversational   transformation, for lack of a better term into a world, where we're starting to become   much more natural, in the way that we understand what people are looking for and be able to provide   them the right type of information based on those questions, based on what they're seeking out. And so   I think that's important, as a transformation, and then to John's point around the data,   I think what's really interesting is not only by collecting data for what people are   looking for and how that feeds into the next action, you want to follow up with them on, but   there's also tools now where you know, let's say, you're talking about voice bot, where they're   starting to analyze voice and starting to pick up on digital biomarkers, that are starting to then   understand whether they, the person may have it could predict whether the person has a certain   disease or therapy, need some kind of treatment, so we're moving to a world where   that data is super rich, not only collecting things, like patient reported outcomes,   but also now, like I said, digital biomarkers, which are starting to predict diseases, as well. Let's move to the next question. Pharma's conversational transformation has begun - or has   it? Well actually, I would say that clearly, there are many companies that have quickly moved to that   era, as already mentioned at the very beginning of this keynote. What advice would you give for   those who are watching today and would like to initiate the conversational solutions within   their companies? Maybe Shwen can give an insight about that? Because Shwen definitely pioneered   conversational AI in many, many ways in many different companies, right? - Yeah, thank you, Dario,   and I think John will know exactly what I'm going to say here, but "start with what you   already have" is probably going to be my piece of advice here and, that is really, you know, we live in a world, which is highly regulated, so we already have a lot of parts of the   business which has a ton of pre-approved content and that is usually the basis of a conversational   AI, is to start to understand what those pieces of content are, that you actually want to   be the underlying structure and data  for the conversational impact.   The other thing is we also live in a world where we're driven by decision trees   and the combination of decision trees, and pre-approved content is essentially   how a bot works. It's depending on what the question is, depending on what the answers are,   it drives you to the right piece of content and you're going to have to train   the bot that way anyway. So we already have places like patient support programs, medical information,   all those places have lots of both of these things - decision trees and pre-approved   content, so start there. You've already got what you need to build a conversational AI around   it, and then from there it's just understanding how the platform works and how to train it in a   way that it's going to provide the right type of answers to the right type of questions and context. Thank you. Anyone else would like to give a comment on that? Sophie, I see you. - I will be quick.   But what I would say is also being open-minded to iterating, because the beauty in these solutions   is also that you're capturing, to John's point earlier, a lot of data, so you can improve, you   can make sure that it's tied up with the rest of your channels and just keep and open   here and open mind, I guess. - Yeah, I mean, Sophie and Shwen, you can maybe jump in on this,   I think, I would say that, although we are seeing some early adoption of   conversational AI, it's like every horizon of digital it's this, kind of that initial   phase, where there's a lot of reticence to kind of jump into this. I think that it's been a bit faster   than the earlier horizons, largely because it has an AI component, Pharma feels somewhat intrigued by   AI, but I don't think we've seen anywhere near the kind of acceleration, we're not going to see   over the next few months and  years, as we feel far more comfortable, as   Shwen, said there's some core hurdles, that I think a lot of decision makers may   think of, as Shwein said, let's not  be concerned about the creation of new content,   to support the conversations, it's there, those investments have been made, let's leverage that   great content and turn it into a conversational experience, which can be far more powerful. I think   the other common thing we always hear is how do we manage A&Es, well you know the algorithms,   we have multiple algorithm models  now, that can detect A, E, P, C and then manage that   appropriately. That's done.  We're in a place where, let's say for example,   the NLU models, that are in place for healthcare, are fairly mature now, so there is a high level of   accuracy and understanding the integrations with your other systems, whether it be Veeva,   SalesforceIQ, these are in place. So there's a lot of the, kind of, the core building blocks.  Hurdles no longer exists, right? The core things are there, so I think that the risk of getting   involved now is literally a lot lower now. And then on the cost side, I don't think   Shwen or Sophie, you'd say that cost is a huge issue here, especially as the, kind of, the   more simple consumer/patient bots are not hugely expensive, as compared to say, for example,   an enterprise, MI solution,  that's going to be global in nature.  Yeah, certainly, John. With the cost topic, I think, it's what we said at the beginning too,   is if you actually set this up the right  way, could you actually be avoiding a higher cost   by providing a more efficient, optimized triage system, so that your high value, high cost   resources are only being tapped into, for the most important questions, that can't   be answered by a bot, for example. -Shwen, just a question for you and for Sophie, I mean   we're going to see inevitably downsizing now of salesforce, it's happening in certain markets and,   so I think, in some markets it's 10-20% of salesforce is going. Do you see that the movement   of those dollars from that human  over to the virtual size? Because I mean,   certainly, you know, when you look at the cost of a single individual, it doesn't take too   many human replacements to power a fairly or a massively sophisticated conversational platform. Sophie, go ahead, if you have anything to add. My area of expertise is more on the end consumer side, so I will let you try and comment on   this one. - Okay, sure, sorry. I personally, I'm not sure is the answer, because I think there's still   an expectation that we may revert to a world where we might go back to being somewhat normal again.   I haven't personally seen in many places how that impact is really changing the way   that companies restructure their investments. I think though, that there's definitely a retraining   of the sales force, of how to leverage digital tools most efficiently and the types of tools that   they're starting to be given to actually do their jobs better, so I think that's definitely happening.   I think, an example I had was, I was  talking to the guys at Veeva, for example,   and in before COVID hit, I think they  only had like 10% of adoption of   engage, among their customers and then suddenly, when COVID hit, it went skyrocketed to like 90% or   something, right.So you can start to see that these engagement platforms and these   ways of working are changing and there's definitely a shift towards that, kind of a   platform and the ability to engage in a different way, but in terms of how   those investments are going to be shifting. I mean, I think what you're suggesting sounds   intuitive, but I'm not sure that we're there yet. - Do you know some concrete   cases? You don't need to name the companies, but do you know some concrete cases in terms of reduction   of field force? Does anybody know? Absolutely. So let's be clear, there are a lot of Pharma companies   that are making that step to reduce head count on the sales side, right, it's just, you   can't carry a sales force when they're having, in many markets, say for example, 10% face-to-face,   maybe 40% of previous interactions are on phone or through a tele-health type or a   teleconferencing type model, but 50% of physicians are no longer interacting with the salesforce   rep that they used to, so I mean that's why I brought up that point, I think we all would love   to come back to a normal world. It will happen, but I do believe that users are finding themselves to   be incredibly comfortable and actually prefer, many of the digital channels that they're   working with. I mean, physicians, Shwen, to your point, if we kept evolving as we   were, I think physicians would have  had a difficult time moving to a tele-health model.   Now that they've been exposed to it, in many cases, they absolutely love it, right? And so it's not just   trend or compressing 5 years of digital into a shorter period, it's actually exposing customers   to new digital channels and actually make them far more efficient, far more effective in their   work and I think that we need to recognize that and actually realize that that is going to be   the future. We're listening, we're not going to replace all sales reps, that's not. What we   want to do there is an absolute time and a place  for that interaction, it is incredibly powerful,   but we also have to recognize the  limitations that we're going to have   in the future and what's the right channel for that right moment and that physician   experience. I mean, I always bring it back, I hate to continue talking about when I was practicing,   the odds that there would be a sales rep in my office at that moment when I needed them,   was about 0.03%, right? Conversational channels  allow that sales rep or that MSL to be with me at   that absolute moment of need and that's literally when Pharma escalates or comes up to be a true   colleague in the practice of medicine, so it's  an opportunity for us, not an unfortunate   scenario. I think it's a massive opportunity to play a different role in the healthcare ecosystem.   Thank you, John. - I'm really impressed that you  calculated that with statistical significance.   I was being generous on that one, anyway. - Since we have only 11 minutes left, I would like   to proceed with a second pool question, which I  will launch right now. And the question is: what do   you see as being the greatest obstacle for Pharma  to fully adopt and leverage conversational AI?  Once again an interesting question, quite curious  to see the answers and one minute time in total.   Okay, I see 1% responded, okay, let's see. This will be interesting, as well, but I think that the winner is more or less clear, right? Okay, let's wait for another 15 seconds. So 40% voted. And 5 more seconds and  I will close the pool. Okay. I would say the results are obvious. Who would like to give a comment on that? Shwen? - Yeah, sure, I'll jump on  first. I think it's interesting   to see this, I thought that  we'd see a lot more, a lot higher   responses for lack of ROI, because  I think that's an area that   not many people have developed true models to really show the value of the returns yet,   at least not that I've seen publicly displayed in any form or fashion, but I guess   the two that have reached the highest response rate here makes sense, as well, because I think, like anything new, in terms of technology platforms in Pharma and health care, AEs and   compliance is always going to be one that's very top of mind and something that, especially   in a new platform, where it's not being thought through, in terms of how it it's actually going to   be set up. In a general way, that's  always going to be something that's going to be a   concern, and if, especially legal regulatory and  medical, are reviewing these platforms and they're   not familiar with it or they don't understand how it's actually going to be doing things,   then it becomes something that will, each company has to figure out how to do, in   order to move past that to get it deployed. Internal knowledge, I think, again, that's another   one that I think is interesting. Certainly, I'm sure a lot of Pharma companies, that are working   with agencies and other vendors, will have a lot of opportunities and and be presented with   these types of solutions to solve many things, so I think the lack of knowledge internally   speaks to what I'm saying about compliance, but  also the fact of how do they respond   to the value of some of these solutions that are being presented to them from their vendors, from   their agencies and so on. Maybe it's another driving force for why this is very high as well. Yeah, I would agree on what you said. When I think that the too compliance and lack of   internal knowledge move together, very much hand in hand, I feel though, that with   again public health authorities making moves in this space and more and more examples of   successful adoption across the industry, this will help one give that precedent, maybe   to the point of it's too, it may be too early and we don't know it well enough, but also open   minds, right, about what this could be. I think it resonates with me, because in a lot of instances   people think of AI and associated  with the black box, we don't really know how   it's generating the answers and we need to make sure that it's not going to expose   either the company, or even point people in the wrong direction. So there's a lot of   discussion around how accurate some of these bots are, again especially around the patient   facing solutions and how that  will translate in on their overall journey. Dario, I mean, an  event like this obviously brings that number   down from 36, probably down to 32% now, right? So these are the internal kind of or the educational   events that I bring up, that conversational AI, IQ. One of the things we do see is that, typically   once we initiate a project somewhere in the world with one of our clients, we tend to do these   kind of like lunch and learn events or internal education, so that we can bring that kind of   IQ up within the organization, and then Sophie to your point, part of that is really the educational   around AE and PC detection, right?  So you know, does the NLU model allow you to   understand those, when a true adverse event or an adverse event is potentially being   asked and then how do you manage that? There's lots of different models for management.   Every Pharma company, I think, has a different water line or threshold of how they want to manage it,   but to your point, the fact that there are you know 30 Pharma companies out there now building   conversational solutions and have overcome that, means that, I think that essentially those   hurdles have been overcome. I think one of the things I would say is, that in almost all of our   projects, there is someone within the  Pharma company, oftentimes many who have a true   passion for innovation in this conversational  AI world. and finding those individuals   that have that deep understanding  is really critical to getting those first projects   going, and then to Sophie's point,  about those ROI metrics, it's important that you   set up front what are the KPIs of success of these initial bot projects? But, you know, super excited   to see that cost is not, or a sales force is not an issue. That's a bit surprising for me, so   good to see that. - Thank you on the comments. Let's  move forward to the next questions. Actually, we   have two remaining questions and only 5 minutes time, so I encourage you to be quick and sharp and   bold. So next question: what conversational  solution should be part of every plan for next   year? Because it's budgeting time, right? And I  believe that many of the former companies are   thinking about to start in that water and field of conversational AI. Who would like to start? I will go, because I think I would  be more general. I would say, usually the way   I like to think about this is "what's the  problem we're trying to solve for, what's   the challenge and what's the right technology  or capability to address it?" We've heard today   and we've seen that a conversational AI can  help with lack of capacity, when it's limited   and shortening the response  time and automating some of the repetitive tasks   and reaching more broad audiences across  healthcare physicians and consumers, so I   would really urge to think about what it is we're trying to solve for, there are many areas   where conversational AI can come in, but yes, I would focus on what it is. I'm sorry before,   what will success look like and take it from there. Yeah, Sophie, I should have gone first,  because you said exactly what I was going to say.  I would just start with the problem first, right?   I'm glad we all agree on that and  I think that's exactly, it's really, it takes, rather than coming with a solution first, start with understanding what   are the insights that are driving you towards  this as a potential solution for the problem or   the pin point that you're trying to solve for, so is it around trying to make things more efficient   and be able to provide 24/7 support in a world where, right now, we only have a limited amount of   resources to deploy to that. Is it something  where we're trying to find, the right type of   patients and this will help us get triage  and narrow down the right type of patients that   we can then start to engage for something that we want to target them on,   so it really depends on the problem that you have, or what is the pin points that you're   trying to solve for, and the more you can solve for that pin point, the more value you're going   to create for the end user and then you're going to know where the value of your platform as well.   Just super quick then, I think, Dario, one of the  things we're seeing is that many of our   clients are not thinking of conversational  AI as a one-year plan tactic, it   is a new capability for the entire enterprise and they're oftentimes looking at this as a 5-year   plan of where do we start and what do we test and  where do we go. I think, every business unit, as we   saw in those early slides, has an opportunity to leverage conversational AI in the near future,   so I mean, literally, how do we take  your existing brand site if you're a marketer   and make it far more compelling and powerful at moving customers to where you want them   to go in that digital property to do the actions that you want, if you're a med affairs or med info   group? How do you start to automate that business, right? How do you reduce head count and yet drive   more engagements with physicians, on terms  that are more relevant and practical to them?   And of course we've talked a lot about sales, you know, if you're involved in the   sales side of the business, we do have  an immediate issue that can be managed   or addressed. And so how do you look at building  virtual sales rep solutions that, either   replace in some certain market and certain products, where they're maybe no sales force right now,   or how do we complement existing sales force  on important brands, right? So that they can,  so that you can achieve those targets. Last,  but not least, to Sophie's point on the   patient side, patient support programs ,right. Those are, once again, very expensive, so if   you have a patient support program, how can you look at trying to automate some certain parts of   that? So reduce head count or extend PSPs to much broader set of brands within the organization, so   every BU, I think, has an opportunity to dip their toes now and start along that journey.   Thank you, John. And last question. Let's outlook 3 years ahead and what do you see as the norm   when it comes to pharmacy engagement models with the customers or other stakeholders? John, why don't you start, since you  started talking about the 5-year plan? John? - Yeah, I mean, I think it's, I would simply  harken back to, so we've all been there,   we've been on the previous journey... Can you hear me? - Yes, please, yes, we can hear you. So literally, I think it's, yeah, it's literally like we were in the web world, I would say.  Every brand now, every business unit has a digital  website, many have apps, I think we're   going to see that kind of ubiquitous leverage  of conversational AI and so every existing digital   touch point in three years, I think is going to  be augmented or amplified by a conversational   component, and, of course, we will also initiate  and build new conversational touch points, voice   IVR, leveraging that will be completely  conversational in nature. That said, technology   is advancing very quickly in this space, so the  the accuracy of bots, the UI the UX, is becoming   far richer, far more compelling, so what we're going  to see in three years is an experience, which is   going to be unlike what we're  seeing now, as we really start to apply   brain power to figuring out how do customers  really want to engage through this new model. Yes, I mean, what I would say is, we've heard a lot  that digital will be the front door to health. I think we're starting to see this happen firsthand,  actually, with the pandemic, so I would  see some of these conversational solutions be  the initial point into the system, I think   increasingly, what I would like to see is that  they're again part of a broader solution and value   proposition and that there are smooth transitions   between these solutions across, whether   it be the patient journey or the clinical workflow,  because currently a lot of what we're   seeing is point solutions. I would like to see  something a little bit more coherent as a whole.   Great. I think, ultimately,  where we're going, and by the way I have a real   big passion for conversational  AI and I believe that this is   a lot of it is going to drive the future of healthcare engagement, but more than that, I think,   I think conversational AI is probably  going to be a really easy seamless entry point   for many of our customers, whether it's patients  caregivers or healthcare professionals. I think   they're going to be seamlessly integrated into  many of the platforms that they're already using,   so whether it's a social channel  or some or text messaging or something else, like   the bots are going to be seamlessly integrated  in that, in the same way that for apps to truly   be um ubiquitous and for everybody to start  using it. We started having iOS and Android   stores, where we could download it from. It's going to be much easier to engage   with bots, if not, you have to go and find it,  they'll be where you are. And then also in   the back end, I think what you're going to start  to find is, all the different bots that we have,   all that data is going to have to be collected  and aggregated and made sense off in the back end,   when you start to pull those together, much to what Sophie just said, and then that data,   I think can be leveraged across the entire life  cycle of the drug and and the   product, and so that everything from R&D,  looking at sort of digital biomarkers, to global   drug development using it for patient reported  outcomes, and maybe even patient recruitment for   clinical trials, to then product support in the commercial space like. And then also, I  think, so if you brought up the example earlier,  about supply chain and manufacturing, having   remote process automation and so on, and driving some of these responses   for inventory and so on, I think that, throughout  the life cycle of a product, you're gonna start to   see applications of this data, but it can only  happen if this data is also brought together   and structured in a way that could  be interpreted and made sense off   holistically. Thank you, Shwen. With that thought, I  would like to close this very interesting session.   I believe it was very insightful, with a lot of fresh and up-to-date information. Please join   us for other remaining sessions, actually six in total, from tomorrow till Friday. All of the   sessions will be also published on our YouTube channel. Sophie, John, Shwen, thank you very much,   once again for joining us and I really hope we can engage in some further initiatives from us,   as well. Take care and stay negative in COVID, but  positive in mind! - Thanks. - Thanks everybody, bye! 