 Do you have time series data? Data with timestamps and important critical business information with that? Well, you're not going to want to miss this next episode of the AI show, where we talk about Anomaly Detector. [MUSIC].  Hello. Welcome to this episode of the AI show where we're going to talk about the Anomaly Detector. I've got a special guest, how are you doing my friend?  Great. Happy to assist.  Good, tell us who you are and what you do.  I'm Jun from China, I'm working at Microsoft AI platform team. I'm actually the PM of Anomaly Detector. Grid service, Azure Cognitive Service.  This is a brand new thing, so why don't you give us like a 10-second overview of what it is, 10,000 for level.  Sure, 10 second, right? So Anomaly Detector is basically AI service app, how the service, an API service that's going to detect anomalies from time series.  I see.  Yeah. So time series is basically measures of any metrics and with timestamp. So that's what the service is.  So that's awesome. Can you give me a sense for what use case. Because I think I understand what you're saying but can you tell me what use cases there are so I get a little more concrete in my head.  Yeah, make sense. Actually, I got a few here. So we start with business metrics because that's where we started from actually. Business metrics is basically something like hey, we got website and there's visitors coming in every day and there's also revenue of the website. That's why this website exists. Now, you've got those KPIs there and it has a timestamp, maybe daily or even hourly or even weekly and you want to check that metrics, you want to monitor that metrics, you want to know when there's something wrong with it. You want to know it in time before this big loss, that's a big loss to the revenue. So we that, where's the business metrics Anomaly Detector is trying to address the way that when something like Hopscotch call doesn't work and that's why the AI is coming to.  So it's basically like if there's something happening in your business that's not expected, we want to flag that right as it's starting. That way we don't get into a bad situation.  You don't want to know it after everything is at a catastrophic failure.  So what other scenarios are there?  So business metric is just one common data that we address. The other type of scenarios that we constantly face and our customers came to us a lot is about IoT. In industries like cars or oil and energy and even some factory floors, customers will deploy the sensors in the production line, in cars and drones, and those sensors will emit data, especially at time series data and in metrics like temperature, humidity or even vibration. So all that data is basically the metrics that you do want to monitor by human. That's where we can also help.  So if a machine is getting too hot, you want to know right away before you burn up your machine or if there is a sensor like for example you have a fence and all of a sudden there's a spike in temperature, that would be something you want to look at as well.  You want to look at or you want to check something to turn on it before it's going to explode or something.  So as I'm understanding, any data that it has a timestamp would be a good candidate for this. But I imagine that this is a hard problem and there are some issues with it, and this is why we've got to sort of. What makes this particular problem hard?  That's a great question, and that's why we shipped this product to help everyone. So because all those scenarios that I've mentioned is basically dealing with the challenge of how to detect anomalies from time series data. But in some sense to data by itself is just has two fields. One is the timestamp and the other one is a measure. There's nothing more about it. So if you want to detect anomalies from that, traditionally, people will set something like a threshold. Hard-threshold is proven not working because was a high bar. You will likely miss a lot of anomalies.  So you're it's set at say a flat number as a threshold is what's been done before but as we go forward, that could be a problem because you might set the threshold too high, too low and then you can still cause damage.  Yes, exactly. The one challenge with threshold is business will change. So one day this will work and the other day no, it grows or a declines. You need to reset everything. That's a big challenge. Well, we are the AI guys and now in Iowa, well, actually already some existing approaches. Maybe I would say algorithms, trying to adjust to this. So as you can see in this screen, we have listed, enumerate some really fancy charts. But these are really the challenges, these are the liability of real world data. There are Chen change, there are seasonality like this and there are normal anomalies like Spikes and Dips, and there are also linear pattern here. So with all the different patterns of data, the existing solutions, most of those are trying to find out a algorithm that one algorithm fits whole actually doesn't work.  As I'm looking at this chart, what I'm looking at is the blue is the actual timestamp data and the red dots are where we know there are anomalies and each of these six scenarios are indications of your data might look like this and then it has to do this. So it's a huge problem in that you really can't tell initially where your anomaly would be without an in-depth study of your data.  Yes, that's true.  I mean, it's pretty cool to see that but how do we go about solving this? What is it that we've done to make this a little bit easier for customer?  So that's the exciting part. Anomaly Detector was announced actually earlier this year in March. But this is another new service. We have already been hosting or running an AI-powered anomaly detection service using Microsoft for several years. So this means the anomaly detection and the algorithms under the old days is actually running with Microsoft and product data for hundreds of product teams, and that production data is helping us to improve those algorithms and improve the engineering efforts in the system and now we are bringing that capability, that knowledge to you, to customers, to our customers and as the Anomaly Detector.  This is pretty cool because even though it's a new product as of March, this isn't a new thing to Microsoft. We have all of this stored up knowledge and data of what anomalies look like all of our various business processes, and we're using that data to actually help customers predict on anomalies in their data; is that correct?  Yes. So today there a lot of customers coming to us with various scenarios and that has challenged us in their business problems. So like as you can see even with the oldest reliability of data like the changes in the existing solutions that cannot be addressed, we're able to address. So I got a few points here.  Firstly, it's about the variability, all those that it has.  Right, that's the point. Yeah.  Yeah. One algorithm fits all is not working, so we are coming with a pool of algorithms. We got a lot of algorithms. The innovation here is, first we will detect your data pattern. We find the algorithms that best fit your data and to apply the algorithm to your data, in order to have the best accuracy. Also I like to mention this, because this is my favorite part.  Right.  We have this SR-CNN which stands for Spectral Residue and a Convolutional Neural Network.  That's really cool.  Well, that sounds really cool and that is cool. That's a Nobel algorithm and model that's recently developed by my team, Anomaly Detector team.  Fantastic.  There is a paper which is already accepted by KDD 2019.  That's so cool. So I'm looking at this and it's just dawned on me that the problem Anomaly Detection is the same problem with all of AI, and that you have to first pick an algorithm that might work for your data and then you have to shuffle through those. But you're saying that the Anomaly Detection service, will go through and figure out which algorithm would be the best one to use.  Yeah. And the best part of it. You have to know that, because we hide everything under the hood. So the beauty of the services, we try to address the requirements not only for data scientists but also for developers. Developers who can write code with C-sharp, Java. So which means we actually shape this as a AI service and every algorithm, the complexity about the parameters that you need to tune each algorithm, are all hidden under the hood.  Fantastic.  What's left there is this API and there is one parameter which we call it sensitivity. Leave your bit flexibility there, but still if you are just a developer, not a data scientist. You are able to empower in building this into your application, no problem.  So can you show us a little demo? Maybe to get us started.  Of course.  Let us do that.  Yeah. So actually, this is Azure portal.  Okay.  Yeah. We actually started with something called the resource on Azure portal, because it's API service. But what you need is Anomaly Detector Resource on Azure that's going to host the APIs. So let me show. This is a way that you create an Anomaly Detector Resource. If you see this, and that's where you are, and then input name, let me do this quick. So far we have two regions, West US to trans West Europe. As we go into GA and there will be more, a lot more actually.  Got it.  So pricing tier. If you are the first-time user, you will still have this option with a free tier, but I'm not. So I got.  You are not a first-time user?  No, I'm not. Otherwise I would not be talking about this.  Right.  Okay. Let me create, oops.  So this is just as easy as creating as Azure service?  Yes. Exactly. This is the typical Azure Portal, Azure Resource Creation. Once you've got this resource, there's some paths. Let me switch to this Nobel first. So what we hosted on the Azure Noble Platform, is basically few Jupiter Notebooks. The data scientists and developers both-like. I'm going to show you how interesting and easy it is. So yeah, you go to the Azure Notebooks. First you need to sign-in. Otherwise it will be read-only to you. If you want to play with your own Notebook, go to this project and clone your own instance.  We'll get these links at the bottom of the show notes. So if you want to do this you can.  Yeah. Let me make another clone here. You don't want to check this, otherwise the project will be public to anyone on the Internet. So while it's being created, while it's being cloned, let's go to the resource. Let me see, where is it? Yeah. Azure. That's it. . Looks like it was made.  Yeah. It is. So as you can see, there is the overview and everything. What you need to take note down is include two things, one is this Endpoint, this West US too, I already got this, so I'm not going to copy and paste. But this is one thing and the other thing is the Keys, you click here got this API key. Because you are going to call the API with that. Once you got your Notebook project here, and this is clone of yours, you can actually run on three computers free. So with that, I'm just going to run it really quick.  Very good.  Yes, this is the Notebook. All you have to do is paste our key here. So we can do this actually, and the Endpoint, this is correct but if you are creating Western U remember to change this and this is the previous result. I can actually run and clean everything and run again. "Run All. "  Fantastic. So basically, if you want to get started quickly and all you do is create the servers, clone these Notebooks and you just run it, and then you have something to look at to work on later on?  Yes, they're all those requirements about the keys and the endpoint it's all from the resource that you created on Azure. Within this Notebook, you can play with the parameter that I've mentioned, the sensitivity, also the data. That's saved side-by-side with the Notebook you can change that and you can run on Anomaly Detection. Well, it's working out. So as you can see, these are anomalies detected from the data that's sitting here. These are JSON.  That's really cool.  Yeah.  Another thing is you literally created the services, cloned the Notebook, and so everything that you saw happen literally happened right here which is pretty cool.  Yeah.  So where can people go to find out more how can they get started?  Yeah, I got this slide here that can help you really a few highlighted links that have you start with. So first go to aka.msAnomalyDetector or search on Bing for Azure Anomaly Detector. You'll get to the overview. Then we also have this community. That's a Microsoft Teams group, that we host for both external customers and internal Microsoft guys and ourselves the engineering team. Yeah. There's a form here you can go there and apply to join. Finally, the Containers. Well, I'm going to talk about this in our next episode.  Fantastic.  Yeah.  So thank you so much for spending some time with us. Thank you so much [inaudible]. We have been learning all about Anomaly Detector an amazing new service that you should check out today. Thanks for watching and we'll see you next time. Take care. [MUSIC] 