 [MUSIC PLAYING] Hello, everyone. Welcome to TechEd 2020. And I am Suparna, chief product owner SAP Conversational AI. In this session today, I'm going to take you through some of the cool features that we have released over the past one year, that helps you build chatbots for your enterprise, and offer a very intelligent and smart experience to your customers and your employees So this past one year has been quite difficult for most of us over the world. This COVID-19 pandemic has totally changed the way we deal with pretty much everything in our life, including the businesses that we run. What it has done is, the digital transformation that we used to talk about until last year as one of the things that we should do, it has made it an utmost necessity and imperative for all the organizations to actually start with this digital transformation. However, while doing this digital transformation, the companies figured out how much they're struggling to meet their customers' and employees expectations. On the one hand, you have a lot of customer inquiries coming in because of all the different situations that were there because of the lockdown, on the other hand, you have to force your employees to go and work from home, and this brought in a totally new experience that you had to provide to your employees. So both these things together have created great difficulties for the enterprises. Now, if you look at what this means for your customers and your employees, with respect to the customers, if you cannot handle all the incoming requests, of course, there is a loss of customer trust, and there is a decrease in productivity for the companies, leading to huge business losses. And none of us are unaware of the financial losses that have occurred over the last one year. On top of that, when you look at your employees, frustrated employees also result in lower productivity, which results in bad employee perception, and on the other hand, a very low output from your employees and from the company overall. So if you look at some of the statistics that are there on the slide in front of you, bad customer support led to somewhere around $1.6 trillion USD in losses in US. On the other hand, employees were spending somewhere around 40% of their working hours on mundane low level tasks which could have been otherwise automated or done by something which is related to AI. So you see poor customer and employee experience is creating a lot of loss and risk for the company as well as the business. So what do we do? Digital transformation, of course, is the answer. But what does it mean? What does digital transformation mean? So digital transformation here refers to the automation of the entire business processes that you have within your company, both whether it's customer facing processes or your employee facing processes. And this is, as I said before, has become an imperative now in order to externally improve the experience of your customers, as well as internally to improve the experience of your employees. And this is needed more and more in this new era of COVID. Yeah, it was one year of very stressful times, but who knows the coming years would be much different than how we have lived our previous years so far. And this is where all these automation is going to help us, and make us even more prepared for these kind of pandemics and urgent situations. How have chatbots helped us in this scenario? I think most of you have in some form or the other interacted with the chatbots during this situation, whether it is about confirming your flight cancelation or train cancelation, or some of the inquiries that you had about COVID itself, or if you wanted to take some days off. So there have been a lot of instances where a lot of this load has come into the chatbots in order to handle this situation, and also to respond to this queries and questions from different people, from different lines of businesses as well as the customers. And here, what you see is what has the chatbot done? In all its whole journey, the chatbot is trying to redirect the users, the users who are asking question, they are trying to redirect the users to the right page if it doesn't have the answer. What it's also doing is sometimes it's executing simple tasks. For example, if I had to cancel an order or cancel a flight, sometimes I could just send out that instruction and then have that done, in case it was actually configured in the chatbot. What it also helps is-- the best thing about it is it's actually available 24/7. And with that, no matter what time of the day or night I have a question or I have some urgent issue to be resolved, I can approach the chatbot and the chatbot will come to my rescue. So by answering all of the FAQs that the chatbot knows, and by also being available 24/7, able to navigate you to the right pages, the chatbot has really come to the rescue of people in this time of the pandemic. And what you see right now is nothing but maybe truth. And also the numbers may increase going further. This is data from last year before COVID had happened. So the prediction was from Gartner, that 15% of all customer service interactions globally will be handled by completely AI driven resources. On the other hand, globally, around 25% of the digital workers will use virtual employee assistants daily. So from what we have seen over this last year, I think this number is going to be double, in both the cases. Nevertheless, what it means is we need to do something today in order to reach the demands of tomorrow. SAP being one of the leading software providers in the enterprise scenario is not behind in this initiative. So what we are doing is we are augmenting all our user experiences and all our products with the chatbots and what we call digital assistants, in order that you get the next generation conversational user experience while interacting with the business, or while interacting with the automated business processes. And here, SAP uses SAP Conversational AI, which is in the end to end chatbot building platform in order to build this chatbot for SAP products. What SAP Conversational AI provides is a unique experience. It comes with a bunch of features, and these features helps it to provide a very easy to use experience. So anyone, any chatbot developer can actually go and create a chatbot using SAP Conversational AI. What is there is also the X factor, meaning when you are talking to the bot, you have that wow feeling with the entire intelligence with which it responds, because of the machine learning algorithms that are inbuilt into the platform; the way it recognizes the user utterances and does necessary actions. It also has a very personalized experience. So you can use the chatbot to tailor it to give any kind of personalization based on the incoming user that is asking the question. It's also available almost everywhere. So all of the leading channels, third party channels that are there like Slack, Microsoft Teams, Telegram, we have integration with pretty much a lot of these channels, which in addition to those native web browser channels which you can use also to plug into your own product. Or you can use the same from SAP products. It's real time, so you can actually configure some small actions like taking a leave request, or finding the goals, or doing a time recording. So you can do all these kind of small small things by using the chatbot real time. So you don't have to go to an application and search for the application and do all these things. The intelligence, we know that SAP Conversational AI comes with inbuilt intelligence based on machine learning technology, and this is best in class in world right now. The experience that it provides is also very engaging, in the sense that the whole flow of the chatbot building starting from the training, the building, the monitoring, as well as the connecting or the deployment is very easy to use. The natural language understanding of the chatbot is really at par with any other competitor that you see in the market. Sometimes even the sentiment analysis and the emotion detection that we provide have been quite helpful in building some of the use cases for the different scenarios. You also have features in the platform which help in continuous learning. So once you have deployed the chatbot, that's not the end of the story. You can learn from the user behavior, and you can see what the user is telling the chatbot. And from that, you can get all the information in what we call is the log feed. And in the log feed, you can then go through all the information and then retrain the bot in order to improve the performance of the bot. So this is where the bot is continuously learning in order to be much more performing with respect to the incoming user references, and understanding the utterances. And once you have understood the utterances, we also provide a plethora of tools in order to execute your business. So you can go to the action tab and do a bunch of things starting from writing handcrafted cards, which you can send back to the user, to connecting to an API where you can execute a service, or a web hook, or doing some memory manipulations, or doing some context management. So you have a lot of choices with you when it comes to execution of the same. So you'll see with a lot of features that we are providing in SAP Conversational AI, the experience is really, really unique and end to end, starting from the training of the chatbot to the deployment, as well as post deployment enhancements. Well, I have spoken a lot, and now it's time to see something in action. So let's go ahead and see a demo. I'm going to show you a demo of how our S/4Hana colleagues are augmenting the experience of S/4Hana apps using SAP conversational AI chatbots, or digital assistance as we call them in enterprise. So what you see right in front of me is the Fiori launchpad of S/4Hana. And this must be a very familiar screen for you with a lot of tiles, depending upon my role. So I am-- so there are a lot of tiles. And you can do a lot. It's very powerful. But I want to have a very simple user experience. I'm a procurement manager, and I just want to check what were the completed purchase orders from last Friday. So here, if you look at it, the date today is 14th. And here, today is Wednesday. So I want to just check the items for last Friday. So I see here I have a digital assistant available for me, and the digital assistant is saying that it can help me with several different things. Let me see if it can help me today to find out, show me the completed purchase orders from last Friday. So let me see if it understands, it can correlate, it can analyze my role, see my authorizations, and then give me back the data. Right? So here, what it has been doing is it's first doing this whole natural language processing, where it is analyzing the whole sentence or this user utterance that I have, and it's trying to find out the different business objects and the attributes, trying to trigger the service in the back end, and by mapping the values into the service and then giving me back the result that you now see in front of the screen. Wonderful So what do I have? So last Friday it has interpreted as October 9th. And it has found out that there are 11 items. It cannot show all 11, so it has also given me a view more button using which I can scroll through and see all the list. Not only that, I can see the details of each item. And this is also possible. Wow, wonderful. What is this? So I also see that there is an open in app. Let me see what it does. And something is changing in the background. So it seems like it has a connection with the app, most probably the app from which it's feeding or getting this data. So you would have guessed it right. So in the background, what it is trying to do is it this opening up the app from which this data has been retrieved, and not only that, it has prefilled the context of the app with the query. And that's why you also see here 11 items, because it has taken the date range as 9th of October. So what you see is a very seamless experience between the app and the digital assistant based on your convenience and what you prefer. And it is helping you on the one hand to do simple tasks like finding out the purchase orders, on the other hand, it's also helping you to navigate. So a lot of things have gone into building of this particular chatbot. Let's take a look at some of those features that are there. So this must be a very familiar screen of yours. This is nothing but our SAP conversational AI window, and you have your familiar train, build and connect and monitor tabs with which you can build a full end to end chatbot. Now, in my build tab, you can see these are the different skills that I have built for the CRUD operations. In my show me skill, I have the skills for both purchase order and purchase requisitions, and also I have further drill down based on the header or the items that I have. Now, let me take a closer look at this particular skill, which is to filter or query based on the PO header. And if I go into the Actions, I will see that when this particular query is triggered, or the skill is triggered, it is asking me to go to another skill, which is PO header date. And when I go into that particular skill, I see there are some interesting features available over there. So what it is doing is in this particular skill, its fetching the data from the back-end using API service configuration. And if you see, it's getting the values from the memory. Right? So these are not hard-coded values, these are directly from the memory, and it's also filling up the values from the query header, and after analyzing what is the proper attribute that it has to fill in. And not only that, what it also is doing is over here, it's dynamically populating the message, or the output message. So here, what you see is-- what you have is called custom message. So this is something that we have introduced new. In this custom message, what we are doing is we are dynamically iterating through the response that we have got from the service, and we are building this particular list. And not only that, what we are doing is this particular chatbot, if you go to the chatbot over here, you see that in the initial list, it can only show three items over here and then it is asking me to do a few more. Similarly, you can do it for four or five or whatever. And if it's more, then what you can do is you can show the full list or you can show the view more tab. So this way you can actually totally design your chatbot to not only get the response from the service, but also manipulate the response and show it back to the end user. This is how powerful it is. Not only this, there are many other enterprise grade features, especially with respect to security and authentication that we have introduced. For example, if I now go ahead and create a new bot, say I'm creating a new intent based bot, let me pick up some of these skills that I want and let me name it Teched demo bot. And yeah. What you see over here is I have a new button over here to choose whether I want to store the logs or I don't want to store the logs. So if I stored the logs I'll be able to leverage the log feeds, conversation logs and all these features. But if I don't, then I won't be able to leverage those features. Depending on my GDPR policy in my company, I would select any one of those. Let me choose Store in order to show you another functionality called conversation logs. And let me choose the end user as a non-vulnerable. And let's go ahead and create the bot. And here, if you see, my bot gets created with the-- yeah. So the bot has got created. There was some issue in copying all the intent. So it could not completely copy all that intents, looks like. But nevertheless, I think I will be able to show you the main features that I wanted to. So the first thing is about this OAuth client. So far you have been using the dialog APIs end points, the runtime APIs for dialog as well as request using the runtime tokens, or the request tokens, which come in the form of version tokens or environment tokens. But now we are slowly going to deprecate this mechanism of authentication. Instead, we are now introducing the oAuth based authentication, and we support both client certificate based, as well as client credential based authentication. And the moment you choose it, you get the client ID and client secret and then you can go ahead with the introduction of your-- or calling out the API using these oAuth tokens. Plus we have another new feature of conversation logs which you can use in order to analyze all the conversations that happened with the chatbot. So so far, what you had done is like you have been only seeing the log feed, which is the user utterance alone. But here, if I do the whole conversation, since I don't have the conversation-- the skill modeled here, I'm triggering the fallback. But here if you see, if I now want to come here and see the entire log feed, so in the log feed, I'll see that we have one item which is called hello. And in that conversation logs, you will see that today I have one conversation, and this is both what the user utterance as well as what the chatbot responded to you. And you have several filters over here in order to really filter based on what you want to analyze. So these are some of the very interesting features that we have delivered in the past year in order to provide a full enterprise grade feature set for our SAP LOBs to build these kind of chatbots in order to prepare the digital assistant for S/4Hana, or SuccessFactors, or any other SAP product. So now we saw great demo about how S/4Hana developers have been augmenting their UI using the SAP conversational AI chatbot. What you see right now in the screen is another UI, which is from SuccessFactors. This is not the usual SuccessFactors screen, those of you who have worked with SuccessFactors, but this is a reimagined screen, as they call it, which they have built using SAP conversational UI. So the chatbot that you see on the right side of the screen is the chatbot that will be used, that you can use to interact. And instead of going to a particular tile in the converse-- in the UI, you can just chat with the bot and say, I want to view my goals, or I want to take a day off, or I want to award some-- John with a sport award. Or something like I want to see my-- I want to record my time. So you can do a bunch of these items with the new reimagined UI without moving from the screen and just being in the screen. On the one hand, you can do the simple tasks. On the other hand, what you can also do is the navigation. So once you have typed something in, it will take you directly. So you don't know where to go in SuccessFactors to find a certain part of your feature. So there you don't have to now really know where to go, what to find. You have your digital assistant with you, you simply ask your digital assistant, I want to do this, and the digital assistant will take you there. So this is where the whole navigation use case comes into the picture. So we have these two types of use cases, the navigation use case, which takes you to the right page, and the vertical use cases where you can directly perform the action in the screen then and there. So SuccessFactors is going to reimagine their UI using this technology. And here, the screen that you see right now is already beta. The GA version, or the generally available version will be available sometime next year. Well, so you have seen both the procurement scenario in S/4Hana, where we saw how S/4Hana is using procurement, is redesigning the procurement scenario using chatbots. And more and more, it's the employees in the company who are actually using these chatbots for the procurement scenario. On the other hand, you have seen the SuccessFactors scenario, which is also targeted towards the employees, how they are actually talking or interacting with the system via the chatbot and getting a much different user experience. Now, this is the employees' experience, but not only in the employee scenario. In the customer service scenario, also what you saw with the train, build, connect, and monitor tabs, you can go ahead and actually build customer service chatbots. Any use case, so to say, because it's a low code platform, you can go ahead and code whatever you want. On the other hand, you can also-- if you don't want to code, you can also use the inbuilt cards that we have provided and design your scenario and deploy it, so that your entire enterprise ecosystem can then actually check with your bot and interact with your application. So this is the customer service scenario. So you see both the employee scenario as well as the customer experience scenario is something that you can use and change using SAP conversational AI So what makes us special? There are so many chatbot building platform out in the market. Why should you choose us? Why should SAP Conversational AI be your chatbot building platform? The first and foremost thing that I just mentioned a moment before was about this low code connection. So you need not be a programmer, or you don't have to be someone who knows the hard core coding or programming in order to start building a chatbot. In fact, most of our customers who have built chatbots are actually having in their team people with the maybe sales background, or with some kind of a call center background. They are not the programmers, but they know the business. And they go ahead and create chatbots with this very low code platform. So features like the API service configuration that you don't have to bother about, how you're connecting to SAP back ends is something which is very helpful, plus the SSO capabilities that we provide. So you can simply connect, configure, and deploy. So it's that simple, which you already saw in the example that I showed in the demo for S/4Hana. This makes the whole chatbot building very fast, and reduces the total cost of development your in your project. The second thing that is very-- that is unique for SAP Conversational AI is the pre-built content from SAP. So as SAP, we are one of the leading software providers in the industry. And we have all the applications in the entire domain, starting from procurement to sales, marketing, so from all the different finance, HR. So you have all the different domains covered by us. And all these domains are now augmenting the user experiences with this chatbot. What this means is you are getting this pre-built content from SAP, you as customer, and then what you can do is using this pre-built content, you can either use it as is, or you can customize and change the-- change it to actually suit your business needs. So this is also something that you can do. So you can save a lot of your development effort in order to build something integrated with SAP, because the other software vendors that are there in the market, chatbot building platforms, they do not have such seamless integration into SAP like we provide, or they do not-- they won't be able to provide you these kind of inbuilt SAP content, which you can then take, simply take and then extend on. Last but not the least, the UI that we have with respect to SAP Conversational AI chatbot building platform is really very simple and easy to use. What we offer is an intuitive interface. So you saw how easy it is to really interpret what are the different guiding principles, how should you go from what steps to step, and it's for everything, you have the guided instructions which help you to actually navigate through the entire process and build your chatbot really fast. So the learning curve, you can bring down here significantly, and your team can start building or leveraging the chatbots very easily with the testing tools and also the collaboration tools. With all these features that we are providing, last year in one of the-- in the magic quadrant of release from Gartner in the multiexpedience development platform domain, we were in the leaders quadrant. So this does not come easy you know, and this is definitely because of all these features that we are providing in order to revolutionize the user experience with chatbots. So it is the easy to use UI, it's the native low code integrate-- low code platform, as well as the integration that we provide to SAP out of the box. In addition to the enterprise qualities. So we are providing all the cloud qualities of security, multi-tenancy, high availability, performance, everything inbuilt into your chatbot when you are building a chatbot with SAP Conversational AI. So all this hard work has helped us in being in the leaders quadrant in 2020's magic quadrant released from Gartner. This is a very proud moment for us for sure. So needless to say, with all these different features that we have, and the ease of use that we are providing, we have a lot of customers who are using SAP Conversational AI. Some of the big names you can see already on the screen right now; SFR, one of the largest telecom companies in Paris is our customer. And the chatbot that they have built using SAP Conversational AI is their only entry point for their customer in Paris. So you can imagine how much of reliability they have on SAP Conversational AI chatbots. Similarly, Group Mutual, Louis Vuitton are some of the other customers. From SAP, you already saw example from S/4Hana. I talked about the SuccessFactors as well. In addition, in SAP, we are using-- SAP IT is using SAP Conversational AI to build chatbots for SAP. So its SAP runs SAP, that's because we really trust in our products. And one of the biggest successes that we had this year was about the COVID-19 chatbot that was developed by Parkland Hospital, which was primarily for the health practitioners to monitor the COVID-19 patients and their symptoms. So you see we have-- these are just few names from the 100 plus customers and the ever-growing list that we have, in addition to the in-house adoption of the chat bot in our SAP products. We hope the way it is being used by our other customers, you will also find it quite useful. With that hope, we leave you with these resources that you can take a look at. So we have several tutorials which you can take a look at in order to see how you can build a chatbot. Then we have our product page, customer stories, our SAP community, where you can post your question and rest assured that we will be there to answer your query. And we have these links to our team as well. All this will be available with the slides. And you can buy a license as well on SAP store for SAP Conversational AI. So all these are available to you. These resources will be available to you. And we are always available for helping you out in your implementation of SAP Conversational AI. With that, I end my session today. And I hope you will have a good experience with SAP Conversational AI, trying it out, and also trying to enhance the experience of your customers and your employees with the SAP Conversational AI. I would encourage you also to continue your learning experience from SAP TechEd in 2020. So you have a number of tracks running, and a lot of sessions. Here you have all the details about the sessions. Enjoy your TechEd journey. And in addition, if you want some more information about the product, you can also contact our Solution Owner, Sebastien Beghelli, whose link or contact you will also get in the slides. Happy chatbot building. Thank you. [MUSIC PLAYING] 