 Hey guys. Thought Monkey here. Are you ever on your laptop connected wirelessly to your router and wonder how in the world are videos being sent to me through the air and onto my computer? Most of us take our Wi-Fi connections for granted. If you think about it, we pretty much have access to almost all of the information in the world, that has ever existed and it’s at just a touch away and it travels through the air to get to us. WHAT? How in the world does this work? Wi-Fi is actually a kind of light, or to be more technical a kind of electro-magnetic radiation. It’s a kind of light that we cannot see. In fact there is a whole spectrum of light and most of it is invisible to the human eye. Each kind of light emits pulses of energy which we call waves. The slower the pulse, the lower the frequency. Radio waves – the kind we use to listen to music on the radio, for example, have a very low frequency in comparison to gamma rays – which is the kind of light that is emitted during a nuclear explosion. The rays of light that Wi-Fi uses have a similar frequency to the microwaves many of us use to heat up our dinner – however, Wi-Fi does not cause any kind of thermal heating. If we were able to see a Wi-Fi signal it would basically look like a tiny pulsating dome. Now the question is, how is light carrying information like videos and music across the air and into my device? Well each Wi-Fi router is connected by Ethernet cable to a modem which is connected to the internet. This is similar to how in the old days a phone was connected to a phone line. Just like how a portable phone had an antenna which could connect it to the phonebase through a radiowave, your device that you use Wi-Fi on has a wireless card in it that connects it the Wi-Fi that is being pulsed out as light by your router. But you are probably still asking - What is it though that is in the Wi-Fi light that allows me to watch a streaming video? Great question! Within the light there are a set of instructions that talk to your computer and tells it what to do. These instructions are actually very basic. They are put into a code that can be read by your computer processor which only needs two different modes. One is a code that tells your computer “on” and the other is a code that tells it “off”. These codes are symbolized by 1s for on and 0s for off. So for example, if I want to send an image to you, the image on my computer would first be broken down into packets of data using 1s and 0s. It would then be sent to you from my computer’s Wi-Fi to my router and modem, through the Ethernet and internet, to your router and modem, and finally pulsed out of it as light that your computer would pick up. Your computer then would unpack the information, sent as 1s and 0s, into an image. This process is called TCP/IP and is metaphorically very similar to how the mail works. However, luckily for us Wi-Fi travels at the speed of light which makes it easy for huge amounts of information to travel. Well there you have it. That’s basically how you are watching this video right now. Thanks for watching and please click the button to subscribe! 