 (music) - So I was sitting in the back of the room and looking from the back, you can see the blue glow on everybody's face so that means everybody, while they're watching the presentations are also checking their email, looking up Facebook, looking at the news and I'll be the first to admit I also do that. The good news, we can all multi-task so I don't think I'm going to take offense to it and the reason I bring it up because it brings this talk a little bit into context, so what we're looking at is we're talking about continuous authentication. During the course of all these talks, at some point, you've had to enter your password, hopefully, to get into your device and start using your apps and usually the way you have these set up is you enter maybe a four-digit password and then once you're in, you're in, that means you have access to all your apps and in some cases, if you're using the device as an authentication token, you can also access other services, now while you guys have your phones in your hand, just to give you an idea of one of the ways it's easy to get through somebody's password is if you look sort of at an angle, I know this happens at home for me on our tablets, when my kids' grubby little hands are using it all the time, you'll see a little pattern where you always touch your password so you can almost tell which four digits are continuously being used on that partner tablet or phone. One example of how easy it is to get through a simple password like that, now there's two ways people might set up their passwords. One is you get into the device and then all your apps are now free to use, okay, so there's no granularity. Once you're in, you're in, zero or one. In other cases, each app has its own password. So now, for each app, especially if it's a banking app, where they often don't allow you to store them, you have to remember a new password and everybody's familiar with how difficult it is to remember the passwords, which actually then causes you to assume some kind of insecure behaviors, either using the same password, writing your password down, we've seen lots of apps in the app store which claim to securely store your passwords, when in fact, there's no crypto in these apps. Nobody's checking them, nobody knows how they work so this is what we're going to talk about, a way to have continuous authentication, not just once but as you use the device. So traditionally, in computer security, when you're doing authentication, we always talked about something you know, your password, something you are, some kind of biometric, and something you have. With the use of smartphones and cellphones, there's something new now is also how you behave so there's a challenge on how to make it easy for someone to authenticate to a smartphone but there's also now a new opportunity to use these sensors on the phone to gather more information and you can gather a lot of information without collecting personally identifiable information. What does that chart have to do with what I just said? Not much but it's part of the template so here it is. A little bit about Kryptowire, we're local to the DC area, we're very fortunate to be able to work with government agencies on this problem and one of the benefits of being on the East Coast and working with government agencies is most of the time, especially in the security field, we're dealing with subject matter experts that have been doing this for decades so we're very fortunate and like to thank our sponsors for their support and it's not just in funding but also being able to have access to the expertise within the federal government is a great benefit so I just wanted to throw that out there. So what's the need? I just explained it, using the passwords is difficult and, in fact, this difficulty creates actually insecure behaviors. We all know it, you encounter it every day and you've probably encountered it in the last few minutes while I've been talking so the goal here, what we're trying to do is can we use the sensors on the devices to monitor the behavior of users without collecting personally identifiable information and give a level of trust, okay, so we're not talking zero-one, you're in and out, it's a level of trust trying to identify the user so let me give you an example. Let's say I were to give you two apps and I say to you, "Okay, based on the way the user is using "this app, can you tell me who it is?" If I were to give you a flashlight app where the user just pokes one button and turns on the light, that would be really tough. You would have a very high false accept rate because most people would look exactly the same. On the other end of that spectrum, let's say somebody came up with a game and that game basically dropped balloons from the top of the screen and you were to find the yellow balloon and just poke it, see how fast you could poke it and the algorithm they used was as close as they could get to random on the smartphone, probably everybody would look pretty random and you wouldn't be able to differentiate one person from the next, so our goal here is not only, this is the context, this is the problem we're trying to solve, can you identify a user by the way they use the phone? So the smartphone gives you an opportunity to collect different modes, okay? We have many, many sensors for this experiment or for this effort, we use power, we use touch and touch involves many things, how many fingers are on the device, how quickly they're moving, what direction it is, how much surface area, so there's a lot of opportunity to catch, capture different types of information. We used power consumption, how much power is being used while the user is using the different applications, and of course, you have movement, so you have the gyroscope and the accelerometer to monitor these behaviors so the question is if we were to create a set of users, we ran experiments with about a hundred users. How well can you do and how well can you perform to identify these users? So the goal doesn't necessarily always have to be to 100% so you say, "How well did you do? "How well does this experiment perform?" We used a common metric called equal error rate, how well are your false accept rate and false reject rates? So this is important, we had approximately, say 6.5% roughly when you go to equal error rate so that means close to 94% of the time you're correct. Now, if your sports team is winning 94% of the time or your kids bring home the report cards with a 94%, that's pretty good, when you're talking about lots and lots of devices, is it good or is it bad? So this is part of our future research but what we're doing here, mind you, is you're building trust, so depending on what application you're using and what kind of risk is involved, it doesn't have to be a yes or no decision. It can give you information to make more informed decisions so let's say someone was suffering from some kind of medical condition and they were phy-, it could be in a tactical environment, for example, in the military, somebody has a physical ailment and they're just not behaving well. If their behavior is different and you reject them, is that a good idea? Maybe they're trying access some kind of medical attention. No, so now you can have a risk based approach to how do you use these apps. You might allow that behavior. Let's say somebody's doing a pre-flight check on an airplane and you notice there's a really big difference in how they're behaving. Maybe that scenario where you want to bring in a second check, maybe a co-pilot, maybe somebody else. So there's an opportunity not only to do this continuous authentication but do trust-based authentications so you're gaining additional information, so we're taking a problem and now you have additional opportunities, here's an overview of how this high level scheme works about collecting the different sensor data. You have a decision authentication engine and then the different confidence levels, now for practical purposes, we can use this and integrate it within an existing MDM so you can make other decisions. It's not only one or zero, you can or can't do something but again, risk-based and trust-based decisions and you building that trust over time. Different approaches for the types of sensor and physical data that you have available to use for making these decisions and again, we can expand this and this is multi-modal. The more information you have at your disposal, the better you can build your trust so it's multi-modal. We do have a paper that gives you all the sausage-making details and all the machine-learning algorithms, statistics, and how we collected and how we conducted the experiment, a lot of detail that we're more than happy to provide. The benefits, there's a progressive permission model, not one or zero, continuous authentication. It doesn't mean if I lost my device in the cab somebody got access, now they have everything so now we're continuously monitoring the behavior. You can enforce policy models and you can share the authentication levels among different devices and applications, the competition, there's a lot of papers published in how you can, and even just today, there were many complementary efforts characterizing user behavior just today I've seen, so there are many people that have done it. Others have concluded that context doesn't matter. We've seen that depending on which app you're using, it could be if you're using Chrome, for example, or Facebook, you use it differently so we found that context does matter so that's why we're able to monitor the behavior within apps. Here's some results, again, we would be happy to share the paper, which has the technical details. I only have 11 seconds left, here are some of the devices we tested it on, the next steps, of course, I talked about false accept rates and false reject rates. These, of course, are something we'd like to improve. Transition activities, like I said, working with government customers, subject matter experts in security, helps us with transitioning because we have actual people using it and we've identified other applications for the same technology, just a small one, you know, even password sharing. You can tell if somebody's sharing a password with someone else on an account if it's not the same user. Contact information, if you'd like white papers, published paper, peer-reviewed papers, we'd be happy to share them. (audience applauds) (music) 