 Do you have obsolete instruments you think will never work again think again Keysight Technologies obsolete is no longer in our vocabulary we've made it our mission to fix and properly calibrate your instruments no matter how old they are our step-by-step process makes it easy. Just ship is your instrument or if you're close to one of our local calibration centers will pick it up for free and even packages for you at your site if you wish. Once your instrument arrives it's in skilled hands first, inspect your instrument, record accessories, and verify your information. Then we use our exclusive fault diagnostic software to diagnose any problems with over $ 20 million worth of inventory on-site our technicians can have the repair parts they need in minutes. Our parts are certified genuine and backed by Keysight so you'll never have to worry about counterfeit parts. If the part is no longer manufactured our $3 million state of the art component level repair center can build or refurbish a replacement. Next we run adjustments at our calibration test stations. Using our proprietary calibration tools and software we calibrate your instrument as close to its original accuracy as possible. Plus, will upgrade your firmware and ensure instrument this free of viruses or other security threats. Finally after your instrument is cleaned and inspected for optimal use; we ship it back to you. Our special foam packaging make sure it arrives safely. The affordability of expert repair and calibration might surprise you especially if you choose a contract agreement which includes hassle-free priority handling and can save you up to 80% off per incident support. At our Roseville California facility. One of dozens of facilities worldwide are 120 technicians have an average of 16 years experience. We've been fixing your instruments for over 75 years every year completing 20,000 repairs and 50,000 calibrations on over 3,000 models we are determined to remain the best that's why we continue to invest in our people and processes so we can keep your equipment running long past its expected lifespan Come see why key site is the best option to keep your instruments working for you 