 Hello! My name is Amy Sturkey. I'm a pediatric physical therapist, and I'm here with Sebastian. Sebastian is seven years old. He just had a birthday, and he has spastic quadriplegic cerebral palsy. One of the things we're working on is he is really into this extensor pattern tone. So we're trying to find ways for him to figure out how to go the opposite way, to not extend back. That is really really tricky for him. So an easy way that we've found to work on it with Sebastian is to work on sit to stand and then having him try to sit himself back down. So first we have to sit down to start this. Hold on. Alright Alright. Ready? Sebastian, we're going to stand up. So you can see that's a pattern for him to activate. Now, Sebastian we're going to have to sit down. So this is going the opposite direction, and this is a lot harder for him. So Sebastian the first thing you need to do is fix it. You got to fix your head. That's right, and you're going to have to sit down. I know it's hard, but you got... That's right Sebastian, sit down. So you can see him trying to initiate the pattern by bringing his head forward. Perfect, Now can you sit down, Sebastian? You can do it. That's right, Sebastian.You see him trying so hard. Go, Sebastian. You got to sit down. Not the wrong way Sebastian. You got to go down. So the easiest thing for him to fire is all those extensor muscles. Trying to figure out how to relax them so he can sit down is really hard. Go, Sebastian. You've got it. Exactly right. That was a perfect demonstration. I loved that. I hope this is an idea you can work at home. Because kids who have all this extensor tone need to learn the other way. If they are only extending, it makes it really hard to change diapers. It makes it really hard to hold them. It makes them really hard to move from one position to the next. So helping him learn control in the opposite direction is critical. I hope this is helpful. Sebastian, come back here, and we'll see you next time. Bye-bye! 