 Hey guys. Welcome to the session by Intellipaat. Microsoft Azure is the fastest growing cloud provider in the world and the second largest cloud provider. Right behind AWS in the public cloud market. And few among the Fortune 500 companies who use Microsoft Azure for their cloud needs are Apple Pixar and Samsung. Also guys in this session will be learning about Microsoft Azure comprehensively. we will sort of from the beginner level concepts and move on to that one concepts. And also guys before moving on to the session. Please subscribe to our channel so that you don't miss our upcoming videos. Now let us take a quick glance at the agenda. Let's start out with a quick introduction to cloud computing on Microsoft's Azure After that will look at the various categories of services provided by Azure like computing services and Storage services. Moving on we look at the most popular services Azure providers like virtual machines blob storage SQL databases as Azure App services and auto scaling with hands on. Moving on we look at the career and certification paths in Azure with detailed info of salary and required skills. And finally we have a short Quiz with interview questions and we learn how to answer interview detailly. And also guys if you want to do an end to end certification on Microsoft Azure we Intellipaat provide you Azure architect Programme and those details are available in the description. Now let us begin with this session. First let us look at why Azure there are so many cloud providers in this world. So there is Amazon Web Services. There is a Google cloud that is IBM cloud that is Oracle Cloud a league cloud VM. There are so many cloud providers. But why do you choose a particular cloud cloud provider for your needs. So right now we are going to look into that. Why do we need azure So we all know that Amazon Web Services is the number one cloud provider in the world. They dominate the public cloud market and then comes as Azure in the second place and then comes Google Cloud and then the other cloud comes inside. That's fine. So now why is Azure second. And why is Amazon Web Services first. So Amazon Web Services started four years before Azure and they had that four years of headstart which Azure did not have. But still azure is growing at a rate that exponentially we see they will one day beat Amazon Web Services in the public cloud market. So now. Yes. Numbers don't lie. So the first thing is every year every year constantly Azure invest 1 billion US dollars into the security recession department section of Microsoft Azure. Also they have more than three thousand five hundred security experts to take care of the complete Microsoft Azure data centers and the entire architecture of Microsoft Azure. So when there is a threat which is running in a particular data center. They will be able to figure that out and clear it within a few seconds. So. So that's why they're investing so much into that. So why one million U.S. dollars. So what does it matter to you as a customer. So the only thing you have to take out of this is Microsoft Azure cares about their customers. They invest so much in security so that your data is not lost. Your data has to be your own data your data has to be private. That data should not be used by Azure for their own personal live stats so they don't do that. Second that data should not be they dont sell data Third that data should be secure enough so that an unauthorized person or a hacker should not be able to take data out of your Azures Azure architecture. So now for that they invest so much money into it so that all of it is safe and secure. So they care about their customers. This is the first number. So the second number is they have a hundred plus services to build deploy and manage applications on the cloud. So they have virtual machines. They have storage applications they have SQL applications they have ai applications they are machine learning applications they have so many applications I can not numbered them all at one time. So there are so many domains you can use all of them. And then finally the India head for azure has told that 95 percent of Fortune 500 companies use Azure for their business needs. So not the entire architecture should be on Azure. If for example one particular company is just using the Azure SQL databases for them and not other data sorry not others your services. So basically it right now that company is using Azure service. So looking at that particular fact there are in 500 companies 95 percent of the companies are using Azure. Using Microsoft Azure services for some of their business needs. So these three were the biggest fact which I came across while looking into Microsoft Azure Okay guys a quick info. If you are looking for an end to Microsoft Azure training Intellipaat provides and Azure architect certification training. And those details that are available in the description. Now let's continue with the session. And then. So what do you get out of Azure. So they do this so they invest this much amount of money in security. They have these many services. Yeah you get you will get benefited by services then ninety five percent of Fortune 500 companies uses your. But what do you get as a customer as a person who is working on Azure. So if you want to start learning Azure then you can easily create an account and you get these three things for free. First you get twelve months of popular free services. So the most popular services are you will get them for free for 12 months. Second you get thirteen thousand three hundred rupees in Indian rupees or hundred dollars of credit free for 30 days to explode Azure you can explode across azure using any services you want we charge it'll be automatically deducted from the credit they provided. And finally there are always free services also. So you also get always free services will look at them later. So these three are the main features you get out of it when you launch or when you create Azure account. So when you create azure account you get 12 months of free services you get thirteen thousand three hundred credit points for free. All these free services are more than 25. So now what you can do with an Azure free account you might be thinking that. Okay. So cloud you can launch services you can use those services to host your application so you will not have a particular idea of what to do. So let me give some ideas of what you can do with your Azure free account to learn azure So first you might have a local application which you are building so you can host that local application in to azure into that azure infrastructure. So for example if you have if you use your system as a local server and have an application you can you can launch a virtual machine on azure cloud and host your application over there. And if you also have a local database you can open up a SQL database on azure and migrate your data out from your local to SQL database which is on azure and use that use that azure application architecture. So like this you can learn a lot. And second you can create custom mobile experiences you can create mobile services you can use app service which is again one of the service which azure provider and azure Cosmo's DB again as your Cosmos D.B. is a no SQL database which as azure provides. So they also have Zammer in hockey app and traffic manager. So it is pretty easy to create a mobile application using azure. And finally you can also get insights out of your data. So they have data lake analytics they have HD insight and also machine learning you can run machine learning algorithms on virtual machines. So you have all these you have all these things you have ML Data Lake Analytics you have HD insight so you can use all of them and you can upload your data into that and you can use algorithms or you can use SQL queries to get insights out of the data. So these are three use cases which you can do to start off with azureone. The basic thing you can do is use your local applications and migrate them into azure cloud then you can create mobile applications and finally you can get some insights from data and also every year again azure provide more services they are currently developing a lot of services. They increase the regions and availability zones like that. Right now they've announced that you can use twelve artificial intelligence services for free for 12 months. So for twelve months you can use 12 different AI services for free. So build App that recognise people's needs with azure cognitive services so you can use azure cognitive services for free for 12 months. And now again why azure SO WE TALKED ABOUT THE NUMBERS WE TALKED ABOUT. what azure gives you. And these are again these are again provided by every cloud cloud provider right. Even A W.S. provides a free tier even JCP provides free tire. So even they provide that and even their cloud providers even they have a lot of services. But what makes your standout so this is one of the places where azure stands out even though it is in the second position you can look at the growth rate of azure. So by 2016 you can see Amazon or AWS was dominating the market the top by having 35 percent. So 52 percent is basically a combination of other cloud services. So this is not a single service. So as a single cloud provider AWS was completely dominating the market in 2016 but 35 percent of the public cloud market share. And you can see over here with 8 percent with 8 percent of the public cloud market share azure was second. So there was this huge gap between Azure and AWS Okay guys. Quick info. If you are looking for an end to end Microsoft azure training Intellipaat provides azure architect certification training. And those details that are available in the description. Now continue with the session. Then again coming here 2 percent Google and Alibaba that are 2 percent. So currently AWS is at 47 percent azure is at 22 percent. So if you compare So thirty five to forty seven it has it had twelve percent growth in three years. But azure had a 14 percent growth which is 2 percent more than AWS. So basically what I'm trying to say is the growth rate of azure is increasing every year. It is increasing exponentially every year. So it's not going to be stopped. Their revenues is getting increased. Their growth rate is increase the number of services are increase. So also most of the companies are preferring azure than AWB is because they have a lot of inbuilt tools which go that dot net framework. And the visual studio IDE. So if if you're a Dot net developer azure would be a better choice than AWS is. So also if you are farmiliar with power shell then again azure would be better choice for you than AWS. So aazure is a Microsoft product. Right. So you can use all Microsoft products. There is a lot of ways you can implement other Microsoft products with azure SO you can directly deploy an application from your visual studio visual studio code from that particular IDE you can directly launch a service and you can host it on a virtual machine in Azure which is running currently so you can do all that. So you can see this is what I wanted to show the steep increase which is going on every year and even GCP got 8 percent done Ali. Ali sorry. Ali cloud got 8 percent and GCP is 7 percent so right now we're not going to talk about Google Cloud. We are talking about Azure. So that's what I'm saying. What their growth rate is more than AWS. Second you have a lot of native developer tools which are very helpful. If you are a dot net developer or if you view use power shell mostly or if you use Windows machines often or if you're developing applications using C sharp or VB dot net or anything like that it would be more helpful for you to use Azure than AWS now average salary often Azure solutions architect. So in the USA it is a hundred thousand dollars per annum in the U.K. it is sixty seven thousand pounds per annum and in India it is 17 lakhs per annum according to Glassdoor dot com. So again why Azure this is one of the things that you get paid very well if you are Azure professional if you get as you're certified and you get an Azure job. I am pretty sure you'll be paid well because you're working on one of the best technologies currently which is trending and also you will be helping a company to their infrastructure. Now we have looked at why Azure so let me brief. What. Why Azure first SO WHY Azure we saw first we saw the numbers of zeros so they invest their investment their growth their number of services and all that. So now we are going to look at what exactly is Azure. I was talking about Azure they are a cloud provider but what is a cloud provider. What Azure. Now let us look at that. Okay. So first again Azure is a cloud provider owned by Microsoft which provides its users a wide range of services via Internet. So basically Microsoft Azure provides services which are running in their cloud infrastructure and you can use them by renting them out. That's it. Basically the concept is very simple in cloud computing. You would rent some services from people who are running it. So I just wanted to explain how this happens. So you are an user you are using the Microsoft Azure console in your system and you're trying to launch a virtual machine. So now you might not know what exactly happens in between before you get a virtual machine. So when you launch a service using Azure you your service it will show it is launched and you will get a notification in your Azure console. So now you will understand that IDE is launched but where is it launched. Where is this particular cloud. So basically cloud is the term which we used to denote that basically does not hanging somewhere it is not a cloud. Basically it is a data center which is owned by Microsoft which is in multiple locations and basically when you launch a virtual machine or when you launch a service using Azureyou are basically triggering an action in those data centers that they have those services running on. So in the Azure data centers they will have the virtual machines. They'll have the SQL databases everything will be configured but you will have to provide the name for it. You'll have to provide what kind of configuration you need the size you need. You have to provide all these details to get that particular service you want. So now basically cloud is the internet. You're using the internet to access a particular service which is provided by Azure and you are paying for it. So basically you're not paying for the entities infrastructure which they host you only pay for what you use and the time you use that particular service. Now again Azure has Azure has the most number of regions in the world they have 54 regions worldwide. That is in 54 different regions. They have their data centers and 140 available in 140 countries. So basically they are available in 140 countries. That's what they're saying and they're they're spread across 54 regions worldwide. You can see there in the USA they're in Canada. They're available in Brazil. They're available in South Africa. They're available in India Southeast Asia. They're available in China Korea and they're available in Australia and in Europe too. So basically they're available everywhere and they're spread across everywhere. So this particular architecture. So what would be the benefit of this. So they have data centers almost in every location in the world. So why does this make your company better so a few use Azure if you have a service running in one particular data center. So right now you are. So let's say your company is an American based company. So right now you have invest us you have your entire architecture running. So now you're checking your websites analytics and showing that from India you're getting a lot of requests from India. You're getting let's say you're getting a thousand requests and from those thousand requests 500 are from India and rest are from USA. So now you think I want to expand my business to India also. So what will you do you will you go to India buy some service and keep it in a keep it in a place where you rent it out and keep those service configured them hire people to maintain them monitor them constantly and then get data out of it and make your business better. So this will involve a lot of labor and a lot of cost. So and also a lot of time basically. So that's what they're trying to reduce the time wasted in moving an infrastructure. So now using Azure you can basically migrate your entire architecture into one of these data centers are all of these data centers in India. So that is a huge process. While you're doing it manually but using Azure it is just a matter of some clicks in your web service. That's it. Okay. Now we saw what is Azure SO Azure is a cloud provider they have some data centers which have hardware components lying somewhere across the entire world. They have multiple data centers and you are basically paying them a certain amount to use a particular service for a particular amount of time. So that is what Azure is. So Azure basically a cloud provider who rents you services. Now let us look at what kinds of services they provide. Now security and management compute the been mobile developer services data analytics and IED integration media and Syrian hybrid operations and infrastructural services. So they provide a wide variety of services not just a particular kind of service. They provide a wide variety of services coming to compute. So basically compute web and Mobile. So these are. So let's say to be more easier. So let's say mobile applications. So now you want to host your mobile application somewhere you have created your mobile application in your desktop using Android Studio or you're using Zamir and so whatever tool you're using it's fine. You have created your mobile application but you do not have the fund to buy your own server and launch your own led to launch your own application in that. So you don't have funds for that. You are looking at your wallet but you do not have enough money to do that. So what you can do is you can launch or you can create a zero account go to Azure launch a mobile application service and hosted right over there and they'll only charge you for the time you're using it. So they're not charged for they'll not charge you every day if you stop that particular service if you're not using it anymore you won't get charged after that. So you only get charged for the time you are using it. Now let's look at other services. So let's look at a SQL database so they provide a database on which is running on the cloud. It can be my sequel or Postgres sequal or an Oracle database. You can use that then they have a SQL data warehouse. This is for analytical purposes. You can use them to migrate your analytical load and query valuable insights from them and you can see visual studio. So basically you can also build Visual Studio from sorry. You can also build applications from Visual Studio in your local system and upload it to the Azure cloud. And then they have SDK you can use them in your code and then what else they have Analytics So you can basically use machine learning you can run machine learning algorithms on Azure which will be more powerful. They have a data factory which is basically a place where you put all your data and then it is like a data league from where you can store any kind of unstructured data and then use them. You can query them out. So basically again it is for analytics. And then what else you have a content delivery network is basic. So let's say you're a startup and you want to stream some videos so you can use Azure CDN to upload all your content to that and create multiple edge locations. So edge location is in the sense multiple access points from where your users can get their content from. So you would have seen in YouTube let's say again now coming to YouTube example. So if you type in a video sometimes a video is banned in your country. So if that video is banned in your country. So basically that particular video. So in that particular region it's not able to access that particular access point for that particular video. So they blocked it. So right now let's say YouTube every day. So much of content is uploaded to YouTube. So how do they manage that. Where do they keep it. Do they have servers on their own in their huge YouTube headquarters and store them all. No. That is the answer. No Is that so. So they basically use a CDN content delivery network where they store all their videos coming from multiple regions. So they have CDN's across the world they store it and you can access any video from any CDN at any point of time. For example if this particular CDN does not have that content it goes back to the original server and it gets that data back and gives it to you. So that is what a CDN is so I am just explaining what kinds of services it provides. So it also provides Azure story. It does blob storage. It has virtual machines then it has virtual networks so basically virtual networks are virtual private clouds. They are basically a cloud inside your cloud. So to be more simple you have one particular container. I'm in inside that container. You put your virtual machines or your servers. So now though. So anybody from out outside that particular virtual network cannot access the those services which are running inside them. You can basically block outside access to isolate services to run in a particular place so you can do this. So these are the various services in Azure if we want to exploit services in Azure this particular station I could take just for these your services. Now also as your services are provided for free. Now let us look at what are the services which you can get for free. When is the Linux virtual machines which they give for 750 hrs every month. So for twelve months and every month for 750 hours you get Linux virtual machines for free. And again for Windows virtual machines it is the same then managed disk. So you get 64 G.B. into do you get this much space so this is free again. So this is not does it not cost you. And then coming to blob storage every month 5gb of data is free for you file storage again 5 gB of data is free for you a SQL database you get one 250 G.B. of data free for a 12 month period. So basically you can use a SQL database to run your own startup. You can run your own startup for free totally. You don't get any cost so if it does not go beyond 250 TB if it goes beyond 250 TB again you pay only for the space you take up after 250 TB. So again it will be very cheap. Okay guys a quick infol. If you're looking for an end to end Microsoft Azure training Intellipaat provides an Azure architecture application training. And those details are available in the description. Now let's continue with the session. So these are some free services which Azure provides and these are the most popular services that Azure provides. So that is a why to promote Azure they provide these services for free so that you can use them and try them out too and understand how cool Azure is and then shift to Azure all by all yourself. So you might have your own servers but after looking at this Azure functionality and it's cheap prices you will be inspired or intimidated to move towards Azure. Now let us do a simple demo of launching a virtual machine on Azure cloud. So now let us go to the console. I have already logged in. So once you logged in the size of the console will look. So here you can see Azure services create a resource. Virtual Machines resource groups Azure Cosmo's DB so virtual mission. So now we are going to launch a virtual machine. And these are the services which they provide and they are showing it all here. You can also pull this hand look at the most commonly used services and you can go to home. So basically this is the home. And then you can see multiple tools over here. They have a mobile app also you can download this app and use Azure from your mobile. You don't need need to have a powerfull laptop. You just need your mobile to launch as your services. So you can see I already have a virtual machine named first running in my console. So now let us launch our own application let sorry let us launch our own virtual mission. So it is pretty simple. You just have to either click on this or you can directly created from here. So let me click on this service first. So when I click on this this takes me here to again see this first. This is the service which I already have. So now to create one more service you will all you have to do is click on add. And you get this console which is create a virtual mission. So now you'll have to fill up one two three four five six seven seven tabs. If you fill seven tabs this will take hardly two minutes. If you do that you'll get your own virtual mission. You can log into it and do whatever you want. Now. So this is a subscription which I have which is as you have for students and you can see I have resource groups so resource groups are basically let's say a group inside which you have all the details of your virtual missions of or any software which you use in that particular resource group. So to make it more clear. So let's say you have a bag and there are two different bags and you how do you have apples you have oranges. So now you want to differentiate between apples and oranges. So what you can do simply is throw the apples into the first back and throw the oranges into the second bag. So that is how Resource group works. so let's say you have 20 servers and 10 servers are for one application and other ten are for one application. So now you can create two resource groups and put the first 10 servers into the first resource group and put the second 10 servers into the second Resource Group. So this of Resource Group looks for now I'm just selecting the already existing resource group or to create one it's pretty simple. Click on Create new provider name hit. OK you will create a resource group. Now you'll have to provide a virtual machine name. So us gve Azure VM one. So. So this is our virtual machine name. And you can choose that region that this particular virtual mission is going to be hosted. So it is all already taken based us. You can also choose one of those so you can choose West India. You can choose Australia south coast. So basically you can choose any one of this. And in that particular region you will get your virtual machine launched. So I'm just going to go with US. Not a problem and then you can choose here what kind of full operating system should be running on your instance. So you have ubuntu server you have RHEL that you have as USA you have Cent OS you have Debian and you have Oracle Linux again Ubuntu server older version sixteen point zero four and then you have Windows 10 you have Windows Server 2012 you have Windows Server 2016 you have Windows Server 2019. So I'm just going to go with ubuntu. So let's go with the Ubuntu and here you can see standard B1. So let's change the size so you can see here standard B1 is the smallest service which you can take up and it will. It might cost you 3700 rupees per month but don't get intimidated by this number. If you're running the servers for just one hour you will get charged only for that one hour. You'll not get charged for the entire month. So just divide this by the number of hours the entire month. So that's it you'll get that particular charge for that particular hour. So for a new use of a let's say I am. So basically I have an account right now. So as I told you you can have you can run for 750 hours a virtual machine for free. So basically right now this particular service would be free for me but it's showing this in the next part in this our management I think we can choose whether it should be free or not. So now then here you can see the authentication type. So there are two authentication types. One is password and one is SSL public key. So you can either choose one of them I'm going to go with the password authentication type so basically password authentication type in the sense when the instances launched you can open the instance and after opening the instance you can just hit your password inside and log in. So that's more than enough you don't need to do anything else if it isn't SSL public key you should already have a public key and you should provide the user name and you should provide the public key over here and then you can use your private key to log in. So I'm just going to use password right now after launching the service I'll show you how to also create SSl s public key. So let me go with my username and so password as far as I know it should be 12 characters and also should contain capital letters and also should contain a number also should contain a special character. So only if all of these conditions are OK only then they'll allow you to create this particular virtual mission. So you'll have to provide it accordingly if it is a weak password then they will not allow it to will not allow it to you they will not allow you to use that particular password. So if you're not pretty sure you'll not remember your password then go with SSh public keys. Now none allowed selected port. So basically this is providing permission for what port number can be used to access your particular visual mission. So now if you're using SSH then basically you can use port number 22. So from from the port number 22 using SSH. You can log in to your particular server which you have launched. So right now this is fine. Everything will provided whatever we need here next disks. So I'm just going to go with standard. So standard SSD automatically taken and then so fine we don't need to do anything else. Now it is automatically taken virtual network as I told you virtual networks are logically isolated from each other. Each other in Azure. So that's what I was telling you previously Virtual Networks make a virtual networks logically isolates the services which are inside them from the services which are outside them or in another virtual network. And then subnet and public IP so it automatically provide a public IP for this which we can use to access our virtual machine. I'll also show you how to access a virtual machine while after it gets deployed. So right now let us go ahead. So first virtual network it automatically took subnet in the sense sub network. So subnet work is again a big concept. It comes under a virtual network. So let us skip that. So we'll just have to remember what is a virtual network and why do we use a virtual network and then public inbound ports. This I already explained without providing this particular inbound port. Nobody will be able to access your database using SSh only if you provide this. I will if I only provide this I'll be able to access my virtual machine using SSH now. Next management. So here your subscription is protected by Azure central basic plan. So I don't want basic plan. So let me click HDD and let me check right now so we can also go with the free plan. So OK it took suggestions again. OK. It took management Azure security center basic plan and then are boot diagnostics are on OS diagnostic so these are not default. You don't need these are mandatory you don't need to provide them. So this accounts it will be already available anyway as your account when you create them. You don't need to create new things it'll automatically get attached next advanced so you don't need to provide anything here. So these are basically high more advanced concepts. We're not going to go into advanced concepts. We just want to know how to launch a virtual machine. So first we provided the name we chose the disk and then yeah that said we didn't do anything else. So now tags so basically tag sort of for tracking your particular virtual mission. So for example you might have 10 servers for a website for having a website. So now if you're tag them all of the same name so you'll know that these are all the servers which are for my Web site. So that's how you can use tags. And then finally we can review and create it. So if it shows. So if it shows you that the validation US has not passed then you would have done some mistake. You'd have to go back it like to show where you've done the mistake you'll allowed to go there and correct it. So if there are no mistakes then it's fine. Go ahead and click Create. So now you'll get this available here. So again see submitting deployment and deployment and progress. You'll be taken to a console where it is getting launched. So your deployment is under way. And it will show step by step what exactly is happening. Also you can view the steps running over here. So right now this particular deployment will take up to two to three minutes. So within this once it gets deployed we look into it. Before that I'll also show you how to create a public and a private key. So let me open Puttygen. So you should have by the puttygen installed in your system before this. So now if I go to puttygen so you can see your generate it so you'll have to click on generate checked and just moving almost across this. So please generate some randomness by moving the mouse over the blank area. So that's what we'll have to do. So once you have done this It will automatically create Yeah. So right now it has created the public. So this is the public key. So while it was showing how to deploy you would have seen a big box under SSh key. So there you have to copy and paste this and provide your user name. So once it's done. So the thing is you would have provided the public key for your instance. So once you provided the public key for your instance one only the particular private key can be used to decrypt it. So you'll have to save your private key. Let me say it private. So you have saved your private key. And if you want you can save you a public key also. So then this is how you create a public and a private key and while creating your virtual mission you will have to provide these public keys. RSA inside the particular box. Once you provide entry and created it. And then while you while you're trying to log into your instance what at that particular point you'll have to provide the private key inside your putty. So will not look into that. I just wanted to show you another way of logging in into a virtual mission. So now let's look at the most basic way of logging into your instance using a password so you can see they're showing the steps. So they are showing one by one so set about a shutdown recommend. So not a problem solved. Right now the deployment is under underway. So it doesn't take some time guys as I already told you. So now let us wait until this gets completed. So once this gets completed we'll be able to log into our virtual mission. So before this gets completed I'll also show you my other virtual mission and how to log into that. So this is my other virtual mission. So it is running currently. And you get a dashboard like this so you can see the deployment finishing over here. So not a problem. You will get notified. So don't worry about that. So now you can see my resource group is first. It is running. It is in the east us my subscription subscription id what kind of an operating system what size virtual mission it is. And then public IP private IP so public IP you can see over here I'll copy the public IP. I'll go to putty. So basically you I have putty over here or you'll have to search putty. So not puttygen it is putty which is over here our putty.exe. So you'll have to open it in hostname. You'll have to provide the public IP and then just hit open. So give. Yes. So now you can see log in as. So I don't have a key. So I just have a password. So all four log in has just hit enter. You don't need to provide anything. So right now I'll have to provide my password so sorry. The password is wrong. Just a second. So the thing is again I'm doing the same process. I'm just putting the public IP over here. So the mistake I did was I provided the user name so my user name was this for my first instance also. So you have to first provide the user name and then you'll have to provide your password. So once you provide your password now you're logged in to the server so you can see it is open to server and I'll do it as it's. So you can create a file type. You can save it gets saved. So again see undertakes you know basically now we are log logged in to an ubuntu server which is running in I'm sorry which is running in Azure cloud. We are not doing anything else which is basically running in Azure cloud. So right now let's check with there are other deployment has successfully completed or not. So it's still running it's taking some time to get completed. So I'll also show you. Let's wait and yup. So right now deployment is succeeded. I'll show how to log into that. So it is the same way you law. We logged into the previous instance. So I'll just close this and go to resource so you can see the public IP address for this particular instance is different. So now again copy this go to putty. Paste it open give yes provide your user name sorry I give him my password wrong provide your password yes. So first time I gave a password wrong so the second time it's correct. So now I'm again logged into my instance which I just created. Now you can start doing stuff whatever you want so let me show a small demo. So right now if I paste this particular IP address over here you will not see anything but once I launch a Web server in my virtual machine I'm the provider. Provide enough permissions you'll be able to see a page running here. So first i'll. So first I'll install a web server which is called Apache 2 so I've installed it. So it can get installed not a problem. So now let me I'll have to edit this so I'll have to go to my security group or I have to go to my is it. Yeah I'll have to go to security. So not this so right now once again I'll try. No. So right now let me go to a Azure VM one. So this is my virtual machine so where is the. Yeah it is over here. Let me click this. Then subnet s firewall. Sorry not firewall. Yes. Not subnet. Uh just a second guys. Uh so where did I give my security group where I gave as a SSH 2. So I'll have to just check that. Where is it available. So it's not available here. So yeah. So here's where it is. So this is social networking. Once you went inside networking you will have to add an inbound rule. So basically this inbound tool will now allow lets say it should allow any IP address. It should allow only the port number 80 should be http so just let us provide a star over here. So now let me add this creating security rule it's creating a security rule right now. So right now you'll not be able to see anything once. I guess once it created you will be able to see a page so it created successfully. So over here. No port number 80 ad so these are the added so it's successfully created. Let's check once again if it is available. So yes. So right now we have allowed port number 80 which was so basically now the Internet was able to access the web page inside my server and get it out. And it is showing it to you right now. So guys we have done our demo for today. All right guys let's start this session by first discussing what is cloud computing. All right. So let's go ahead and understand first cloud computing by its definition. So guys by definition cloud computing is nothing but the use of remote servers on the Internet to do your tasks. It could be basically hosting an application. It could be hosting your database server. It could be anything right. When you use servers on the internet when you use somebody else's servers on the Internet rather than using your own servers or computers many use somebody else's computer on the Internet. That is called cloud computing right. And the person or the company who provides you with that kind of server is called a cloud provider. This is just of Cloud computing is not obviously. Cloud computing has more things to it and we will discuss that as you move along. Right now. Give me an example as to how you can imagine how cloud works is like this Let's say you are a developer. OK. And what do you want to do is you want to host an application. So you basically start up a company and you have an idea which is similar to let's say Instagram and that idea is a billion dollar idea right. And what do you want to do is you want to start off by just creating the application by itself. You don't want to hire any people. Right. Because you want to keep the cost minimum. So you're doing it all by yourself. And now the application is ready. But do you have to make this application available to the world. So how do you do that. So the first thing that you would have to do is you'll have to buy some servers and then have to put that application on those servers. So once your application is on those servers the next stop task would be to basically make that application available on the Internet. Right. And how would you make it available on the Internet. You basically connect Internet to these servers and you assign a public IP to these servers and now you go to your application is basically available an IP address next dignity would do it you would buy a domain and the next thing that you know is no the domain is ready and now your application. Anybody on the internet who goes to your particular domain would be able to access your application. OK. So is this is the normal life cycle of how. 