 Hi folks! Matt McSpirit here, Program Manager at Microsoft, welcoming you to HPE Discover 2020, and specifically to this session where over the course of the next 15 minutes I'm going to take you through how Azure Stack HCI and HPE servers really do combine to enable you to build some incredibly powerful hybrid solutions! Now, before we dive into looking at some of the amazing technologies, it's important to level set on our vision of hybrid. Today's world is is all about public cloud and data centers and applications that span across those two environments. That's what we call, "hybrid". Now customers who are taking a hybrid cloud approach are seeing real business value. We see this in organizations across the globe. And, hybrid cloud is evolving from being only the integration of a data center with the public cloud to becoming units of compute available at the edge including even in the world's most remote destinations,  but all working in concert with the public cloud. And by bringing the power of the intelligent cloud to the edge, we create this incredible opportunity for devices to be adaptive and responsive in their environments, and at the most critical decision moments. To think about an autonomous vehicle  knowing when to turn, or a piece of factory equipment shutting off before it's a safety hazard, or a medical device continuing to operate even when connectivity is limited. Now we call this new era intelligent cloud and intelligent edge and the ability for customers to embrace both public cloud and local data center plus edge capabilities, improving IT agility, and helping to maximize efficiency. And the benefit of this hybrid approach is what continues to bring customers to Azure, the one cloud that's been uniquely built for hybrid. We haven't slowed our investment in  enabling a hybrid strategy particularly as this evolves into new application patterns of using both the intelligent cloud and the intelligent edge. But why are organizations choosing a hybrid approach? Well, for many reasons ranging from connectivity, to modernization, improving software development, agility, efficiencies, and one I see very commonly is to meet specific regulatory or compliance requirements, where certain pieces of data or workloads need to reside on prem, but they still wish to use the public cloud for other workloads Now what's also interesting here is that a large percentage of organizations have a multi-cloud strategy which in itself can introduce management complexities and challenges. Now, when we look at hybrid, at Microsoft we're taking this comprehensive multi-dimensional approach. So, on the left hand side is Azure IoT which enables you to deploy, manage, and secure IoT solutions, the data from which can be harnessed and analyzed by other Azure solutions to drive some powerful insights. And on the right hand side you've got the Azure Stack set of technologies, a portfolio of products that extend Azure services and capabilities to your environment of choice, (and one we'll drill into more specifically in a minute). And finally, in the middle we've got Azure Arc,  which was announced at Ignite 2019. And Arc simplifies complex and distributed environments across on-prem, edge, and multi-cloud, enabling deployment of a select set of  Azure services anywhere, and extends Azure management to any infrastructure. To go one level deeper there,  from a server management perspective, Azure Arc allows you to aggregate all of your Windows and Linux servers, no matter where they reside, into a centralized, organized, single management plane--in Azure-- and in addition start to apply specific Azure constructs such as tagging, governance, and policy, even though those workloads live outside of Azure. Now, when it comes to containers, I'm hearing nearly every customer I meet talk about Kubernetes. But how do you manage that at scale? Well, Arc provides the ability to deploy and manage Kubernetes applications with GitHub and Azure policy, ensure that applications are deployed and configured from source control, consistently at scale. And finally, Azure Arc allows you to run Azure data services, such as Azure SQL managed instance on top of Kubernetes, and that can run on premises,  at the edge and in multi-cloud environments, all again centrally managed and controlled from the Azure portal. And this is just the start when it comes to Azure Arc. So some amazing cool stuff there. So, returning the focus to the Azure Stack portfolio. This is a family of products that extend Azure  services and capabilities to your environment of choice, from the data centers to the edge. The portfolio really enables hybrid  and edge computing applications to be built, deployed, and run,  consistently across location boundaries, providing choice and flexibility to address  your diverse workloads. Within the portfolio firstly we have Azure Stack Edge, an AI enabled edge computing device with some powerful network data transfer capabilities, ultimately enables you to run machine learning  models close to the data source but all managed from the Azure portal. Now on the right we've got Azure Stack Hub where you can build and run applications using consistent Azure services including IaaS and PasS services  like the Azure app service, on-prem to meet your regulatory and technical requirements. And it can even operate completely  disconnected from Azure itself. Now, HPE has been a key partner in the Azure Stack Hub space since the beginning and continue to be one of our  leading partners in this space. And finally we've got Azure Stack HCI,  which is where we'll focus our attention today. So, what is Azure Stak HCI? Well firstly, Azure Stack HCI is true  hyper-converged infrastructure. But what does that mean? Well let me show you and explain in the context of how HCI has changed the landscape  of the traditional infrastructure. So on the left we've got a legacy  three tier infrastructure, traditional SAN or NAS storage at the bottom, typically with its own expensive switching infrastructure. Then you've got your compute nodes, typically running some kind of virtualization solution, and then you've got your dedicated network tier that ties all of that together, typically with quite expensive switches  and network appliances. Now you compare that with HCI where you have a consolidated software defined stack of technologies with the storage, network, and compute, all combined onto industry standard hardware. All the while you're delivering incredible levels of performance, reliability, redundancy and scale, on modernized hardware  from partners like HPE. So when we think about Azure Stack HCI more specifically, we're talking about Windows Server 2019 and Hyper-V Storage Spaces Direct, and software-defined networking technologies, running on top of modern, validated, partner hardware. Layer on top of that the Windows Admin Center, which is freely available with your Windows Server license, and the ability then to optionally integrate this whole solution with Azure services such as Azure backup, site recovery, file sync, monitoring, site-to-site networking, and many more. Now, speaking of HPE,  HPE Solutions for Azure Stack HCI offer a choice of what are most likely very familiar, ready to go validated solution configurations, based on ProLiant, Apollo, and Synergy servers and more recently the Edgeline EL8000, which offers an incredible form factor, while still delivering amazing performance with an all-flash NVMe configuration. Now in all cases you'll find amazing performance especially in the case of the powerhouse DL380 with its available Intel Optane DC persistent memory, which is great for big data and analytics workloads. And all of these servers contain components which are tested, optimized, and validated with Windows Server 2019's capabilities to deliver reliable, rock solid performance, and high availability  for Azure Stack HCI. So you're in amazing hands with HPE and they've been a fantastic partner throughout the whole of azure stack HCI's lifecycle. It's also important to call out that HPE Solutions encompass both Intel and AMD platforms and that leads me nicely onto talking about a specific pilot program we're running with HPE and AMD. So let me shed a little bit more light on this this pilot program which is exclusive again to HPE. So, in a nutshell if you choose to purchase an AMD EPYC "Rome" CPU-based HPE server (specifically a DL325 or DL385 Gen10 or  Gen10 plus server) with either 48 or 64 cores per processor, the licensing of Windows Server 2019 Standard or Datacenter is capped at 32 cores per processor. Meaning you don't have to cover the cost to license the remaining cores per processor in the system, above the 32 cores per processor. So as you can see you can make some pretty  significant savings there--up to 50%-- if you're choosing to purchase the 64 core CPUs within the servers. So for example, if you have two sockets each with 64 cores, that's a total of 128 cores, but you'd only need to license 32 of those cores per processor of Windows Server 2019 Standard or Datacenter. So that's a big saving of 50% now. To reiterate, this pilot program is specific to those server models with the AMD EPYC "ROME" CPUs either with 48 or 64 cores and the HPE branded OEM licenses. And this program is kicking off soon, so if you want to know more make sure you contact your HPE account team and they'll be able to get more information. So why is Azure Stack HCI so attractive to organizations? Well aside from the compelling virtualization storage and network capabilities, one of the key things to understand with Azure Stack HCI is that you can start very small, just two nodes for a high performing redundant configuration, with tiered storage which also supports a switchless configuration for direct server to server connectivity. So this helps to reduce the overall cost of the solution even further because you can integrate right in with your existing network backbone, which might be a gig, without needing to procure 10 gig switches for connecting the servers to one another. That's a big cost saving when it's multiplied by lots of remote sites. What's also cool about these two nodes is,  for anybody who's deployed two node Windows Server failover clusters before, you know you need a third vote for cluster quorum, which historically may have needed to be another server in the site or a file share somewhere, well with Azure Stack HCI, we support both the cloud witness in Azure, where the third vote resides in an Azure storage account, or a USB witness, where a USB drive plugged into say a router or a switch or a NAS in that location. Both of these options help to reduce the infrastructure overhead needed at the remote sites with two node configurations. And the nice thing about Azure Stack HCI  is it grows as you do, enabling you to scale up and out as your needs grow, but still retain that streamline centralized controller management, plus integration with cloud services  like we mentioned earlier. And when I say, "scale up and out"  we're talking huge numbers, so thousands of servers through our cluster sets capabilities, four petabytes of storage per cluster,  twenty four terabytes of memory per node, and this is just scratching the surface Don't forget core built-in functionality that helps ensure consistently high performance with automatic VM load balancing and live migration and storage rebalancing, and these are just a couple of the amazing features built right into Azure Stack HCI. With Azure Stack HCI it's not just about Windows workloads. Just like in Azure, Linux is a first class citizen hyper-v across a broad number of commercially and community supported distributions. And from a management perspective, you've got choice in terms of how you manage Azure Stack HCI, programmatically with powershell, via familiar MMCs, through System Center which is our enterprise management platform, or through existing management tools you may have in your environment. However back in 2018 we released the Windows Admin Center, a modernized simplified, integrated, and secure remote management solution for your on-prem environment, that aggregates many of the features of MMC's powershell and System Center into a single rich solution that provides an efficient on-ramp with the hybrid cloud services I mentioned earlier. And so what i'm going to show you here is is just one example of a view within Windows Admin Center. In this case, I'll look at storage volumes,  but one thing to draw attention to here is the toggle switch to enable deduplication and compression for a volume. I don't need to go to the specific server,  log on manually, find that setting, which could be potentially buried under multiple menus, and enable that feature. Admin Center takes the approach of centralizing features and surfacing them in a relevant way. Now one of the most powerful capabilities  of the the Admin Center is the extensibility that enables our partners, like HPE, to add their expertise and integration with their technologies into one place. So to give you a few examples of that integration,  what we've got on the screen here is a specific help page view within the HPE Windows Admin Center extension. So I've added this extension, installed it, and what it's going to give me is control of an insight into specific capabilities associated with  HPE hardware itself. So in this case on the overview tab I'm seeing a high level view of physical nodes, OS versions, and disks and from there I can drill in and get a centralized inventory view of the hardware including firmware and driver versions, which i think you'll agree is it's very useful information. Without this kind of view you could potentially go into each and every different iLO on each server to view what the different configurations are, so straight off the bat it's providing value. And finally on the storage manager tab I can get some useful information about the drives and also do the little things, like toggle a drive light, from one place, centrally, which is really useful for troubleshooting. So those were just a few of the snapshots  of the experience of the Windows Admin Center integrated with HPE specific hardware extensions. But one thing we haven't really covered so far, is just when would you use Azure Stack HCI? Well, we feel that aside from Azure Stack HCI being an incredibly high performing, scalable, resilient, solution for virtualizing your modern workloads, there are a few areas that we can focus in on a little bit more deeply. So firstly, at the branch or the remote site. As we said earlier, the fact that Azure Stack HCI scales down to just two nodes, it gives that all-important redundancy is incredible, and that could be used to run VMs, containers inside VMs, all sorts of key workloads, and as we saw with Admin Center, can be managed centrally and integrated with Azure for things like centralized backup and recovery and monitoring. Then you've got VDI, so whether you choose to combine Azure Stack HCI with a remote desktop services, or integrate with partner offerings like those from Citrix, Azure Stack HCI delivers amazing  performance and scale to run those enterprise desktop workloads  that you're looking for. And speaking of performance,  there are a few workloads out there that require higher levels of horsepower than sql server, yet when you combine it with Azure Stack HCI, the powerful Hyper-V and Storage Spaces Direct capabilities, along with the modern hardware from HPE, you can achieve some extreme levels of  performance for SQL Server and redundancy on this hyper-converged platform. Plus integrated with Azure services like backup to add additional protection. From a security standpoint Azure Stack HCI delivers some incredible unique protection features such as shielded VMs, along with network micro segmentation, native encryption for data at rest and in transit and plus you can integrate all of this with the Azure security center for analytics, threat detection, and more. Finally you can combine the unmatched storage capability and performance with validated hardware from HPE to centralize your organization's file shares plus integrate with Azure file sync for additional flexibility, performance, and scale, and replacing an aging storage area network or SAN, or multiple file sources scattered around your infrastructure. These are just some of the ways we see organizations today embracing Azure Stack HCI and Windows Admin Center makes it so easy to enable and integrate with not only those features, but a number of the Azure services I just described. So we're really making the on-ramp to hybrid as streamlined and as efficient as possible. So here you can see setup links for many of the key Azure services that you can integrate directly in with Azure Stack HCI. And finally here you'll see I can right-click a VM, choose protect, and that VM will be protected up into Azure and can be failed over in the event of a disaster. Extremely powerful but yet made so simple. So, how can you get started with Azure Stack HCI? Well firstly, check out the Azure Stack HCI resources on HPE.com along with the Windows Server and Windows Admin Center resources available. You can download the eval of Windows Server 2019 and the full release of Windows Admin Center and take them both for a spin at no cost. And trust me when I say this is only the beginning for Azure Stack HCI. And finally, take a look at how you can start the journey of connecting Azure Stack HCI to Azure to build the powerful hybrid solution  that you're looking for. And with that,  it's been a pleasure talking to you all today. I hope you found the session useful. Thank you very much for your time,  and I hope to see you all again soon. 