 This is Part 14 of cloud computing tutorial. In  this video, we'll wrap up this cloud computing   basics course. Cloud computing is everywhere. It's  a big shift from the traditional way businesses   think about IT resources and software solutions.  Organizations of every type, size and industry   are using the cloud for a wide variety  of use cases. It is the future. Whether   you are a software engineer, quality engineer,  business analyst, software architect, IT manager   or a CTO i.e Chief Technology Officer. It has  got something to offer to everyone. If you don't   upgrade yourself and learn cloud computing, sooner  or later you are out of the game. In this course   we've covered several important cloud concepts.  The state of information technology before virtual   machines. What is a virtual machine. What  are containers. What is a cloud and why is it   important. Different types of clouds like private,  public and hybrid. Different types of cloud   offerings - Infrastructure as a service, Platform  as a service and Software as a service. Benefits   and risks of moving to a cloud. Cloud computing  offers several benefits and we discussed them   in detail in our previous videos in this series.  Just like everything else along with the benefits   cloud computing also has risks. We must know and  consider these risks before moving to a cloud.   Again, we discussed the risks of cloud computing  in detail in our previous videos in this series.   Data security is one of the very important risks  you must consider. When you store your business,   employees and customer data in the cloud you  are placing your complete trust on the cloud   service provider to secure and safeguard the  data. I want to take this opportunity to clarify   one potential point of confusion you may have on  your mind. If you're thinking your applications   and data are more secure in your own data  center, you are almost certainly mistaken.   Cloud service providers, at least the big  reputable players like Microsoft Azure,   Amazon Web Services and Google Cloud for example,  invest lots of resources and money to implement   and improve cloud security. They're experts in  this area. Their data centers are far more secure   than our own data center. So, in reality by moving  to the cloud you're actually improving security,   not reducing it. In addition to  this best practices like encryption,   two-factor authentication, auditing, reviewing  and rotating access keys and credentials   can reduce the security risk to a great  extent. Like everything else, cloud computing   has benefits and risks. We are far enough into  the cloud revolution. It has matured so much   that these risks have been dealt with in  many ways. Cloud is here to stay and it has   fundamentally changed the way businesses think  about IT resources and software solutions. So   this is a wrap of this course. I hope you  have enjoyed it as much as I did creating it.   You can find all these course videos, slides  and text articles in sequence on our website   PragimTech.com at this URL. Your feedback  means a lot and is really really important.   If you have couple of minutes, please provide your  rating and valuable feedback on the REVIEWS tab.   Our next course is going to be Azure tutorial  for beginners. Azure is the cloud computing   service from Microsoft. In this course we'll  discuss everything you need to know to build,   deploy and scale applications using Microsoft  Azure. If you have a specific concept or topic   in mind that you want me to cover as part of this  course, please leave it as a comment on this video   and I will surely cover it. This  is Venkat. Thank you for watching. 