 Along with the major adoption of cloud infrastructure, the users of Microsoft Azure is also growing rapidly. As being a major public cloud provider. Azure has grabbed almost 40 percent of the market share in the current public cloud market resulting in the more number of jobs as well as the need to hire more Azure Certified Professionals. There is a huge amount of confusion as to which Azure certification you should choose right. So moving onto this video, we will discuss about the same. That is which azure certification is right for you. Hey, guys, I'm Shubham from Intellipaat and I welcome you all to this video. So without any further ado, let's have a look at the agenda for this video. First and foremost we'll discuss what exactly is an azure certification. Then after that, we'll discuss the major role-based the certification exams in Azure. Then which certification exam is for whom. After that the curriculum for the certification exams and most importantly exams pattern and how you should prepare for these  certification exam. At last, what Intellipaat has to offer you? By the end of the session, we'll have a short quiz based on this video. Make sure you don't miss it. I hope this agenda is clear to you. So let's get started. Let us first understand what exactly is an Azure certification. So, this certification is a level of Microsoft Azure cloud expertise that an I.T. professional obtains after passing one or more exams that Microsoft offers. Basically, it does to demonstrate and validate the technical cloud knowledge and skills one has obtained. Now what are those certifications that we shall discuss as we move forward. Here I'm going to discuss some of the major azure certifications and after that we will quickly discuss about that. Now moving forward. First one is Microsoft certified Azure Administrator  Associate i.e. AZ-103. Next one, the Azure Developer Associate i.e. AZ-203. Third one, the Microsoft Certified Azure Solutions Architect that comes under the expert level i.e. AZ-300 & 301. Last one is a data lake and Data Factory. So it is used to perform big data engineering on Microsoft cloud services and commonly known as 70-776. Now let's have a quick glance at these certifications. So now for the AZ-103 certification. This falls under the associate level. This certification Microsoft aims to help the candidates learn and acquire a wide range of skills that are required to be a cloud administrator such as managing various cloud services, security, networking, storage and many more. Previously, a candidate had to pass AZ-100 & AZ-101 certification exams in order to achieve this certification but after receiving constant feedbacks from learners about the exam being difficult under too much syllabus, Microsoft learning decided to merge these two certification exams and name it as AZ-103 certification exam with 70 % of the syllabus from AZ-100 and 30 % of the syllabus from AZ-101. Next we have, the AZ-203. So guys, this is another associate level role-based certification exam by Microsoft Azure. With this certification, Microsoft aims to help the candidates learn all the skills required in the development domains such as designing and building cloud applications services and many more. Before AZ-203 certification exam was introduced, AZ-200 & 201 were in the picture. In order to get certified as an Azure Associate Developer. But both of these exams got retired and AZ-203 took their place right. Again, after receiving constant feedback from learners about the exam being difficult and with too much syllabus, Microsoft learning decided to take the similar for the certification exam as well and the AZ-203 exam came into the picture and this exam percent approximately 70 % of its objective from the AZ-200 exam and approximately 30 % of its objectives from the AZ-201 exam. Now moving forward to the another exam that is the AZ-300 & AZ-301 exam. This is the first role-based certification exam that is launched at the expert level. With this certification, Microsoft aims to help the candidates learn the most advanced azure skills along with learning to design a secure, reliable and scalable solution for businesses. After the certification, a candidate is expected to have gain expertise in computer, networking, security and storage. You can know, this certification also covers the skills of the azure administrator and Azure developer associate level certifications but they are not a mandatory prerequisite for the certification. In order to achieve the certification, you will have to pass the following exams which are AZ-300 i.e. Microsoft Azure Architect Technologies and AZ-301 i.e Microsoft Azure Architect Design So again, these two above exams are the replacement for the old 70-535 exam i.e. Architect in Microsoft Azure solutions. Now moving forward, i.e. the 70-776 certification exam. So the certification requires candidates to get accustomed with implementing Big Data engineering on Azure. So the learners must have skills on Microsoft Azure SQL data warehouse, Azure Data lake analytics, Azure data factory and Azure Stream Analytics and subsequently perform Big Data best practices using the same. As informed by the Microsoft learning, the certification named 70-776 is about to be expired and no replacement exam name is being given to it yet. However, the replacement exam would consist of all the topics from the current curriculum with a few topics to move or merge with a different topic, right. So let's move forward. Now let's move forward. So guys, their is a huge amount of weirdness when it comes to choosing who should go for which certification, right. So moving forward with the video, let us discuss which certification is for whom. So for AZ-103 exam, candidate taking this exam are expected to have sufficient knowledge of various services across full I.T. life-cycle, applications and their environments. At least one year of experience in an I.T. administration and an hands on with seller provisioning, monitoring, resource management is recommended. Now for AZ-203 exam in order to pass this exam, the candidate must have atleast one year of experience of developing scalable solutions indulging in all faces of software development and the candidate must be skilled in at least one cloud supported programming languages. So this exam requires a candidate to be proficient in software development phases such as solution designing, development, deployment testing and maintenance. Now we have AZ-300 & AZ-301 exam. If we first talk about AZ-300 exam then a candidate must have expert level skills in at least one of the expert level domains. This exam requires the candidate to have some knowledge of various concepts in IT operations such as networking, virtualization, business continuity, data management and disaster recovery and AZ-301, in order to pass this exam, the candidate must be skilled in azure administration and azure development. Skills in the DevOps are also recommended. So the candidates taking this exam are expected to be able to build azure solutions upon to the business requirements such as making decisions that help the business become secure, solutions making the business more scalable. Now moving forward to 70-776. So the certification is for the candidates who design analytic solutions and build operationalize solutions on Azure. Candidates who are familiar with the features and capabilities of batch data processing real-time processing and operationalization technologies and of course the data engineers. Now let's move forward so guys, in order to be well prepared for azure certification exams, you must know what are the objectives of the exam right. So following the same order as before. Let's first discuss the curriculam for AZ-103 exam. Due to constant feedback about the exam being difficult, Microsoft has divided the entire exam syllabus into five modules. So in order to ease the exam preparation. Let us discuss each of these modules. Manage Azure subscriptions and resources. So guys, this percentage figure that you see here, basically indicates the relative weightage of the questions from each of the modules. If the percentage is  higher than you should expect more questions from that module and vice versa. So, in this module you need to be thoroughly prepared with managing azure subscriptions, resource groups, analyzing resource utilization and consumption and managing row based access control i.e RBAC. Second we have Implement and manage storage where it holds weightage of 15 to 20 % in the exam, covering the topics like creation and configuration of storage accounts, azure files, importing and exporting data to azure and implementing azure patterns. Third, we deploying and managing virtual machine. Holding a weightage from 15% to 20%, covering topics in creation and configurational virtual machines for Windows and Linux. Managing azure VM and automating the deployments and managing their backups. Third we have deploying and managing virtual machines.Holding a weightage from 15% to 20%, covering topics in creation, configuration of virtual machines for Windows and Linux. Managing azure VMs and automating the deployments and managing their backup. Fourth one is Configure and manage virtual networks which holds a majority of weightage of around 30 to 35 % and covering topics in create connectivity between virtual networks, implementing and managing and virtual networking, network security groups, azure load balancer, monitoring and troubleshooting virtual networks, integrating on premises network with azure virtal network and the fifth one and the last one is Manage Identities, holding a weightage from 15 to 20 % in the exam. Managing azure active directory and AD objects, uses, groups and devices, implementing and managing hybrid identities and multi factor authentication are being covered in this module. So now for AZ-203 exam. So guys, the entire exam syllabus has been divided into six modules based on the feedback again. So developing azure infrastructure as a service compute solutions which holds a relatively weightage of 10 to 15 % in the module. So in this modules, you need to be thoroughly prepared with creating containerized solutions. Implementing batch jobs by using azure batch services and implementing solutions that use virtual machines. Second we have Developed azure platform as a service compute solutions where it holds the weightage of 22 to 25% in the exam covering topics like creating azure app services, web apps and ABI apps, azure apps service, mobile apps and implementing azure functions. The third one is a developing floor as your store is holding a big additional 15 to 20 percent covering topics and developing solutions that use blob storage relational database Cosmo's DV storage and storage tables and the third one is implementing a job security holding a radius from 15 to 20 percent and favorite topics and implementing add systems or authentication and security solutions not the first one is monitoring troubleshooting and optimizing resources. Holding a big data from 15 to 30 percent in the example implementing solutions to support monitoring and logging integrating caching and content delivery with the solutions and developing global support skin in the game of apps and services are being covered in this model. And the last one is connect to expand your services and code by the services which holds a radius of 25 percent in the end zone and covering topics and establishing API gateways integrating into our search within solutions. I'm developing an apps others logic. And similarly for easy 200 and 300 long exam it covers topics and deploy them to the infrastructure of human workloads on security guard and deploy apps implement authentication and secure data. The plug for the cloud energy storage data mine workload requirements. Then after this comes a designing button that is designed for identity and security design a data platform solution design a business continuity strategy designed for deployment migration and integration design and such a strategy. Now at last for 1776 build a certification is on the word of a diamond but its labors was not going to be any different than the pleasant Halo through transition will be it like the removal of two topics or just merge them with any dolphins right. So if we talk about us objectives then design and implement complex even processing by using as old steam and a holding a weightage from 15 body person. Let's include the topics like and test data for realigning processing design and implement adjusting analytics implemented matters the steam and pipeline created or ended up by using the agile steam in an expletive language. The next one is a design and implement agile estimate detailing how the solutions are getting the way it is from 15 to 20 percent including the topics like design tables as your estimate date of your house clearly design is on a scale of in-house indignant as your estimate data it holds together services then design and implement cloud based integration by using all your data. Finally given data sets and link services must transform and analyze data by using your data factory activities orchestrate data processing by using as your data out pipeline manager and manage as your data factory. Other topics included in this not the last one as matter than making a short escalator at their house. As a data league as your data factory and a judge scheme and other things holding a majority of readers in the example that is twenty two point five percent. So this model covers the topics and provision as units to a data house as your data league is your data factory stream analytics and unit authentication authorization auditing minus data recovery. For as long as we need every house as your data leak so this model covers the topics and provision as your escalated in-house House data league data factory scheme analytics and human authentication authorization auditing design and implement sort of solution for big data and munitions. So that's all for the objective. So now let's move forward and dispose of all the exam button followed by how you should prepare for this and some move out to Microsoft as your certification exams are one of the most challenging exams in the industry by limiting the number of cautions in this exam are subject to change over time. You could expect around 40 to 60 questions at this exam and also you could expect different courses formats and types in this exam including review screen mock review multiple choices. Short answer hot area repeated answer to assess drag and drop studies. The best answer. An active script or the questions of this exam can follow any of these questions. You will get it on 150 minutes to complete the examination within a decent 30 minutes of sitting time for the good results in the exam that is required to fight the weight associated with each exam what do you do to as your example breaks. The pricing depends on which location you are taking your exam from. For example if you're taking your exam in Lucy then it is going to cost around 160. But if you're taking it in India then you will have to pay an amount of forty eight hundred INR. And the pricing is subject to change. The dollar can move from country to country and the pricing does not include applicable taxes. You need to confirm with the examination provider for exactly. If you're a student then you can get a free deduction in the exam. You can submit a valid education credentials. Moreover Microsoft parkour network program member Microsoft trainers and academy program members are also eligible for the reduced price. Most of the Microsoft technical questions require a passing screwup 700 any score greater or equal to 700 will be Hmong next month. Otherwise it's in my best. Those are the short versions in this example. One point is any caution is worth more than that. Then it will be indicated in the caution but it's also note that there are no penalties for an incorrect answer. The exam is available only in English language. Now in all the examination pattern let us discuss feel the tips for the exam preparation how to prepare for this exam. The first step is to plan the module structured and study accordingly. For example if you're going to start with observances in containers then make sure you have already covered the topics of getting the services containers container images and local flights so that you know the basics of implementing up services in the container. If you're going to implement these your backup then you must know about how to create and configure distorted accounts along with the configuration of visual flight so that you know the basics of implementing the continuations and storage although they would require a lot of cautions and verified study materials on a jar in order to own good passing scores. You can defer to the official curriculum and study guide to plan your module city and get the right information. I'm course that practice simple test online once again enough not as the this then you should be able to step up into the next part of practicing hands on. And this is the most crucial part in a learning journey so you can easily perform hands on into your services as a job provides a free care option for newbies and you get it 3 and a dollars of credit in your agenda article one too has. So in addition to that check for the online training so that in case you have clearly selected the subject then you can get them right an expert help is always recommended last but not please join the forums related to Microsoft Asia and search for questions related to your subject and check out the questions asked by the other people and go through the answers posted by audiences. It would always be helpful for you not citizen from my end of that group had done so even you are cordially prepared this subject. We might be able to clear the exam and get so it fiction for me. But believe me I want the job any hours during the interview without the practical approach. We won't be able to pocket or be able to answer the questions by interviewer. Because you took the shortcut to get certified. Right. So be aware of the shot goes to a portal starting with the proper implementations and is shown and dries up in your career. All right. So now you might be wondering how to take time for all this resultant study. That is where we get into labor to help you we understand that U.S. professionals face problems to pick up time for upskilling from the personal life right. So that is why we have done all the hard work for you and have come up with the comprehensive courses on is one hundred three easy two hundred three. Is it 300 and 201 and is your data leaking data factory and each course is directed by the industrial experts which includes the different case studies and assignments based on the each module along with the industry oriented projects. If you are interested then you can go to the close trade deals with the link provided in the description models. If you are interested then you can go through the course. The link is given in the description box below surveys. Now let me ask you a portion related to this video. If you are from a developing background which certification exam discussed in this video is right for you. Do let us know in the comment section below. So this brings us to the end of this session. I hope this video was helpful for you to an extent. 