 Sebastian says, "Hey!" Sebastian is my co-instructor. We're here to work on treatment ideas for a child with spastic quadriplegic cerebral palsy. Sebastian's my co-instructor. He is seven years old, and we're not going to say how old I am, but I do have 30 years of clinical practice. So again, Sebastian has strong extensor tone. So one of the things...Yes, thanks for the demonstration...and we're going to work on leaning forward and then coming back up with out going into a full extensor thrust. The way I define a full extensor thrust is...when he comes back up if his hips come up too, he's done the whole body. And I just want him to come back up with just his back. So the first thing we've got to do, Sebastian, is go down. Can you go, lean way, way, way, down? That is so perfect. Now, Sebastian, can you come back up gentle? Keep your hips down. Come up gentle. Sebastian, come on up. This is really hard. So I'd say about a quarter of the time, he can do it. Let's come on up, Sebastian. Sebastian, come on up. Hello! Come on up Sebastian. That's right. That's right. Now stay right there. Uh-oh! Great fixing it, Sebastian. Come back up the rest of the way. Right there, Sebastian. And if he does it right, which he did, we go for a ride. Sebastian likes to move and so if I can make anything I'm doing into a movement, he does it better. Let's go again. Can you go down? Yeah! Go down like that. Perfect! Sebastian, can you come up gentle? Come up gentle. Real slow. I know it's exciting. Careful, careful, careful. Oh, Sebastian, your hips came up. You have to try it again. Let's go down. Here you go. Go down. Now come up gentle, so we can go for a ride.Uh-oh, thanks for fixing it. Come up the rest of the way. I love how you fixed it. Come up the rest of the way. Come here, Sebastian. That's it. Right there, right there. Perfect! Ready to go for your ride? So you can see how hard that is for him to control. And we're just working on that in therapy for him to learn how to go down and extend with control. Super hard for him, and he's trying so hard. Hey Sebastian, you want to tell them bye-bye? We'll see you next time! Thanks a lot! Bye-bye! 