 Welcome back. Now we've talked about SQL Server on an Azure Virtual Machine, and that's what's known as IaaS or Infrastructure as a Service. As we move towards Azure SQL Database and Azure SQL Managed Instance, we're moving towards Platform as a Service or PaaS type of offerings. We wanted to take the opportunity to kind of break down the differences between IaaS and PaaS. I think one big difference before we get started is that in IaaS or in this case, SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machine, there are a lot of things that you can configure yourself, just like in SQL Server, but with PaaS, there's a lot of automation and help that we can provide. Now if we look at some examples, when we talk about business continuity and high availability, sure, you can set up an availability group, but that takes some time. You could also do things like set up some sort of long-term backup retention policy or system. But again, that's going to take some configuration on your end. With Azure SQL PaaS services, we can help you set up these things pretty much automatically. With automated backups, we can give you three replicas that are geo-distributed without you even having to say that, we just take care of that for you. With geo-replication, with a few clicks of a button in Azure SQL Database, you can set up geo-replication so you can have read replicas in your region, or across other regions. With Azure SQL Managed Instance and SQL Database, you can also set up auto fill-over groups so that in the time of a disaster, we can automatically fill you over to another region without you having to change any connection strings.  In addition, while you can scale Azure Virtual Machine, even sometimes with a point and click in the portal, Azure SQL Database and Managed Instance offer different scaling options that make things easier. For example, Azure SQL Database offers serverless, where we even do autoscaling of your applications, as your CPU demands increase from your application. Azure SQL Database and Managed Instance on a PaaS service, offers a version-less SQL Server. It's hard to put your mind around a versionless SQL Server, but no longer do you worry about any updates to SQL Server or anything in the backend for the operating system. We completely manage all updates and changes to SQL and enhancements. We're constantly feeding in fixes and enhancements to the service on the backend. Then finally, built-in intelligence. You might go out on yourself and try to set up systems to do things like automatic indexing. But imagine if we in the servers in the backend could look at your application, recognize patterns of performance enhancements, and automatically recommend or even apply indexes to your environment. Those are just some of the other examples that PaaS provides. Think about this, think about the fact that you can set up a virtual machine, gets some advantages of the Azure infrastructure, but all the different things you need to do yourself in the VM to make it available, and performant and secure, whereas Platform as a Service, that's the promise of it. We are going to manage things, give you recommendations, provide automation to really quite frank, let you focus on the things that are most important, to make your database applications successful in the Cloud. Look forward to seeing you in the next video. 