 Wondering what to eat next? How about AI helping you decide? Then, sending you the list of ingredients. Next, ingredients arriving at your door prepped.  Cooking and dishwashing are also done by AI-driven machines  It is the autonomous kitchen system. Doesn’t it sound great? If you think this is cool, please like and share this video Then it can actually come true Hi, my name is Kumi. I am a cooking youtuber But, I am so tired of cooking these days I used to cook religiously In fact, I rather preferred to cook dishes, which are really time-consuming and require a lot of manual work as I loved every process of cooking  But, not any more after doing that for more than 5 years Now I have no idea on what I want to eat. It takes me forever to figure out what ingredients to buy  Although spending a lot of time grocery shopping, I usually ended up forgetting a few key ingredients  It really bugs me  While cooking, I have to watch youtube videos and just wished that I had 3 or more hands Oh, finally dishwashing, don’t even get me started on it Doesn’t it resonate with you if you have cooked for long?  You know what? Everything I mentioned can be fully automated, except for cooking When I don’t have anything particular on my mind regarding what to eat AI will take into consideration foods I ate recently, ingredients in the fridge, the weather and etc, and make decisions for me  If AI decided Korean beef ribs stew I can choose any recipe I fancy that is stored in the cloud. The recipe can be mine, or your mom’s or yours  Then, AI will give me the list of ingredients I need to buy and those ingredients will arrive at my door prepped If you put ingredients in the hardware device a finished dish will come out at the time you designated Your dishes will also be cleaned and dried by AI-powered machines You heard about the autonomous driving? It can happen in our kitchen. It is the autonomous kitchen system I’d like to make this happen through youtube To make this happen we need hardware devices, software and a platform  The most critical among these is the hardware device which is equivalent to a car in the autonomous driving I recently got the patent on it As you know, a lot of tech companies are involved in autonomous driving technology developments But, it requires a lot of infrastructure An autonomous kitchen doesn’t need that  Also, the time and money to train AI for the autonomous kitchen is probably less than 1% of those for the autonomous driving Further, the market is much bigger for the autonomous kitchen The total number of households is around 3b which is 1.5x the number of vehicles in the world That is the total addressable market If this goes in a mass production there would be perhaps no household that don’t want to use it The platform provides stable monthly revenues through paas (platform as a service) What this implies eventually is what we eat can be finally digitalized, i.e. digital transformation If we have enough data of this it can help us figure out the link between what we eat and our health and etc Cooking done digitally should be far tastier than manually done We have long been gas-lit to believe that cooking is done by love or good cooks are born by those who have no idea of what is behind developing flavors By now most of you know that is far from true Flavors of a dish are determined by two factors mainly First, amino acid and sugar in a certain ingredient develop hundreds of flavors at a certain temperature range Second, tastes and smell in an ingredient, ex, fat-soluble smell in garlic, are developed under the right temperature and the right water content Temperature, time, water content can all be digitalized If we know how much and what ingredients go into cooking AI can measure the exact amount of salt to taste I have met a lot of people after I got the patent to make this happen But, unfortunately I couldn’t find anyone who can understand the potential of this autonomous kitchen The most frequently heard remark is why do you need that? All of them do not cook at home All my efforts at my personal level failed to attract any company to develop the system So, I am pitching my idea on youtube I guess that home cooks are so nice that they don’t complain about how time-consuming cooking is So, I really like to know how you feel If companies realize that there is huge demand for the autonomous kitchen this idea will eventually come to fruition Then, you and I will make a change in the world and our lives through youtube If there is any company interested, please contact me We can talk in detail The hardware device which I got a patent on will surprise you as it is really easy to make It can cover 99.9% of heated dishes you can imagine How about AI helping you decide on what to eat? Then, sending you the list of ingredients Next, ingredients arriving at your door prepped Cooking and dishwashing are also done by AI-driven machines It is the autonomous kitchen system. Doesn’t it sound great? If you think this is cool, please like and share this video Then it can actually come true   