 Hello! My name is Amy Sturkey. I am a pediatric physical therapist. I am here with Sebastian. We are showing how a typical tricycle can be modified to help Sebastian be able to ride a trike. He loves riding tricycle. The modifications I have done is we have foot straps to be able hold his feet in place. We have padding between his knees because his knees turn in when he attempts to ride. I have hand straps to be able to strap his hands on. So one strap goes around his wrist, put his hands on the handlebars the strap comes up and over and then attaches back on his wrist.There we go sweet pea. I just wanted to show what this hand strap looks like. I have made these myself out of neoprene and velcro. These happen to be pre-produced. It is Ambucs that one of these is from. I am not sure who the other one is, but I think it's the same company. Ambus is a m b u c s.  So the way it works is it has got one strap that velcro's that goes around the wrist like this (I usually do it underneath) and then you hold on to something. Imagine there is a bar and this goes up and then it's too small for me but then straps around the wrist again like that so it keeps your hand holding on to the handle bar in this case. But I have had them holding on to walkers or holding on to hoops whatever I needed. This is a really nice tool to help children be able to hold on to things when they might otherwise not be able to. Alright Another thing to think about is to make sure that Sebastian is far enough back on the seat so that his knees do not hit the the upright in the front. So we just go around. (Motor noises) This time I am going to try it with just shoulder support. So here we go. Sebastian you got to "fix it". That is right. (motor noises) Oh, you got to fix it. In order to go you got to fix it. That is right, Sebastian. Nice job! Sebastian, that's the way to do it. Way to go buddy. Such good work Sebastian. So I hope this is an idea that you can use at home to help your child. It is a good way to get lower extremity range of motion, and it tends to be a lot of fun for the kids too. 