 - Welcome everybody to our third annual Research Day. It has been so phenomenal. Sheila Grant, Jack Cheng, incredible, and Shelley Hilton, and everybody in the Research Office, thank you for everything you've done. And I also want to recognize, I'd like to take this opportunity to recognize the incredible Dean's Councils in the college. One, our Dean's Council for Teaching Excellence. These are selected every year, a faculty representative from every department. All of our faculty are always thinking about, "How do they offer the very best and highest quality "education in our realm of focus on educating engineering leaders?" But these faculty have taken it above and beyond. They win large grants related to engineering education. They go above and beyond to think about, "How can we really drive new curricular innovation and policy?" So I wanted to highlight Prasad, Heather, Craig, Sarah, and Jim for being on the Dean's Council for Teaching Excellence. Even more specific to today, of course, I also want to highlight and thank the Dean's Council for Research Excellence. These faculty comprise the top 10 faculty in the entire College of Engineering, in terms of research expenditures. And so to share those names in order of ascending, increasing research expenditures, thank you to Kannappan Palaniappan, or Pal, Dr. Pal as we all call him, Sean Goggins, Jack Cheng, Prasad Calyam, all in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. Bill Buttlar in our Civil and Environmental Engineering Department. Dong Xu, also in EECS, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. Erik Loehr in Mechanical and Aerospace. Grant Scott in EECS. Guoliang Huang in Mechanical and Aerospace. And our number one faculty, in terms of research expenditures, the highest in the college last year, Curt Davis. I was asking Shelley if she could remember what it was last year. It was a nice bit above a million, but I can't remember the-- - 1.75. - Oh, look at! There we go! We've got Dr. Islam, the Chair of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. So Curt Davis, not here to accept our congratulations because he is busy research expending 1.75 million dollars from last year, and can say, I know too, he's writing more and bringing more in. So these represent the top 10 faculty in this college, with respect to research expenditures, and we are so thankful for all that they are doing to advance our Research 1 AAU mission, and you saw a lot of their students out in the hallways presenting posters. So thank you so much to all of them. Now, with these recognitions, we're going to highlight four incredible areas of research by four amazing faculty in the college. As you know, our five-year strategic plan in the college has four pillars of pursuit. Number one is educating engineering leaders. Number two is big data analytics. Number three, and that's really advancing initiatives in research, and tools, and technologies and all these area, big data analytics, biomedical innovations, and sustainability infused FEWS, food, energy, water, and smart cities. So we have four amazing faculty that are gonna be touching on each of these areas, and I think this, I don't know if Marj is going first. If I'm reading from left to right, you've got Marj Skubic in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, presenting in biomedical innovations and challenges realm. Derek Anderson, also in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, speaking in the big data analytics and cloud computing. We've got Sanjeev Khanna in our sustainability infused area in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. And Satish Nair focused on our educating engineering leaders, also in EECS. So with that, let's give them all a big hand to get them started, and thank our Dean's Council's, and I'm turning it over to Sheila. (audience applauding) - Thanks, Dean Loboa. Again, I'd like to welcome everyone here as well. It's our third annual College of Engineering Research Day, and like Dean Loboa said, we have an amazing group of speakers. So I'm gonna ask the audience to withhold all their questions until all four speakers are done, and then when the last speaker is finished, we'll bring the speakers back up to the front, and then we'll have questions and answers then. Okay, so that being said, our first speaker is Dr. Marj Skubic. She is a professor in electrical engineering and computer science, and her topic of her talk is "Squaring the Life Curve with Proactive Healthcare Technologies". Before I bring Marj up here, I gotta tell you a little story about Marj. So her research involves putting senors, depth sensors, motion sensors, bed sensors, into the apartments, houses of the elderly, so they can track their motion, their movements, and so forth to determine any health problems that may occur. So Marj told me the other day, that her daughter called her on the phone saying, "Mom, you know, with all this Coronavirus going on, and it's effecting the elderly, I'm worried about if you're gonna be traveling". So Marj says to her, "Are you calling me old?" And her daughter says, "Yes". And so I told Marj, I said Marj, "You're not old, but you do have these sensors in your house". With that being said, I'm very happy to introduce Dr. Marj Skubic. (audience applauding) - All right. Thank you. So what do we mean by squaring the life curve? I think that's the first thing that we need to address with this. So when I first started working with, especially the nursing faculty at the university, and you can see here, we have many clinical collaborators represented. They talked about the typical trajectory of aging for seniors is in a sort of stair step pattern, as shown here in the red curve. You'll go along on a plateau for a while until something dramatic happens, and then you get knocked down to the next level until the next big thing happens. So our hypothesis was, if we could recognize the beginning of that decline, or better yet, predict when that decline was likely to occur, we could go in with an appropriate intervention to prevent a large decline, and keep people up at that high level. And so what we're trying to do is, literally, square the life curve. We're not necessarily asserting that we're going to extend somebody's life span, but we want to do is improve and extend someone's health span, that is keep them up at a healthy level for as long as possible. So we're doing that by a system of in-home sensors that function as a clinical decision support system. So what's represented here, that I'm gonna talk about today, are the sensors that we're currently using. Over the years, we've tested many different kinds of sensors. These are the ones that we think give you the most bang for your buck, that is, that give you the most clinically relevant type of information that allows us to detect very, very early signs of health changes, so that we can, in fact, go in with early, early interventions. So the system is patented and licensed to Foresite Healthcare, and I'll talk a little bit more about that a little bit later. We automatically recognize when health changes occur. We send out health alerts, as well as fall alerts in real time that are sent to the nurses and the social workers. So this work started out in TigerPlace. This is a local facility, of course, named after our mascot at the university. 54 apartments. It's an interesting partnership between a private corporation, Americare, and a state university. It was built and is operated by Americare. When it opened in 2004, the nursing school was running all of the clinical care component, and so the care model is really something that the nursing school has established, and it was built to function as a living laboratory. Additional assessments are collected there so that we can run experiments, not only that the nurses want to see the effect of different care models, but they also wanted to then be able to test the effectiveness of the technology. So we're able to do that. So we've tested over the years, then, we were able to show that TigerPlace residents could, in fact, stay at TigerPlace 1.7 years longer on average with the sensors in place, and the early health alerts, compared to those living at TigerPlace that did not have the sensors. So that shows that we have been able to be effective in being able to keep people up at that high level of functionality. So I'm gonna show you a little bit about some of the sensors that we're using. This one shows the depth sensor. Now, what I mean by a depth sensor, is something that produces a depth image, but instead of giving you a color image, or a gray scale image, you get a distance to the nearest object. And so we extract out the silhouette of the person walking through the scene, which gives us shape information. People think that that helps preserve the privacy. Nobody wants streaming video in your home, but they're willing to accept this, or the three-dimensional silhouette that gives you shape. And so from that, we can get lots of different gait information, and we also do fall detection. So here's an example of somebody walking in the scene. Then on the right, I'll show you how we process and pull out trends of gait data. So each one of those dots in that graph represents an extracted walk in a particular, what we might call, a purposeful walk, a walk that clearly is meant to go from point A to point B in the home, and we extract that out, and we capture walking speed, and stride time, and stride length, and in height, and we look for clusters in that sensor data feature space, one cluster per resident, and we track the centers of those clusters over time, so we can see trends in the gait parameters. Here in this scene, you can see we've got two clusters for two residents, and the outliers are the visitors, including those short people over there that were all the grandchildren. So we can track this over time. We've also been able to show now that if there is a decrease in walking speed of five centimeters a second over seven days, there is a 80% probability of falling within the next three weeks. So that gives you a small window of time where you can go in with an intervention to try and prevent that fall in the first place. So you can see, this example here, there was a decline in the walking speed, and an increase in fall risk, and thus, a fall occurred. And this shows you the corresponding increase in fall risk that's occurred. So we have a way of actually converting that average in-home walking speed into a fall risk, and here, it's literally converted into what's called the Timed Up and Go, which is a standardized fall risk assessment that is used by the physical therapists, and the nurses, and other clinicians. And so you can see that fall risk, and you can see here, that this person is actually in the high fall risk category. So I'm gonna show you the fall that resulted from that. So I think you can see what that looks like. When we send out the fall alert, we include a link to the depth video, so somebody can click on it, and they can see what happened. So if there happens to be a false alarm, you can also see that too. Sometimes little children come into the scene, and throw themselves on the floor. Those are sort of fun to watch. This, not so fun to watch. I know this case really well, because this is my father. He was living in TigerPlace at the time. Luckily, he didn't get hurt, but it generated a fall alert. You know, I got it on my phone, and my husband and I went runnin' over there right away, and, of course, the TigerPlace staff were there too, but we go running into dad's apartment, and he's, you know, is lookin' at me. By that time, he'd already gotten up. He was sitting in his chair, and he's lookin' at me like, "What are you doin' here?" And I said, "Dad, you fell", and he says to me, "You saw that?" I said, "Yeah, dad, I saw that". "Remember the depth camera over there?" And so I showed him what it looked like. Well, he was complaining about his neck hurting shortly after that, so I took him to the doctor. Well, the first thing that they ask you when you take a 97-year-old to the doctor is, "Have you fallen lately?" And I said, "Yes, he fell at 9:02 p.m. on August 12th, and here is the video". You know, and I'm showin' him my phone. So the doctor looked at it very carefully. And as a result of this, you know, they did an x-ray on his neck. He gave us some very careful symptoms to look for to see if there might be worsening conditions. So it was actually good to see that they could use this, not only for detecting the falls, getting people help, if they need it, but also, then, for being able to determine whether there should be some appropriate follow-up treatments made. So let's switch gears a second, and look at the bed sensor. This is a hydraulic bed sensor that was developed by one of our PhD students here, and it captures the ballistocardiogram and the respiration. So the respiration is that higher amplitude, lower frequency signal. The ballistocardiogram is the lower amplitude, higher frequency signal that's embedded in that. And the ballistocardiogram is the mechanical effect of the blood flowing through the body as a result of our cardiovascular blood flow. It does not require any on-body contact, and so we can have this transducer underneath the mattress, no contact whatsoever, and we can capture that signal. So you can get respiration, you can get heart rate, and you can get sleep stages. So that allows us to track sleep and other vital signs when people are sleeping. We're also looking at what else we can get out of this, and we're working with Giovanna Guidoboni, who has developed this cardiovascular model, closed loop cardiovascular model, that is generating the physiological ballistocardiogram, and we are using that now to study the wave form of the ballistocardiogram, and see what else we can get from this totally non-invasive-type-of sensor, including tracking how people may have changes in their heart valve function, what type of heart failure they have, and being able to track changes in that, and also being able to track changes in blood pressure completely noninvasively. So these health alerts that I mentioned get generated as basically a change detection. We recognize what's a normal pattern for an individual, and those patterns then turn out to be clusters in the sensor data feature space, and we look for outliers to those clusters. So one of the things that we've found, is that these people tend to form different clusters over time, depending on what their baseline health condition is. And so we needed a little bit more sophisticated algorithm. So this is one one of our students has recently developed with Jim Keller. It's a streaming clustering algorithm, and it allows us to track this data over time. So this represents four plus years worth of data, and you can see there are several clusters that were formed over this period of time as their health condition had changed. But again, we can now look through that sensor data feature space, and look for even earlier signs of health changes by looking for consistent movement towards the edge of the cluster, even before it actually gets to the edge. So we started out by having these sort of nudges on the health alerts, where you simply produce something that says to the clinicians, "There's something going on." "Take a closer look." Now we've generated these linguistic-style health alerts, so we can explain in sentence form what's happening. This is an example of one of our students that did this. So this is work also with Jim Keller and Mihail Popescu. And then we've added that with this other cool thing. Another one of our brilliant PhD students has, in fact, he had a poster today. So this is sequenced data, and being able to recognize activity sequences. And then, what we're doing with this, is that we're taking in this sensor data. We're saying, "Okay, I got an alert today". "Now we're gonna go look for other previous days "in which we also had an alert, "and we're going to see what happened "on those other days that look similar, "in terms of the sensor data, what happened that generated that alert previously." And it also uses some the NLM tools to be able to pull out the semantic types, and these clinically unique IDs that are generated so that it can give you some kind of an information about what's going on. And so here's what you get. So here's an alert summary. It says, you know, "Yesterday, night-time bathroom activity was significantly lower than usual". You know, there's some trends that are also given. And previously, this pattern was associated with these conditions. So we're using all of this information now in new consumer interfaces. We're exploring how this can be pushed to the consumer's themselves, the older adults and their family members. We've got am Amazon Echo Show that we started deploying in homes of consumers, and you can literally ask your personal health assistant, "How am I sleeping?", "What is my fall risk?", and it not only gives you a graph, but also gives you a sentence that describes it. So research questions to sort of wrap it up. "What information is clinically relevant?" This is an ongoing question. What kind of sensors should we be using? What type of parameters should we be extracting from that? "How can we detect very early health changes?" It really comes down to recognizing noisy sensor data streams, and being able to extract, being able to extract patterns of individuals in these noisy streams. And then, "How can we facilitate early interventions?" How do we display the information, and to whom do we display the information? And can we actually provide appropriate action? That's what we're working on now. So many collaborators involved from a lot of different disciplines. Here's George Chronis, who's the CEO of Foresite Healthcare, the company that has licensed our IP and commercialized it. George is an MU alum. He's hired many other MU alums, so it's his little MU community now. And I'd like to just close by thanking all the people involved, all the faculty, the students, the senior participants, and certainly, the funding agencies. So thank you very much. (audience applauding) - Thanks, Marj. So that takes smart homes to a whole new level. So our next speaker is Dr. Derek Anderson. Dr. Anderson is an associate professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. And the title of his talk is "Will the Real Artificial Intelligence Stand Up?" Derek research that you're gonna hear about today is all about machine learning, artificial intelligence, explainable AI. Derek Anderson is a smart person. He's a brilliant person, I'm gonna go say. You know why? - I made her say this. - Yeah, you know why he's brilliant? Derek actually was trained and got his PhD here at the University of Missouri in electrical engineering and computer science, so he is truly a Tiger. So I'm very happy to introduce Dr. Derek Anderson. - So I really don't have to introduce this topic as much. Everybody knows about artificial intelligence right now, 'cause if it isn't saying that it's gonna solve your smart car, if it's not (mumbling) on campus from precision, to health and medicine, to what Marj just spoke about, for even elder care technologies. Some of the things I'm associated with, materia design, agriculture and natural resources, security and defense. Everybody knows about it. It's been promised to revolutionize our world, right? Well, this is happening because we made a breakthrough. We're at a theoretical golden age. You know, it's different. We're ready to usher in AI. Well, we've been doin' this for a while, 77 plus years. I'm, debatable, a third generation, artificial intelligence, and it's really the big data, it's really been our computing power, and it's really been some things that I'll talk about in a second that's kinda changed the way that we've approached this game. And so if are in a golden age, or if we're in more of an era of data science and some engineering, regardless of that, we are at a point where we can do some really powerful things. So when I got my PhD from Mizzou, I had been promised I could be Professor Smart Pants. I could learn big equations. I could optimize, I could do great things with AI. But yet, the things that I could achieve now can honestly be achieved, in some respects, by a 10-year-old. If you have access to the internet, you could learn, and get the same material that was at my fingertips. You can get more data than I got five years ago and 10 years ago when I was able to do my studies. You can now have codes that do all the things in the books, and all the state of the art cutting research that we do, and please don't, but you could be bad at math. You can actually not know your calculus, and if you can write code, we can automatically differentiate it, we can optimize it, and we can solve solutions for you. So an eight-year-old can do what I could do when I became Professor Smarty Pants. So I think this is very empowering at the same time. Now, the thing that I've had to address in the last two years is, okay, so maybe we're not really at AI. We don't have general purpose reasoning. We don't have common sense. Well, hopefully, we have common sense, but the AI may not. But we may be at a pivotal moment, a point where we have technology that's good enough, and maybe having domain/task specific learners can help us to do things such as, oh, you could make a lot of money. We got a lot of billions being thrown around in the industry. We can also make a change in the world. But I think, in getting to that point, we do have a responsibility, and part of that responsibility is that we can't end up with things that we don't know what's happening. We can't have a black box. And so part of having a black box, if you like your smart car, you can't put a sticker on a stop sign, and have it not recognize the stop sign, and run right through the intersection. And I love this little video. I was gonna play it, but actually, it's the same algorithms that are being proposed to do your autonomy. They were learning to do soccer, and the goalkeeper found out that if it did a dance, it could fall over, and get the penalty kicker to also miss, and it's a learnable policy, but is ridiculous. Something you don't want to have happen. So we've got a lot of back doors that we have to fix in what we're doin' nowadays. And thanks to many agencies, from your White House, to companies, to National Science Foundation, to agencies like DARPA, explainability is something that's getting a lot of attention. So what I'm doing in the lab right now, is we've got some funding to attack this from different angles. One of these, is that we're actually developing the brains. We're doing the drones and the vision, the computer vision, and all this stuff that we're doing, we're working with a program called iVest to actually do augmented reality, and we're the ones that are the eyes up in the drones that are being passed down into Microsoft and the HoloLens, and making an augmented virtual reality. So all of the machine decisions, the humans are living in the same augmented space with the machines, and now you've got a super space with both the AI and the human, and the human could interrogate what the AI is actually finding, and see what that chain of reasoning is. That same stuff leads over to the fact that we're working for the National Institute of Justice, and we're actually using this for forensic anthropology. So we finally get this kicked off, the grant is here, and the same drones, and the same AI, we're using to document and detect crime scenes, but we're also using geospatially now to go across the Earth, not just from drones, but at higher altitudes, and to be able to do reasoning of very complex scenes. Now, what I'm trying to work on campus with many smarter individuals than myself, is to try to take some of these things, and to usher them in for things, like agriculture and natural resources, and see if we can make change in other areas outside of geospatial forensics, and things like security and defense. And it is weird, but this is a wonderful day where these same theories also apply to things, like material design. So we are funded here to actually work to do material design and innovation, and I'm gonna talk about two of these today, being the materials and the geospatial, which includes remote sensing, and also that from drones. So what we're doing, is we're working with explainable artificial intelligence. We get a lot of data. I build the machine in the middle, and we wanna know why, what's happening, not just can you get a good result. And so to this extent, we're doing a lot right now during visual explanatory artificial intelligence, where we're endowing the machine to take that which it really doesn't have a great capability yet. A lot of texture, a lot of contrast, but we're now seeing that shape, and a lot of other features have been absent a lot of our modern architectures. So we're designing a lot of shape-based machines that can be pre-disposed to learn shape, but also, we can pull it back up, and look at the shapes that they're actually learning, and try to get a better understanding of what structure these machines are lookin' at. We're also takin' the fact that one machine, remember earlier, I said, "domain specific task learner"? One of 'em doesn't cut it. Across the board, we have to have multiple machines, and so we're doing the data fusion to be able to go through, and to put these together, and look at different combinations. So what if I make a super AI on top of all these individual artificial intelligences? And when you go, you say, "What's explainable about this?" He's doing visual processing, and he's doing data fusion. Well, what the explainable part is, is that we're using it for the drones, and for things like remote sensing, and yet, when we process all this information, we're tryin' to understand what's happening. What features are they looking at? What combinations of machines, and what functionality associated with those machines are we exploiting? So we're producing all of these types of graphical results that say, "Hey, with shape, and texture, and contrast, and different machines looking at different architectures, and all this, which ones are the best?" "How are they working together?" And so we've produced all these graphical explanations. Guess what I found out? They're an explanation, but they're not a good explanation. That's not what people want to ingest. So we explained, but the act of explaining isn't enough. You have to have an explanation that's natural to people, and just having a naturally explainable architecture, or having graphical visualizations doesn't cut it. So as Marj talked about with elder care in the last talk, we're actually producing linguistic descriptions. So we're translating all this now which was graphical, and all that information, and we're producing things like, "Hey, it's only network that you needed "to get this object class, or we've never seen an instance "where this one network performed well in any way, "so you may not have the data "that's actually supporting training the machines, so you gotta go back and improve your system somehow", and these are the gaps. So those are the holes. And we're also producing statements such as, when we look at all these features, and so forth, that we're mining, "Hey, what are the things that are not adding any benefit, "and what can they tell us about our problem, "and what can they tell us about the systems that we're engineering?" So we're trying to make the machine talk to you, and make it a little bit more natural. But the fun thing is, we go both directions. Now the machine can talk to you, can you take the knowledge you know, and in that language, can you talk back to the machine? Oh, we could talk back to the machine, right? But could we tell it what we know so we're takin' that knowledge from the person, and encoding and building architectures that takes that knowledge, and now let's it work, so it then encodes the human's knowledge, and it operates at that point But that isn't enough, 'cause guess what? I'm sorry, you're probably not optimal at what you do. So instead, we go through and we optimize it, and as we optimize it, we try to make it better, but I try to keep it really close to where the starting explanations were so that we don't get weird stuff that comes out, but we get somethin' that had an essence of where you started, and had some more learning, and we try to still keep the explanations grounded, you know? 'Cause the machines can learn a lot of crazy things. Now, while this has been helping us for the drones for augmented reality, it's been helping us for doing geospatial analysis. The same explainability relates to material design. So we've been funded by the US Army ERDC to help to look at material design in innovation. So what we're doin', is that we're going through, and we're designing AI that looks specifically at, what are the electromagnetic properties? What are their permittivity, conductivity? What is the structural properties of the system that we need to design? And we're getting things like imaging optics that can get better ranging. We're getting things like cleaner images, but also improved or degraded degradation of things out in the environments by doing these materials that we're trying to optimize. But lo and behold, you industrial engineers, you physicists, you will not take AI at face value. Whatever comes out, you don't care if I got a solution, you wanna know what got it there. So what's the innovative part about this, is that we've been working on trying to make the hard connections between the AI that does this material design, and how it functionally works, so that when you get a solution, we can relate it back to what electromagnetic propagation, what all occurred, so that could open it up, and have that explanation. So that's been really fun. But now we take it on a scene, and we say, "Well, heck yeah, I got a design". Now we put it out, and it's optics, we are optimizing it. And so you wanna know where it's looking at it in image, so we've had a lot of techniques that have been emerging over the last decade. You get a picture of a dog, we wanna draw it back and say, "what did the network look at?" And you get this, and it's like, "Hey, it's somewhere in the dog's face." "Is that the nose, the mouth, the eyes?" We really don't know. So we've been developing some techniques right now that allow us to put much finer a level of granularity to look at what the decisions that our machines are making, and to pop them down to the individual shape and structure level, so that we can look at exactly what parts we're lookin' at. So if we design the materials, and put them out in the environments, these are the things that we're highlighting, and segmenting, and showing, and saying, "These may be part of our design process, "or things that are design flaws, "and I'm kickin' this back to the material folks, "they're lookin' at it, and tryin' to figure out how to make it better". I don't think that's really innovative, okay? That's been fun stuff that we're workin' on. The cool part is that we've been trying to close the loop. What I realized, is that when it comes to the material design, and when it comes to the AI, the AI gets better when the materials get better, and the materials get better when the AI gets better, and they're not really two independent processes. So what we've been working to do, is we make a system that makes data, you know? And what we do, is we say, "For the materials that we design, and the optic system solutions that we generate, we get a bunch of new data, and we say, 'can it fool the AI'?" If we do fool the AI, we wanna know about it. So those are the solutions that we present to people, and they're lookin' at it, and saying, "Hey, this is really interesting". "This is a design that I wanna consider." But I also say, "This is a back door for my AI". I need an out, include this back in, and close that loop, so that that soccer player didn't do a, you know, goalie random dance and fall down, and that was somethin' that could be learned. But that by itself is only part of it. We're now takin' back when we didn't learn someway to improve the process. We're loopin' it back, and I'm sayin', "Hey, guys, this is what's happening". "You now need to come through, and to build this new structure, or something with new, you know, dielectric constants and properties." So now we're getting new materials, and we're trying to get new things that can actually fool the AI, but we're putting them all under one big loop for trying to solve it. Now, as part of that, we're taking the visual and linguistic explanations, and producing it out there in the top, so we know what the AI is doing, and how it can explain itself, and that's one report that people will get, but we're also, down here, taking the solutions that we get from the materials, and we're lookin' at the physics side of it, and we're trying to say, "Well, what are the properties of the physics solution?" "Is this actually something that was realistic?" "Is this somethin' that, you know, was just garbage?" So what we're really trying to do, as I also sit here and dream about, "Will the real AI stand up?!", I think part of the standing up is the fact that standing up is that we're gonna do something with this. Even if we aren't there, we have very powerful tools, and I think that even our 2020 AI is good enough to make change, and we need to be putting it out there, and figuring out what we can actually solve. I think that, "What is your threshold for acceptance?", I won't take a black box. Maybe you don't want the explainable AI, but maybe it's these processes or other tests that you are gonna hold these systems to so that you will adopt some technology. And I think in order to get there, we've had 77 years of creativity, and I think it's important that we maintain that diversity, and combine mathematic, statistics, physics, all these things to try to explore a lot of things in these areas to come up with good solutions versus kind of a trend we have right now, put all of our eggs in one basket, you know? We've got a lot of powerful tools, but don't be fooled by them. So kinda, really to that end, up here in top is the people right now currently on these research grants that I was talkin' about, the students, the post-docs, the collaborators. I'm only one spoke in the wheel, and I'd like to thank every last one of 'em, and it's been fun being here for two years, and meeting everybody. And if you're not up here, I'm very sorry. There is so much goin' across campus for natural resources and agriculture. These are just the ones that I highlighted today. But it's wonderful being back at Mizzou. (audience applauding) - So thank you, Derek. So we're gonna have a new MC, Dr. Jack Cheng. He's one of our professors in electrical engineering and computer science, and our research fellow. (speaking faintly) - Thank you, thank you, Sheila. I'd like to thank Marji and Derek, gave wonderful talks, really eye-opening. I really enjoy it. I hope you guys enjoyed it too. But it's not over yet. We have two more exciting talks to come. So our next speaker is Dr. Sanjeev Khanna. He's a professor of mechanical engineering, and also the director of the Missouri Sustainability Assessment Center. So his research has severed a lot of resources in Missouri and across the world. And today, he is going to answer one fundamental question for us, that is, can growth and sustainability co-exist in our society? (audience applauding) - So the origin of my talk is about 30 years ago, when I was a graduate student, and at that point in time, I think I had sustainability in my subconscious mind. I would write my assignment on both sides of the paper, and a lot of my professors would complain that this is very inconvenient to us. So it's something like the inconvenient truth, right? And then one professor one day cornered me and said, "Well, why do you do that?" And I replied, "Well, it's because I wanna save paper". And the reply came back, "Well, we have a lot of paper, so you don't need to worry about wasting some paper". So that was there, okay? Then moving about 20 years forward, I started working with the Midwestern Industrial Assessment Center. This is a large department of energy initiatives, and there are about 25 others at centers in the country, and we are fortunate to have one on our campus. As I started working with industry in Central Missouri, I realized over the years that we have a situation where every industry wants to grow and grow year over year, not just in Central Missouri, but across the nation, across the world. Every other nation, all the businesses combined, everybody is trying to grow year over year. So we talk, "Well, we had 5% growth, that's really bad". And some countries say 3% is bad. So that's the current situation we are faced with. So what is all this growth doing to us? We are using up natural resources in enormous amounts. We are creating a lot of waste in the process, which has to go somewhere. We are also potentially having negative effects on the environment. So we need to think about, what is all this growth doing? What is its effect? And what do we do about it? So let's first say, "What is the growth I'm talking about?" So if you see on this slide, you see that the world population has doubled in the last 50 years. The food production has gone up three times. The energy use, four times. And the economic activity, five times. Not just that, we also say that, "What is the amount of resources that we can use?" And if you look here on this slide, and see, in 2012, finally, United Nations came up with this concept of "Green Growth", okay? At that point in time, the world was using 70 billion tons of resources from nature. We can only use 50 billion tons, and that's a number which has come about by lots of different teams of experts in different parts of the world who have worked on it. And that number, we exceeded in 2001. So moving forward, in the year 2050, we are going to hit 180 billion tons. So that begs the question then, can we continue with business as usual, or we cannot? The answer to that lies largely in the definition of sustainability. So the United Nations also came up with this definition that "Sustainability development is that "meets the needs of the present without compromising the needs of the future generations". So are we really doing what this definition is asking us? So let's explore this a little bit more. So sustainability has primarily three components to it, environment, society, and economy. In this graphic you'll see that the economy and the society is embedded inside the circle of the environment. What that means is that we can all deplete our resources to the extent that the environment cannot sustain it anymore. So that's the big question that we are faced with here. So, also, let us say, "What are the different issues?" "What are the effects we are having on these three primary sustainability elements?" so with regard to the environment, we are warming the earth rapidly, as you've all probably heard. We are schedule or on target as of now to have a four degree Celsius rise by the end of this century, and that will have its own dramatic effects. Air pollution, we are throwing out literally hundreds of billions of tons of smoke into the air. Deforestation is rampant, hundreds of acres per day. Water scarcity is so bad that 1.8 billion people on Earth, according to the UN, are starving for water. Our oceans have been absorbing a lot of the greenhouse effect that we talk about. So all that heat is going into the ocean water, and that's creating problems for the aquatic animals. Not just that, we are also threatening about 18,000 species on Earth who are going to be probably extinct at some point in time. So then, that brings me to the next primary element, which is the economics of this situation. So we have to be mindful that "viable and sustainable economic growth is needed". We cannot just have growth without sustainability. In that process, we also have to realize that energy, water, and material use has to be conducted in a very, very efficient manner, and that actually produces results for us, in terms of cost savings, and, also, by reducing the waste products that we are bringing on. The last thing we must realize, and in my work with the industry, I'm really somewhat saddened to say, that people and these industrialists, who are smart people, but they don't realize that sustainability is a business prospect. It's an opportunity they are missing on. With regard to the community issues, or the societal issues, it's all related to the growth. We have this built environment, which is so large. These big cities are like concrete jungles. And going with that, is all their transportation systems. What are they doing? They're taking away all the green space, which we all like to visit during our vacations, but they are all going away. So if you have to do anything about this, there has to be a large scale community involvement. So it looks like that this may be our future, our present at this time, and this may be our future, the way things are going, if we don't change our course. So what can we do? So we can respond by adaptation. With adaption, an example would be, for example, we engage in rainwater harvesting to reduce water distress. We may build sea walls to prevent flooding of sea water into the cities. We can engage in mitigation of these bad effects that we are faced with. And some example of that could be, like carbon capture. So if we start capturing enough carbon from the air, we can reduce the effect of pollution. Innovation, that's what we are all engaged in here, but one example that I can give, which I heard very recently, is that somebody has been able to produce electricity from solar panels, but at night time. So that's real innovation. And education, of course, universities are these centers for educating technical people, but apart from that, we need to engage the public at large, and educate them also. So how are we addressing all these issues? Of course, these are profound issues. We cannot address them all in one go at one university. But what is the part we are playing? So as was mentioned earlier, this Midwest Industrial Assessment Center that we have, We are reducing energy use in industries. We are training students by efficient and effective teaching and research. We are teaching them team work. We are also helping industry to reduce waste, and we are also reaching out to the public in general. I work a lot with the utilities, and I work with government agencies, and also with nonprofits. So this is all an attempt to promote the concept of saving our environment. So let's say, "What is the impact this center has had over the last little over 10 years?" So we have served 258 industries. We have 112 million kilowatt hours of electricity every year. These are annual numbers. 150 megawatts of power needs, which is equivalent of actually shutting down a 150 megawatt power plant. We have saved 326 billion BTUs of fuel use. So these three numbers combined exceed the total amount of energy use by a city of the size of Jefferson City, which is our capital. We are saving about a billion pounds of CO2 emission every year in Missouri alone. And we save these companies, according to DOE estimates, about $280,000 for every of these 258 industries we have served. So the research initiatives we are engaged in is energy storing material for buildings. We have worked on one material, which it seems from lab tests, it saves about 25% heat loss. So you can save heating loads by 25%. We are looking at more efficient electric motor drives. Why electric motors? Because that's the most common machine that's used by industry. And we are trying to develop strategies to use solar energy in manufacturing sector. If you look at the 258 industries I talked about, only, actually, one has solar energy. In the college-wide system, we have sustainability as our strategic area, and this is one of the four areas we are talking about today, and there are lots of things going on in this regard. So at the campus level, we have the Environmental Affairs and Sustainability Committee, which helps us to promote sustainability on campus. I happen to be the current Chair of that. So we need to reduce waste on campus. If you don't know, we are producing 25,000 pounds of waste on this campus every day. So that's our yearly. We need to thus increase recycling. We need to have awareness among all the student population, which is by far the largest human group here, and we need to encourage food waste composting, and sustainable energy use, and also, green buildings. Thus, in closing, I'll say that, in the short-term, we really to aggressively pursue sustainable practices. In the long-run, we have to start reducing our actual use of materials, regardless of sustainability or not. And hopefully, then, we can sustain life as we desire for a long time. Thank you. (audience applauding) - Great talk. Thank you so much for the wonderful research you have done, and amazing impact your research has on the society. Now, we come to our last speaker. So Dr. Satish Nair. Satish is a professor of electrical engineering. He's also a top expert of their applying engineering technology to neuroscience. In addition to research and education, Satish actually is also a fan of the long-distance running. He use to run marathon in college, right? (chuckling) But his most exciting thing is is his research and education he has done. So he direct one of the longest running less funded education program in neuroscience. So that's really one of our brightest points at Mizzou. So now, let's welcome Satish to come to share his insights about how to improve the mind, how to train our next generation of the talents and leaders in engineering. (audience applauding) - So what I'm gonna talk about today is, you know, is soft skills. Is it a misnomer? What can cognitive science inform us about that? So I'll answer that question first. I think it is. It is a misnomer, and I'll try to argue for it as we move forward. Hope we move forward. Okay, we do. Okay, so this is going to be the structure of my talk roughly. I mean, we'll go from the brain. So as Jack introduced, I'm really not gonna talk much about education, but this impacts education. Most of my fund for this is from research. It's not from education, but it impacts education. That's why I've been interested in it. I've been interested in anything to do with the brain. So today, I'm going to do a little bit digression. We'll go right from the brain to the mind. We'll talk about neural science, where most of my research projects reside. And then I'll move up to psychology. I teach a course. We've been teaching that for about a decade, a seminar course, one credit, two seminars, called preparing Advanced Professionals. There are some students smiling. They've been in that course. And so that goes up near the soft skills at that level. So I'm going to try to connect, you know, research projects that we do on at the brain level to something up there, then we'll extend it to psychology, where it'll be more of hand waving. Really, it's territory that I'm not very familiar with. I should explain that. Except by working with kids, and working with students, and others. So I do want to explain that. Since we'll be all over this place, right? I encourage you to where your seatbelts, your mind belts, or brain belts, because we will be all over the place. I have no choice. I'll have to keep jumping between areas. So I'll first talk about reverse engineering the brain. It's a new area, brand new area. It stands at the lower level of the brain. And then I'll talk a little bit about what are soft skills, as, you know, just a definition. You may have your own definition. Then I'll talk about going from brain to mind as in electrical and computer engineer. I look at it as going from hardware, to operating system, to software, and then something else we don't know, right? I'll talk you about specific research projects related to learning. How do we learn? And it has huge bearings on how we think, because a lot of that learning I'll talk to you about is unconscious learning. So I'll urge you to look inside. I'll bring this word up constantly. The ability to look inside yourself, so keep that in mind. So what insights does reverse engineering the brain? I just made up that acronym. I didn't have space to fill my slides. What does that have as far as soft skills? So that's going to be the central question you'll then look at, actually. I'll tell you something about what I know, my guess. Soft skills have to be learned. You're not born with it. You cannot at all motivate you based on some other findings from research. And then I want to stress, to especially the students, and actually, everyone, including me, actually, that abnormal stress, abnormal stress, can impede learning, and that has huge consequences, including at K-12 level. "So all of this is great", my dad told me, my grandpa told me, grandma told me, you'd say. As an engineer, you see, I'm interested in mechanistic insights. Can you tell me why? That's what I'll try to do with these slides, okay? So put your seatbelts on. Okay, we'll start at the bottom, reverse engineering the brain. So National Academy of Engineering, in 2008, recognized this as one of the 14 Grand Challenges, and I've been working in this area a little bit. A few years before this, I was really thrilled to see that. So what do they mean by it? I'll tell you a little bit. But first, what are we looking at, though? We have a brain. It's about 100 billion neurons arranged in intricate circuits that control lots of stuff, right? And that can go wrong. Can lead to Parkinson's, can lead to PTSD, depression, and so on. So what do engineers do? What have we been doing? Well, we are interested in neural implants. Can we do something to improve some conditions, like Parkinson's? Personalized medicine is a big one. I'll touch up on quite a few of these. Interestingly, the National Academy, when we did that in engineering, the Grand Challenge from NIH, the Institute of Medicine, they came up with these Grand Challenges. How does physical activity of neurons result in mental activity, thought? Now, I'm not sure medical folks can answer that question. They need us. They need physicists. They need engineers. So when I talk about engineers, I'm clubbing all the physical science folks in this, okay? But they are interested in it. It's an NIH Grand Challenge. Fascinating, right? How does nature and nurture shape us, and make us who we are today? That's a big question that's been addressed for a long time. But, again, I think engineers are needed there. And how do we protect brains from aging? I think we heard from Marj about aging, and all those, and I would encourage that that's probably will be another thing that'll get in there. How do we protect a brain? What about mental health as we age? What consequences does that have to falling and all? This is probably stuff you know. You know, system scientists deal with modeling, control, circuits with nonlinear resistors. Those are some areas. And we are actually, neuroscience is one of the fastest growing areas for AI models. Why? Because psychologists will tell you this happens. Can you link it? So AI is needed to bridge that gap for now, and then probably will add, they're looking to add explainability into this. But the challenge is, you need to be able to work with neuroscientists and psychologists, and we've been doing that for a bit to tell you a little bit about all that. Now, back again to something else, birth of a new era long, long back, and when Galileo discovered this telescope, it launched this entire area of astrophysics and astronomy. Why? Because that enabled people to get data, right? You know, Kepler got tons and tons of data, and Newton just looked at all that, and Newton said, "He could do what he did because he was standing on the shoulder of giants", right? Shoulders of giants. What that did then, what I would suggest, is what happens, what's happening today, is they've been educated as saying, "Turn that telescope around". "Can you look inside now?" So the question is, why weren't we looking inside? There were philosophers, there were lots of people looking inside a hundred years back. Trouble is, we didn't have data. Today, we do have a lot of data, or data beginning to come out in massive amounts, but we don't know how to mine it. So what our lab and lots of labs are doing, is we're trying to build up from bottom up first principles models, similar to what's happening in physics. It's a physics approach. And then, AI models do bridge the gap between them. And this is, again, I'm going to flash this by. And when I say. "There is data", there is data, and there are people working on it. Electrophysiology has been around a long time. Optogenetics, you must have heard. I won't read through all that. In math, there's sparse coding, compressed sensing, Bayesian statistics, and all of these. You know, lots of people, including us, we're looking at some of these, including machine learning and AI. So it is a rich area, okay? Coming back, what does that have to do with soft skills, right? So what I'm going to motivate, what I'm going to argue, is abnormal stress effects functions at all levels. Stress actually impedes learning. What is stress? This is a very lemons definition. Stress is when your own perception of reality is at odds with what is out there. It's more complicated than that, but let's go with that for now. So what do we do about it? I'll come back to that a little later. In the course I teach, we have two book readings. One is "7 habits of Highly Effective People", and you'd say, "Yes, yeah, my dad told me that, my mom told me that". Let's go with it briefly. I'll tell you, there's much more in this than that, okay? The first three habits, I won't go into that in detail, is to develop independence. You're born into this world, you are dependent. That's how all mammals are. We have no choice. You learn a degree of independence, and once you learn that degree of independence we do a good job of that, actually. If you did that well properly, then you can go to interdependence, which we need in our society today. Engineers need that a lot. Particularly, scientists and engineers are told, "You are introverts", which is okay. I mean, I like my creations, But then when you have to interact with others, it's a stumbling block for us. It raises stress. First of all, I don't believe in it. Why should I do it? I'm just going to argue that you should do it. Whether you would or not, that's up to you. But I think it's important to do is what I'm going to argue. And engineers are good. You know, if I'm told it's important, and I know why, well, I'd do it. So far I was not told, so that's my semi, you know, logic here. As you do this, as you learn this, I think an important one here is "sharpen the saw". And "sharpen the saw" just means it has important implications. You need physical, physical well-being and mental well-being. Please read the book, if you haven't, because this has trained managers. This is not a self-help book. It's much, much more than that. It trains managers, and people pay to go and learn all this. I think I have three or four students right here who have been in that course that I see, okay? So, again, I'm going to look at, why should I believe this, the basis, right? So this another book we use, called "Make it Stick". It's by Wash U, two psychologists there. It's a best-seller around the world. It talks about simple things we thought we knew. It says, "Re-reading is useless". If you re-read stuff to learn, it's absolutely useless. Massed practice is useless, right? And then our, what is useful? Retrieval practice, and thoughtful learning. Learning has to be difficult. If you make it easy for the students, you're not helping them. You are harming them, actually. And why? Because it's connected to plasticity in the brain. It's connected to encoding, consolidation, retrieval. And I encourage you to look that up, because I won't have time to go over it in detail. I'll tell you a little bit about learning. So this is something we've done in our lab, you know, that is standard Pavlovian conditioning, where a rodent is exposed to shock and tone, and they learn very quickly after a few trials that the tone is predictive over shock. The funny thing about that, is we've got models. I work with collaborators of how it goes on this. They provide me with data. I fit models, computer models. And we have data to show that this learning occurs unconsciously. You don't even know you've learned, then you wonder, "Well, if that is true, what else have I learned unconsciously since I was born?" There's a structure in your brain called amygdala that stores all your fear memories right since you were born. So what does that do to you? We don't know. I was interested, and this DARPA came up with a program to boost synaptic plasticity. Just wanted to tell you, lots of folks are interested in this, and it is out there. It's fairly important. I'll leave it at that. There's a link you can look at. You can blue plasticity. And I won't go over this with you. So this is a video we have. I don't know how to go with this. Well, I will probably, quickly. Is there a way I can start this? So this is, as you go through this, this is actually a collaborator at Rutgers. They have a rodent that's going to come from the left-side of the screen, and there's a robot here that's a predator, and the rodent is scared, so it's instrumented, right? It's got fear and reward. It can get the food pellet. It is trying to get the food pellet while, you know, it's debating, and that is encoded in an area called the prefrontal cortex, and can you intervene the ideas that a collaborator wants to intervene there, and prevent that fear so that rodent can go it? So those are ongoing experiments, and we are models of that. I don't know if Feng is here. Feng, you know, is one of my students. We've got computer models to show this, and we are interested in biomarkers that are high gamma, this is all signal processing, high gamma that'll be biomarkers that indicate the conflict between reward and fear, right? So coming back to soft skills. So, you know, we talk about six pack, right? I talk a lot with my son about this. He's interested in more of that. And what about six pack for the mind? I mean, so I was glad those are actual stuff. So I'll come back to this same slide about stress. Stress does affect everyone. Not all stress is bad. Long-term stress can harm your health. There are ways to manage stress. If you're overwhelmed by stress, get help from a professional. These are from NIMH, National Institute of Mental Health's site. For our students, again, ability to look inside. Why do you have stress? I think you should have the ability to probe deeper, go in, and see why are you feeling the way you are, and you'll need some help with that. The question is, why can I not implement all this if I can get to be the CEO and make a million dollars, why can't I do that? I know I want to do it. Why not? I think that's where the "7 Habits" make it stick. These insights would come in. That's the pitch here for today. But, actually, how do we do it? Well, so coming back to this question, soft skills, I would actually call them well-being skills. Those skills are very much needed for you to navigate life. If you take it that way, believe me, it's extremely important. It has to be learned. If you don't have time to read the book, just check out 20 Things 20-Year-Olds Don't Get. For all undergraduates, I think, probably should be required reading. In my course, I do have students look at that. I think one of the things it says is, "You have to have three mentors". You know, if you do the six pack abs, you're more than willing to pay $40 an hour to a coach, right? To get you six pack abs. Why can't you get free mentors? I'm talking to the students here. And actually, there's mentors at all levels, in my opinion. Why can't you? They are more than willing to help you, and that impacts. At Weizmann, I talked to Jeff Ullman, briefly talked to Dave Clint also the other day. We are thinking of, what can we do here at Weizmann? I think it's extremely important. I think if I were going to go back, I would take a course on individual psychology. Psychology is coming out with very interesting facts, because AI will fill that in. For instance, lying has been underdiagnosed as a cause for psychopathology. Don't lie, just say the truth, right? I'll tell you computer software reasons why that'll hold, from my point of view. Check out "Cardinal Sins". Just Google why when you get angry, what really happens? It shuts off your cortex. It's known. So when you're angry don't say things you don't mean to. Just be quiet. And when you're confused, just do that, right? Talk to personal mentors. So you say that, right? "How come I cannot do this?" Well, talk to a personal mentor. They'll tell you, they'll help you. Get some 360 degree feedback. Those are extremely important suggestions at all levels of life. So even if you're not stressed, if you want to go to the next level, these are good things to do, okay? I think all of this, removing stress, these well-being skills will help you go beyond that too. We'll come back to the brain again. Let's say, you don't have the time. "I don't have the time to do all this." Well, help is coming. Planet Fitness, you go there, right? Very soon I think you'll be working on another project with a psychologist, trying to look to see, for normal people, can you go to, you know, one of those sessions? Can you have, it's called transcranial magnetic stimulation. It's real. The one we are looking at is, can impulsivity be measured by EEG signals, and can you control it in a simple reward task? So if you don't have time, I think you'll probably be able to visit Planet Fitness. On this side is all your physical, this side is your mental abs, okay? With that, I think I'll like to thank my lab members. I work with a lot of people, but on the projects that I listed here, our collaborators are: Denis Pare from Puerto Rico, and Greg Quirk from Rutgers and Puerto Rico. These are my brilliant grad students who actually make a lot of these things happen. Thank you. (audience applauding) - So now we're gonna have the Q and A session. So why don't we have our speakers come back down to the stage, if we wanna call it that. And we have a box microphone that we will toss at you, gently, that is. So I'm gonna start off with you, Marj, and give you that. - Okay. (people chattering faintly) - All right, so the speakers are open for questions, if you have any questions for our speakers. (people chattering faintly) - [Female] Oh, here, you must. Ready? - That's the biggest-- (people chattering faintly) - [Derek] That's a dangerous thing, throwin' things-- (audience laughing) - [Audience Member] So my question is for Marj. If you could elaborate on the cardio system that you are, the cardiology measurement system. How far along is it? What's the accuracy? Or when can we expect such things in the broad market? - Yes, where Giovanna? I need Giovanna. (laughing) She's probably in the lab right now working on it. I'm not sure exactly how to answer the question, in terms of how long it might take before we really see this. I can tell you, that we have successfully seen correlations between features extracted from the ballistocardiogram that correlate to changes in systolic blood pressure. And if you look at the theoretical model of this, you know, closed-loop cardiovascular system that Giovanna has done, you can certainly see the changes that occur in that, with respect to changes in the cardiovascular systems, and you can see changes that correlate to changes in heart valve function, or changes in heart failure, or different types of heart failure. One of the things that we're working on right now that is required for the next step, is that we need to also model the measurement systems. There's a lot of different ways that you can capture the ballistocardiogram, and this is something then that we need in order to really make this work in the way that we'd like to see it work. We have to now model the actual measurement device, and then be able to translate that back into this physiological cardiovascular model, so that we can interpret it, and that's the step that we're working on right now. - [Female] Here. - [Audience Member] Two questions. One for Derek. What is special about the year 1943? Is that the Vannevar Bus speech or something for 77 years? And I'll ask the second question. - So you're saying, "What is special about 1943?" - [Audience] Yeah, you said, "77 years of AI". - Yeah, so for 1943, and I would even anchor it back further than that, I was being conservative. If you would put McCulloch and Pitts, and you put an early conceptual model of what a neuron was, but even if you root it back from even before then, and you talk about some of the basics even where the... I put Gdel and I put a lot of others for theory of computation as well, and building models. But for 77 years, you could also put it at '82 with Hopfield. You can put in it as 69 with - Right. - looking at Menski, and the first cold winter, you know, of AI. But, really, the point of 77 years is really it's larger than 20 years. It's been a very long time, and we've had a lot of great minds from statisticians, to mathematicians, to computer scientists, to electrical engineers, and then also, a lot of not engineers, neuroscience, and other things that have all been feeding in, and creating a real creative soup of thinking. - [Audience Member] Thanks, yeah, yeah, all the talks were very good. Just one other question, which is for Sanjeev, which is how do get the number 70 billion tons of what? - Okay. So, well, those billion tons are based on no recycling or no waste reduction. No recycling efforts. So these teams, I had a references down there, one of the references. So these teams looked at all this, and they said that, if we, you know, they came up with some guidelines for ideal ways, and ideal amounts to recycle. If we were to do that, then by the year 2050, we will still be consuming 93 billion tons, instead of 180. So the thing is, that you cannot be just, say that I'm just, I'm using sustainability, and continue to grow. You cannot do that. So we have to, that's why the long-term goal has to be there. We have to reduce consumption. Actual consumption, regardless of sustainability. So those numbers I gave you, 70 and 50 billion tons, which we exceeded in 2001, those are based on, you know, the current situation in 2001, and without regard to any recycling. - Go ahead. - So yeah, great talks, really enjoyed them. So a question for Sanjeev. As you know, you talked about, you know, food, and a lot of things of sustainability. I wonder about water. So what is the growth doing to our water systems, and what's the challenge for sustainability from a water perspective? - Well, that's a really good question. I did not address that here, but in fact, the Department of Energy has now identified that as one of the major trust areas for the next, well, 25 years. So up to about two years back, in the Industrial Assessment Center, we did not even talk about water. So we could go to industries, and not look at their water system. But two years back, we were given an additional mandate to start now assessing the water needs, and how they can recycle water. So in the last one year, we have actually visited three waste water treatment plants in Missouri, and there is a vaccine manufacturing plant. I'll not give you the locations, as only one is probably, or only two in this area, so in that plan, they were using about 400 million gallons of water every year, and they were spending about a million dollars every year. So we were able to save them about 220 million gallons per year. So that's a new mandate years. And the DOE and the NOAA, the National Oceanographic Agency, they are saying that, by the year 2050, US will face major droughts, which we are seeing some of that right now, but they're saying, it'll be almost like Utah, Colorado, those areas may not have any water at all. - [Marj] Oh, yeah. - [Audience Member] And one more for Sanjeev. Tell us about the solar panels that work at night. What are they picking up? - Okay, it's what I heard in the news, okay? - Oh, okay. - So I only know what I heard in the news, and I'm also wondering. I'm trying to see what. But it seems what they are doing, is they are using some sort of infrared light coming in. So they're trying to somehow manipulate the solar panel to be able to use the infrared portion of the spectrum, - Okay. - and generate some power from there. But I think it'll be only about, like, 20, 25% of the daytime power generation, which is good enough to at least alleviate some pressure on batteries. - [Audience Member] Yeah, yeah. So it's not moonlight or street lights? - Yeah, I think it was maybe just do street lights, yes. - Your turn. - Oh, good. (speaking faintly) All right, so I have something I'd like to ask all of you to think about together when you think about this incredible brain power we have up here together. Derek, as you think about the explainable AI, and technological advances, either currently being made, or as Sanjeev was saying, "We really need to think about". How do we optimize to using explainable AI, or other methodologies that you all deem would be best? Marj has incredible aging in place going on. Are there aspects of everything you're doing that you could take some of these advances in AI or machine learning, say, "This is what we really need to focus on", or then do ways to analyze that data to go even deeper than predicting a fall? And I think in the context of the aging in place, when you go into the cognitive neuroscience in Alzheimer's, dementia, can we take some of these approaches that you all are working on, and say, "Okay, here's how we optimize an amount of stress that's going to be good", right? 'Cause we know sometimes that can really help you perform. Versus that that is really impacting, in a negative way, mental health, which we know is really growing of concern across the country? And then, finally, even, Sanjeev, you know, how could we really optimize and target even further than our four pillars of pursuit down into niche areas that could really make an impact and change with this great research you're all doing? - Very good, thoughts, yeah. And something to think about, yes. So-- - Derek might need to start with all the AI side, explainable AI side. But yeah, you all, however you wanna answer it. - Well, in industries, the one thing is said, "How do you predict failure?" 'Cause everybody puts off maintenance. They don't want to, you know, unless something breaks down, don't fix it. Incidentally, that's the way it is. Very little regular maintenance goes on, and no predictive maintenance. So maybe AI could help with the predictive maintenance part of it. I don't know. That's a question to be answered. - Okay. Well, I've thought a lot about how we could combine some of our work with, certainly with the work that Derek's doing. In fact, we've written proposals on this. So, yes, we have some ideas for how to do that, especially as we're interested in now creating interfaces that are appropriate for consumers, or for that matter, interfaces that are appropriate for clinicians in nursing homes or assisted living facilities that may not be very highly trained, being able to provide them with additional explanations about what's going on will be essential to actually making the whole system work. And so, yes, we've talked about how we could incorporate the explainable AI part into this, and how critical that will be. I'm also really interested in seeing what can be done, in terms of looking at the neuroscience for aging adults. We have a pilot study that we're doing now as part of our NIH grant, which will be testing our sensor systems in the homes of people with mild cognitive impairment that are living in the community with their family members. And I think there are some interesting opportunities for interventions that could also be studied, with respect to looking at the neuroscience. And I heard one recently that had to do with music as an intervention, and being able to actually use music, and how your brain can be synchronized to particular musical rhythms. And they're using that as therapy for people that have cognitive issues. So that would be very interesting to explore. - It was a wonderful question of weaving all these stories, 'cause at the heart of the explainability part is a question of what, why, what are you trying to explain? Marj and the elder care gives a wonderful example of exactly what you want to get from an explanation, how that can change and impact the elders, their lives, their loved ones. But also from the side of lookin' at the neuroscience, we, the messages that we extract, the messages that we deliver, will all have things like stress. There is a reason for them. They are human-centric, so not considering the human seems to be kind of a little bit of a funny, you know, picture. And ultimately, as you kind of weave, I think, the thread in through all these different areas, we're searching for the structure of a question, and how we can self-improve our field by getting tighter and better so that we don't have black box ad hock science, but, yet, we have very purposeful math, and to answer questions both that relate to the human and to the, you know, end recipient. So it's a wonderful question, but I think there's definitely interweaving of all these things. - Yeah, I agree with all of these. I think in neuroscience, again, this hasn't escaped potential program managers. There's a NIH proposal initiative about which has XAI in the heading, and we are trying to apply to that now, actually writing it up with a psychologist. So I think for very much for the same reasons that we all mentioned, if there's a human in the loop, you obviously have this cognitive component, which can fail, or even if it's not failing in the normal case, stress levels, like you exactly pointed out, where is the border on, you know, what is abnormal stress? Because that's not defined today, because nobody wants to call it, how do you determine that? But for our college students, I really think that's critical. That's where I'm very much interested in that. How do we come up with maybe canvas site, or how do you advice them? Because we advise them based on standard. "Okay, take this course, take that course." Nobody has the time to ask them, "Now, tell me about your background". I think that's critical. We really believe that's very, very important. So I'm talking about normal people. And I go back to K-12, why do girls decide by about... I think, when they are five or six, they decide math is not for them. Why? Is it because they're heard something that parents talk that's switching off, "Oh, math, man, I don't like it"? But kids get these perceptions. So I'm curious, where do they get it from? And they make up their mind, math is not for them. Now, imagine, if you make up your mind that math is tough, "My parents didn't like it", or, you know, when the kid is in class, and there's a math professor talking, a teacher talking, elementary, the kids' amygdala, the structure I work on, is hypered for nor reason because just because a kid has heard it, and then you switch off. The first thing happens when you have stress, if you look at the neuralbiological underpinnings is it turns out the cortex. For instance, in this room, if we hear an alarm, what is your first reaction? Your first reaction is run. Why? Because we are designed that way. Your amygdala shut off the cortex. You are not supposed to think. Say, "Well, let that person finish the argument". "Sounds interesting." No, your cortex is turned off. So now imagine that kid who's actually, due to whatever reason, has this feeling, math is tough. When the teacher talks about simple multiplication, the kids are turned off. So a lot of educators are interested in that. So going not to just pathology, I'm interested in normal kids, so that's why I really work with those kids to try to see not just them. I think it's just curiosity about the world creatively. So the good things, how do you bring motivation? That itself, you know, we don't have money. I talk to program managers, "Why aren't we?" And for obvious reasons, Congress won't fund it. So there is no money in that, but I think, education, we should be interested in it. Psychologists have been studying this. So there are gonna be a lot more interactions, I think. Like Derek also said, the question, what we are asking is important, and we need to engage the domain exploits. Like, you know, Marj on elder care, what exactly are the types of falls, and if you tie it up with a clinician and psychologists, I think you need that, and then an AI expert can come in. Same with, I think, sustainability. So all these areas. So there will be AI, but I think engineers and scientists, we need to know how to collaborate with others. Going back to "7 Habits", I'll come back to that. - Okay, let's thank our speakers. (audience applauding) So to conclude this Research Day, we're gonna have Dean Loboa announce the winners of the poster competition. - Exciting! All right. Thank you all again. Those presentations were phenomenal. It was really great. Okay, in third place for our College of Engineering Research Day 2020, third annual third place poster competition, third place in winning the poster competition, Weiyu Feng. (audience applauding) Congratulations. And as you come down, I'm gonna ask you to stay down here, 'cause I'm sure we're gonna wanna get a photo of everybody. Well, he almost stopped, like, "No, I'm not gonna". Yes, you're gonna have to... Yes, all the way. You're gonna come down, you're gonna get this, and then we're gonna do a photo. Congratulations. (audience applauding) Oops, I need to shake your hand. - Yeah, sure. - Yeah. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Good. All right? (Weiyu speaking faintly) And, oh, I'm sorry. I think we're gonna want a photo of all the award winners, right? So just stay over here, have a seat, okay. Don't peak. You can't see who's second, okay. Wherever you like, all right. And in second place, Hamed Majidifard. Did I pronounce that at all close? - Kind of. - Kind of. I'm sorry. (audience laughing) Congratulations. (audience applauding) - [Hamed] Thank you so much. - Thank you. Congratulations. There you go. - Thank you. - Good, great. Have a seat. Oh, I wonder if you might of, did I leave the-- - Yes. - Oh, sorry. - You did. - Don't look, don't look. Okay, here we go. And in first place, drum roll, okay. This is really... My apologies in advance. Taher Hajilounezhad. Hajilounezhad. Oh, that's horrible. I'm so sorry. This wonderful congratulations. (audience applauding) Congratulations. - Thank you. - There you go. (audience applauding) - Thank you. - All right, let's get a picture of everybody together, right? Just the three? Oh, me too? Okay. All right. (audience laughing) Hold up your, there you go. Good, thank you. Congratulations. Congratulations. (applause drowns out speaker) - [Shelly] Yeah, I'm just gonna need to get some information. - Oh, yes. These come with-- - [Shelly] They come with a prize. So. - You get a... Yeah, Shelly. - So-- - Shelly, tell the prizes. - Okay. - Yes. - So third place will receive $100 Amazon gift card. (audience cheering) Second place will receive 150, and first place will receive 200. - Congratulations. (audience applauding) (applause drowning out speaker) - [Shelly] Sure. (Taher speaking faintly) - So thank you, but I have to share the credit with Rina Bao, my collaborator, electrical engineering. So she collaborated work between us, Dr. Prasad Calyam, and Dr. Pal, and Dr. Maschmann's group. So she has the same contribution, and I have to share the credit with her. Thank you. - Oh, that's so nice. - That's wonderful. (audience applauding) All right, real collaboration, fantastic. Thank you all. Congratulations. Wanna say any final comments? Everybody, please, thank Sheila, Shelly, the entire team, Jack Cheng, again, thank you so much, and our amazing speakers. And our poster judges! Oh, my gosh, yes. Thank you all. Have a wonderful night. Thanks for bein' here. - Thank you. - Thank you. (audience applauding) (incoherent chattering) 