 hey guys welcome to codewrestling and in this video we will give you the information about the 10 Artificial Intelligence companies which are working to build the better tomorrow so from google to amazon and from facebook to microsoft all tech companies want to change and want to implement Artificial intelligence in every field we are using AI daily in our life which can be in the form of siri or in the form of alexa there are still many AI revolutionary change like self drving cars which are not in our limits but in this video we has have a list of 10 AI startups which are powered by AI and they are changing the world so here we go and the first in my list is Tempus this is a Healthtech, Biotech, Big Data company and there office is located in chicago Tempus uses AI to gather and analyze massive pools of medical and clinical data at scale. The company, with the assistance of AI, provides precision medicine that personalizes and optimizes treatments to each individual’s specific health needs; relying on everything from genetic makeup to past medical history to diagnose and treat. Tempus is currently focusing on using AI to create breakthroughs in cancer research. the second in the list is DATAROBOT this is a Big Data and Software company and its office is located in Boston DataRobot provides data scientists with a platform for building and deploying machine learning models. The software helps companies solve challenges by finding the best predictive model for their data. DataRobot's tech is used in healthcare, fintech, insurance, manufacturing, and even sports analytics. the third in my list is NARRATIVE SCIENCE this is also a Big Data and Software company and its office is located in chicago Narrative Science creates natural language generation (NLG) technology that can translate data into stories. By highlighting only the most relevant and interesting information, businesses can make quicker decisions regardless of the staff's experience with data or analytics. the fourth in my list is ALPHASENSE this is a fintech startup and its head office is located in New York. AlphaSense is an AI-powered search engine designed to help investment firms, banks and Fortune 500 companies find important information within transcripts, filings, news and research. The technology uses artificial intelligence to expand keyword searches for relevant content. the fifth in my list is CLARIFAI this is a software company and its office is located in new york Clarifai is an image recognition platform that helps users organize, curate, filter and search their media. Within the platform, images and videos are tagged, teaching the intelligent technology to learn which objects are displayed in a piece of media. the sixth in my list is NEURALA this is a machine learning and software company its head office is in boston Neurala is developing "The Neurala Brain," a deep learning neural network software that makes devices like cameras, phones and drones smarter and easier to use. Neurala’s solutions are currently used on more than a million devices. Additionally, companies and organizations like NASA, Huawei, Motorola and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) are also using the technology. the seventh in my list is NUTONOMY this is a automotive and tranportation company and its office is in boston With a mission to provide safe efficient driverless vehicles, nuTonomy is developing software that powers autonomous vehicles in cities around the world. The company uses AI to combine mapping, perception, motion planning, control and decision making into software designed to eliminate driver-error accidents. the eighth in my list is PERSADO this is an ad tech and software company and its head office is in newyork Persado is a marketing language cloud that uses AI-generated language to craft advertising for targeted audiences. With functionality across all channels, Persado helps businesses increase acquisitions, boost retention and build better relationships with their customers. the ninth in my list is X.AI this is a machine learning startup and their head office is in NewYork x.ai creates autonomous personal assistants powered by intelligent technology. The assistants, simply named Amy and Andrew Ingram, integrate with programs like Outlook, Google, Office 365 and Slack, schedule or update meetings, and continually learn from every interaction. the last in my list is this is a cloud and software company and their head office is in Austin ognitiveScale builds augmented intelligence for the healthcare, insurance, financial services and digital commerce industries. Its technology helps businesses increase customer acquisition and engagement, while improving processes like billing and claims. CognitiveScale’s products are used by such heavy hitters as P&G, Exxon, JP Morgan & Chase, Macy’s and NBC. so these are the list of the Artificial Intelligence companies which are changing the world if you want part 2 of this video like this video and in the comment section mention which is your favorite startup 