 Today I’d like to walk you  through Minerva’s approach to AI   and show you how it can be used in  a number of different applications. So first off, who are we? Minerva is a Vancouver,  Canada-based company. We deliver explainable,   cognitive AI solutions and geospatial analytics  to solve problems in mining and natural hazards.   We’re a diverse team, bridging the gap  between cutting-edge cognitive AI research   and practical geospatial applications. While  Minerva itself has only been around since 2017,   our technology has been under development for  almost 20 years. Recently, we’ve released a   series of software tools under the banner of  TERRA Mining AI, with solutions for every stage   of the exploration and mining process. Based  on these successes, we’re now expanding our   verticals to apply these tools to solve problems  relating to Natural Hazards. We’ve got alpha-stage   prototypes built out to cover landslide,  flood and wildfire risk, and are seeking   out partnerships to help build these products out  into turnkey solutions for the insurance sector. So what kind of tech-based solution  do we offer? Minerva’s cognitive AI   is different from the conventional way that most  of us usually think about artificial intelligence.   At its core, we are attempting to train the  computer to think and reason like a human expert.   To do this, we don’t use neural networks, or  statistics, or fancy machine-learning software.   Instead, we offer tools and support for  our clients to develop conceptual models,   using knowledge graphs that describe a particular  domain in words, not numbers. Once defined,   we use this information that’s been encoded into  the computer and apply our reasoning engine.   We call it “the Reasoner.” The Reasoner allows  us to make comparisons of similarity between   physical entities, leveraging the power of  our knowledge graph to compile a wide array of   various datasets. On top of that, since we’re not  using black-box systems, the solutions presented   by our workflow are completely explainable,  so you can audit the results for yourself. Now that’s all well and good, but you might also  ask, “What does it actually do?” How does our   technology apply to natural hazards, and what  is the problem we’re solving? Looking around   in the news, it's clear that natural hazards are  now more frequent and damaging than ever before.   Our team realized that, in much the same way that  you can use our tools to look for a gold deposit   in mineral exploration, you can also look for,  for example, houses that are at risk of flooding.   Minerva provides the tools needed to apply our  cognitive AI workflow, empowering users to make   informed decisions about natural hazards  with complex geospatial and other data. This workflow can be applied to  a variety of different domains.   You can apply it to P & C insurance  underwriting to compare two different   properties in terms of their flood risk  quickly and consistently. For reinsurers,   GAIA can help by providing explainable risk  assessments that integrate a variety of datasets.   Data stored in the knowledge graph allows us  to provide richer geospatial analytics than   traditional tabular databases. In real estate,  the explainable similarity scores can help connect   investors with the right properties, and to better  understand their exposure to natural hazards.   Also linear infrastructure operators, like  powerlines, need to understand which segment   of their line is most at risk of either  generating, or being affected by wildfires. So now you have a sense of what  we’re doing, but what’s the big deal? On the bottom right here is a simplified  knowledge graph that represents the   information shown in the image on the  top right. When we look at that image,   our minds construct models that are similar  to this knowledge graph to make sense of it,   by linking what we see with what  we already know about the domain.  For example, we don’t just see colours. We see  a building there, and that building has a roof,   and that roof is made up of a specific material,  and it also has a skylight. Many of these elements   can be identified using computer vision  algorithms applied to satellite imagery,   but Minerva offers a tool to help structure  that data inside the computer, so that it can   make inferences about the image content,  in much the same way that your brain can! So on to those benefits. As mentioned  already, one of the great benefits of   using knowledge graphs is that they allow you  to encode expert knowledge in the computer,   so that that information can be used by a  reasoning engine to make inferences about data.    Another great thing is that they are extremely  flexible. Storing your data in a knowledge graph   allows you to incorporate a wide variety of  quantitative and qualitative data in one place.   This means we can incorporate data  from sensors and other IoT devices.  I already alluded to this, but knowledge  graphs provide a very rich data storage format.   Data turns into knowledge when it  is placed in context. Knowledge   graphs provide that context and  increase the value of your data. On top of that, I want to make it clear  that we aren’t reinventing the wheel here.   We’re simply providing our clients with the tools  to apply established, tried-and-true scientific   methods theories, data and results to come up with  expert-based solutions, across a wide area, fast. Our results are completely transparent, and we  pride ourselves on the explainability of our AI.   The scoring system is clearly laid out,  with no secrets buried inside black boxes. Finally, we should note that knowledge graphs are  widely used, but you may not know it. In fact,   every time you do a google search, you are  making use of their knowledge graph tool,   as they use the context of who you are,  where you are, and how you searched for it   to deliver customized results. Amazon’s Alexa, and  Apple’s Siri are also powered by knowledge graphs. Now that I’ve hopefully convinced you on the  benefits of knowledge graphs, how do we do it?   What does it look like to actually step through  the GAIA workflow. Here is the 5-step process.  We start by working with you to build out  a knowledge graph – we call this KNOWLEDGE   ENGINEERING. We'll look at all the data that  you want to use and start to develop a model   for how all those component parts interact. We’ve  pre-built knowledge graphs for flood, wildfire and   landslide hazards, but every application is  different, so these can be easily modified.  Then we INTEGRATE all of the relevant data sets,  whether that be cat model outputs like water   depths for a 200-year flood or information about  your customers’ properties, and we align that data   with the structure of the knowledge graph,  to put all the data in context, so to speak.  Next, we go to work with your experts, using  our software tool to CAPTURE THEIR KNOWLEDGE   and define which are the important attributes that  matter for the risk being modelled. Once again,   we’ve got pre-compiled models for various  types of flood, wildfire and landslide risks,   but these can be easily modified  to suit your data, or your experts!  With that all done, we then use the Reasoner  to compare between the data and themselves,   or with the pre-defined expert models. The Reasoner results can be delivered   in various ways, but we like to  display them in a web dashboard   so you can interact with the data and drill  down to understand the reasoner scores.  This is an example of a flood-risk dashboard  that we have put together for one of our pilot   projects. Here, we’re comparing the grey house  in the crosshairs with all of the other houses,   in terms of flood risk. This particular result  uses about 30 different geospatial datasets   (listed on the left side of the screen) to come  up with the Reasoner flood similarity score.   Similarly, you could also compare all of the  houses in your portfolio with an “idealized   model” of a house at risk of flooding, based on  your expert opinion or your loss-records database. These results can be used to extract actionable  insight from your data. For example, an insurance   underwriter might have a customer looking for  flood insurance, whose home sounds really similar   to a one that they wrote a few weeks ago.  They can then search their local knowledge   graph network to compare just how similar this new  property is to the one they wrote a few weeks ago,   allowing them to price premiums  more consistently and more quickly. While this is similar to the typical scoring  system that most catastrophe-modelers provide,   remember that the data are stored in the  knowledge graph, so they’re placed in context.   You can drill down into the results, by  clicking the “Match Report” button, to get   detailed explanations for why 123 Oak Avenue is  similar to 456 Main Street in terms of flood risk. So, to close, I want to summarize what Minerva  is all about. We provide explainable cognitive   AI tools in geospatial domains where data  is limited and the problems are complex.  We help by storing and sorting  through heterogeneous datasets   and putting that information in context. Our domain-agnostic technology has been proven in   mining and mineral exploration, enabling  rapid adoption of cognitive AI reasoning.   We’re now looking to apply these  tools to the natural hazards industry   and are seeking out commercial partnerships  to help build them out for insurance,   real estate and other applications. Thanks for listening, and please feel   free to reach out to learn more about  our geospatial cognitive AI products. 