 Humans can hardly understand the algorithms used for machine learning and text-driven artificial intelligence applications: How and why decisions are made? Are the results fair, transparent and explainable enough? Are the results biased in one way or another? For instance, if the language model used for training/machine learning was not neutral different biases would rise and consequently the results shown might be influenced and incorrect. Therefore, explainable artificial intelligence (XAI) emerged from the field of machine learning to address the issue of blackbox. How can we ensure that individuals rights are being protected when private companies make sure to keep their ways of data processing a secret? Numerous regulatory parties, including the OECD have urged companies and above all governmental and public organizations to incorporate more explainable AI. Furthermore, the General Data Protection Regulation stipulates for people living in the European Union the right not to be subject to a decision based solely on automated processing. In 2009 JANZZ.technology created one AI based matching solution to explain how we match - for example, candidates and vacancies - before the term XAI even existed. Our unique matching engine JANZZsme! excludes all kinds of person related parameters such as name, gender, age or nationality and only compares skills, education, training, specializations, experience and other relevant information that truly matters when searching for the perfect candidate. Instead of displaying the result of one matching score our matching system breaks down all criteria which include functions, skills, languages and also the items that did not match this allows users to have a perfect understanding of the results and sets at the same time the foundation for reskilling or upskilling their workforce or their skills set. If you are interested in learning how we apply explainable AI to governments, public employment services global companies or organizations, please contact us and we will show you the infinite potential of our unparalleled XAI tools. 