 The world of population health management is evolving. Health plans are now expected to efficiently manage cost of care while also: • Meeting quality measures • Increasing member satisfaction • and maintaining trusted healthcare relationships. To meet these goals, the industry has turned its attention to Artificial Intelligence because it enables plans to leverage an astounding volume of health data to predict member needs. However, introducing this technology can be challenging as many plans don’t have the budget or in-house time required to develop AI models from scratch. Additionally, organizations must have an infrastructure in place in a way that they can interpret what they mean. To meet these challenges, ZeOmega has developed a powerful solution suite called CareIntel – which is a robust end-to-end solution powered by Jiva. CareIntel enables clients to identify specific needs in their populations AND take appropriate action. Drawing on years of ZeOmega’s expertise and experience, CareIntel leverages sophisticated algorithms across its identification, stratification, prediction, and intervention solutions to meet care and business objectives. The comprehensive solution offers a FULL analytics stack in ONE suite, combining AI’s predictive capabilities with: • Rules Based Retrospective Analytics • Supervised Machine Learning • The Jiva Sentinel Rules Engine • And, our decision tree algorithms found within the Assessment Configuration Engine. CareIntel is not only smarter, but also more user-friendly than many AI solutions. which generate the “black box problem,” where inputs and calculations are NOT easily understood. With CareIntel, the user receives clear, interpretable, and actionable results. It is the ONLY solution in the industry that provides insights and supports: • Member engagement journey • Improved care team productivity • Energized quality initiatives • And, automated compliance solutions. CareIntel is the BEST AI solution available for population health management because of 3 main reasons… 1. It speeds up the development of your AI models. ZeOmega integrates clinical, medical and pharmacy claims— as well as social determinants of health data— into pre-staged data tables that work as a feature warehouse. Those features can be then  plugged into any AI model for tailored, comprehensive, and precise predictions, at a much faster pace. 2. CareIntel builds trust with explainable results. The platform’s AI provides interpretable, actionable insights at population AND member level for a deeper understanding of the drivers which allows for human-centered care planning. 3. CareIntel leverages data to drive better outcomes. By combining predictive capabilities with machine learning and Jiva’s Sentinel Rules Engine, organizations can move seamlessly from insights to action, automatically triggering intelligent and customized care-management workflows. In a sea of AI solutions, only CareIntel can deliver end-to-end, interpretable AI with rules-based workflow solutions and supervised learning methods. CareIntel, powered by Jiva: The industry’s leading AI solution for delivering high-quality cost-effective care across the health continuum. Learn more at ZeOmega.com. 