 Jay Shah: Awesome. Okay. Jay Shah: Welcome share on this is our 18th episode on machine learning for beginners and for this podcast we have Sri Lanka, who is currently working as a million junior at we r.ai Jay Shah: And she recently graduated from Stanford with her master's degree in computer science and she has previously also worked at Google Brain and Facebook as an intern and she's also leading our initiative called c++ which she will be talking much Jay Shah: More about it in the later on this podcast. So thanks a lot. Jay Shah: Thanks a lot. Share. Welcome to this particular podcast. shreya shankar: Yeah. Thanks for having me. Also, just to be clear, I finishing up my last class in my masters right now. I haven't yet graduated, but I will, and a month or so. So Jay Shah: Oh, wow. Yeah. Wow, that's really interesting. Didn't I didn't know that. I thought he already had, you know, that's, that's, that's fine. Jay Shah: Awesome, awesome. So can you, can you tell us what are you currently working on, like all what are you currently working at we are doctors in a million to shreya shankar: Totally. So by that we build machine learning pipelines for a car companies vehicle companies at the end. And as a machine learning engineer. shreya shankar: I help out with both building these the system so that that data scientists can run algorithms to, kind of, I don't know, make sense of the data. shreya shankar: And also helping the data scientists create predictive models so that way I don't know. We can solve problems like which vehicles, you're going to have component failures of the next few months or so. Jay Shah: Right, right, right, and so on. Jay Shah: So all these kind of technologies like what was the inception point for machine learning, like when, how did you get started. Was it interns. Was it your undergrad study at Stanford. Now, how did you get into machine learning, basically. shreya shankar: Yeah, I was lucky enough to go to Stanford, I think, which is kind of at the forefront of computer science, especially with like super amazing professors classes and research projects going on. shreya shankar: And I think since I started school in 2015 2016 2017 we're kind of like hype years I think for deep learning frameworks like TensorFlow one point out came out. shreya shankar: Whatnot and I just found all of my peers and classmates taking these classes like Andrew Ng machine learning class. I think it's what Coursera also and Percy Liang's shreya shankar: Intro AI class and I remember taking those my sophomore, junior years shreya shankar: Seeing everyone else doing machine learning projects all of these classes have final projects which are kind of machine learning mini kind of a casual products. And I think one thing led to another. I just kept following down the rabbit hole. shreya shankar: All right, all right. Jay Shah: And what was so as a typical undergrad. Jay Shah: And gene undergrad student. We really learned a lot of different concepts. It's starting from infrastructure based on like database systems and infrastructure to build infrastructure normal software development domains and also we have these mathematical Jay Shah: domains where we learn the basics of AI. But what according to you, really stood out that made you interested into machine learning on why not be a database engineer or why not arm. Jay Shah: Be very hard core infrastructure engineer what was really unique for you for being interested in machine learning. shreya shankar: I think as an undergrad, you're really impressionable. And most of the people around me were in machine learning. So I kind of gravitated towards that. shreya shankar: The thing that I actually studied though is computer system. So, for example, databases compilers operating system security stuff like that. I enjoyed doing that because I felt like shreya shankar: It was very hard for me to learn machine learning concepts or learn other computing concepts without having some sort of fundamentals. So, for example, like shreya shankar: I don't know how does an operating system work. What are the principles behind. I don't know, like distributed computing stuff like that. And I feel like all of this stuff applies to all of the new domains like machine learning. shreya shankar: Yeah. Jay Shah: Right. Right. And I also read one of your recent blog articles that really that relates or talks. Jay Shah: Much about the he is a reason Jay Shah: And I, when I look at a lot of startups in the Bay Area, and typically other locations in the East Coast, a lot of Jay Shah: One line definition of all the startups say that we have a powerful AI at the core of this particular product and it really intrigues me like to understand Jay Shah: What exactly they are using because it's not definitely a Coca Cola recipe that's really painted but Jay Shah: A lot of people like if you see most of the startups, even if it's not a tech domain, lot of people use the word Jay Shah: I don't know if, if that makes them sound good or not, but you have seen a pretty diverse range of workplaces, because you intern with Facebook you interned with Google and predict pretty Jay Shah: Research aspect and not right now we are working at a young startup. Jay Shah: How do you find particular AI. See where ism and how do you, how do you go on approaching because yes, there would be some problems that need a is a solution. But how do you really understand that, hey, this Jay Shah: Solution really doesn't need AI to Jay Shah: Budget it's it's it's a normal, normal approach to be solved using other techniques. How do you defend that shreya shankar: I think it's definitely something I'm working on, and only something I've recently picked up in the last few months or so and shreya shankar: I think I outlined also in the article kind of the framework that I use and how to approach, working with non tech or non AI ML people shreya shankar: And trying to construct predictive solutions. I think one of the biggest challenges for me is to wrap my head around how the client or the non ML person thinks about an ML solution. shreya shankar: So they don't quite know the terms precision and recall in their head, for example. shreya shankar: But they had an idea of like whether this ML model actually derived provides value like maybe they just really care about minimizing the number of false positives. shreya shankar: Maybe they really care about minimizing the number of false negative like they're in a medical context or something. So I'm working with them to have a grasp of how to realistically evaluate a model, especially in real time and like a live or production setting. I think it's shreya shankar: Harder for me. Usually than just like kind of building and classify or something. Jay Shah: Right and yeah that's that's totally a fair point. And one of these things like are also, I don't know, it was maybe a point in your one of your articles to but Jay Shah: Terms like interpreted ability and explain ability like because I'm currently working on building an enterprise level AI model than what I when once we go through the literature of these particular Tom's Jay Shah: A the point that we first find is most of the people use explain ability and interoperability very interchangeably. I mean, it's very convenient for anyone to say our system is explainable versus they saying our model is interoperable. Jay Shah: So for my first question would be, do you see like, do you have a definition in your mind like based on whatever survey or whatever experience that you have been. Do you like, do you have a clear distinction. What, what really means by achieving explain ability versus achieving interoperability. shreya shankar: And how do you define the difference Jay Shah: I'm a very nice. So please take this definition from for CBS is looking like I'm just very newbie into this whole domain, but for me. What I understand is interpreted ability refers to model being interpreted as in making Jay Shah: Making our definition out of Jay Shah: The mathematics of a model versus Xfinity typically falls on the surface level. The as in saying that this is what the model predicted and Jay Shah: Just answering why like it's like one of the interoperability force for the model that is the architecture of the model but exclusivity is typically just concerned with the end endpoint of the model that is the predictions. That's what my understanding currently has been shreya shankar: So maybe like it interpreted ability as a stepping stone to explain ability is how are you going to get when ability. If you don't know what the model is doing. shreya shankar: And that makes a lot of sense. I think for me I i think shreya shankar: These clauses are really important for two different reasons. One is promote for the data scientists are the ML practitioner like how are they supposed to iterate on the model if they don't shreya shankar: Have an idea for what the model is really good at and what the model is really bad at because they want to improve a model and shreya shankar: The black box only gives outputs and not any like direction on shreya shankar: What you should try next like adding more features are adding more data or changing the objective function like all of these things like require some level of stability. shreya shankar: And I think also from the client perspective, a lot of times in like applied about context or when you're trying to deploy like an actual useful bottle of the real world. shreya shankar: The domain expert once have some idea of how to solve the prediction test like a great examples and the medical like literature doctors can they they know like shreya shankar: How to diagnose a patient with lung cancer, based on, I don't know, whatever X rays or medical imaging devices, but these AI tools come in handy because they can enable what the doctors do at scale and provide shreya shankar: Like they click checks, I guess, or confirmation that what the doctors doing goes right shreya shankar: So, shreya shankar: The explain ability really comes in where the AI solution has come up with something different than what a domain expert would have come up with. And it's like, who do you trust why Howdy. How do you build tools that augment what humans do rather than completely replace them all together. Jay Shah: Right, right. So, I mean, would you agree to this statement that achieving interoperability. Jay Shah: Would be much more of a concern from both the ends of the Jay Shah: People who are Jay Shah: Associated with that product one being the clients because they want they want a confidence in that particular model. And secondly, also the developers, because they need to reiterate to understand why that particular model might be failing on Jay Shah: At least 5% of the cases. So it would be helpful for them to debug that particular model. Jay Shah: So would you agree to that particular the proposition shreya shankar: Yeah, totally. I think it's very telling that a lot of them all models in production are like extra boost or trees, rather than deep learning deep neural networks of light everywhere. Jay Shah: Right, right, right. And one of my questions. Normally, is because I started at least my master's was definitely like my master's thesis was definitely along those lines. Jay Shah: Where I had to at least spend more than six months just to understand what these domains are and catch up to the real world that Jay Shah: Once I have an idea and I Google and I already see few papers on that particular Jay Shah: Aspect, it's really hard catching up to the latest research that goes on into these particular domains of a particular application. Jay Shah: And you are working definitely at an applied research domain. So you have to keep up with the latest models that really come up and definitely self driving car is more than Jay Shah: Most of the focus of research. So how do you have like what what works best for you. How do you keep up with the latest trends. Jay Shah: In research, whether it be academia or whether research been done from industries and how do you keep yourself updated on what the word model is doing the best thing in that particular application. shreya shankar: Yeah, that's a great question. It's something that I'm trying to work with work on over time as I've had to transition to industry and kind of shreya shankar: What I was in school. My, my, I dialed up towards trying to keep up with academic research and now it's like shreya shankar: Less on the academic research and more on the like industry blog posts like whatever Uber live like Michael Angelo posts that come up and just random like Cooper 90s posts and whatnot. shreya shankar: For me, I found that it's really useful to kind of shreya shankar: Pick a few subdomains of them all that I really deeply care about and that may or may not be relevant to my job. shreya shankar: One being I guess continual learning. I really do care about how do you decide neural networks and deep learning model and machine learning models in general to be robust to like shreya shankar: Data distribution shift or learning new tasks or whatnot, because all of that stuff is going to come up while you're doing live in France. shreya shankar: And so continual learning is definitely one of them. Another one is model robustness and like adversarial examples. So I think having these two areas of focus. shreya shankar: Makes me makes it easier for me to keep up with the literature in the area, whether it's like through archive or looking at like the recent I clear submissions, or I see about conference proceedings, whatnot. Jay Shah: Right. Right. And you're Jay Shah: Talking about NAT on narrowing down your area of research, I, I mean, correct me if I'm wrong, but I from from a very basic glance of your profile. It looks like your internship at Jay Shah: Facebook maybe give you a very different perspective. Jay Shah: Of understanding how to build good infrastructure versus Jay Shah: How young that your intern at Google, give you a very deep perspective into how actually like industrial level research with a very high amount of intensity really looks like. Jay Shah: Also Stanford must have played its role from an academia, they giving you a taste of what research in academia looks like. And right now we are working at a Jay Shah: young startup that really deals with a lot of applied machine learning, like they don't care of the like the model has to be robust regardless of, like, I mean, I won't say regardless of the accuracy, but but robustness is definitely a Jay Shah: Key. So what is for you for you. What do you think has been the most interesting thing that really keeps you on your feet. That was it something like Jay Shah: Academia it says that you really enjoy it. And if not, why, why did you not enjoy all versus building infrastructure is really all that keeps you up at night or what, like what is definitely our most interesting thing out of all these four domains that Jay Shah: You can say shreya shankar: Yeah, I think the changes for me actually fairly regularly and something that I more, subscribe to is kind of shreya shankar: Developing a set of principles for how I think there are no world should work and whether maybe there's like a lack of infrastructure that allows us to achieve that goal or lackey and research methods. shreya shankar: Or a lock in like the disconnect between like a mile practitioners and the people who are actually using the ML models like shreya shankar: Yeah, it changes, I guess, depending on where the gap is, but I feel like a lot of the principles that have guided me have come through. I guess like Stanford classes. shreya shankar: And these research experiences I've found that the papers that I really enjoyed the most are the simplest ones, the ones that are like few lines of code change a very simple concept but shreya shankar: drastically improved results, things like that. Because simplicity is what is actually used in the real world, rather than like your ensemble of like a billion different neural network layers. shreya shankar: So yeah, for sure. I in the same principle can be applied to infrastructure to shreya shankar: Like shreya shankar: I want, I would much rather use Apache tools because it keeps me in the same ecosystem like Apache Spark and and they'll flow versus like a different tool from a different company that may or may not be experimental, who knows. shreya shankar: Yeah, so sorry I can't answer your question. I'm like, what is it that keeps me up at night, but the general guiding principles I think of simplicity and how do you design the systems, such that anybody can use them and iterate on them. shreya shankar: Whether that's from a research perspective or an infrastructure perspective, I think it's important to me. Jay Shah: Right. Right. And yeah, when I see all of these four buckets of Jay Shah: jobs out there are typical questions. This is this this thing that I realized maybe last year that Jay Shah: Most of the companies that have openings for machine learning and genius. I definitely feel the interview process for machine learning is definitely something that really needs to be worked on. Because Jay Shah: To like if you if you are a person who is really on a hiring end of the Jay Shah: Machine Learning position. What would be what would be an ideal candidate for you. Who can who can really qualify for a machine learning engineer in general. Jay Shah: I'm not talking about specific to where you're working right now. Like if you are a person with a sufficient amount of experience, how would you rate a person based on his machine learning capabilities. How do you like what is the measuring skill for you. shreya shankar: Yeah, I brought a thread on this a little while back. Maybe a couple months ago, but the biggest things I look for for an ML engineer or shreya shankar: Like I feel like it's like the best parts of data science and the best parts of engineering, even though they don't need to be super deep in either domain. Like, I don't really care about what kinds of statistical tests they know or whatnot. shreya shankar: It's for Data Science like can you, are you a good scientist, when you perform and design experiments you only change one thing at a time like you'd be surprised, like a lot of people shreya shankar: I don't know. I don't know, change like 12 hyper parameters. At the same time, and I don't really know what that's trying to measure. shreya shankar: But in general, like incremental it i think is really important and data science and a good practice of science and the rest will come right you can read like whatever O'Reilly practical shreya shankar: Data Science statistics for data scientists, I think. Practical. Practical statistics for data scientists can read whatever books you want you can learn, whatever. shreya shankar: Statistical tests are ready to be used or like whatever objective functions like survival analysis or regression shreya shankar: It doesn't matter. What matters is do you have the principles and the scientific methodology on that front. And I think from a software engineering perspective I care a lot about well, shreya shankar: When they write their code they write it such that anybody can understand it because when you're an ML engineer both software data engineers and data scientists need to understand what you're doing. shreya shankar: Yeah, so can they write like code that people can understand, can they write code that reusable also. So for example, if I were to solve a problem. shreya shankar: I should shreya shankar: Be more inclined to reuse another ML engineers code, rather than write it from scratch, myself and I found that this isn't the case when you're like trying to replicate a bug replicate ML research papers. shreya shankar: Oftentimes it's like easier actually do it yourself, or we implement it yourself, then, to use the code base. They publish so that skill is definitely something that I look for. Jay Shah: Yeah, definitely. I can definitely second that on the last point that you made because Jay Shah: Even an hour lab and I'm trying to use other people's model that have their they have previously developed and they had great results. I mean, Jay Shah: Those papers are highly cited. But once I see the code. And I was like, Oh man, I just like also Jay Shah: They will, they will from a different domain. They were not from computer science. And I was like my mentors expectation that because I'm a computer science student like the transition would be really easy for me to pick up that particular code. Jay Shah: And I just had to be like it. I took at least two or three weeks to maybe just delete it so that Jay Shah: I can Jay Shah: I can really work with it. And one thing that I realized like, almost. This is just a few weeks back, and one of my Jay Shah: Like other lab mates wanted to collaborate on that particular project. And I just gave him the code with the high expectation that hey I Jay Shah: Wrote a very beautiful code. And he, like, I remember like the maybe the longest on Slack on position, making him understand what exactly that coordinates. So I can imagine that, yes, working at a Jay Shah: working at a company like big company young startup or anywhere in a very professional scale this really set the problem scales itself on a very huge scale. When you have a lot of people coming in from Jay Shah: Different backgrounds. So yeah, I definitely second on the last point. Yeah. Do you put a disability and Good, good. Jay Shah: coding skills, a must. Jay Shah: But, um, yeah. Jay Shah: Do you see a major difference. Like, if you like, although you worked as an intern at Google Brain and Facebook and right now at we are dark Jay Shah: Do you like if you were to work at Google Brain for a long amount of time. The kind of person and the kind of person I would have built being a researcher at Google Brain is it significantly different than maybe 10 years of your Jay Shah: tenure at we adopt or like is it does it really take to be a different kind of person being machine learning researcher at Jay Shah: Big companies or maybe a Jay Shah: professor at Stanford versus how Jay Shah: Machine Learning researcher works at young startups. What do you see a major, major difference that needs to be learned. If somebody was targeting one thing or the other. shreya shankar: I'm sure I would have ended up deliberately had a stated brain full time. I imagine I had, I got directly to the PhD program. You never know. I think shreya shankar: With these things probably the thing that's so interesting to me about machine learning career path is that there's no right career path, like for example and consulting shreya shankar: There's a right career path. You go to a top tier consulting company you stay there. You get burned out, you go to an MBA like like the the path is there for you and then you like end up. I don't know, as a CEO or something. See you. shreya shankar: But it's not there for machine learning. It's unclear whether you should go to research or you go to industry you switched infrastructure which which makes me believe that there's no right path actually like every path is the right path. shreya shankar: I don't know where I was going. shreya shankar: Yeah, I'm sure I'm sure I would have ended up differently, had his data grid. The other thing that really shreya shankar: crossed my mind when I was trying to decide where to go full time is when you're really young, or I guess in life in general, I read this one wonderful post that shreya shankar: Says that whoever you surround yourself with, like, try to diversify that and be careful who you surround yourself with every day because you're basically giving them right access to your brain. shreya shankar: Especially if you're early on in your career like you want to diversify that as much as possible. And so that's what made me realize I wanted to try things and new things. And if I don't like it. It's fine. I'm still early career. Jay Shah: Right, yeah. And yeah, this brings me to another interesting question. You didn't mention that you had, you could you could have been a different person. If you took a Jay Shah: PhD and Jay Shah: One of the, like, I guess I found out your profile based on that particular post of your choosing industry was his PhD and Jay Shah: So, can you can you like dig a bit more deeper on shreya shankar: That Jay Shah: Like if, for whom his PhD, a good choice was is for whom it is definitely not. And what were your factors. I mean, definitely. I read the post so I probably had that post my heart because I maybe read Jay Shah: it three times because this was maybe just one or two months into my PhD and I was just, just trying to figure out and pick up points from internet that says, I made a good choice. Jay Shah: So I was trying to Jay Shah: Get the pros out of your particular post, but on a serious note, like we're like into your job, what job space that you have, like, you must have gained some experience and it's fine if you if you wouldn't mention out the cons of your Jay Shah: Current workspace, or the applied machine learning domain. Jay Shah: How would you reflect back on choosing PST versus not. shreya shankar: Yeah, um, shreya shankar: I think for me I made the right decision at the time because I'm the kind of person that if I'm not fully committed and believe at the idea is a good idea if there's any inkling of doubt. shreya shankar: I'm not successful. So, the very fact that I had an inkling about two years ago would probably not have lend itself to success. I would have probably dropped out at the PhD program or something. shreya shankar: Um, but I know other people are very different. So take that advice that you're like some people do really well in like areas. I mean big guity or they don't know for themselves. They're trying to explore it but shreya shankar: I know for me, like if I go to a PhD program that's going to be because I hundred percent believe that that is the right choice for me. And there's no doubt at the time. I think the biggest pressures that a lot of people feel are shreya shankar: A lot of the shreya shankar: Hype. I guess in machine learning as a field centers around research and not heard around key figures in research. shreya shankar: So, naturally the paths that we consider tend to be like a PhD or trying to do industry research or something like that, just because that's what Twitter is talking about. And that's what all of our friends are talking about shreya shankar: And that's what we read, whenever we try to get into this field. I wonder if this would be different if shreya shankar: The machine learning practitioners were celebrated as much as machine learning, researchers like they were paid similar race. I think it's ridiculous that these other researchers that industry labs are paid like 10s of millions of dollars, like a year and they have stuck so shreya shankar: Um, yeah, just shreya shankar: I'm sure the conversation will be completely different. If the pay and the status and prestige were more equitable between the practitioners and the researchers industry. Jay Shah: That's that's really an interesting because, I mean, I haven't. Definitely not browse through the whole Jay Shah: job market for researchers was is our practitioners or just a normal, normal software development engineer, but to my understanding from based on what I he says, I mean, yes, there is. I mean, definitely PhDs are paid a bit more than what Jay Shah: Another experience level person would be, but I do see like a very small knowledge. Jay Shah: On top of the other. Like it just like doing a five years PhDs just equivalent to having five years of software development engineer at some company or maybe just a little bit more than that. I'm, I'm not sure if Jay Shah: This varies from different companies to companies, but that's what my observation has been like, it's just a little bit more but nothing more than like PhDs are not revealed to be on that, hey, it's, it's a, some money making business for them. shreya shankar: I think you're right in expectation, but the tail is much longer in the PhDs and shreya shankar: Another thing that I think about is, think about heroes of machine learning, or the people that are recognized as role models. Most of them are all in search rather whether their professors or their industry research labs. shreya shankar: And that kind of probably unconsciously by this into the getting those are the best paths. Jay Shah: Right. Right. Yeah, yeah, that, that is, yeah, I guess. Yeah. Jay Shah: The breakthroughs are still regarded Jay Shah: As in terms of papers and models. Jay Shah: And accuracy is instead of actually applying it to real world. So, yeah. Jay Shah: I agree on that point, that particular that particular appointment is not really praised into the Jay Shah: domains. So yeah, that's a fair point. Jay Shah: And Jay Shah: So coming to the implementation aspects you normally like I see a lot of your tweets that really Jay Shah: Really talk much more about like the frustrations of doing such kind of implementations and how it comes with it like Jay Shah: As a researcher, I always find like and this is maybe the most stereotypical question that what would be for you. Pi towards persistence of law, which one do you prefer. And why do you prefer that Jay Shah: Was it something inherently because you interned at Google. So you have a soft conference of law. Like, why not buy towards and Jay Shah: The question that I'm trying to come up to, is it really takes a lot of time if I wanted to master it TensorFlow, and it really takes a great deal of practice just sticking around TensorFlow and Jay Shah: Working on existing models like learning from the Jay Shah: Scratch and Jay Shah: It's, it's, it takes a lot of time if I were a master in both of these frameworks. So how do you choose your frameworks and why do you choose them or they just happen to be there and it's like Jay Shah: You had to do it, and hence you load. shreya shankar: Like how well this question because most people don't realize that the framework is not necessarily the only thing that dictates whether you use it or not, like TensorFlow and pi George could literally be the same thing and shreya shankar: Still, people would have their like preferences. And I think a big reason is. So to answer your question, actually for myself. shreya shankar: Whenever I'm doing personal research projects pie torches might go to whatever I'm writing code for other people to use at my company or for other people to understand TensorFlow is my go to Tf 2.0 and I think for me, like, because the factors are more than just like shreya shankar: Whether it's easy for me to use the code like the factors are everything from, like, what is the application. What is the idea shreya shankar: Do I care more about just iterating on this idea quickly or like coming up with like a nicely well thought out idea and meditation and sharing this with other people and having them understand that replicate it. shreya shankar: The framework. I feel like or the, I guess the oddities and a framework or 1% of the large the decision that needs to be made. shreya shankar: So I understand for research like it makes total sense that most people prefer pi torch. Because if they're the only people reading their code and they care about iterating much faster. shreya shankar: Totally i i do that i use pipeline for myself, but for other people, or when I'm working with really, really large data sets. shreya shankar: Always to put me Jay Shah: Right, right. And, and, like our. Can you walk us through like a very typical instance that what does, what does a day look like for an applied machine learning engineer at we are like how what is a normal. I don't know if there are Sprint's or not, like, what is what is normally a month. Jay Shah: Or day would be a very Jay Shah: Bad example but like maybe a month, like, what, what are the kind of assignments that you get, how do you deal with it. Jay Shah: And what is the end factor of that gratification that hey I Jay Shah: Completed it and you who Jay Shah: Some kind of moment. So like, Can you walk us through, like, how do you get Jay Shah: Like, at least for software developments, they have these kind of fixes that they work on and hands like the work is being done, like what is what. What does that look like for an applied machine learning engine you shreya shankar: Know, definitely. We also operate our startup also operates in the Agile framework and one of their biggest challenges is to try to shreya shankar: I don't know. Turn ML projects into something that can be worked on in the Agile framework like how do you design sprints around ML or how do you design like epics, and all of these things. shreya shankar: For me personally, I think that my my day or month and a life of me as an engineer is very different from other ML engineers. I personally believe in kind of like my time is a portfolio and sounds terrible. But I want to invest my time and like different types shreya shankar: Of projects. So like I will always have like a moonshot project going on. I will always have, like, definite I know I can do this project going on. And then I always shreya shankar: It's usually like two projects I am like seriously invested in, and the other shreya shankar: Rights for the rest of my time like collaborating with others, sharing my results with them, helping others on their projects, seeing where I can be of help and other places. So shreya shankar: Most of my moonshot projects are like take like state of the art research and like, see what it can do. And then most of my, like, definite I know I can do these projects are like, I know I can win from this project is shreya shankar: More it's closer to actually data building robust pipelines software stuff rather than like promising some results on a model. Jay Shah: Right. Right. And what would be a typical nightmare for an applied research like for at least for people like us who are. I mean, I'm still relatively new. But for me, a nightmare as a Jay Shah: Researcher in academic academic research, I would be not able to implement a model that has a theoretical proof, but that would be a nightmare for me, like, Hey, I'm not able to do that. Or maybe for our Jay Shah: Infrastructure based engineer, it would be just not able to fix that bug. What is a nightmare for an applied research applied. shreya shankar: I'm sure it's different for everybody. The shreya shankar: The biggest nightmares for me or when I feel like I don't have agency over what I'm doing. shreya shankar: So, for example, like I believe that this is the project that will help us the most and somebody else tells me, that's not true. And they want me to work on something else like that is just the biggest nightmare for me but shreya shankar: Probably speaks more to my personality, but like, actually, to my rule. Jay Shah: Right, right. And so I think you did talk about Jay Shah: You are you trying to work out and choosing models to like basically experimenting with models. So, like, if, if, let's say, Jay Shah: Like how does this work, and this is maybe personal advice that I would like to take it and take it and learn from people like us, if there is a problem said that says that, hey, I just want to do an object detecting the object detection task and Jay Shah: That is being assigned to your to you. How do you go on like do you do you do see which is the latest model that gives the best results or would you say because the Jay Shah: Company uses TensorFlow as a framework, which is the MIT is the best model that well that works best in TensorFlow, or was this, do you really play along the constraints of that particular Jay Shah: Assignment. Like, how do you go on choosing like researching which models are best and picking one of them because I'm sure that is not just one model who performs the best right every Jay Shah: Every model performs best in their Jay Shah: Particular students, how do you go on choosing them. shreya shankar: I think in the industry of setting part of your job as an Emily is to understand what exactly the acceptance criteria is for your tasks when I, when I say acceptance criteria. I mean, like, shreya shankar: What is the bare minimum requirement for your task. So when somebody says like object detection. I want object detection, like it's part of the Emily's job I think to like push more on like what kinds of objects. Do you want to detect. How good is good enough for you. shreya shankar: And then for me personally, what I do is like whenever I have those requirements in my head, I'm like, Okay, what is like the bare minimum dumb thing I can do to like shreya shankar: Achieve that quickly. Um, and then it becomes like if I have extra time like let me build something better use the state of the art or like whatever. So a lot of the times it's actually shreya shankar: Doesn't necessarily mean that machine learning this the best solution in the beginning, like maybe if they wouldn't really care about like object detection. shreya shankar: For like I don't know any squares that are brown or something or any squares that are pink. shreya shankar: Why do you need a machine learning model just compute that yourself and then design the pipeline around that have the machine learning bottle or your function just be something that you insert in the pipeline, uh, shreya shankar: Yeah, I guess that's how I go about Jay Shah: Right, right. Jay Shah: Yeah, that's, that's a fair enough point. That's a nice enough instance to understand and I'm in your opinion, I know this is, I mean, I don't normally Jay Shah: Tend to ask this question, but I see Jay Shah: The value in this particular question is Jay Shah: How do you see these fields converging. I mean, Jay Shah: Any opinion, what is the most hot shot application of deep learning in various domains referring someone competition or NLP, because that's what we see. Right. I mean, we as I mean we are Jay Shah: As a student, I just see if if I see competition. A classic application that that just pops into head is Jay Shah: self driving cars because Jay Shah: All companies and big investments are just going at it like this one. Those things like things like medical imaging and all those are like Jay Shah: Just silent players into these domains. Jay Shah: And when we talk about NLP is conversational bots and conversational AI developments are really on the surface of these things. So do you believe Jay Shah: In your opinion, do you think the Jay Shah: new thing that is a particular interest from an industry's in our standpoint that Jay Shah: That is the hot shot area of research and development. Jay Shah: And if it is Jay Shah: What it is for you. Or maybe there are a few other domains that are equally interesting and people should have a look. Jay Shah: Out that hey you should have a look. Jay Shah: Out on that particular thing. shreya shankar: I feel like those changes on a yearly basis. shreya shankar: And it's really hard to measure. What is the most type thing. Like do you measure it by the number of Europe's papers do you measure it by the amount of VC funding, do you measure it by the H index of the researchers working in that field like shreya shankar: This is a really hard question. Like, for myself, I noticed that the last five years or so have been like shreya shankar: The advances have the hype has really gone from like computer vision like object detection or image recognition for example then to, like, I don't know adversarial examples are super hot for a second model learning was too broad for a second. shreya shankar: Maybe it's still hot, to be honest. Um, what else like hardware improvements like to use. For example, shreya shankar: Like just all of these things right what transformers and NLP like they're all these moments that come up and I go so fast that I feel like it's really hard to, I don't even know if it's a good use of time to try to like predict the next one. shreya shankar: Because the upside, I think, too, like if you're in a you're a researcher in this space is like shreya shankar: Even if you missed the next last big thing like people forget about anyway so that next year. So like keep working on whatever you believe it's like important for whatever vision that you see in the space. Jay Shah: Yeah, I mean, definitely. I asked that example. Jay Shah: Because most of the people like at least when I was deciding that I want to do a PhD and most of my work even being a computer science, right, and most of my projects are along the lines of Jay Shah: Detecting long term diseases like Alzheimer's migraine and we are we are using we are achieving that using deep learning and Jay Shah: Whenever I asked someone who did PhD few years back, and the only thing that he advises just hope that whatever you worked on is still relevant after 10 years Jay Shah: And I was like, why should, why wouldn't it be relevant. I mean, I mean, people would be still. Jay Shah: Struggling with Alzheimer's. Right. I mean, it's not it's not a solvable disease, and it was like, you don't know about PhDs, you don't know about research, then things go out of, out of the coolness and the like, once in a very million areas of research that PhDs work on the comeback and Jay Shah: It really feels nice. Like if you if you see the whole profile of family Kuhn, it's, it's like he did. He did. He did all those things FEW YEARS BACK AND Jay Shah: It was just a coincidence that it came up and all these things really brightened up. So yeah, that was the whole idea of that question that is there something a Convergence. Convergence point like everybody's really interested into it but yeah Jay Shah: I mean, Jay Shah: It's, it's really hard to pin down any one topic, like you said, Well, yeah. shreya shankar: Yeah, everyone seems to be interested in AGI. But nobody can really articulate to me like the common definition of AGI that's used amongst the community. So I kind of shreya shankar: I guess if that's something that's interesting to you like divine it, figure out what that means and then chart your path to get there. And I would say like all the side stuff is a distraction. Jay Shah: Yeah, yeah, that's actually like two topics that I'm that really like itself. If you see papers on interpret ability by Jay Shah: leading experts and who are clean they are working on interoperability. They itself stayed in the papers like getting the definition of interoperability is itself a big step towards achieving that because Jay Shah: Most of the papers that you read the, the very loosely defined and they have that term in a very English grammatical manner that says there is no staple definition of interpreted ality Jay Shah: And it varies from application to application from user Jay Shah: To user and the combination of application and user so Jay Shah: Yeah. Jay Shah: And same goes for AGI. Nobody really knows what. Yeah, yeah. Most of the people are still afraid of getting a, a, he is in the form of Arnold Schwarzenegger so Yeah. Jay Shah: So yeah, and are talking about initiatives are. Can you talk more about the c++ and you should do, what does it really, what does it really is about and how, what are you doing in that for shreya shankar: Yeah, as a co director of c++ when I was an undergrad and I graduated. So now I'm not actively involved in c++ anymore, but our mission was to kind of rebrand what it means to be a technologist or computer scientists and it's motivated by, I think. shreya shankar: Just this idea of like you can't be what you can't see it. So at least like when I was young and I know a lot of people, similar to me. shreya shankar: Like didn't consider that like engineering or software engineering, computer science was like a job that we could have because we didn't see anyone like ourselves in it. shreya shankar: So as part of c++. The biggest thing that I did was organize a program for high school students to come to Silicon Valley have a mentor. shreya shankar: Like tour companies as well as research labs and kind of shreya shankar: For me, the most important thing was like introducing them to a lot of different people in the space, just so you can like plant the idea in their head that like they can be a computer scientist, I don't think you have to like explain like shreya shankar: Oh, computer science is cool. You should do computer science, all that will follow if that's something that they're naturally interested in. But the biggest barrier. I see two women and minorities not pursuing the field. It's just they literally don't even consider it an option for them. Jay Shah: Right. Right. And is that is that a way people like is that initiative still active, like is there a way people can Jay Shah: Be a part of it or maybe just like how do they engage with that initiative is that, is it still active, and if it is Jay Shah: Yeah. How can people interact with that. shreya shankar: I think it's hard because of code. So the programs have kind of shut down. But if you check the website. shreya shankar: And they follow the Facebook page, I think, cuz we post updates on there. shreya shankar: And I'm sure, hopefully, next year, next school year programs will start back up and we'll have the mentorship program coming back. So that would be awesome. Jay Shah: And is it specific to Stanford, colleagues, or is it shreya shankar: Now, is anyone. Oh yeah, you could sign up to be a mentor and any high school student can sign up to be a mentee. Jay Shah: Awesome, awesome. And yeah, this brings me to the last question that is maybe the most open ended question and feel free to Jay Shah: Take a turn as as you would like to is I get this question frequently and I'm still not able to answer this. So, Jay Shah: I'll be perverting if you can answer is if if you're a newbie into the computer science domain you you learn a lot of things in, you get to explore a lot of things, but at the same time, it can be intimidating like Jay Shah: Where do I learn our web development, do I learn backend development front end development database engineer infrastructure. Jay Shah: He high and all those stuff. How, how can one go on choosing what like choosing his or her interests and how can one really build a profile into is it Jay Shah: Is it working at labs. Is it working at good internships, is it working at startups and first of all, finding the interests and how to cultivate an interest so that Jay Shah: They can really stand out in the industry. How can one go on from shreya shankar: Point 02 point oh Jay Shah: Point A to Point B. shreya shankar: Yeah, a lot of questions, um, shreya shankar: Okay, so shreya shankar: I think for people that are new and Cs, there's two ways to really go about shreya shankar: Carving the path for you. One thing is you you explore see as you take the classes, whatever you find your interests like maybe you find that you're really interested in web development or you find that you're interested in databases or something and like shreya shankar: Kudos to you, like, great job. You found an interest like go explore that a lot of people, myself included, like it though. shreya shankar: Don't know what they're interested in, like, I didn't know what I was interested, I could take all the classes in the world. And I'd be like, yeah, that was cool. Okay. Now, why do I. What's my interest. shreya shankar: And the things that really helped me was to solidify kind of how I approach my thought process around computer science. shreya shankar: And to do that, like, I went and found people that I really admired or really respected and doesn't matter if I know anything about their work. shreya shankar: Or if I am interested in that field or not, like, go work with them. See how they approach problems. shreya shankar: And maybe you'll get really interested in that because what I found for me is I'm interested in areas like a certain person I know really well is also deeply interested in deeply passionate about and kind of can share that passion with me. shreya shankar: So it's a roundabout way I think to finding an interest but like find interesting people. And then like something or somebody I think will introduce you to the thing that you're interested in. shreya shankar: So that's one. Another thing that I think has been a guiding principle for me is computers are interesting because they do exactly what you tell them to and shreya shankar: The Stephen has a lot of implications because it means like whenever you run into a bug or something unexpected comes out like shreya shankar: I think it's interesting. It's fun because it's not the computers fall right it's usually because there is some assumption going on that you had or maybe that's like an implicit assumption that you had shreya shankar: That you get to like uncover and understand more. So a lot of the things around like debugging ML pipelines like shreya shankar: If all of a sudden our outputs are not expected. It's not because the ML model was wrong, it was maybe because our assumptions about the data input data. shreya shankar: Were incorrect or our assumptions about what the model would do it at some outliers was incorrect or something. So it's a very fun puzzle. I think it's always be solving Jay Shah: Right, yeah. Jay Shah: Yeah, I like you mentioned, it's, it's, yeah, there is no Jay Shah: Like it's going to be always a brute force approach that one needs to Jay Shah: Do in order to find what Jay Shah: What really interests him or Jay Shah: Her and yeah yeah I definitely understand like that is the, I guess that is the only selling point for one of the one of the selling points for Jay Shah: Computer Science engineer is like you can literally write an algorithm and make that particular Jay Shah: Machine, whatever you want. And once you try to see that most of these applications are just a set of rules that people have defined. And that's, that's really interesting. And that's what made the hooks up Jay Shah: Most of the students of this particular domain. Jay Shah: So yeah that's that's a very interesting perspective to that. Jay Shah: But yeah, with that. Jay Shah: I guess I didn't have any more questions on what do you have any other general tips of Jay Shah: Surviving computer science domain as in Jay Shah: Any, any general tips that you wish you had known few years back any mistakes that you've made that you would like other people to not make in order to Jay Shah: Be a much more safe sane person. shreya shankar: I think two big things I learned this one. Make friends in the area that you're in. shreya shankar: I would definitely not be in computer science, if not for all the friends that I spent the late nights with debugging. shreya shankar: Programs, or like just talking about new technologies or new research papers woods, just because shreya shankar: To make the friends find whatever it takes to find that community. And then the other thing I think as shreya shankar: I tell it to a lot of you, Stanford grads now are like juniors and seniors at Stanford board. shreya shankar: like going to the job searching process now for when they graduate internship client and they don't know what to do. It's like, don't take yourself that seriously. shreya shankar: You're bound to make mistakes like just just do like pick something it's fine if something doesn't work your way. Like that's also fine. I made a big mistake of like just taking myself so seriously and undergrad and trying to get good grades and good research and like all of that stuff. shreya shankar: I don't even know how much that matters and the long run, as long as like you're happy and you find something that you work or you're happy in the moment, as you're working on something so shreya shankar: Yeah. Jay Shah: Yeah yeah that's that's one thing that yeah I can see myself transitioning to that particular feature that kind of failures are okay just Jay Shah: Trying to learn from the thing I'm still the kind of person who still goes after grades. So I need to be on that particular trajectory that yeah grades don't really matter. But it's really hard to get out of the mental space that Jay Shah: Words do matter but yeah Jay Shah: Yeah, but yeah. Jay Shah: Anyways, I mean, yeah, that I think that has this, this has been probably one of the most Jay Shah: interesting conversations because i really wished I I'm particularly generally very interested to talk to applied researchers, rather than pro researchers or pro software development people infrastructure for domain because applied research has like to kind of juggle with Jay Shah: The pros and cons of both these domains. So it's really interesting to learn from people like you. So yeah, thanks a lot for agreeing to this. I know it's a weekend. But yeah, thanks. Thanks a lot for doing this particular podcast. shreya shankar: Thanks for having me. This was really fun. shreya shankar: Thank you. Okay. Jay Shah: I'll, I'll stop the recording and 