 All right guys, welcome to the Ravit show! And we know our special guest for today is   Jeremy Ravenel, who's actually the  co-founder of naas.ai by CashStory.  So, we are here to discuss about his project. We have already heard from him that Jupyter   notebooks is the new excel,  that's what he believes.  So, it will be always fun to know more about  what they are building in automation data   analytics and how it will be helpful because  he's a guy who has been a complete finance guy.  And then, you know he's turned out  to be going into data science and   that's what I like about you know Jeremy. And without wasting any more time, I guess   it's time to get Jeremy on board, so here we go. Hey Jeremy, welcome to the Ravit show,   how there you? Hello Ravit, it's going good man,   very good. Here in Paris locked down, we're  still locked down here but still doing good.  I know, just been like three-four days  since it's locked down now but yeah.  It's actually been two weeks because we have a  second wave coming, so there is kind of a partial   lockdown. It's not as heavy as before but we  still have to stay home most of the time so yeah.  Yeah I know, I think that's the situation  everywhere it's just that few obviously.  We don't have the lockdown here in India but yeah   somewhere if we are in the  same board in terms of code.  So okay, we have folks, we  have folks joining in we.  We have Demetrius; "Hey Ravit",hey.We  have Alok Chilka; "Hey Jeremy",hello Alok.  So we'll be, you know greeting everyone I'm just  waiting for a few minutes for everyone to join   in, and we can have the discussion going. And also, Jeremy, you know, we actually went on   something like five passes, free passes. Would you want to let the folks know about   what we'll be giving away by the end of  the show? We'll be announcing five winners  Yeah exactly. So what we give away  in the, in this show today, is five   passes for three months of free trial on naas. So, you will get access to your own data engine   and you will be able to use cloud jupyter version  of what you usually use as a data scientist,   which is because jupyter notebook is  the most used interface in data science.  You need to install it on your computer,  but we have put it on the cloud   and we added more features like scheduling  features and this is what naas is about it's   actually a cloud and a supercharged  version of jupyter that will help you   make data science, automation, AI really easily. So, we are very happy to have a few folks   from your show coming in and  testing naas for three months.  So just subscribe and we will randomly choose  some people at the end of the show! So good  Oh, we have my manager Jon Malysiah  joining in. Hey Jon, how are you? Hi Jon!  So yeah, I think we should get  going jeremy what I think is  So basically, I was not at all  into the anything in mathematics   or finance before starting my career. I was more into languages, art, history, music,   and actually, when I was 18 to 20 years old, my  dad told me that I needed to continue my studies.  I wanted to stop it but it was the  beginning of the financial crisis.  So, I got to do a loan to the bank and  I was really thinking to myself what is   really this economy about? Is it the cash mine,   what's going on and why is the economy so strange? I didn't understand it. So, I dig into finance,   I went into a master degree in finance and then,  I entered a company where I was supposed to   do a reporting on cash flow. So, you know nothing was done on   cash flow. Cash is already, is always like  not seen as the very priority in business,   but it's a wrong idea because it's  really the lifeblood of any business but   we are always focused on revenue, margin,  and everything and not that much on cash  So, this company needed me to build the excel  spreadsheet that I was consolidating every day   and every week to make the cash go forecasting  and know how much cash there was in in the   group of companies I was working for. But excel was good, but not enough.And   really really really fast it became not enough,  because of the flexibility of excel you can feel   that you do pretty much everything. You can do really nice dashboarding,   really nice consolidation if you do a bit  of vba you feel like you have it, but when   it comes to scalability, auditability, and  concerning your pc computing power, it's always   a bit complicated when it comes to  run big macros during four hours.  I'm sure that a lot of people  have experienced a long long   long excel spreadsheet loading different data. So, this came to me like something was missing   and after this experience,this first  experience, I went into big corporate   which is listed in the french stock  exchange, and I came to the conclusion that   this problem was still in the big corporates. Access to data, easy access to data for anybody   in the company should be more easy,  more flexible and shouldn't be only   a nighty thing, a nighty or a tech kind of thing. When you come from the business you need to access   data, when you're in finance data, is the life  blood, it's like your raw material and when you   come to understand that accessibility of data  can be done easily, then another world opens   and it's no more frustration. It's much more like a good feeling   that everything is accessible and that if you  know a bit of data scripting you can do a lot.  So, this in short my story and and why we have  created naas because for the past four years now,   naas has been created by my company  which is called CashStory and we have   been operating and integrating data project and  dashboarding project for finance department in   different big corporates here in France. And most recently with the covid, we   switched and we wanted to open source the  products we were using for our projects   for those companies and this is why we open source  two of our products naas which is the data engine   and bob which is an aggregator of tools  that we use for our different project.  So, this is in short my story  and why we're here today.  But then it's amazing! You can  hear me Jeremy? All right I think  I can hear you, I can hear you pretty pretty well! Ah okay because I just heard from Matthew that   my audio was off but looks like. It's  very issue now looks great. Okay superb!  So, we had some technical issues  but then everything sorted now   feels good what a story Jeremy obviously  I being a guy from finance myself.  I can just hear what you're saying there because  there's so much in data science that we always,   there's always so much to learn actually and  data analytics being such a huge topic now.  This seems to be like a journey  that you've just started off   and I know there's so much  coming for you down the line.  So, the launch of naas is happening  on the 15th of november, right?  Yeah, it's happening on the 15 16 max. The 15 is  the date but we may have some new stuff we want   to implement on the last minute and maybe we we're  not sure yet but 15 is the good day to remember.  Amazing, that's superb! We're launching on product   hunt if you guys want to check it out it's a  product hunt launch. So, if you guys have an   account on product hunt, please check us out. The launch of your product it's very important,   and i have known it closely, we have spoken about  it so many times we have known how important it   will be going forward for folks to have everything  all the data in just one place and that's it.  They just need to go out there and everything's  out there for them and they can work very easily,   they have jupyter notebook out  there they can do anything. No tech installation is needed which is really a  cool stuff because, when I first started in data   I was like "okay jupyter notebook is probably  one of the most used tool in all the field of   data science, everybody knows jupyter notebook." It's a really simple interface you just need to   download it and still you need to download it,  and still this step is a showstopper sometimes for   people that have no technical knowledge, they  cannot open a terminal, they cannot install   on their own machine the jupyter server,  the python server, and everything.  So, making it available in the cloud is so much  better and so much available for us as a finance   guy I teamed up with the tech guy with the  with my CTO, with Martin to make this happening   and once we had it set up it was a real pleasure  to work and discover and build new stuff   on this platform. So yeah So cool, superb!  So, Manisha Jain says okay, "going  great amazing show", thank you!  So, the things you know Jeremy what you're  saying is so reliable because people nowadays   think that you know technic there's always  technical stuff attached to something like   all the products, but it's not! It's so  easy because it's so accessible there   you've created that project where you have taken  yourself into consideration being a non-technical   guy if you're a non-technical how it works. So, yeah, amazing!  Okay, so we have kids technique. Oh, hi Kate so, she's on,   I don't know for what weird reason it always  gives a linkedin user for her, but then   yeah she's here! So, hi Kate, thanks for joining! It's been really tough building and iterating   on the really nice infrastructure if we  talk about the technical aspect of it,   because what we want to do is actually make sure  that anybody can have their own data engine,   and that this data engine can is basically  a jupyter interface where you can run   the notebook, but you also want to have  it like facilitating the access to data.  So, what we've built is a layer of drivers of a  library, so you can check it out on python, there   is a naas library, a naas driver library. Naas  library can do things like scheduling notebooks   which is not really common and people are  not used to see that sort of features in   in the jupyter. You need to have an air flow  or whatever other orchestrator on top of it,   but naas is an orchestrator on its own. So you can really just call naas dot scheduler   and put in parenthesis your frequency of refresh,  and this notebook you see where you can have code,   when you can have text, or you can explain  business logic, all those notebooks can be run and   scheduled at a certain period of time. So, this was a real challenge first off because   we needed to be able to build an infrastructure  in aws with kubernetes and docker that enable   each container, each engine to live on its own. So, Ravit as an engine, Jeremy as an engine,   but everybody use mutualized services that  can run jobs and enable easy access to data.  So, you have also facilitators. The naas drivers  are the facilitators and the naas features are the   scheduling and asset exposition use notebook as  api those are the different features we can have.  And they are all made to facilitate  the scripting experience.  When you have 50 lines of python to do one  stuff, we reduce it to one line to make it really   accessible, if you want to connect to a google  spreadsheet, you will do naas driver google and   enter the spreadsheet id, enter the spreadsheet  name and you get it straight in your jupyter.  It's really all about facilitating the  scripting experience to make data science,   automation and AI really really accessible and so,  if you guys want to check out later maybe you can   I've just done the first promo video today,  it's actually about a proper use case I got   myself on trading. I wanted to access this machine  learning thing. You know you have you hear about   it all the time but you're like "wow! How come  how am i going to access all this stuff it's so   complicated, it looks so complicated for me". So, we just made a use case on naas very simple   where you can understand how it goes and how the  flow goes in us you start with the simply made   reminder then you add up features, and features,  and features, and in the end you have an automatic   email that can bring you sentiment analysis,  so, you scan the news and you get a glimpse of   is it positive negative, or you can predict  the future data points using regression methods   that are pretty commonly used in in the field, but  we're also adding up some trading techniques about   what kind of indicator you need to calculate. So, all that stuff we've put in the video and we   hopefully want to see reaction on this as people  will understand what we are trying to achieve,   and maybe use it for their own purpose and try  to discover new trading opportunities let's say!  How does it feel you know just being  so close to the you know the launch?  Yeah it's really, really, really kind of  cool experience and cool feeling because   finally, you say to yourself okay thanks god!  Finally, people are going to see what we do   in the background for the past years. We've  been as I told you we've been using it for   almost two years we've been using those, this  it was not even called naas! We just managed to   put a name on it to really put it on the market  because we were just using our jupyter notebooks   in the cloud and using our drivers and our  facilitators to do our data project really fast.  So now, we made a really big big job for the past  two, three months to re you know package it and   make sure that it's understandable, it's easy  to get and so it's really a good experience to   work on that sort of thing and even more when  you are launching an open source product.  Because for an open source product, you need to  have a lot of standards. You need to respect a   lot of standards. So, anybody can read your  code make sure they can understand what you   do and everything so, it's a relief actually,  it's really nice, nice feeling i like it!  I can just feel that excitement I've always  spoken to you in the background and I know how   excited you are about the product and it makes me  excited whenever I hear you about what you've done   so far being a finance guy and you've reached  to this place where you've launched complete new   product which would be so helpful for everyone. But yeah we have some amazing comments coming in.  So we have Andrew Jones, hey Andrew  how are you? So Andrew Jones is   one of my very good friend he's owning this  data science infinity company for himself,   he's creating some amazing courses! Go guys,  go and check Andrew's website, it's amazing,   he's been a great great instructor in data science  field so do not miss it! Thanks Andrew for this!  All right we have Naman Jain. Hi  Naman, very insightful session.  So we have a question as well  as is it like azure ml studio.  Yeah it's pretty, pretty similar, but you  know, they had the microsoft team has some   notebooks running for the past year I think,  or one or two years, but they just shut off   this notebook as a service system to go to azure  ml studio and to merge the different services.  What we are using is not exactly what azure and  microsoft is doing, because we got inspired and   this is important to say to everybody, here we got  inspired by netflix! The netflix infrastructure.  There is tons of materials about what they  do at netflix to make data available to   all their employees. So basically, they are   using notebooks for connecting every data  point, they are getting every data of you   me everybody watching the video and everything  is triggered through notebooks, and all the   infrastructure is built on those notebooks. So, we just digged really deep into what those   guys were doing and we tried to adapt it for  us and now we try to open it to everybody so   let's try to see if people understand in terms  of technical structure it's much inspired by   those guys at netflix and we still follow a lot. So, I really invite you guys if you want to dig   more into what exactly we have been building,  check out what netflix says in the jupyter   conference, they have been doing it once a year  for the past three years explaining what is their   way of seeing the access to data, and we are  following that path as we are launching now naas   to the world and hopefully even those guys  at netflix hopefully we'll use it one day.  That's amazing! I guess you're learning from the  best and we trust in that product naas completely,   I trust myself you know because you're a great  example and you're being transparent about the   infrastructure very well but this is how you  important and this has been your inspiration   to create the project! I think it will be  a win-win for everyone, that's for sure.  Yeah yeah the game is really open. Yeah, we have another question from Kalyan Prasad,   it's "how do you make wise decision  with financial data at CashStory?"  Okay, there's a lot of way to approach  the question because, So, wise for us is a   key word in our culture, because we want to make  sure that finance is not used for the the same   purpose that we've been using finance for the  past 50 years which brought us in this situation   which is not good for the future. Because  finance should be really and finance and cash   overall should be a good should be the fuel that  could bring us to some advanced cause on how we   can make a better usage of data to take decisions. So, it's not about only financial data, it's about   the data overhall and I've seen so  many companies like they only look   at the financial data but they don't integrate  environmental data, they don't integrate like   market data, or everything like this. So hopefully, with naas what you can do   is like you can still go, you can still access  your company's financial data, you can still   connect to your erp or whatever, but you can  easily also plug yourself to the un database,   or the word bank database, or any other, any  other data, or api that can bring the two kind   of data much more accurately in your financial  or in your reports, in your business report.  So, you can take like wise decision based on  not only finance. You base your decision on   finance and non-financial data. It's never about finance only,   it's always about the business, always about  the operation, always about the context.  So, I would answer to that as this way like  it's not only financial data that helps us,   it's the whole thing and this is why we've been,  I've been coming from finance but trying to unlock   and try to get rid of those chains from  finance to be sure that everything could be   mixed together and that the data could be seen and  understood accurately not only based on financial   indicators but more than that  environmental issues social and everything.  Oh ,wow!Tthat's definitely This is a trend in finance,   I see here with my clients today. So, those guys are trying to understand better!   Covid has been a game changer like okay my  my store is closed over there in this country   because of the covid. So, I need to change my   budget and my forecast obviously, and this  if it's not closed then I can reopen so,   you see how an input from the outside world can  really make a lot of sense in your business. That's so true! We are talking of your  brand page, "your homepage is wonderful   clear Jeremy, so great", Stephanie Krohn Hey. It looks amazing trust me yes exactly that's   what I've always wanted to say myself to that  it is very clear that this is what we are doing   and this is what we are creating for folks out  there so, yeah it's it has to be that clear I   think the product page should look that clear. And as it's a technical product it was really   a challenge to really make sure that anybody  that knows jupyter and don't know jupyter can   come to the website and say okay, let's start a  new way of working with jupyter notebook but I   don't know what jupyter notebook is so it was you  know very difficult to make sure that everybody   understand that the message we're trying to Exactly it's very clear straight and this   is how it works so, yeah and okay so,  we have another question from Lakshmi   S "Is this a kind of google collab with scheduling  and other added features correct me if i'm wrong"  Exactly, so, you have the same it's jupyter  collab, google collab is also based on jupyter.  Right, they changed the ui, we didn't change  anything about the ui. We just made a few,   we just made the green color which is the mother  company CashStory color, we just put it on and   replaced it but, apart from that, we are in the  really having the same ui as jupyter but what   we have added is scheduling feature notebook as  api feature which is really cool if you want to   like send data to your notebook, or  call your notebook to get an answer.  So, you can also expose asset, you can keep  your secrets if you have some let's say user and   password, you can keep your secret, you can expose  your notebooks through another domain as well,   there is a lot of cool naas features that have  been added to the standard jupyter experience, and   there is also all those nice drivers, I was  telling you about which are the connection,   the integration to different tools and systems  to get instead of 30 lines of python, you get   only one line and you call the naas driver and it  gets you the data frame you need, so obviously,   it's really based on the same fundamentals. Google collab, Deepnote, all those guys are   making amazing work in the data science field.  Let me be clear, we are not trying to compete   with those guys. They have their own authenticity. What we want to do is really trying to bridge the   gap and trying to push even more jupyter notebooks  to the hands of people that are spending too much   time in excel, dba and are getting crazy  about it like because taking too much time,   processing, it's too difficult to audit. You see what I mean, it's like obviously this   kind of stuff is the focus we want to have. Like  make it really ready for business people to use. True, that makes complete sense you  know, it's not the time to compete maybe   to it's always to look at them and learn and  that's what I think nasa started doing from the   initial stage itself and that's how I think it  goes up to the success that's very cool Jeremy!  Okay, we have another question from Naman  Jain; "what was the thought behind it and   how do you get this idea of Naas? Actually, the thought behind it was,   I was as I told you, I was blocked in my work. I was really feeling like change like I couldn't   do more than exhale like long extraction from my  different tools erp system treasury system, excess   spreadsheet from this other guy from this other  place, and then putting everything together, and   doing the consolidation work, and everything  and I was doing it on my own in my previous job,   and I was like no this cannot continue, I want  to have flexibility and anytime I wanted to ask   my it team in the company I was working with. It was obviously not their priority,   I was instantly asking for things and new stuff,  and new update, and new query, and everything   and they couldn't keep up with my needs. So, it's really because of this that we   have started like thinking; okay how to we don't  rely to any in on to any technical guys to be able   to access data and I hope this will serve a lot  of companies as well because for the past year,   for the past three to four years trust  me we've been in meetings where people   are really like chatting and really loud to  each other like ikey guys, finance guy like,   I don't want to do your reports and then, you  you're not giving me any answer on anything and   and those guys finally when you put them together  they're like but okay, you are a finance guy,   you want to access data more easily, then say  yes and the i.t team says you're an i.t team,   you don't want to take care of all the data  requests you're not like the dog of this guy   and to say yes i'm not it so basically the  two people can really understand each other   to that point that data, and quality of data,  and everything around data is the business area.  It's like the guy who knows the  business knows better the data.  Always, and the guy who knows the it  knows better the infrastructure. So,   he knows better how to make it robust, or to  make it secure, how to make it accessible.  So, it's not even a competition in that sense  those guys need to work together, the iot can   provide the infrastructure and the business  can just query the data as much as they need.  This is the the whole idea behind this. Wow, and it's like more of automation as   much as possible you are you have automated  everything for not to be reliable on anyone,   you don't need to rely on anyone, you just need  to do it yourself. It's there your platform, your   own stuff, you can you know save everything  there may be a small password as well you   can just go and feed in and you can access it  anytime and you can easily access everything.  So yeah, that makes complete sense too but  it's a great, you know just take away that,   okay you have a problem create your own product  and that's what Jeremy has done for himself.  It's like I had a problem facing excel so many  things, so many spreadsheets, I actually went   out and created my own product which is like  an inspiration Jeremy and it's very cool.  So yeah, that takes me to another question  about data science as we would be talking about   technical stuff what will you recommend  how to start a career in data science,   so that we can go on that level, okay. Start with the problem,start   with the one problem you have. If you look at the  video I've just published on the youtube channel,   my problem like the use case we're trying to  solve is like okay, I need to start trading   what I need to do to start trading. I need  to have some pull push of information every   day to tell me okay, you should look  at the stocks today and from this you   can iterate, and add, and build more features. So this is the whole inspiration we got from the   video on youtube, it's about like trying to see  how by iteration a little iteration, you can build   the whole product and use different features which  is the sentiment analysis if you want to analyze   text, which is the regress linear regression if  you want to predict in the future, but there is   different set of tools, but it's not gonna, you're  not gonna learn any data science I think there is   no data scientist like in the proper like sense  of it. There is only people working with data   and with the different level of expertise and  understanding of how deep the one and zero goes,   you know it's about like a small aspect like,  it's another layer of abstraction that we are   trying to put a high level of abstraction with the  naas driver and the naas formulas, but basically   it's all about knowing and understanding  what is behind the interface you're using.  So work on something, work on your project,  try to figure out one project you would like to   develop check out what we have on  our github because this product,   this little product we've built for the demo  is open source everything will be, so hopefully   with those different notebooks we put open source  and it's called the awesome notebooks by the way,   it's a repository that we have been that is  listed on github on the famous awesome list. So,   we are registered on this list and you can figure  out a lot of different topics on crm, on social   network and a lot of different notebooks that  can help you understand how to deal with that.  So, I would say start with the problem you  have and try to iterate and try to build and   don't go so many hours into the mathematics and  everything. I'm not a good mathematician myself   I was really bad at mathematics, but still I  understand the essence of what we're trying   to do and and and this is how I figure out how  to assemble the different bricks that makes it   a good product. Wow!  I think the main crack here, is about  finding a problem and if you find a   problem first yourself don't get into too much  of a complex problem because that will get you.   You know all confused and you'll just be like  oh no I just can't do it maybe start with a   small problem, and once you start solving it  you'll reach a level where you can actually   you know feel that confident about solving more  problems altogether and that's what Jeremy did.  So, go ahead and do the same thing okay. That's what you could do as well, yeah!   And you can do as well Ravit if you  me if you have a problem you can   just say okay I need to email this many  people, I want to automate that stuff.  There is a solution in naas to do it. So,  you have a few notification features and   sending email through text, that could  bring you to send automated emails and   this could be a nice way to start on naas well. You know there is everybody has his own use cases,   that's what I mean everybody has his own use  case we can need data and their daily life,   and they don't even realize it it's about getting  the data from your bank, because you just need to   log on to your bank interface and you want to just  have the little spreadsheet or the little file   that will make you analyze your cash flow. Exactly!  So, anything can be a little topic and so anybody  can really jump into data, and see later by   iteration what they need to do and what they need  to learn to make it a project that works for them.  Exactly, this sounds like so much fun  already because I think I'm using,   that's for sure because to if it automates my  emails and all of those stuff who wouldn't want   something like that, so that I am for sure you  know going back and coming back to you Jeremy   and asking about this video but obviously. Next video, we'll do that, we'll try to show,   we'll try to show in the next promo video how  to send email automatically, it's going to be,   it's what we have on the roadmap,  so stay tuned on those this channel.  Definitely, definitely, also after  the launch maybe we can go live and   we can also show everyone you know everything  automated how it works and these things so.  Yeah definitely that would be great! Yeah okay, so Matthew Emerick asks "how   do you think you will expand upon this?" Let's be yeah, honestly, we hope this go,   this will go big like really big because  all the infrastructure we've built can scale   like the aws server kubernetes and everything  all this thing is made to scale, and we have one   concern is how to maintain different engines  for everybody, and scale this infrastructure,   and as we are inspired by those guys at netflix. It's funny because we are, they are using the   same stack, so recently in france we have been  having a big demand of those kind of services   and we knew from adwords that netflix is was going  taking a lot of space in our containers let's say.  So we think that technically we can do  good scaling of those different machines,   and we hope that the open source community  will help us, you know build also   a thing that is higher than ourselves basically. We don't it's not about us anymore when you launch   a project like this and when it's open source  it's about people and how people will use it.  So, I'm really happy to chat and to understand  how people will use naas to their own needs,   and make sure that it can go like, it can work  for business people it can work for enterprise   because if those guys want to build some kind of  similar architecture as netflix. They can really   ask us and we will explain everything we know, if  those guys are only like you and me and you just   want to do some trading, I you just want to send  some emails like this, you can also have your own   naas and I would love someday my mom to be using  a nass for getting their bank statement, and make   sure that they follow their accounts. Exactly.  For basically, all kind of use case so, we are  really looking forward to test it on the market   and to see where is the good fit? Where is the  place? Where people have the most use of nurse?  Exactly, that's I think the best plan  to, you know have a track of people where   all we can you know folks can actually use naas,   maybe a bank, maybe say even for the  daily savings if you can use naas.  Why not maybe make it for daily use and  that's what the plan is so sounds like a plan,   very good plan, I'm sure this will go way far  than what we are thinking and we'll be you know   again be back once it's launched and everything's  in place and all of those things is automated.  We'll actually give that a quick sneak peek to  folks that how it actually works very smoothly.  So yeah, definitely that's happening yeah okay. Happy to do that.  Definitely, so we have Neeraj  Suppa joining; "very interesting   stuff! Good to see you Ravit and Jeremy". Okay, hi Neeraj! He has a question here zakpal   okay; "Do you reckon this does not require  a major IT infrastructure change or the   hiring of a team programmers? It can help  overcome management resistance in such case."  Yeah actually, if you consider what  we've been trying to build which is   you just log in, and you can access  data. It means that everything is below   that is abstracted to all cloud services. I mean, if you use the sas version of it,   if you are a company and you want to integrate  naas into your infrastructure, you will need   to take care of the infrastructure yourself. It's open source, so we won't charge you for this.   But you will be, you will be in charge of  maintaining this at scale infrastructure.  So, if you are talking about integrating this  in a major company, that will obviously choose   to put it on their server, or on their own aws  cluster, or microsoft, or whatever, or google.  Then, yes you will still have to maintain because  this is what my team is doing in the back end. We   are working on maintaining the infrastructure  making sure that we can push new drivers that   help people make easy access to their data,  we need to actually have a team working on   this we are a bunch of 10 people now working  on on this project and as we hope to expand,   there will be more engineers working on  our side. But what we need is really to   put it as a sas to make sure that the  essence of what we're trying to achieve   is respected like you just log in, you enter  your naas, and you can start scripting.  I don't know if it's answered  the question correctly but,   basically you will still need programmers, and in  your current in your big corporate infrastructure   you will still need programmers to take care  of it, less than any other kind of tool, but   it's always about and when we talk  about those business infrastructure,   it's always really tied to the culture the  operations the way the companies is run.  So, there is no proper answer to this except  the one I just tried to to develop, like   I think it's always a question of how the company  has a culture like are they cloud ready, are they   not cloud ready, do they want to use so many  questions needs to be taken into consideration.  Yeah, I guess there are many aspects to this  and definitely, when we get deeper into naas,   it gets complicated and that's where your work  starts to you know want to might think for fox   to not get so the actual interface should  look very easy, and at the back end you're   just working to make it easy so that's the Yeah exactly, the shorter pitch we have is   as simple as paper as powerful as robots. So, it needs to be like access to data should   be only like as simple as writing on paper. That's the target, so let's see.  I think that's how it should  work because everyone wants   it as simplest as possible asking me as a user if  I can do something like obviously just write on a   paper and quickly make people understand. This is how it works, this is how diagram   looks like. Then I think I won, you know the  whole scenario and if it's happening on a   product then nothing like it I think. So yeah okay! So just picking some   comments here from Stephanie; "great quality  on working transparency and great cooperation   with colleagues, wonderful!" Amazing! So yeah obviously!  I guess the transparency which you're keeping  Jeremy would definitely be great for the company,   and that's how I think this is what open  source looks like and people should be   happy about it that you're also keeping that  transparency, you know outside for everyone.  We have Ritika, she's like you  are and really inspiration,   inspiration from finance, role to data science. So exactly, I always say that to Jeremy as well   because I belong to finance field and that's  what I say that Jeremy how did you even shift   to you know to something like data and then I  realized that I myself is a marketer for data   books and you know work into data field. So, how important data field is we already   know about it now. Yeah, okay. Go ahead, please Jeremy. We are all connected to data, I was just mentioning this. It's like everybody is connected   to data and we just there is so little  programmers, there is only a 0.5 programmers.  So, do we need to put everything  on their hands, or do we have to   learn about it and just make it our own you know? I think there is so much to do and so many more   things to explore, but more people need to be more  interested into what is code.  What we do with the naas driver is low code. We simplify even more the code.  Exactly! So, there is a   lot of stuff doing to do like facilitation and so  that more people can use this kind of techniques.  So, I guess, yeah, I guess it's just only  the beginning and hopefully people will   realize that understanding more the coding  and how what is being been below the coding   is a good way of pumping your career as well. Because tomorrow, no finance guy will be able   to work if they have no knowledge about data. Let's be clear about it and there will be a   lot of other topics about it like a lot of other  work or job jobs that will be tied to data, and   if you don't have the data skills, if you don't  know how to make a query, if you don't know how   things work when you need to clean data and  transform it to make it accessible in a report.  Then you will be like useless in the company  really and I really fear about this and I want   this product to help people  like pump up their data skills,   and make sure that they are confident and they  can sell themselves as, okay. I know what I'm   talking about AI is not this far away thing. It's not far away, it's really close, I can   access it easily and I can explain it. I'm really inspired also by Denis Rodman which is,   he explained about explainable AI  is really important for me as well.  So, it's everything should be put in  motion in that's in that direction.  How to make it more accessible, more explainable,  and I hope to see a lot of things in this field.  Exactly, I completely agree with you and also if  you know, you just took the name of Denis Rodman,   he's also, you know one of our authors  who's created some amazing stuff.  This is his book and this is exactly amazing. But even what Kate is doing, what Denis is doing,   what all these guys are doing  in the fields is really amazing.  It's like how to democratize this success to  data and I think there is still a big road to   go on that's in that direction. Exactly, I completely agree with you.  Also just before we announce our winners  which is like the main, I'm very excited   to know the winners as well I don't know  guys who's the winner, it's with Jeremy.  Jeremy knows who are the winners, but  we what we'll do is quickly take one   two last questions and I'm sure there are  many more questions which are unanswered, but   Jeremy will make sure that he goes back and  answers them answers them otherwise you can reach   out to Jeremy, he is an amazing person, he'll be  very quick to respond to your queries but okay,   we'll just quickly take a looks question. Can we update libraries while working in s.  Yes you can, exactly you can  everything is accessible.  There is no hidden part of it. So, you can just re-reload your naas   and make sure that you can update your library. Everything is really open, so you'll see.   Check it out. Amazing, amazing.   There's another question from Teena Mary. I know Teena is doing a great job in sharing   some amazing content on linkedin  but she asks about explainable AI. Oh explain one yeah, I'm not the  guy to talk about it there is   Denis which is the master of explainable AI  but what you can understand about explainable   is the way we can explain AI to anybody like  and how AI should be documented and if you,   if you see the different shows Denis is doing. He's always using a google collab interface   where he can write the code  and the text and he can explain   this way the different steps. What is amazing  with jupyter notebook and what you need guys   to if you guys don't know about jupyter what you  need to remember is that you can it's an interface   simple as paper where you can write text, and  you can write code, and you can run these sales   to show graphs, to show tables, and everything. So, this is the simplest and minimalist way we can   do data and I really believe in that solution  because you cannot do more simpler than that.  So hopefully, we can see a lot of explanation  about the different algorithm and what AI   is doing through those notebooks. So, keep in mind this and you'll see   more I think more and more notebooks and in  the future, we will share probably the notebook   file as we were sharing the excel file before. I really think about it I'm really feeling it   we are already between the different teams  and data people that we are working with.  It's the notebook file is already seen as the  same as an excel like send me your notebook files   as the same as we were saying before like can you  sell me your excel spreadsheet for this and this.  So, I think there is a lot of and it's even  better than excel because you can explain,   you can write text, you can write business logic. It's like a word plus an excel together so.  No more need to have different documentation  in different places everything is on the same   place exactly and you just need to run it. Yes exactly and Teena, if you wish to know   about explainable AI, I would actually point out  at Denis himself so, this is where you can find   Denis Rodman, he's the guy. He is an amazing author.  You can reach out to him, he'll explain you  everything about explainable AI in detail.  So yeah, Jeremy looks superb! There's Jorge Enrique.   I'm excited to use it with my work team. Okay amazing! Alex says "thanks for the answer".  So, I think more or less we have answered most  of the questions which were asked in the show   but if still people have some questions, don't  hesitate to reach out to Jeremy, he's the guy,   he's building some amazing stuff for himself. If you have any questions, just go to him   and he'll be happy to answer about  the product naas and yeah definitely.  So, Denis would which is  the best place to find you   and have a conversation with you about anything. People want to reach out to you.  It's on linkedin obviously. We do everything, it's  going to be linkedin and youtube or two channels.  So, we will push the videos of what we do  to the youtube channel and you can just   add me, message me on linkedin, I'll  try to answer to all the message so  Amazing! You can get in touch and so yeah,   now it's time to announce the winners who  get three months free pass for naas which is   which is launching on the 15th of november. So, I'm excited for this. This is how   it looks,I Ill just give them a  quick sneak peek of your website.  Yes! So, this is where people registered,  you can also register it and register and   get a 14 day free trial if I'm not wrong. Yeah! Everybody is registering in that page will   also have the 14 days free trial, so Amazing!  There will be only five winners  but everybody will get the p5.  Superb! So, let's get going I guess we're  good, so what are these five winners Jeremy?  So, there is Vipul Shinde.   So, we can maybe write it. I can send  it to the comment space or should I. There is Johane Ruel,there is Naman  Jain. Five winners, five winners.  Wow superb! So, Vipul Shinde, Matthew Emerick,   Chayan Kathuria, Johanne Ruel,  and Naman Jain, congratulations.  Congratulations guys, you have three months  free trial, you can reach out to jeremy,   I will share your email addresses, you can  share it with me and I think Jeremy already   has because you've registered yourself so  yeah, you have the chance now for next three   months to use naas which is amazing. One last time, where you can find naas   is, I'm just sharing my screen. So people can know, I'll just quickly   let them drive over here. Okay, just a second  This is how it looks your naas. Yeah okay, this is the landing page  So, it's naas.ia, so, it's not changing after the  launch as well it will be the same right, Jeremy?  It will remain the same remain the same. Naas.ia  as simple as that. Wow, so connect all your data   and automate workflows this makes so much sense.  Now I am so much smarter with data and automation,   I feel like using it myself, so I'm surely  gonna do that naas is inspired by netflix.   Wow! So, this is what transparency looks  like and great stuff, great product.  I think Jeremy, it's amazing! So,  I'll also share the youtube link   where you've explained everything. So, people can   know more about the product this looks This is the first use case on trading,   and we will push a lot of a lot  more videos on different topics.  So, even we can find a topic together  and we can do a video about it.  Oh definitely! Every time up for  you know naas always because it's   actually creating some amazing stuff. So Lakshmi found it a great session, okay   thanks, thank you everyone for joining in! It was  a great session. Indeed I have learnt a lot in   with naas, we excited for the launch as well  Jeremy, all the best to you and your team.   You've been doing amazing job! Thank you very much, thank you!  We are there to support you and  we are there for the launch.  So yeah, take care everyone! Thank you very much   everybody and have a very nice end of the day! Yes okay, bye bye guys, bye Jeremy see you. 