 Hi everyone I'm Natalia Rodriguez and assistant professor at Institute Polytechnic of Paris in France welcome to our presentation on "Accessible cultural heritage through explainable artificial intelligence" at the PATCH workshop at UMAP. Today we will present what in your view are main challenges towards the use of artificial intelligence for making cultural heritage sites more accessible and inclusive for everyone one. One of biggest challenges of today is that AI can be biased on discriminatory. With this line of research we aim to understand how AI can be used as a tool to bring better inclusion of different user groups to bring for better inclusion and how AI can bring arts closer also to people that due to different reasons cannot physically go to museums or cultural heritage sites. We propose including minorities as a special user and evaluator of the latest (X)AI techniques. The ethics guidelines for trustworthy I advocate for AI technology that is among other things more inclusive. What we advocate for also is that the latest explainable AI techniques could bring art closer to new audiences by increasing the accessibility of cultural heritage to collectives not fully able to enjoy to enjoy art today missing gaps in technology could we actually identify. For instance people with visual impairments they can share photographs for the same reasons that people cite do but as they find many more difficulties methods have been developed to assist line photography including all the feedback that facilitates aiming at the camera. But we pose some questions could such human computer computation generated visual explanations also help completely blind users for instance to navigate? Given the inherent subjectivity of an explanation we need to rethink interpretability involving also the audience expertise in the subject according to the reader a title given an audience unexplainable a is one that produces details or reasons to make it's functioning clear or easy to understand. In cultural heritage context accounting for the target audience is equally important from both evaluation and personalization points of view one way One way to alleviate mobility disadvantages for challenged individuals and to allow them to still enjoy art is through the use of digital environments. Previous researchers investigated how challenged individuals can access and appreciate museum context. First results from Kostoska et al. were positive indicating that challenged individual school indeed understand they wished world tours and engage in context or conversation while the ability to show to follow the tour depending on the level on on the level of the interactivity of the prototype for those with cognitive disabilities and their daily for instance the ability to consume cultural content and to independently consult information about museums from home is even more limited. Successful steps towards augmented reality solutions are being also devised for for them. The challenge 1 that we pose is could AI helped deliver art personalized or bright new rules on what is possible to do with cultural heritage Could X(AI) explain the level of detail and engagement required to effectively convey a style an epoch or the spirit represented in the times of an artwork. Our use case shows how Juan Jesus Pleguezuelos history teacher and podcast author of art history for entrance exams to the university, he teaches art history through words in order to make students more engaged and better imagining and remembering a painting than just merely showing them an image up front. This shows that explaining art with words also is another manners to make your creativity works more effectively and better remembering later one difficulty to convey the study the style of art address consists of the ability to express what that era meant. For instance Renaissance works show people's joy elegance etc. If we want AI to assist when experts are not available, AI not only should recognize the style but also transmit the spirit present in the era. If we ask a state-of-the-art image captioning deep learning models to caption this image and artistic image we we see that they leave a lot of room for improvement. They don't recognize object combinations not seen in real life. And here is another example where a car with the trunk full of popcorn is recognized by different models as a person is holding a piece of food among is sitting on a white and black dog a car with a car on it and a car. A research question we posed is cool not only objective but also subjective information we part of an artistic explanation provided by an AI model. This painting is Edmond de Belamy the first piece of AI GUN generated art to come to action at christie's demonstrating the algorithms are able to emulate creativity created by the obvious art collective in 2000 and sold at four hundred thirty two thousand five hundred dollars the challenge three glass contains generative art can X I explained a given art work success in terms of the underlying influencing artistic styles which artists took this game is creation from? A number of qualitative studies were people with mobility constraints use of telepresence system identified benefits for the participants such as being able to see and to be seen reduced cost, and hassles associated with traveling, and reduce social isolation. Some of the questions we should answer are can AI provide guides explanations that reduce the boredom of the visitors? Cool robots can improve visitors ratings when no human guide is available? is their user experience rated better than walkie-talkie guides? A robot that speaks all languages could make the tool anytime in any language including sign language.. So what's in for different stakeholders who we need to involve? Artists audience can gain visibility by making art accessible building a portfolio writing gallery guides generating art podcast contents at.. Artist and storytellers could earn an audience willing to learn about a niche fashion. Disabled and people with disabilities, such as the blind could get access to art explanations through audio or text resources, the deaf through the letters and the deaf through the letters transcriptions of the text. Computer scientists could would use the generated data to build a robust machine learning models that 1) explained art and 2) are explainable Some of the challenges would like to address in this line of research are how can we tackle the lack of personal touch in technology? Which AI generated art explanations work better? There are no standards for AI accessibility and cultural heritage. How can we explain concepts that are hard to grasp? What is the key role that AI can play to bring the cultural heritage sites closer to the viewer? How AI will be perceived will it potentionally potentially destroy the beauty in the eye of the beholder? We summarize the main axis on which we see future research on XAI valuable for cultural heritage. One maintain accessibility to minorities on users with physical and cognitive disabilities requires investigating interface and content challenges as well as using AI for their presentation, making AI explainable focuses on AI models and assessing the robusness and suitability for different domain audiences, for instance cultural heritage sites content context explaining art with AI involves a human in the loop and needs the end user point of view. Finally creativity as research engine AI for content synthesis touch on how we stimulate the engagement, curiosity, and study of computational creativity approaches for generating AI descriptions of concept. We'd be happy to discuss research advancements in these areas and we welcome any comments and ideas to kick-start this exciting directions thank you for listening 