 Start Augmented Analytics with Ople.AI Ople.AI is an AutoML platform that brings true augmented analytics to business users. With our platform, any data professionals can quickly build predictive machine learning models and go beyond traditional quantitative analysis to drive business impact. Such as increasing efficiency by focusing resources on the most important tasks, navigating around risks and making  investments with higher probabilities of success,   and discovering previously unknown  customer and product relationships   With Ople's augmented analytics platform,   you'll not just uncover what would happen, but why it happens, what some unexpected patterns  in the data are, where the opportunities lie, and   how to optimize your business to achieve that  ideal outcome. The technology that powers augmented analytics can be embedded in your platform via APIs Our extensive APIs allow you to implement different features your platform needs to empower users with self-service AI. With Ople, you can truly embed AI that enriches  your users' analytical practices, fits your product experience and scales with your business. Let's take a quick look at the Ople.AI Platform. You can create a data set by uploading a file  directly or via different connections. Check if the data was read correctly and our platform takes  over to make sure it is ready for model building. Once the data set is processed, you can  quickly inspect the statistics and histograms,  and build a model directly with another click. Select the correct model - regression classification or time series, name the model, choose what you want to predict and what you're interested in. You can select the advanced method to control  the training time or ignore certain variables, or just let the platform handle it for you.  Once the model is built the main dashboard   will show you some highlights such as how  well the model fits, some interesting insights,   and important features relevant to your model. Our explainable AI shows not just the global impact but also the size of impact each variable has on the target. In the what-if tab, you can run quick simulations to test different scenarios before making a business decision. You can select values manually or let the platform find an optimal value for you. If you know the cost and benefit of a particular use case, the ROI tab helps you find the optimal threshold to maximize profit. The platform also uncovers hidden relationships impacting your model. For example, the total impact   of these two features should be around 11%, but  the actual impact on the model was around 30.   Sometimes, there are impacts that affect the model in the opposite direction. With the insights tab, you can better understand the model and strengthen  your analysis. If you need to find a subpopulation that makes sense for your business, like finding customers who are more likely to purchase, visit the explore tab. Just select the range you would  like to explore and the platform will generate   distributions for each feature that you should consider to grow your business more efficiently. Of course, all the features you saw can be connected  via our APIs to build a customized AI platform. As demonstrated Ople provides a simple way to start  offering true augmented analytics in your platform. With Ople, your users will better understand the  data and find new insights to increase revenue that were never imaginable. If you're looking for a simple way to start offering true augmented analytics in your platform, we're here for you. Contact us today at sales@ople.ai 