BusinessGeneral Business DevelopmentsVisa Inc., which we refer to as Visa or the Company, is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, financial institutions and governments in more than 200 countries and territories to fast, secure and reliable electronic payments. We operate one of the world's most advanced processing networks —VisaNet — which facilitates authorization, clearing and settlement of payment transactions worldwide. It also offers fraud protection for account holders and rapid payment for merchants. Visa is not a bank and does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for account holders on Visa-branded cards and payment products. In most cases, account holder and merchant relationships belong to, and are managed by, our financial institution clients.Visa Inc. was incorporated in the State of Delaware in May 2007. In October 2007, we undertook a reorganization in which Visa U.S.A. Inc., Visa International Service Association, Visa Canada Corporation and Inovant LLC became direct or indirect subsidiaries of Visa Inc. Visa Europe Limited remains owned and governed by its European member financial institutions and is not a subsidiary of Visa Inc. Visa Inc. completed its initial public offering ("IPO") in March 2008.Since fiscal 2010, we have completed several acquisitions to accelerate the growth of Visa's digital, eCommerce and mobile commerce offerings. These include: CyberSource Corporation, a leading provider of electronic payment, risk management and payment security solutions to online merchants; PlaySpan Inc., a leading provider of digital goods transactions in online games, digital media and social networks; and Fundamo, a leading provider of mobile financial services for mobile network operators and financial institutions in developing economies.General business developments in fiscal 2014 included the following:•Product innovation. Visa’s fundamental approach to innovation focuses on: (i) supporting an evolving payments ecosystem; (ii) enhancing Visa’s network security through innovation; and (iii) developing new platforms, products and services. i.Evolving payments ecosystem. By providing new and existing financial institution clients and partners greater access to Visa’s network and payment capabilities, Visa is contributing to the evolving payments ecosystem. In 2014, Visa announced a developer center, which will enable software developers, financial institutions and new entrants to more easily access Visa payment capabilities through programing interfaces and software developer kits beginning in 2015. We also launched the Visa Ready program to enable our partners to quickly deploy Visa-compliant devices, software and services to consumers, thereby significantly accelerating the pace of innovation in payments. Finally, we established an innovation center at our San Francisco Bay Area headquarters to facilitate collaboration among Visa, our financial institution clients, other partners and the Bay Area technology community to develop the next generation of global commerce solutions.ii.Network security through innovation. In 2014, Visa made strides to enhance its network security by implementing the following programs:a.Visa Token Service: Visa Token Service replaces account numbers with digital tokens for online and mobile payments. This benefits merchants and issuers by removing sensitive account information from online and mobile payments and significantly reduces fraud risk.b.EMV-chip payment technology: Visa is addressing fraud at the physical point-of-sale by working with merchants and issuers in the United States to introduce EMV-chip payment technology.c.Fraud and data analytics: As an industry leader in payment security, we enhanced our real-time data analytics capabilities. When combined with Visa’s centralized network structure, these capabilities allow financial institution clients and merchants to identify and address fraud.  4Table of Contentsiii.New platforms, products and services. Visa continues to develop new platforms, products and services to benefit financial institution clients, merchants and consumers.a.Visa Checkout: Visa Checkout is a fast, simple and intuitive payment experience that allows consumers to pay for goods online, on any device, in just a few clicks. This service is presently available to eCommerce merchants and financial institutions in the United States, Canada and Australia.b.Visa payWave: With Visa payWave technology, consumers are able to pay for products and services via smart phone and by using their contactless cards at physical retailers.Visa Direct:c.Visa Direct: Visa Direct simplifies the way people send and receive money both domestically and across borders. In 2014, this service had a rapid growth in use, particularly in emerging markets where there is a high demand for person-to-person payments. Visa Direct is offered through financial institutions, and takes advantage of Visa’s global network of 14,000 financial institutions and 2.2 billion accounts to facilitate fast and secure money transfers. •Regulation. Rules were implemented in the United States during 2011 and 2012 with respect to debit products under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), which regulates, among other things, debit interchange reimbursements rates, the availability of debit networks, financial institutions' and merchants' choices among these networks, and transaction routing. As a result, we have significantly modified our debit strategy and continue to renegotiate some portions of our contracts with our financial institution clients. On March 21, 2014, the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit reversed a district court ruling invalidating these rules. The appeals court agreed with the Federal Reserve, except for a single issue related to the interchange cost calculation which was referred back to the Federal Reserve for reconsideration. On August 18, 2014, the plaintiff merchants filed a petition for review of the appeals court's decision in the U.S. Supreme Court, seeking review of a portion of the rules pertaining to the interchange cost calculation. The current rules remain in place while the case is ongoing. See Government Regulation below.•Fiscal 2014 developments in Russia. U.S. and EU sanctions targeting Russia’s financial sector in response to the conflict in Ukraine restrict the ability of U.S. based companies, including payments networks, to supply services to certain Russian individuals and companies. On September 12, the United States, in coordination with the European Union, broadened existing sanctions on Russian financial institutions, expanded sanctions in Russia’s energy sector, and targeted additional energy and defense-related entities. In the financial sector, the U.S. government has imposed sectoral sanctions on the six largest Russian state banks. These sectoral measures restrict the maturity period for new debt issued by the six Russian state banks to 30 days. In 2014, they have not restricted Visa’s ability to supply electronic payment services to Russian banks. However, in response to the U.S. and EU sanctions, the Russian government has modified its National Payments Systems laws that will in essence require international payments networks to process Russian domestic transactions on the government-owned payment system in 2015.  See Government Regulation—Government-imposed market participation influences and restrictions below.•Interchange multidistrict litigation settlement. In fiscal 2014, we obtained final court approval of a settlement in the interchange multidistrict litigation, subject to any appeals. We believe that this settlement supports the long-term health and competitiveness of the payments industry in the United States. A number of objectors to the settlement, however, have appealed the final judgment, and a number of opt-out cases have been filed by merchants. See Item 1A—Risk Factors—Our retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements or final judgments and Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 20—Legal Matters included elsewhere in this report.Nature of OperationsVisa's mission is to accelerate the electronification of commerce. We operate an open-loop payments network, VisaNet, through which Visa connects and manages the exchange of information and value between: (i) issuers — financial institutions that issue Visa-branded cards or payment products to account holders, and (ii) acquirers — financial institutions that contract with merchants to accept Visa-branded cards or payment products. We do not earn revenues from, or bear credit risk with respect to, interest or fees paid by account holders on Visa-branded cards or payment products. The issuers have the responsibility for issuing cards and other payment products, and determining the interest rates and fees paid by the account holders. 5Table of ContentsInterchange reimbursement fees represent a transfer of value between the financial institutions participating in our open-loop payments network. On purchase transactions, interchange reimbursement fees are paid by the acquirers to the issuers. We generally do not receive any revenue related to interchange reimbursement fees. In addition, we generally do not earn any revenue from the fees that merchants are charged for acceptance by the acquirers, including the merchant discount rate. The acquirers are typically responsible for soliciting merchants, and establishing and earning these fees.A typical Visa transaction begins when the account holder presents his or her Visa-branded card or payment product to a merchant as payment for goods or services. The transaction information is then transmitted electronically to the acquirer and routed through VisaNet to the issuer for authorization. Following authorization, a clearing file containing the final transaction data is submitted from the acquirer and processed for final settlement between the issuer and acquirer. The following diagram illustrates the processing steps involved in a typical transaction on VisaNet.Our operating revenues are comprised principally of service revenues, data processing revenues and international transaction revenues, and are reduced by costs incurred under client incentive arrangements. The Company has one reportable segment, Payment Services.•Service revenues. Service revenues consist of revenues earned for providing financial institution clients with support services for the delivery of Visa-branded payment products and solutions. Service revenues are primarily generated from payments volume on Visa-branded cards and payment products for purchased goods and services.•Data processing revenues. Data processing revenues consist of revenues earned for authorization, clearing, settlement, network access and other maintenance and support services that facilitate transaction and information processing among our clients globally and with Visa Europe. Data processing revenues are primarily generated from the number of transactions we process.•International transaction revenues. International transaction revenues consist of revenues earned for cross-border transaction processing and currency conversion activities. Cross-border transactions arise when the country of origin of the issuer is different from that of the merchant. International transaction revenues are primarily generated by cross-border payments and cash volume.•Client incentives. Client incentives consist of long-term contracts with financial institution clients and other business partners for various programs designed to build payments volume, increase Visa-branded card  6Table of Contentsand product acceptance and win merchant routing transactions over our network. These incentives are primarily accounted for as reductions to operating revenues.U.S. dollar settlements with our financial institution clients are typically settled within the same day and do not result in a receivable or payable balance. Settlement currencies other than the U.S. dollar generally remain outstanding for one to two business days, resulting in amounts due from and to financial institution clients. These amounts are presented as settlement receivable and settlement payable on our consolidated balance sheets, respectively.In order to maintain the integrity of and minimize disruptions to our payments network, we indemnify our financial institution clients for settlement losses suffered due to the failure of any other client to fund its settlement obligations in accordance with our operating regulations. The settlement indemnification applies to the amount of Visa payment transactions that have occurred, but have not yet settled. We maintain and regularly review global settlement risk policies and procedures to manage settlement exposure, which may require clients to post collateral if certain credit standards are not met. Cash equivalents collateral is reflected in customer collateral on our consolidated balance sheets as it is held in escrow in our name. All other collateral is excluded from the consolidated balance sheets. We have incurred no material loss related to settlement risk in recent years.Core Products and ServicesVisa provides a wide variety of payment solutions that support payment products that issuers can offer to their account holders: (i) pay now with debit; (ii) pay ahead with prepaid; or (iii) pay later with credit products. Visa also offers a growing suite of innovative digital, eCommerce and mobile products and services. These services facilitate transactions on our network among account holders, merchants, financial institutions and governments in mature and emerging markets globally.•Debit. Our debit payment solutions support issuers' payment products that draw on demand deposit accounts, such as checking accounts.•Prepaid. Our prepaid payment solutions support issuers' payment products that access a pre-funded amount, allowing account holders to enjoy the convenience and security of a payment card in lieu of cash or checks.•Credit. Our credit payment solutions support issuers' deferred payment and customized financing products.Our core processing services involve the routing of payment information and related data to facilitate the authorization, clearing and settlement of transactions between our issuers and acquirers. VisaNet is built on a centralized architecture, enabling us to view and analyze each authorization transaction we process in real time and to provide value-added services, including information products, such as risk scoring and loyalty applications, while the transaction data is being routed through our network.Visa's processing services continue to expand to address the needs of all participants in the evolving payments ecosystem, through such offerings as our merchant gateway and Visa Debit Processing Services ("DPS"). Merchant gateway services provided through our CyberSource subsidiaries enable gateway routing and other services that make it easier for eCommerce merchants to accept, process and reconcile payments, manage fraud and safeguard payment security online. DPS provides comprehensive issuer processing services for participating issuers of Visa debit, prepaid and ATM payment products. These and other services support our financial institution clients and their use of our products, and promote the growth and security of our payments network.Processing InfrastructureVisaNet consists of multiple synchronized processing centers, including two data centers in the United States, which are linked by a global telecommunications network and are engineered for redundancy. In addition, in accordance with the terms of the Framework Agreement among Visa Inc., Visa Europe Limited and others, Visa Europe's processing centers in the United Kingdom must maintain interoperability with Visa's synchronized system. Intelligent access points around the world complete the VisaNet global processing infrastructure and enable merchants and financial institutions worldwide to access our core processing and value-added services. 7Table of ContentsVisa also owns and manages additional data centers in the United States and internationally, including those we added with our acquisitions of CyberSource and PlaySpan. These facilities enable transaction services and provide uninterrupted connectivity for account holders, our financial institution clients and our processing partners.Intellectual PropertyOur portfolio of trademarks, in particular our family of Visa marks, our Plus mark and our Dove design mark, are important to our business. Through agreements with our financial institution clients, we authorize the use of our trademarks in connection with their participation in our payments network. We own a number of patents and patent applications relating to payment solutions, transaction processing, security systems and other matters. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology.SeasonalityWe generally do not experience any pronounced seasonality in our business. No individual quarter of fiscal 2014 or fiscal 2013 accounted for more than 30% of our operating revenues in those years.Working CapitalPayments settlement due from and to our financial institution clients can represent a substantial daily working capital requirement. U.S. dollar settlements are typically settled within the same day and do not result in a receivable or payable balance, while settlement currencies other than the U.S. dollar generally remain outstanding for one to two business days, which is consistent with industry practice for such transactions.Concentration of Business and Financial Information About Geographic AreasFor more information on the concentration of our operating revenues and other financial information, see Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13—Enterprise-wide Disclosures and Concentration of Business included elsewhere in this report.CompetitionWe compete in the global payment marketplace against all forms of payment. These include:•paper-based payments, principally cash and checks;•card-based payments, including credit, charge, debit, ATM, prepaid and private-label products;•eCommerce and mobile payments; and•other electronic payments, including wire transfers, electronic benefits transfers, automated clearing house ("ACH"), and electronic data interchange.Based on payments volume, total volume and number of transactions, Visa is the largest retail electronic payments network widely used throughout the world. The following chart compares our network with those of our major general purpose payments network competitors for calendar year 2013:Company(1) PaymentsVolume TotalVolume TotalTransactions Cards  (billions) (billions) (billions) (millions)Visa Inc.(2) $4,383 $6,970 89.7 2,219MasterCard(3) $2,991 $4,103 52.7 1,281American Express(3) $940 $952 6.4 107Discover(3) $127 $136 2.2 64JCB(3) $176 $182 1.9 83Diners Club(3) $26 $27 0.2 6(1) UnionPay, which operates primarily within the Chinese domestic market, is not included in this table because Visa is not allowed to compete in that market under local law.  Although we are uncertain how UnionPay reports certain volumes, reportedly its numbers could approach or exceed some of those listed in this chart.(2) The data presented are provided by our financial institution clients. Previously submitted information may be updated and all data are subject to review by Visa. Visa Europe data are not included. 8Table of Contents(3) MasterCard, American Express, JCB, and Diners Club data sourced from The Nilson Report issue 1037 (March 2014) and Discover data sourced from The Nilson Report issue 1034 (February 2014). Includes all consumer and commercial credit, debit and prepaid cards. Some figures are estimates and currency figures are in U.S. dollars. MasterCard excludes Maestro and Cirrus figures. American Express includes figures for third-party issuers. Discover figures consist of U.S. data only and include third-party issuers. JCB figures include third-party issuers and other payment-related products. Certain general purpose payments network competitors are more concentrated in specific geographic regions, such as JCB in Japan and Discover in the United States. Our competitors also have leading positions in certain countries. For example, UnionPay remains the sole processor of domestic transactions and operates the sole domestic acceptance mark in China.In the global debit network market segment, our Interlink and Visa Electron brands compete with Maestro, owned by MasterCard, and various regional and country-specific debit network brands, including STAR, NYCE and PULSE in the United States, EFTPOS in Australia, NETS in Singapore and Interac in Canada. In addition to our PLUS brand, the primary cash access card brands are Cirrus, owned by MasterCard, and many of the debit network brands referenced above. In many countries, local debit brands provide the primary network, and our brands are used primarily to enable cross-border transactions, which typically constitute a small portion of our overall transaction volume.The global payments industry continues to undergo dynamic change. We may face increasing competition from emerging players in the payment space, many of which are non-financial institution networks that have departed from the more traditional business model. The emergence of these potentially competitive networks has primarily been via the online channel with a focus on eCommerce and/or mobile technologies. PayPal and Alipay are examples. These providers compete with us directly in some cases, yet may also be significant partners and customers of ours. We also face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our financial institution clients. We believe our fundamental value proposition of convenience, interoperability, accessibility and security offers us a key competitive advantage. We succeed in part because we understand the needs of the individual markets in which we operate. We do so by partnering with local financial institutions, merchants, governments, non-governmental organizations and business organizations to provide tailored solutions to meet their varied needs. We believe Visa is well-positioned competitively, due to our global brand, our broad set of Visa-branded payment products and our proven track record of processing payment transactions securely and reliably through VisaNet.EmployeesAt September 30, 2014, we employed approximately 9,500 persons worldwide. We consider our relationships with our employees to be good.Government RegulationInterchange reimbursement fees. We have historically set default debit interchange reimbursement rates in the United States and many other geographies. During fiscal 2012, the Federal Reserve implemented new rules under the Dodd-Frank Act, setting a cap on the maximum U.S. debit interchange reimbursement fee assessed for debit products issued by large financial institutions. These rules continue to have an adverse impact on our pricing, reduce the number and volume of U.S. debit transactions we process and decrease our associated revenues. As a result, we have significantly modified our debit strategy and continue to renegotiate some portions of our contracts with our financial institution clients. In July 2013, a federal court invalidated the newly implemented rules, finding that the Federal Reserve improperly considered certain costs in setting a cap on the maximum debit interchange reimbursement rate and that issuers must make at least two unaffiliated networks available for processing each electronic debit transaction, regardless of authorization method. On March 21, 2014, the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit reversed the district court's ruling and agreed with the Federal Reserve, except for a single issue related to the interchange cost calculation which was referred back to the Federal Reserve for reconsideration. On August 18, 2014, the plaintiff merchants filed a petition for review of the appeals court's decision in the U.S. Supreme Court, seeking review of a portion of the rules pertaining to the interchange cost calculation. The current rules remain in place while the case is ongoing. See Item 1A—Risk Factors—The Dodd-Frank Act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business and Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview included elsewhere in this report.Certain jurisdictions outside the United States also regulate debit and credit interchange reimbursement rates in their regions. For example, the Reserve Bank of Australia regulates interchange reimbursement rates. In some jurisdictions, such as India, the governing authorities have begun to regulate other rates or practices such as the  9Table of Contentsmerchant discount rate. See Item 1A—Risk Factors—Additional regulation of interchange reimbursement rates may have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business and Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 20—Legal Matters included elsewhere in this report.Network exclusivity and routing. We have historically had agreements under which issuers received incentives if they agreed to issue Visa-branded cards or payment products that are processed through VisaNet. Historically, issuers of some debit products outside the United States have chosen to include only our network. These various practices are referred to as network exclusivity. The Dodd-Frank Act limits the issuers' and our ability to impose rules for, or choose various forms of, network exclusivity and preferred routing in the U.S. debit network market segment. Other jurisdictions have enacted similar limitations. See Item 1A—Risk Factors—The Dodd-Frank Act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business included elsewhere in this report.U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Dodd-Frank Act created an independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) with responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws in the area of financial services and new authority with respect to consumer protection issues, including those pertaining to us to some extent. The CFPB’s future actions may make payment card or product transactions generally less attractive to issuers, acquirers, consumers and merchants.No-surcharge rules. We have historically implemented rules that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using their Visa-branded card or payment product instead of other means. As part of the settlement reached in the interchange multidistrict litigation, however, Visa has agreed to modify our rules to permit surcharging on credit transactions under certain circumstances. See Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 20—Legal Matters included elsewhere in this report. Ten U.S. states as well as certain jurisdictions outside the United States have taken steps to prohibit surcharging. In October 2013, a federal court granted declaratory relief and issued an order permanently enjoining the enforcement of New York's no-surcharge law, N.Y. Gen. Bus. Law section 518, in a case brought by five retailers challenging the constitutionality of that law.Data protection and information security. In accordance with governing law, we devote substantial resources to maintain and continually refine our information security program in order to safeguard account holder information and under certain circumstances, to provide account holder notification in the event of a security breach. In addition, the U.S. Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council periodically reviews aspects of our operations in the United States to examine our compliance with data integrity, security and operational requirements and standards, as well as other requirements applicable to us because of our role as a service provider to financial institutions.Anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism and sanctioned countries. We are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act, as amended, including the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001. In addition, we are also subject to the economic and trade sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Controls (“OFAC”) that prohibit or restrict dealings with certain countries, their governments and, in certain circumstances, their nationals, as well as with specifically-designated individuals and entities such as narcotics traffickers, terrorists and terrorist organizations. We have policies, procedures, systems and controls designed to identify and address potentially impermissible transactions.Government-imposed market participation influences and restrictions. Our market reach remains limited by certain governments' influence on their domestic payments competition and/or their protection of domestic issuers or payments network processors. Regulators in an increasing number of countries around the world have received statutory authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments systems in these countries. For instance, in response to the U.S. and EU sanctions, the Russian government has modified their National Payments Systems laws to require, among other things: (i) on-shore processing for transactions between Russian cardholders and merchants; (ii) a material guarantee deposit and significant fines for domestic transactions not processed by a nationally significant payment system; and (iii) the creation of a new domestic payment processor. As a result, international payment brands are mandated to process Russian domestic transactions on the government-owned payment system.Regulation of Internet, mobile payment and other types of transactions. Many jurisdictions have adopted or are considering regulations that require payments system participants, including our financial institution clients and us, to monitor, identify, filter, restrict or take other specific actions with regard to certain types of payment transactions. For example, U.S. federal legislation has been enacted that requires payment system operators to implement a system that allows issuers to identify Internet gambling transactions so they have the option to decline such  10Table of Contentstransaction requests. State governments have been interested in the potential blocking of Internet interstate sales of cigarettes and alcohol, or the collection of state and local sales taxes on such Internet purchases. Implementing such systems increases costs for our financial institution clients and us, and may reduce merchant acceptance of Visa-branded cards and payment products for these purchases.The U.S. Congress continues to consider regulatory initiatives in the areas of Internet prescription drug purchases, copyright and trademark infringement and privacy, among others, that could impose additional compliance burdens on our financial institution clients and us. Some U.S. states are considering a variety of similar legislation. Various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues, including mobile payment transactions, money transfer, identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security and marketing that could affect our financial institution clients directly. These new requirements and developments may affect our financial institution clients' ability to offer existing products and services, extend credit via payment cards and products, and offer new types of payment programs, which could decrease our transaction volumes and revenues.Available InformationWe are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and its rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires us to file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Copies of these reports, proxy statements and other information can be viewed at http://www.sec.gov or at the SEC Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the oper