BusinessOVERVIEWVisa is one of the world’s leaders in digital payments. Our mission is to connect the world through the most innovative, reliable and secure payments network — enabling individuals, businesses and economies to thrive. We facilitate digital payments across more than 200 countries and territories among a global set of consumers, merchants, financial institutions, businesses, strategic partners and government entities through innovative technologies.Since Visa’s inception in 1958, Visa has been in the business of facilitating payments between consumers and businesses. With new ways to pay, we have evolved into a global company that is a Trusted Engine of Commerce, providing payment solutions for everyone, everywhere. We are focused on extending, enhancing and investing in our proprietary network, VisaNet, while seeking new ways to offer products and services and become a single connection point for facilitating any payment transaction, both on the Visa network and beyond.•We facilitate secure, reliable and convenient transactions between financial institutions, merchants and consumers. We traditionally have referred to this as the “four-party” model. As the payments ecosystem continues to evolve, we have broadened this model to include digital banks, wallets and a range of financial technology companies (fintechs), governments and non-governmental organizations. We provide transaction processing services (primarily authorization, clearing and settlement) to our financial institution and merchant clients through VisaNet. During fiscal year 2020, we saw 204 billion payments and cash transactions with Visa’s brand, equating to an average of 559 million transactions a day. Of the 204 billion total transactions, 141 billion were processed by Visa.•We offer a wide range of Visa-branded payment products that our 15,400 financial institution clients use to develop and offer core business solutions, including credit, debit, prepaid and cash access programs for individual, business and government account holders. During fiscal year 2020, Visa’s total payments and cash volume was $11.3 trillion, and 3.5 billion credentials were available worldwide to be used at nearly 70 million merchant locations.•We take an open, partnership approach and seek to provide value by enabling access to our global network, including offering our technology capabilities through application programming interfaces (APIs). We partner with both traditional and emerging players to innovate and expand the payments ecosystem, allowing them to leverage the resources of our platform to scale and grow their businesses more quickly and effectively. It also creates a more inclusive ecosystem with products that could reach the under and unbanked populations.•We are accelerating the migration to digital payments and evolving Visa to be a “network of networks” to enable the movement of money on VisaNet and beyond. Visa’s network of networks approach creates opportunities by facilitating person-to-person (P2P), business-to-consumer (B2C), business-to-business (B2B), business-to-small business (B2b) and government-to-consumer (G2C) payments.•We provide value added services to our clients, including issuer and consumer solutions, merchant and acquirer solutions, fraud management and security services, data solutions, and consulting through Visa Consulting & Analytics.•We invest in and promote our brand to the benefit of our clients and partners through advertising, promotional and sponsorship initiatives with FIFA, the International Olympic Committee, the International Paralympic Committee and the National Football League, among others. We also use these sponsorship assets to showcase our payment innovations.4Table of ContentsFISCAL YEAR 2020 KEY STATISTICS(1)     Please see Item 7–Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial results.5Table of ContentsRevenue Details Net revenues consist of service revenues, data processing revenues, international transaction revenues, and other revenues minus costs incurred under client incentive arrangements. We have one reportable segment, which is Payment Services. Visa earns revenue by facilitating payments across more than 200 countries and territories among a global set of consumers, merchants, financial institutions, businesses, strategic partners and government entities through innovative technologies. (1) Figures in the tables may not recalculate exactly due to rounding.6Table of ContentsVisa is not a financial institution. We do not issue cards, extend credit, or set rates and fees for account holders of Visa products. That is the role of our financial institution clients. We do not earn revenues from, or bear credit risk with respect to, interest or fees paid by account holders on Visa products. Interchange reimbursement fees represent a transfer of value between the financial institutions participating in our payments network. We administer the collection and remittance of interchange reimbursement fees through the settlement process, but we generally do not receive any revenue related to interchange reimbursement fees. In addition, we do not receive as revenue the fees that merchants are charged directly for acceptance by their acquirers. ACCELERATING OUR BUSINESS: FISCAL YEAR 2020 KEY FOCUS AREASFiscal year 2020 and COVID-19 have brought unprecedented challenges and widespread economic and social change. At the same time, the past fiscal year demonstrated the strength and resiliency of our strategy and the meaningful role we play at the center of the payments ecosystem. It has also accelerated progress, including accelerating the shift to ecommerce and the demand for contactless payments, providing significant opportunities for Visa that are aligned with our strategy. As we look to be a single point of connection for money movement globally, there are three primary levers to that growth — consumer payments, new flows and value added services. We are also building and acquiring new capabilities that can add value to our clients and strengthen the foundation of our business: technology, security, brand and talent.1. Consumer PaymentsFor decades, Visa’s growth has been driven by the strength of our core business solutions — credit, debit and prepaid products — as well as our global ATM network. As the pace of change accelerates each year, helped by the advancement of technology and our focus on the user experience in payments for both the face-to-face and ecommerce environments, we see significant opportunity for continued growth. We are accelerating efforts to move approximately $18 trillion in consumer spending still done in cash and check to cards and digital credentials on the Visa network. Core BusinessCredit: Credit cards and digital credentials are issued by Visa’s clients and allow consumers and businesses to access credit to pay for goods and services. Credit cards are affiliated with programs operated by financial institution clients, co-brand partners, fintechs and affinity partners. Visa does not extend credit to account holders; however, we provide technology, authorization services, fraud tools and brand support that issuers use to enable their credit programs. We also work with our clients on product design, consumer segmentation and consumer experience design to help them deliver products and services that match their customers’ needs. Debit: Debit cards and digital credentials are issued by financial institutions and allow consumers and small businesses to purchase goods and services using funds held in their bank accounts. Debit cards enable account holders to transact in person, online or via mobile without needing cash or checks and without accessing a line of credit. Visa provides a strong brand, network infrastructure (which includes processing, acceptance, product features and support, risk tools and services) and industry expertise to help issuers optimize their debit offerings. 7Table of ContentsPrepaid: Prepaid cards and digital credentials draw from a designated balance funded by individuals, businesses or governments. Prepaid cards address many use cases and needs, including general purpose reloadable, payroll, government and corporate disbursements, healthcare, gift and travel. Visa-branded prepaid cards also play an important part in financial inclusion, bringing payment solutions to those with limited or no access to traditional banking products. Global ATM: The Visa/PLUS Global ATM network provides account holders with cash access, and other banking capabilities, in more than 200 countries and territories worldwide through issuing and acquiring partnerships with both financial institutions and independent ATM operators.EngagementEcommerceEcommerce has evolved since the first online purchase was made on the Visa network more than 25 years ago. In fiscal year 2020, due in part to the COVID-19 pandemic, there was a significant acceleration in the shift away from cash to digital forms of payment. Ecommerce represents only about 14% of global retail spending, so there is still substantial opportunity for ecommerce growth. We are helping to transform the digital checkout experience by adding more security and removing friction with the launch of Visa Click to Pay. Enabled by the EMV® Secure Remote Commerce Specifications, Click to Pay simplifies the checkout experience, eliminating the need for a consumer to enter payment details each time they are paying online. This means greater consistency and fewer steps at checkout, regardless of one’s payment choice. Consumers can click to pay with Visa with confidence when they see the Click to Pay icon, a stylized depiction of a fast forward icon, where Visa is accepted. (1)During fiscal year 2020, Click to Pay went live with select merchants and payment processors and platforms in the U.S., and was enabled in new geographies, including Australia, Canada, China, Colombia, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Poland, Qatar, Singapore, South Africa, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom.Tap to PayAs we seek to improve the user experience in the face-to-face environment, tap to pay, which is tapping a contactless card or mobile device on a terminal to make a payment, has emerged as the preferred way to check out amongst consumers in many markets around the world. Contactless penetration grew to 43% of all face-to-face transactions around the world in fiscal year 2020. In addition, Visa has worked with payments industry partners and governments to support raising contactless payments limits in markets around the world that require cardholder verification on tap to pay transactions. More than 50 markets across Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Canada have taken this step to help more individuals utilize this way to pay in fiscal year 2020.The U.S. is one of the most significant opportunities for growth in tap to pay. Tap to pay awareness and adoption accelerated in the U.S. this year, and we expect that demand to continue to grow. More than 70% of face-to-face transactions at checkout in the U.S. occur at a merchant that has the ability to accept contactless payments, and more than 80 of the top 100 merchants by transactions are enabled for tap to pay. (1) The SRC payment icon is available for use in connection with implementations of the EMV® Secure Remote Commerce Specification.8Table of ContentsAcceptance A key component of how we expand our business focuses on growing access and increasing acceptance of our products around the world. Mobile connectivity, new acceptance devices untethered to landline infrastructure and new partnerships are enabling Visa payments in categories where card acceptance has typically been low, such as rent, parking and vending machines. We accomplish this in a few ways:Drive new acceptance categories to uncover additional growth. We continue to expand our acceptance footprint in both mature and emerging markets, so that businesses and devices are enabled to send and receive funds via the Visa network in categories such as vending, laundry, gaming, parking, electric vehicle charging, rent and tuition. For example, in emerging markets, while 40% of the national GDP is contributed by small and micro-sellers, fewer than 10% of these sellers currently accept digital payments. In January 2020, Visa announced Tap to Phone technology to help sellers accept digital payments without any additional hardware. This technology allows micro-businesses to use smartphones to accept digital payments instead of a software terminal. Promote inclusive financial access. According to the World Bank, 1.7 billion adults worldwide still lack access to formal financial services, which means they do not have access to the services that can help facilitate the growth of their economic livelihood. In 2015, Visa made a commitment to provide first-time access to a digital payments account for 500 million people worldwide by 2020 in support of the World Bank’s goal of Universal Financial Access. We met this commitment ahead of schedule in 2019. We are continuing this work by supporting women’s advancement, small businesses, and the expansion of financial inclusion through programs that support skill development and access to networks and financial services for under and unbanked populations. For example, in June, we announced a global commitment to elevate 50 million small and micro businesses worldwide in an effort to help local businesses in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. As part of the global commitment, Visa also formed the Visa Economic Empowerment Institute focused on economic and societal issues, including pandemic challenges small and micro businesses face and closing racial and gender opportunity gaps. CredentialsFintech/Open Partnership ModelAs the payment ecosystem grows, so too does Visa’s partnership model. Fintechs are key enablers of new payment experiences and new flows. Our work with fintechs helps to open new points of acceptance, create new digital banking experiences, move money across borders, embed Visa into B2B flows, speed up payroll and ensure digital wallet customers can access our services. Fintechs prefer partnering with Visa because of the reach, capabilities, and security Visa offers. Today, Visa has partnered with fintechs across categories including digital wallets, neobanks, “Buy Now, Pay Later”, B2B payments, cross-border remittance, payments infrastructure, and P2P payments.To better serve fintechs, Visa has created a suite of streamlined commercial programs and digital onboarding tools. Our Fintech Fast Track program enables qualifying fintechs to quickly launch and scale their programs. The program has grown 360% year-over-year and has welcomed hundreds of fintechs who are actively engaged in the program. With our startup engagement programs, the Visa Everywhere Initiative and the Inclusive Fintech 50, early stage companies can build payment solutions based on our capabilities. All of our fintech resources are available online on Visa Partner, which provides a comprehensive set of services and resources so that partners can access APIs, apply for programs, complete an online licensing process and find relevant partners to help construct new flows.9Table of Contents2. New Flows New flows represent a $185 trillion opportunity. Visa’s network of networks approach creates opportunities to enable digital payments for consumers, businesses and governments around the world by facilitating P2P, B2C, B2B, B2b and G2C payments. Today, partners are increasingly using Visa’s network infrastructure and capabilities to enable Visa to unlock a growing market opportunity. Visa DirectVisa Direct is a global, real-time(2) push payments platform, which reverses the traditional card payment flow by allowing payment originators, through their acquirer, to push funds directly to cards, and with the acquisition of Earthport, Visa Direct can now also push directly to 1.5 billion additional bank accounts. In doing this, Visa Direct supports consumer and business money flows, which is estimated to be $65 trillion, for a variety of payment use cases, including corporate, government and worker payouts, P2P, real-time merchant settlement, and fast cross-border payment capabilities to more than 140 countries.Visa Direct enables Visa to capture new flows with nearly 3.5 billion global transactions in 2020. This growth was fueled by the expansion of existing use cases, the extension of existing use cases to new countries, the development of new use cases, and the creation and deepening of partnerships worldwide. P2P continued to be a strong contributor, with more than 100 P2P providers globally, led by a 75% year-over-year growth in global P2P transactions. Additionally, we expanded P2P globally in domestic and cross-border capacities with many partners this year. Many businesses also utilize Visa Direct to have real-time access to working capital to buy inventory, make payroll and service other cash flow needs to keep their businesses running, such as real-time merchant settlement and loan disbursements. During fiscal year 2020, Visa Direct enabled faster payouts to more than 2.35 million U.S. small businesses and sellers, helping to provide fast access to funds to improve cash flow. In the wake of COVID-19, we are seeing more governments adopt Visa Direct to distribute funds quickly, safely and broadly, often reaching the unbanked. B2BWe are also extending our network with B2B payments. We offer a portfolio of business payment solutions, including small business, corporate (travel) cards, purchasing cards, virtual cards and digital credentials, non-card cross-border B2B payment options and disbursement accounts, covering most major industry segments around the world. Business solutions are designed to bring efficiency, controls and automation to small businesses, commercial and government payment processes, ranging from employee travel to fully integrated, invoice-based payables.Businesses spend an estimated $120 trillion each year. Our three strategic areas of focus include investing and growing card-based payments, accelerating our efforts in non-card, cross-border payments and digitizing domestic accounts payable/accounts receivable processes.(2) Actual fund availability varies by receiving financial institution, receiving account type, region and whether the transaction is domestic or cross-border.10Table of ContentsOur existing commercial card solutions generated nearly $1 trillion in payments volume in fiscal year 2020. We continue to invest across our small business, travel and entertainment, purchasing, fleet and virtual card solutions to further digitize how businesses pay other businesses.Visa B2B Connect is a multilateral network that operates separately from VisaNet and facilitates B2B cross-border transactions directly from an originating bank to the recipient bank. This network gives financial institutions the ability to quickly and securely process high-value corporate cross-border payments globally and helps simplify and speed up the way businesses pay other businesses around the world. Visa B2B Connect’s current reach includes 80 markets, and we expect that we will expand to 30 new markets over the next 18-24 months, aiming to reach scale by 2022. We are continuing to build out our capabilities and relationships to fuel future growth and to help our clients fulfill the international payments needs of their customers.3. Value Added ServicesAs the payments category continues to evolve and expand in scope, size and complexity, our clients are increasingly looking for insights, and Visa is well positioned to support their needs. Value added services represent an opportunity for us to help our clients grow their businesses, often resulting in additional growth for our core business. In addition, they deepen our client relationships and deliver new sources of revenue. Today, we offer a suite of value added services, including issuer and consumer solutions, merchant and acquirer solutions, fraud management and security services, data products, and consulting and analytics.Issuer and Consumer SolutionsVisa DPS provides a wide range of debit, prepaid and credit value added services to clients including call center services, data analytics, campaign management, fraud and risk solutions, and a white-label branded mobile app. Our U.S. client base includes national banks, community banks and credit unions, as well as a rapidly increasing number of fintechs. DPS continues to extend and expand our capabilities in modern, API-based issuer processing solutions, which will be used for the U.S. and international markets.We also provide a range of other services and digital solutions to issuers, such as account controls, digital issuance, branded consumer experiences and installments. Installment payments allow shoppers the flexibility to pay for a purchase in equal payments over a defined period of time. Visa is investing in installments as a payments strategy — both by building our own solution, Visa Installments — and by partnering with innovative installments providers who leverage our assets to support a wider variety of installment options. Visa Installments enables issuing banks to offer Visa cardholders the option to divide their total purchase amount into smaller payments during or after checkout, at the store and online — with a Visa card they already have in their wallet. Through Cybersource, Visa’s global payment management platform, we are working with acquirers and fintech installment providers to enable this new way to pay for Cybersource’s merchant customers. 11Table of ContentsMerchant and Acquirer SolutionsThe Cybersource platform provides payment services for more than 450,000 clients. Cybersource’s small business solutions are represented by the Authorize.Net brand in North America. Through a single integration, Cybersource provides modular, digital capabilities beyond the traditional gateway function of connecting merchants to payment processing. Using Cybersource, merchants of all sizes can improve the way their consumers engage and transact, mitigate fraud and security risk, lower operational costs and adapt to changing business requirements. Cybersource’s global footprint lets merchants accept payments in more than 190 countries and territories around the world and includes a broad choice of acquirers and processors, payment types and hardware components. Cybersource white-labeled capabilities continue to drive innovation in the payments ecosystem and enable better customer experiences. Cybersource also invested in new and enhanced payment integrations with commerce platforms, enabling sellers and acquirers to provide tailored commerce experiences with payments seamlessly embedded. Cybersource enables an omni-channel solution with a cloud-based architecture to deliver more innovation at the point-of-sale. Our omni-channel solution has been adopted by multiple retailers in the U.S. and in Europe.Decision Manager delivered through Cybersource supports transaction security for sellers. It leverages the power of network-wide fraud insights and combines it with hundreds of standard API elements, including IP addresses, device fingerprints, order details and analytics, to produce more than 260 detectors in addition to a score for every transaction to help sellers separate fraudulent transactions from non-fraudulent ones. Decision Manager helps merchants reduce exposure to fraud, which is critical for optimizing both revenue and profits for merchants. Visa continues to invest in its dispute management services. In fiscal year 2019, we acquired Verifi, a leader in technology solutions to reduce chargebacks. With this acquisition, Visa has been able to offer a network agnostic value added solution, enabling merchants to manage disputes across all their payment methods with a single connection.Fraud Management and Security Services Security and IdentityTrust is at the core of Visa. Through an evolving and multilayered approach, Visa strives to expect the unexpected, constantly monitoring our network and sharing intelligence with our partners. Our multi-prong security strategy is based on empowering consumers and clients through tools, resources and controls to make more informed risk decisions. To provide these tools, we invest in intelligence and technologies that improve fraud and authorization performance. In fiscal year 2020, Visa Advanced Authorization risk scored 141 billion Visa-processed transactions – each transaction across more than 500 risk factors in about one millisecond. In the last year, Visa’s artificial intelligence (AI)-powered risk scoring engine helped financial institutions prevent nearly $25 billion in fraud. We believe security is an integral driver for growth and innovation. Several developments over the course of fiscal year 2020 help demonstrate our approach:•We continued to see the benefits of chip technology, where each transaction is accompanied by a one-time code that protects consumer information, in preventing counterfeit fraud and reducing fraud occurring in person at physical stores. In the U.S., for example, our most recent data shows an 87 percent decline in counterfeit fraud at chip-enabled merchants since 2015. Contactless-enabled payment cards use the same trusted security of chip cards. EMV® 3-D Secure (3DS) is a new generation of the protocol — developed by EMVCo’s members along with other industry participants — and is designed to protect accounts from unauthorized use across desktop, laptop, mobile or other connected devices, making online purchases easier and more secure. •A new digital tool was introduced to help U.S. financial institutions with their efforts to combat new account fraud and give consumers greater peace of mind. Advanced Identity Score combines Visa’s AI and predictive machine learning capabilities with application and identity related data to generate a risk score for new account applications to help reduce fraud, prevent negative impacts to brand loyalty and trust, and eliminate operational costs due to remediation. Advanced Identity Score can decrease the number of new 12Table of Contentsaccounts opened with stolen identities, protect consumers against synthetic ID or account takeover fraud, save time and help eliminate a poor customer experience. Visa is also committed to helping protect the broader payments ecosystem from growing cyber threats and fraud through continued investments in intelligence and technology. Visa operates a suite of programs to protect the safety and soundness of the payments ecosystem, investing in intelligence and technology to prevent, detect and mitigate security threats, and empowering our partners with the tools and data necessary to make better risk management decisions that are a core benefit of being part of the Visa network. Our security capabilities, programs and expertise help protect the integrity of the payments ecosystem by seeking to detect and disrupt fraud threats targeting financial institutions and merchants and removing bad actors from the ecosystem to provide the best possible consumer experience. This is achieved through the combined efforts of payment and cyber intelligence, insights and learnings from client/partner breach investigations, and law enforcement engagement to help financial institutions and merchants solve critical security challenges. Visa Token ServiceVisa Token Service is a security technology that helps combat fraud for both face-to-face and ecommerce digital transactions, including mobile and “Internet of Things (IoT)” payments. The technology replaces a consumer’s card-related sensitive information, such as personal account number, with a unique, one-time use identifier, or token, which protects transactions in a number of ways, including when a card or shopper is not physically present. Launched in 2014, tokenization has been brought to scale over the last six years. We expanded tokenization globally this year, crossing the 1.4 billion tokens milestone and enabling more than 8,300 issuers across 192 markets.Following the acquisition of Rambus Payments’ token services business, Visa rebranded the business unit to Token ID - A Visa Solution. Token ID will expand Visa’s tokenization capabilities beyond card-based payments on the Visa network to include domestic card, automated clearing house (ACH) and real-time payment networks to facilitate secure payments across a broader range of global commerce types.Data SolutionsData lies at the heart of strategic decisions that governments, financial institutions, fintechs and merchants make to help meet their customers' needs, create new products and experiences, enhance security and bolster customer loyalty. Visa harnesses the power of our rich global datasets to deliver insights, benchmarks and predictive models that benefit our ecosystem.With Visa’s Benchmarking and Operations Solutions, clients can identify opportunities to increase spend and authorization rates and reduce fraud, disputes, chargebacks and operational costs. Visa’s suite of Marketing Solutions uses Visa data to help issuers and merchants plan, target, and measure marketing campaigns and communications. Through Visa’s Underwriting Solutions, Visa is helping clients harness data to improve portfolio management strategies such as credit line increase programs, cross sale of lending products and working capital management for small businesses. Visa Consulting & Analytics Visa Consulting & Analytics is the payments consulting advisory arm of Visa. This group is a client-facing global team of more than 550 payments consultants, data scientists and economists in more than 100 cities. The combination of our deep payments expertise, our breadth of data and our economic intelligence allows us to identify actionable insights, recommendations and solutions that drive better business decisions and measurable outcomes for clients. Visa Consulting & Analytics offers consulting services for issuers, acquirers, merchants, fintechs and others that span the entire customer journey.13Table of Contents4. FoundationalThe foundation of our business is comprised of our technology, security, brand and talent. TechnologyVisa’s technology platform comprises software, hardware, data centers and a vast telecommunications infrastructure, each with a distinct architecture and operational footprint wrapped with several layers of security and protection technologies. Together, these systems deliver the secure, convenient and reliable service that our clients and consumers expect of the Visa brand.Software As part of our global technology environment, we build and securely operate hundreds of commercial applications using a diverse set of technologies. Our software powers the core functions of our transaction processing — including authorization, clearing and settlement, and risk scoring — as well as our value added services. These applications together work to provide essential services to the payments ecosystem.Hardware We rely on a diverse array of sophisticated infrastructure systems that are tailored to our services. Visa's infrastructure is designed and configured with layers of redundancies. We have multiple instances of our software running on separate pieces of hardware, which is designed to provide continuous availability. Our disaster recovery capabilities are tiered so that our real-time transaction processing services can be continuously available.Data Centers Visa operates four data centers that are a critical part of our global processing environment and are built with the capacity to support Visa’s growing power, cooling and space needs. All of our data centers have high redundancy of network connectivity, power and cooling designed to provide continuous availability of systems. We are continuing to reduce the carbon footprint of our data centers by deploying efficiency improvement strategies, including LED lighting, variable airflow automation controls and hot-and-cold air containment technologies. TelecommunicationsWe connect our clients and partners to Visa’s data centers through a massive telecommunications network covering more than 10 million route miles. Each network node is connected through redundant links, designed to provide high levels of security, availability and performance for our products and services. SecurityIn parallel with our role in advancing the security of the broader payments ecosystem, Visa remains committed to championing cybersecurity. Our multifaceted security approach includes d