 Mevea helps your company transition smoothly to a Digital Twin -centric way of developing and operating intelligent machines. Mevea Digital Twin software allows you to design and validate even the most complex and intelligent machines with ease. Mevea software combines all plans for your machine into a single virtual model called a "Digital Twin". The digital twin that is created is a virtual,  physics-based representation of your machine capable of simulating its behaviour and use in real-time. The digital twin consists of four components: machine, environment, work process,  and interface to the control system. The whole system can be developed  with ease on one platform. The virtual machine features mechanics,  hydraulics, and power transmission that behave exactly like their physical counterparts. Machine bodies are connected to each other using different types of constraints and joints. Then, hydraulic components are added as well as engine and power transmission. If needed, bodies can also be simulated flexibly and the implementation of friction curves between objects can easily be added. Soil, obstacles, weather conditions, and other machines form part of the virtual environment  in which the digital twin accurately simulates the work process its physical  counterpart is designed to perform. By connecting the physics-based digital twin to machine intelligence it can seamlessly bridge the  physical and virtual worlds. Mevea software can be connected to the  real control system of the physical machine using different protocols such as  CAN bus or socket connection to the PLC. Adopting digital twin technology  into your product lifecycle doesn't have to mean a big disruption  to your current system and processes. For example, the Mevea plugin for CAD  software enables the generation of real-time simulation-ready model body  definition and simplified graphics based on your existing CAD files. Component related data is  included using Mevea Modeller and input-output connections are  managed using Mevea Input/Output Tools. The Mevea Solver provides the real-time  solution and results can be stored in ASCII format for further use. A wide range of industry-standard interfaces to your existing system landscape are  supported within the Mevea software. This includes co-simulation using the  functional mock-up interface, connections to development  platforms such as MATLAB Simulink, and an interface to the robot operating  system for autonomous machine development. Mevea software enables a smooth  transition to a Digital Twin -centric way of developing and operating intelligent machines. Innovate beyond imagination  by enabling a physics-based digital twin. For more information contact us at mevea.com 