 Welcome to The Leaderonomics Show. My name is Caroline and today we have a special guest Dr. Marko Kesti. Welcome to Malaysia and welcome to The Leaderonomics Show. So nice to be here, thank you. Yes, thank you so much for coming. And you are the founder and CEO of PlayGain, as well as the EVP of Mcompetence and a professor at University of Lapland, is that right? That's right. Could you give us a little bit more introduction about yourself? Yes, I come from Finland, northern part of Finland. And Finland is a very beautiful country 5.5 million inhabitants and very innovative. Yes, definitely. We've heard a lot about innovation coming from the Scandinavian countries Yes, that's right. Is it the water there or something? Yes, that must be it, that's a good one. It might be the water because we are really innovative there. Right. An also competitive. And I think that's where your background is in as well. Because you're all of those accolades right? The professor, a founder, a CEO. And I understand that it's around AI simulation learning games? Yes, that's our latest innovation and research as well. That's very interesting because across these roles they seem quite different. What you're saying is that you are able to extract human performance and leadership? Yes. All in one? Could you explain a little bit about that? Yes, knowledge is becoming more and more important as sort of an energy to companies to drive business value. And the behaviour capital is the fuel to this energy. So the behaviour capital must be very good and then the workers will be innovative. So we are we are developing and measuring this behaviour capital and we can improve behaviour capital very effectively so that it will affect the quality of working life and and the innovativeness of a person. You said that you're able to measure the human capital and that's a very interesting concept because you know generally people talk about human beings and say that it's really difficult, really abstract. So how do you measure human capital performance? We have done the research so that that we have applied motivation theory to measure quality of working life and we quantify the behaviour of capital so that it is one one production parameter in the production function and we have so-called theory human capital production function, that will describe how the human capital is transferred to profit. Wow! So it is actually possible? Yes it is possible and we have verified it as well. When you say production, what does that mean? It means revenue. Production volume is the revenue that the company makes. And from the revenue you are able to get the profit So what you're is saying is, you are able to come up with a formula where you I'm guessing you observe something, you measure something, and from there you're able to correlate it to actual performance and hopefully increase in revenue and profitability? Exactly. Very nicely put, that is exactly what we're doing. And of course there is a lot to improve and research and and develop to be able to measure more precisely the quality of working life. Other numbers and data is nicely in the organisation systems and it's available. But the quality of working life is the most essential and it's the most difficult to measure. Dr Marko, when you talk about this measurement of people I can understand that you know sometimes in different roles it can be a little bit difficult depending on what the role is. So is your research in a specific functional area, certain type of jobs where it's more measurable or are you saying that this is across the board in different types of roles? It's a general theory and we study the organisation as system. In this system every worker has a important role. And the system produces certain effective working hours and with effective working hour certain revenue, and from the revenue there is this operative cost and you get the profit. Could you give us an example of how, let's say you know based on what you have seen; that examples, is there any case studies that you are actually able to give us an example of how a company say in Malaysia, so we have all sorts of different industries but I think 98 percent of our Malaysians are SMEs or small medium enterprises and I'm sure if they know that they can measure human productivity they will be very interested in this. So can you give an example in that sense? Yes, and they can improve it not only measure but from the measuring, comes the improvement. And when you measure it correctly you can make these activities, development activities so that they are very effective and then you get the profit increase. The profit increase depends on the business branch you are but normally it can be something like for example, one thousand ringgit per worker, it can also be five thousand ringgit or even more for every worker in the company. So you're looking at revenue or profit per employee right? We have measured also in case studies this sort of profit increase when you start to develop this behaviour capital. And what are some of the elements in the measurement, what are some of the big pillars that you look for? In the quality of working life, we utilise motivation theory and the motivation theory there are three different self-esteem categories. Physical and emotional safety is one and then there's collaboration and identity and then the objectives and creativity which will boost the performance. But all these combined in a way that is biased and rules apply and with the motivation theory, you can get the quality of working life index there. And for the self esteems, you know how self-esteems are in organisations, you can also improve it very effectively. Right, so basically what you're doing at improving the quality, is really looking at these three factors, and from there you are actually able to tell companies what the status is of their employees right now in terms of motivation, and from there you can look at how can we improve it so that it can improve the revenue and of course profitability. Yes, the improvement actions have to be effective and in different groups there are different actions. And the most effective are those workplace innovations that comes from the from the workers. Bottoms up? Bottoms up, yes. I think in your research in Lapland University, there are other areas which we are interested to talk about, but at this point let's take a quick break. Welcome back to The Leaderonomics Show, my name is Caroline and today we have Dr. Marko Kestie here with us. So nice to be here. And we'd like to continue before the break, we spoke a little bit about your experience in terms of the simulation and in terms of human capital production. I like to switch a little bit because you have multiple roles, and I would like to switch to learning more about your role in the University. Okay. In the University you are a professor in which area? Would you like to elaborate? I'm a professor in human capital productivity research. Applied sciences and management. Applied Sciences and management? Yes Great, and in that space right now, are there any particular trends in human capital productivity? In Finland we are very high in productivity and the trend in Finland is to measure this behaviour of capital and the measure the quality of working life index which is our research findings. And this quality of working life index is becoming a de facto standard, a little bit in Finland already. For example government measures quality of working life index in every government office Oh interesting. And it's our research and we are doing it internationally so that our research is internationally scientifically approved. So you have taken actually the research into actual implementation? Yes, you know Universities have three roles. There is doing the research, science, and teaching but there is also doing social impact. And I feel the best way to do social impact, is to start a business and do the research so that you can sell and you can go to market. Commercialise it. Yes, exactly. And that of obviously needs investments and somebody has to take a risk there, of course we take our own risk but there are also businesses that take risk. And now we are in the face of Minimum Viable Product and we are starting to grow and then we need some more investment and maybe I can step out from the CEO and start doing this development research manager post that I'm very good at. Right, so you have looked at a whole chain. Exactly. From the research all the way to the commercialisation of it. Yes. Right now there's a lot of discussion about AI. How does AI actually affect some of the research that you're doing? In this human capital productivity. Yes, it's an emerging science and it's gonna change everything and we have done a very unique research. We have done a digital twin from the organisation. We can simulate human behaviour and economics, and their connection with the digital twin that simulates the organisation behaviour capital improvement that effects the profit. Could you explain a little bit more about digital twin? What does that mean? It is a for example, it's a simulation that the leader can go to the simulation and the simulation tool will collect the data from neuron network. From the organisation own data, so the leader can practice in the simulation, for example reduce absence, or increase innovativeness or some strategic changes. And in this digital world, the leader can practice and then when he finds a good behaviour or good actions, he can also implement those actions to reality. Right, so it's somewhat a tool where it allows a simulation of what happens, if you try this, right? Yes. Interesting, and how do you see this kind of innovation in, it sounds like, please correct me if I'm wrong, it sounds like you are bringing AI, into a development kind of space so that you are able to add value to maybe you know training and development overall. Exactly, now when we have the digital twin and a simulation that is reliable, we can implement artificial intelligence. And we can use the artificial intelligence algorithms, so that the leader who is in the simulation can ask help from the artificial intelligence advisor. So it would tell you, prompt you? It will prompt you and advise what to do. And this AMOR we call it AMOR; artificial intelligence mentor, will also tell you tell the leader that you should improve your skills in certain areas to make more impact to the behavioural capital. I'm curious to know on a personal basis how did you come to this part of development about AI and about you know research in this area. What was your personal or what is your personal story behind all this? I have an engineering background so that's why I'm not afraid of mathematics. I'm not a mathematician but I like mathematics because it's very good sparring-partner. If you figure out something, like how things works, then somebody might ask you, 'can you calculate it? Can I estimate it into the future?' And then it's very interesting to make those equations. How you can calculate it. It's a very good sparring partner to make it more precise and raise good questions to further your research. And we have done this evolution for 15 years, and now we have found very good equations from the artificial intelligence. Professors and scientists from decades ago, have found very good algorithms that we can now utilise in this digital world. So Dr Marko, what made you interested in engineering and all this accuracy in the first place? Yea that's interesting, maybe it's when I got my first child, I've got two children. And when raising them, I found out that human issues are very important. And I transferred the human issues to work as well. I noticed that in my work, we didn't utilise or apply human issues from a strategic point of view So I started to study and in that way I my career evolved from engineering to human resource and management. So it's really your family that triggered this change? I believe so I believe so, it made a switch in my mind. Oh, wonderful. Let's talk more about it when we come back from the break Welcome back to The Leaderonomics Show, my name is Caroline and we have Dr Marko Kesti with us today. So, Dr Marko. Yes. We're gonna play this game. Exciting! It's called, yes, Thinkonomics. Where you share your thoughts on certain topics, and how it's going to work it's like this. I'm gonna get these cards here, okay. And  there's going be a timer here. Oh, stress! Yes, good stress. And it's about a minute and you've to try to answer as many questions as you can. All right. Oh, I do a lot of exercise in my free time and I try to take care of myself so I feel maybe I would be 45. Oh, great. I think 45 is a good age. Yes. Okay next one pick another one Very good question. In quality of working life there are the self-esteem categories that first of all there has to be there this emotional safety so that the people feel emotional safety and also good collaboration team spirit. But also there has to be passion and and creativity. Emotional safety, passion, and one more is? Team spirit. Team spirit, collaboration. Okay, I think we have time for one more would you like to take one more? Oh, very very tough question. Choose one. I feel mother Teresa, because of the children. Taking care of the children who were very poor. Very humanitarian. Yes and you spoke about your children before this. Yes. So that seems to hit the spot. Do you mind if we do one last one? Yes, okay. I think it might be here in Malaysia or in Singapore. Welcome to Malaysia. Thank You Dr Marko for this. Thank you. And just to close up a little bit of questions about your personal self and your thoughts about it, as we have seen here. On leadership, you spoke about it a little bit, are there particular leadership traits or characteristics that you think is the most important. On top of your list. Yes, there are and they are quite difficult to achieve in working life because working life very stressful and you're always in a hurry, but the leader should have the mental attitude to listen to workers because he or she is a leader. Leading is listening to workers and and taking care of their grievances and problems and try to not motivate, but to find a collaboration and passion together. Right, so to be a good leader you must be a good listener who's able to find out To solve those problems of course, because the leader has a certain amount of power and responsibility over the well-being of the workers. So problems has to be solved. And the skills of course to do this problem solving. Oh, all right not just listen right? There are so many things that's why this is difficult to achieve. Do you have any mentors in mind or role models of people who demonstrate some of these leadership traits? Yes, I've read a lot of books and I obviously had some mentors during my working life. But one particular mentor is Peter Senge, in the book fifth discipline. That is a very unique book and describes human behaviour and human capabilities and how to utilise them. And also Daniel Goleman's emotional intelligence is also very good. Very good books that you are speaking about. And I have a third also which is relatively new, the Nobel prize winner Daniel Kahneman, thinking fast and slow. Yes, it made a great impact to my thinking. Great impact. Interesting, what would you advise the younger generation and we are talking about books here, there are good books to read, but there are also other ways to learn how to be a leader. Do you have some advice for them on that? How to be a leader or how to be good in anything there has to be passion. You have to find your own passion to do things and to learn and of course in the beginning you won't be very good but after 10 years, when you have the passion to learn, after 10 years you will be an expert. And how do you? So you have to have the patience to learn. Oh passion and patience. How do you find a passion, I think a lot of young people would like to do that but they don't know how to find it. Where do I find what is my passion? Yes it is of course a personal thing. But good mentors can help in that by demonstrating an example. So perhaps, the first thing to do is, find a good mentor. Yes, find a good mentor and find some subject that you are passionate about, to learn. It's been interesting talking to you and thank you so much for coming on the show and again I hope you had a good stay in Malaysia. Very nice. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you for watching The Leaderonomics Show, you have been with Caroline, and Dr Marko Kesti. 