 Today we will talk about what is a digital twin. Hi, my name is Fabio. Welcome to this new video. For those of you who don’t know me I have been a robotics expert for several years now. I am an expert in investment evaluation on industrial innovation and robotics. I help entrepreneurs to make the right choice when it comes to investing in automation. for their manufacturing production. Today we will talk about what is a digital twin. This is a widely used term it is very fashionable these days. Let’s figure out what it means which are the pros and cons. I’ll try to give you some ideas on how to choose if you should implement for your systems, for your production a digital twin so that you can figure out how to navigate it. So, first of all, what is a digital twin? In short, it is a virtual twin. But… a virtual twin of what? Of a real manufacturing plant. So, let’s imagine that we own a plant suppose we are designing a plant a virtual copy, a digital copy of our system is what we call a digital twin. Actually, over the years this thing became known in Italian as a simulator. So, a plant, a virtual area in which I can simulate what could happen inside a real plant. The digital twin, understood as the full concept that lies behind this, is actually a very complete simulator which also integrates transport systems vision systems, machine tools and various process systems that complete everything that is related to the robot and which lies within an entire automation system. So, a digital twin provides also simulations and it is integrated with systems other than the robot. To date we have, for some robot brands in particular some simulation systems, for instance for ABB Robotics it exists a simulation system that is called RobotStudio that is truly highly evolved, very advanced it makes robot simulation, let’s say (for those who are capable of course, for those who have the technical skills) very simple, very complete. But it is capable of taking it much further. But there are also other tools, such as Visual Components which is extremely versatile with respect to those robots and system we’re using. But there are also systems like FANUC or KUKA that allow to do this virtual simulation of what happens within the plant. And why should we use a virtual twin? Why should a virtual twin be employed in a manufacturing plant? As we said before, in order to use it (if I may say so) as a “guinea pig”. In other words, as a safe, virtual environment, to introduce changes. I give you an example to better understand. Let’s imagine you have a plant, for instance to the present day for the enslavement of tool machines it manages a plant group. Let’s suppose that, for instance, you want to decide if, economically it makes sense to change the cycle from single gripper (we already talked about it in another video and so if you want you can find this video in my various channels) switch from single gripper to double gripper. What profit would be derived by doing this, in details? Let me see how I could do it. Or, if I want to include a tool change, a gripper change (we talked about this as well in other videos) So, what does it mean, inside my system to change it and turn it into something different? Or, let’s say I want to include some parking stations (again, we talked about this in some other videos) What does it mean for me, in terms of the cycle and my system’s performances to make these changes? So, having at your disposal a virtual “guinea pig” to carry out testing is very useful. Hence, there are many pros, as you have understood, in having a digital twin. Clearly, there are also cons. You can easily guess what these are: one is the costs, obviously. Because to implement a virtual system that simulates well (as well as possible) the real system, it actually involves costs. It requires staff capable of implementing this which are typically highly skilled people with great expertise in order to perform this. And obviously it takes time. Therefore, if we decide to use a digital twin in order to do (another English term) “virtual commissioning” so, a virtual testing before giving the green light to the construction of a new plant, for instance clearly this thing (having to use a virtual commissioning) takes time and it might causes delays in production. However, very often it gives me important guarantees. So the pros and cons are the following: great advantages in testing in being able to verify what happens in my plant. The cons: the costs and longer times. How to choose your system? Should you implement a digital twin of an already existing plant? Or, of a plant that you’re about to build? It depends… for those plants that have yet to be build is often very profitable. Because, very often, the planning of new systems is done in 3D 99% of the time. As a consequence, creating a digital twin (that doesn’t need to be extremely complicated) could be very useful. And not too expensive from your point of view (the one who purchases those systems). As for new plants, it depends. Some assessments need to be done. Unfortunately, the answer to the question is the infamous “it depends”. It is important to carry out an investment analysis. A budget analysis, of how much it costs to create a virtual twin and how much profit I could make out of it. Considering that performing some testing with a virtual twin which doesn’t involve a plant shutdown clearly gives me an economic advantage on production which, in my already operational plant can be significant. So, there are various aspects to take into consideration. I am at your disposal If you wish to learn more about this topic. If you are in the process of choosing if you were intrigued by the virtual twin and you’d like to decide whether or not to have one I am obviously here to support you and help you. I would be glad to help you in this regards. Feel free to write in the comments if you have any questions. if you want to explore this topic more in-depth. Perhaps understand which tools you could use which tools can be used in this respect. I will be more than happy to help and to share my expertise with you. In the description you will find all the links to check out other videos that are related which we’ve mentioned in this video. Thank you for your attention. I am glad I could be of help. Thanks, see you in the next video! 