 Hi my name is thomas and i'm one of  the co-founders at SONAH & We at SONAH   developed a machine learning  sensor for the future city! What kind of problem do we  solve with our technology? We help cities to reduce emissions and reduce  the time you spend looking for a parking spot Thirty percent of inner city traffic is caused by  parking traffic and that problem will be solved! Our detection technology can be integrated  into any given infrastructure street lights,   traffic lights and buildings and digitizes  space based on machine learning algorithms   integrated into cameras that we  place at or into street lights. That means our technology is capable  to be integrated into any given   led street light head or can be  retrofitted into street lights. Our services are used by production sites  cities and parking management service   providers all over europe and right now we are  active in Germany, Italy, Austria and England. We got many happy customers  that use our technology   to reduce the stress and the time  spent looking for a parking spot Basically our usp is the leverage  of machine learning algorithms that   digitize space surrounding the sensor and that  can derive more use cases than parking itself. You can imagine our system be an open network  in the city and city managers can decide the   area of interest and of course they can decide  what kind of insights they want to generate. Imagine a platform where  cities can ask any question   and we will provide you with  any answer to the given problem You will get a web ui and  analytics that help you to decide   whether or not parking is an issue or what kind  of other detection services you're looking for On the one hand we got our detection  platform and on the other hand   we are capable to integrate any  third-party sensor into our platform. That means as we already did in  Duisburg at all recycling sites.   We can integrate environmental sensors  to measure CO2 and NOx emissions   and of course we can integrate  weather data into our system So in the endwe provide cities with a holistic  platform that generates a digital twin   for the city and its citizens to reduce emissions   increase parking revenues and  provide proper mobility services So that is SONAH, that's what we do in a nutshell! 