 Hello and welcome to a GeoDict tutorial. This video was  created by Andreas Griesser, Business Manager for Image  Processing & Image Analysis at Math2Market. My name is Sina Schwichow and I will show you in the  following video how to model an artificial eardrum made by  electrospinning using our fiber generator module FiberGeo. We would like to thank the Ear Research Center of the  University Hospital Dresden and the Institute for Textile Machinery and High Performance  Textile Materials of the TU Dresden for providing us with this SEM picture that you see here. We will first analyze this image and then we will generate a  digital statistical twin. This will allow us to perform simulations for property  calculation based on the identical statistical material  properties. This helps us not only to test the existing material but  also to improve it. To import the SEM image into our software GeoDict, we first  need the module ImportGeo-Vol. For this purpose we click on  the button Import in our menu bar and select ImportGeo-Vol. On the side, the view of FiberGeo changes to ImportGeo-Vol.  Using the Browse button we select the image and import it with a voxel length of one micrometer. We will  define the exact voxel length later. After we click on Import, the ImportGeo-Vol main window  opens where we can edit and modify the SEM image. Our final goal is to segment the image and then determine  the orientation of the fibers. We will first switch to the Stack-View mode under View Mode. Since this image is a 2D image, we look from the Z-axis in  direction X and Y, since only these two axes contain image  information. To better determine the orientation of the fibers later on,  we have to segment this image with GeoDict. Since it is a SEM image, it is not easy to segment the  fibers. On the one hand there is a gradient in the depth of  the image and on the other hand there is only one 2D slice  on which we can work. This becomes particularly clear when the current  segmentation is varied and made visible using the currently  set threshold under Treshold Visibility. That's why a little manual work is required here and you  can't just use the fully automated Otsu segmentation under  Tresholding. As you can see, a lot of fibres are lost here, so we have to  reduce the treshold a bit. This also allows us to segment the fibers that are in the  background. Of course, you can now clearly see that the fibers in the  foreground, where sometimes several fibers are parallel, are  melting together. However, since we only want to analyze the orientation of  the fibers, we can ignore this at the moment. With this threshold we should get a useful result. By clicking the Import Image button at the bottom, the  segmented image can be imported into GeoDict. As you can see a so called GeoDict Result-Viewer window  opens, where you can see the parameters that have been set,  listed again. Since GeoDict is in the 2D view in X direction, we have to  change it under Camera Direction to Z direction. Here we can see the fibers as we have segmented them. And  very importantly, we can see the scalebar up here as well.  We will now use this to determine the correct voxel length. We zoom in a little further. Since we know that this scalebar is fifty micrometers long,  we can tell GeoDict here to change the voxel length so that  the section we measure is exactly fifty micrometers long. The voxel length has now been adjusted accordingly. First, since we want to analyze the orientation, we will now  remove this bar with the meta-information that was  contained in the image. To do this, we go to the 3D view, select ProcessGeo Crop, activate the Preview and lower the Y value so far that we  only cut away the bar with the meta information at the top. Now we only have the fibers in the image and can perform the  fiber orientation analysis in the FiberFind module. Therefore I select the module FiberFind, the function Estimate Fiber Orientation and click on the  Edit button. Here we can divide the structure into several sub-blocks,  for each of which we get an orientation tensor. In our case  we are only interested in one. For the algorithm we keep the Star-Length-Distribution,  because it also works in 2D. With a click on OK and then on RUN I start the analysis. GeoDict now calculates the orientation of the fibers in our  image. We can use the result later as input parameter for  FiberGeo. Now we have here an orientation tensor, which we will use  later. To create a model of the eardrum we select the module  FiberGeo in the menu under the tab Model and click on the  Edit button to set the parameters for the fiber generator. First we define the size of the domain we want to model. For our example, we choose one thousand by one thousand by  one hundred voxels. Choosing the length of the voxel is not entirely free, since  we have to model a certain fiber diameter distribution. This should ensure that even thinner fibers can still be  sufficiently resolved. For this purpose we use a measurement, which was also made  available to us, in which the mean value and the standard deviation of the  fiber diameter distribution were determined experimentally. As we can see from the distribution, it is roughly a  log-normal distribution. The largest peak is at about  zero-point-two (0.2) micrometers. Since we want to model this large peak of fibers well, we  choose a voxel length of zero-point-zero-five (0.05)  micrometers to ensure that most of the fibers are resolved with at least four  voxels. This results in a total size of fifty by fifty by five  micrometers, which we want to model. In this window we can also define whether the fibers should  be generated with or without overlap. Since our fibers are produced by electrospinning, we can  allow the generator to produce the fibres with overlap. We also have to determine how many fibers we have in our  microstructure. There are various termination criteria for this. Either a  fixed number of fibers, a certain Solid Volume Fraction, a  Grammage, a Density or an Object Rate Percentage. We select the already preselected Object Solid Volume  Percentage and set it to seventeen percent. After we have set up our domain we go next into the  Fiber-Options. By default, two types of fibers are selected as default.  However, as these fibres are straight fibres, they are not  suitable for our fibre structure. By clicking the Remove  button we remove them. To be able to choose the right fibers we will have a look at  the SEM picture again as a reminder. Although, as we can  see, there are also straight fibres, there are also many  curved fibres or fibres, which are straight in sections and  then curved again. We have to be aware of this when modeling our fibers.  Therefore we add two types of fibers under Fiber Type. First we start with a Curved-Circular-Fiber, which we can  create by clicking Add. Now we can define various parameters for this fiber type,  including the diameter distribution. Of course we want to choose the diameter distribution  according to the measured distribution. Remember... this was the distribution that was measured. So here, at the Diameter parameter, we select the Edit  button and choose the Log Normal Distribution. Here we now enter the arithmetic mean of the distribution. And here is the standard deviation. Like a lower and an upper limit. Since we have chosen a  voxel resolution of zero-point-zero-five (0.05) micrometers,  our lower limit of the distribution should be greater than  this value if possible. We can also choose an upper limit. If we look at our  distribution, we choose one-point-five (1.5) microns. Another parameter we still have to choose is the length. In our example, it is sufficient to choose a length that is  greater than our domain. Since the domain we modeled is fifty micrometers, we choose  a length of one hundred micrometers for the fibers, so that, if possible, we have no beginning and end in our  final fiber structure. The next parameter we can set is the orientation. For this  we have previously analyzed the orientation of the fibers. To be able to use it, we close the edit window shortly via  the OK button. This saves the entries we have made so far. Then open the FiberOrientations.gdr file that we created  earlier. A gdr file is a GeoDict result. Here we can find  the orientation tensor we want to enter into FiberGeo. To do this, we click on the Edit button again and go to the  Fiber Options. We click on the Edit button, select Anisotropic Orientation,  select Orientation Tensor and enter the values from the  GeoDict result file. In the Z direction we have no orientation analysis and  therefore choose zero for the time being. Now we click OK. With the parameter Center you can select an inhomogeneous  distribution of the fibers in a fiber structure. However,  this is not necessary for our example and we leave it at the  default setting. Since these are curved fibers, we have to determine the  parameters for the curvature. For this we click on the Curl tab and select the Curl Mode  Random. With the other modes it is possible to model defined  geometric shapes or use another method to model the  curvature, which is still under development. First we have to define the segment length. The segment length influences the generation process,  because it can increase the frequencies that occur in the  curvature, and on the other hand, if it is too high, it can lead to  more or less angular fibres. In our example we choose a segment length of one, so that  we do not get too high oscillation frequencies. The other parameters we need to enter are whether we want to  use isotropic or anisotropic curvature parameters. If we use anisotropic parameters we can enter the curvature  parameters for each direction independently. Or if we choose isotropic curvature parameters, then the  parameters are the same for each direction. Local Straightness determines how much the fiber wants to  maintain its current direction. If a low value is selected, the fiber retains its local  curvature. The second parameter is Global Straightness. It determines  how much the fiber follows the global orientation given for  its type. If a value of zero is chosen, the global orientation is  ignored. If you choose a value of one, it is always  preferred. Randomness determines how much random deviation may be added  to the direction defined by the previous parameters in each  segment. As a rule, not a value too high should be selected here,  otherwise the parameters selected above will lose their  meaning. For our example we choose a local straightness of  zero-point-seven (0.7) in the X direction, zero-point-three (0.3) in the Y direction and zero-point-one  (0.1) in the Z direction. For Global Straighness we choose zero-point-four (0.4) in  the X direction, zero-point-one-five (0.15) in the Y  direction and zero-point-eight-five (0.85) in the Z  direction. For randomness select zero-point-two (0.2),  zero-point-two-five (0.25) and zero-point-zero-five (0.05). As we can see from the values, we want the fibers to remain  very much in the X Y plane and not have large curvatures  outside of it. Also we want to have more curves in the Y direction and in X  follow the direction of the current fiber direction. This assumption is based on the fact that when we look at  the SEM image again, we often see straight fiber areas, which then turn into a bend and then continue straight  again. Such a behavior can be easily modeled by such a  choice of parameters. Now, all parameters for our fiber type are defined and we  want to save it. Therefore we click on Save and choose a  name, for example Eardrum Type 1. If we take a closer look at the SEM picture again, we can  see that there are many fibers that are very straight. So we would like to model these too. For this we could add the type Curved Circular again and  enter all parameters again. But since we only want to change the curvature parameters,  we simply reload the type we just saved. This way we can get a copy of the Eardum Type 1 fiber. Now we change the curvature parameters so that we get  straighter fibers. For this we increase the local straightness in all  directions and also the global straightness. This means on the one hand that we want the fiber to follow  the given orientation more closely and to maintains its current direction rather than its  curvature and on the other hand, that we reduce the  randomness. We have now entered all relevant parameters and can click  OK. GeoDict now asks us if we want to generate both fiber  types in equal proportions. Yes, we do. Then we can click on Generate. Now GeoDict generates the fiber structure. Now we see the fiber structure in the GeoDict standard  colors red and green. In order to compare our generated fiber structure with the  SEM image even better, we adjust the visualization to the  SEM image. To do so, we click on the Structure tab and then on the  button for the Color & Visibility Settings and color the  fibers under ID 01, ID 02 and ID 03 in gray. Then we click on Camera tab and activate some  post-processing effects that allow us to see more details  like: show outlines and show halo. Under the tab Structure we can switch from the box renderer  to the smooth renderer in Structure mode. This allows an even higher contrast through the surface  shaders, which allows us to see more fiber details. And we're done. We used GeoDict's image processing and image  analysis tools to extract the necessary information from  the 2D SEM image. With this information we were able to create a digital  statistical twin, using these as generation parameters for  FiberGeo. The result is an accurate statistical model on which we can  now perform further property calculations. We hope you enjoyed this tutorial and thank you for your  attention. And if you found this tutorial helpful, please check out our  Math2Market channel for more GeoDict videos. Good bye! 