 My name is Rene Braun and I'm working for B&B-AGEMA, an engineering services company located in Aachen Germany. Our company is highly involved in the design of gas turbines and steam turbines and especially in the design of the flow passes up to the blades especially for gas turbines for cooled parts so this is the main focus of our business. Most of the time customers came to us and ask us to build up a new design with a higher efficiency or bigger power output and of course as fast as possible. We are also involved in the development of new combustion systems: new combustors for industrial but also for large gas turbines and emission control is one of the highest topics at the moment. In our work we combine different software tools. For example, we use Siemens NX We also use HEEDS but the key software is STAR-CCM+ in our investigations. A big benefit is that we can achieve a high quality turbine in a very short time. So we use HEEDS for a complete automated design approach. We have established a design approach where we start from scratch Going over 1D, 2D up to 3D designs and at the end We also run an optimization of these designs in order to get designs with the highest efficiency. The biggest challenge is that the models become more complex, bigger and bigger and you want to capture more and more features and phenomenas. I have used Simcenter STAR-CCM+ now for more than eight years and it's the main CFD code also in our company I think it has one big advantage and that's the structure of STAR-CCM+ So you can import your geometry and then you can stay in one tool: you can do all the meshing, post-processing and of course the simulation itself. That makes it very comfortable and easy. For my opinion in the future digital test rigs become more and more important, so it's a combination of experimental and simulation engineer. We call it the digital test rig. So we build up as far as possible the complete machine and try to figure out how it's working in the field before it's really applied to the field, you know, so we get rid of all the conditions and how it's working in different operating conditions And we want to use this information in the early design. So that afterwards we have less cost of test fields. 