 Hello, I am Alberto Soto with Siemens Digital Industries Software. Today, I am going to show you how to take advantage of the new Simcenter Amesim Permanent Magnet Synchronous Machine component to perform detailed thermal analysis for an electric drive. I will start by using Simcenter SPEED, a detailed design tool for electric-machines, to characterize the losses in my machine. I will then develop a thermal model for my machine. The final step will be the integration of both components into a vehicle model. The machine for this study is an interior permanent magnet machine for electric vehicles. The CAD has been realized using Simcenter SPEED and we use it to generate a reduced model. It considers the machine’s electromagnetic properties, the losses and a thermal nodal network called HOT10. Here, we launch the model export to Simcenter Amesim. This process is repeated several times for different magnet temperatures. The resulting datafiles will represent the machine characteristics as a function of the magnet temperature. We also obtain the winding ohmic resistance and the losses for 3 different sectors: the yoke, the tooth and the rotor. In Simcenter Amesim, the machine model is configured to receive this data set. The winding is divided into the stack-winding and end-winding. The other machine losses are distributed in the yoke, the tooth and the rotor. With this set-up, we consider not only the machine’s magnetic saturation, but also how the magnet temperature impacts its electromagnetic performance, and where the losses are located for different operating conditions. The detailed thermal component of the e-motor is equivalent to the HOT10 thermal nodal network used in Simcenter SPEED. It is made of 10 thermal capacities representing the main machine sectors including the winding, rotor, stator, bearings and frame. The node thermal capacitance, as well as the thermal resistance between them, are obtained using Simcenter SPEED. And the machine losses are distributed throughout the different nodes. The thermal model is encapsulated into a supercomponent and contains thermal ports to connect to the motor component, cooling and exterior. In this example, a simple liquid coolant loop regulated at 55 degrees is attached to the motor frame. 2 models have been built to demonstrate the usage of these new components. The first one includes the motor, its control and the detailed thermal model. The transient scenario shows the machine’s dynamic response. We also see its thermal response at maximum continuous power and at maximum peak power. This type of model is especially suited for control design, as well as the thermal management of the machine. In the second demonstrator, the motor and associated thermal part are integrated into a full vehicle model. We assess here the electromechanical performance and the thermal behavior of the machine on a real driving cycle. To sum up, with Simcenter Amesim you can study and optimize the performance of your e-machine in realistic transient conditions and asses the thermal behavior, enabling you to correctly size the cooling system and refine your controllers. Thank you for watching. For more information, please visit our website. 