 It’s absolutely imperative to keep public spaces safe. BeSafe Technologies is a company that provides emergency preparedness plans to first responders, whether that be police, fire, EMS. Aldine is an urban school district. It covers 111 miles and has about 67,000 students that we serve. Safety is a priority. A challenge a first responder might run into when managing information in a time of crisis is being able to access building floor plans or any pertinent contact information. There was really nothing standardized, a way to get information out to a police officer or a firefighter. Insight, we’re a super aggregator. We’ve been in the IT industry for over 30 years. We’ve worked with BeSafe and other partners to create a system where you can share information. ActiveShield is a module with Insight’s Connected Safety platform. What we’ve been able to do is take these traditional PDF floor plans and create a virtual digital twin of those. All of this is hosted and enabled on the Microsoft Azure Cloud platform. As a result of having a digital twin, first responders can safely share and collaborate, in real time, the information that they need to be able to help people. The Insight Connected Safety platform allows us to interconnect all of these various different devices and IoT sensors and to create a single view of what’s going on in real time. With Insight, we were able to build a third-party solution accelerator called Project Edison. We all came together, and BeSafe’s platform that had existed for 20 years was just the other piece of this puzzle. Being able to leverage that platform with IoT and connected devices, there was a synergy there. In a real-life situation, in case there’s something happening in Hallway 100, the principal, the Aldine police, or Aldine administration will be able to send an alert to all the classrooms in the school, with the specific instruction, what you need to do, a step-by-step. You’re gonna automatically see some cost advantage. It will allow us to move more in an expedient way, to know what we need to do as a district for safety and security of our students and staff. This is applicable to factories, retail, schools, campuses, cities. ActiveShield IoT-integrated devices is 100% the future of public safety in any space. Insight Connected Safety and BeSafe Technologies help save lives based on the Microsoft Azure platform. I think it’s going to be revolutionary in terms of how people respond to an emergency in a public location. 