 The Azure Digital Twins is a great solution for mapping your environment, your devices, people in your company, in the digital world, and leverage data from these devices and things into your solutions. Winvision has developed a great solution called BeSense and we have Remko on The IoT Show today to show us how that works. [MUSIC]  This is the Internet of Things Show. I'm Olivier, your host, thanks for watching. Today, we have Remko on the show. How are you Remko?  I'm fine.  So, Remko is from Winvision. Winvision is a company, a partner, one of our goal partners and they've been developing a solution based on the Azure Digital Twins. So, before we jump into some explanations about the application, the BeSense solution, can you tell us a bit about yourself and Winvision?  Yeah. My name is Remko Ploeg and I'm a Solution Architect at Winvision. Winvision is a system integrator in the Netherlands.  Okay.  We are based in Nieuwegein. We are Microsoft's goal partner, and we've got a big focus on IoT.  Okay.  So, you have a very neat solution, you guys have been developing that is powered and based on the Azure Digital Twins. So, we have some other videos that we recorded some time ago about Azure Digital Twins that is a new service allowing you to digitalize your work. Creative digital model of things, of objects, of people, and having interaction with all of that. So, can you tell us a bit about your solution, BeSense, and how you came to develop that?  So, together with Heijmans which is a big construction company in the Netherlands, we have developed BeSense its run by solution for building.  Okay.  The building itself is additional in the Azure Digital Twin.  Okay.  Based on all the data we collect in the building with our own sensors or with sensors in the building itself already, we collect the data and we do actions based on the data.  Okay. So, basically you have your own self sensors.  Yes, we have.  You have your solution that monitors these sensors.  Yeah.  I think we're going to see some of your sensors as well, but I will talk about the architecture before a bit. Basically you're capturing data from all these sensors, putting all that in Digital Twins and then you're leveraging the platform itself or exposing this data like getting insights from the data and then taking action.  Yeah.  Connecting into the customer's solutions and line of this application.  Yeah. So we've built several solution based on our platform itself. So occupancy, for example, is very important in the Netherlands as you know.  Okay.  So, you've got applications where people can see you in the building where they can find free spaces for example, but we've got also our solutions for the cleaner.  Okay.  For the cleaner you can see which surface they need to be cleaned.  Okay.  Which rooms needs to be cleaned.  Okay. So, you've been in that business for some time, right?  Yeah.  The Azure Digital Twins is new, why jumping on Azure Digital Twins, why are you using that technology, what did it give you bring on?  So, we built BeSense for first version also on Azure IoT components and we rebuilt it last year.  Okay.  Because we are one of the private partners of the Digital Twin itself, the new servers.  Okay.  It gives us fast starts to build a new service for BeSense.  Okay.  So, there's a lot of functionality in there already that we built ourselves before.  Okay.  So we can really give.  You can give it like-  A first start.  Yeah, okay. Then focus on what really is your competitive skills which is actually the devices and offering that service to your customers.  Yes. So, we built before our own rule engine but there's rule engine now in Visual Twins, so we have to leverage on that I think.  You don't have to develop a maintenance.  Exactly.  Then you're going to benefit from any new features were going to add to it.  Exactly.  Awesome. Well, we have an architecture diagram here.  Yeah.  Let's jump into them and talk about the BeSense application.  Yeah. So on the left we've got our own sensors but we also connect of course with the sensors of the buildings that are already in there.  Okay.  So, the sensor data is collected. We're using a lot of LoRa this is the technology for low based communication with sensors because our own sensors are battery operated and lasting around five years.  Yeah.  And all those who don't know LoRa is a low-power radio based device communication.  Is big in Europe already in coming up I think in getting the United States.  [inaudible].  And other data is collected in our BeSense platform.  Okay.  That's levering the Azure Digital Twin.  Okay.  Based on the platform we build solutions but also partners can build solution based on the platform. So, it's open.  It's a platform on a platform.  Exactly.  Open for customers to actually create their own application on top of it.  Or partners from us.  Okay.  Behind during solutions.  Okay. What are the kind of devices that you guys provide?  Yeah. So, we've several tens of built.  Okay.  So, from the left you see the emotion sensor we use it on desks in rooms and also in toilets.  Okay.  We can measure the filter of another toilets based on usage.  Okay, makes sense.  Yes, we got to Comfort Sensor so we measure temperature humanity lacks sounds.  Okay.  So, if you want to find a quiet place for example we can measure the sound in the building.  Make sense.  We got Accounting Sensor so we can count people entering a room or exiting a room.  Yeah. Or the building.  Or the building itself. And to see other room is occupied. So, in a room with 20 people sitting in a room of 50 that's not really good.  Okay.  So, we can measure that.  So you have all the security fire standards everything that I or regulations that actually that you can easily then enforce or verify right?  Exactly.  Okay.  And we also measured the energy in the building.  Okay saving energy.  Exactly.  Okay, make sense. Awesome.  Yeah.  So, we want a demo.  Yeah, I can do that.  'Cause actually that's in production, right?  Yeah.  It's not just like so Azure Digital Twins is on preview, right?  Yeah, exactly.  But you guys have a product which is in production based on that technology as you were saying you had a first version of BeSense not based on Digital Twins but now moving to Digital Twin and focus on developing that solution and extending it right.  Yeah. So, we started two weeks ago migrating customers from our old solution-  Okay.  -to the new solution.  Yeah.  So, we were running in production already.  How is it going?  Challenging sometimes but it's going all right.  It's like all migrations.  Because [inaudible] already happy with it because it's a new solution, new design, more look and feel it's faster.  Yeah.  More faster than before.  Okay. So-.  [inaudible].  Faster do they see also integration into their own line of business applications as being something that is powerful for them.  Yeah, it's powerful is not really in there, yet.  Okay.  It's ready now for it.  Okay.  So, after migration we will add more connections to facility management systems for example.  I'm sure they are excited about that.  Exactly, I hope they are.  Okay.  Yeah.  So, where you're looking at here?  So, this is our own building in Europe.  Okay.  Every employee in our building can see the screen.  Okay.  And they can see here which rooms are available or not.  Okay.  So, we've got three colors you see the "Green" of course its, these are the rooms that are free or desk for you.  Okay.  The "Red" one are of course-  Occupied.  -occupied.  Yeah.  And the "Orange" one are in-between because sometimes people are leaving their desk to get a coffee, and they are chatting at the coffee.  Okay.  And after ensuring them amount of time the desk will go to "Orange."  I see you have rules that actually take into account the fact that someone might eventually come back to that.  Exactly.  Take it. Okay. Make sense.  That's one and we run this apps on screens in the building. So, in big buildings. When you enter the building you see which room or which desk is free for you.  Yeah.  You can you can find it.  Yeah.  So, things like way finding is in there and other things.  And because you're using Digital Twins the Azure Digital Twin Platform like the bridge between having the data from sensors into the visualization in that web page is something which is pretty straightforward.  Yeah. So, we connect directly to the Digital Twin to get to latest status of a room or a desk.  Yeah.  And just one API and we get the latest.  No custom code or whatever?  Exactly.  Okay, make sense.  So, and the other thing that is of course important is reporting. So, Facility Managers want to see how is the week so we got all kinds of graphs, how the occupancy rate is how was the temperature in the building for example in the last week.  Okay.  So, we can direct [inaudible] of course also with Power BI. But we made some standards graphs for them available.  Awesome. This is great. Well, I guess people can learn more about BeSense Winvision we're going to add some links and the comment will dispose. Thanks a lot Remko for coming on the IoT show hope to see you soon live around with more applications more demos and don't forget to subscribe for the IoT Show. Thanks for watching. [MUSIC] 