 He is a driver of digitalization at Nokia. Welcome to the stage, Iikka Finning. Thank you! Alright so, welcome everybody. My topic today is: "Utilizing digital twin of a laboratory in Virtual reality". And, in Nokia, oh actually, with this case I am... I am with this use case example I am showing you a reference about how virtual reality can be approached in industry. So, in Nokia we create technology to connect the world. And with this laboratory we are virtualizing field testing of 5G mobile networks And as a disclaimer I am not going to speculate about Nokia’s products or future or direction and any views that I show here or might present here or forward looking statements are my own entirely So let us look for the background how traditional field testing looks like. We ship products, we ship antennas to some various locations all around the world and then we lift them on high support structures, like these, you can see those in those green circles. And then we move the mobile phone around in that coverage area and we measure how the data moves in that network. Let's then take a look at how this looks like in virtual way. So in this laboratory we have few things that I want to point out first. There is this curvy wall and then there is the control box that controls the wall. Then we can take there different 5G mobiles and 5G antennas. And this wall has dozens of these small probe antennas that can sense and send radio signals and this control box can control which ones of these probes are active and when they are active and how active they are. And how does it work? We connect this 5G mobile to this control box and then this control box takes the energy of the 5G mobile into this, lets say, one of these probe antennas and then this 5G antenna senses that from that direction comes the energy of the signal of the mobile phone. So from the antennas point of view the phone is in that direction And then if we activate different probes in sequence it would be from the antennas point of view the phone would be moving like this. Then, if we change the energy level coming from the probe, from the antennas point of view the phone is moving farther and closer. And that way, by combining those two elements we can emulate the movement of the phone in front of it in free way. And, let’s take a look how this looks like, this digital twin of this laboratory. It may look like this, or it may look like this, with the signal visualized. Or it may look like even this So, It is possible that This laboratory has also the capability of emulating effects of moving one phone or even several phones in an environment that can be a replica of a real environment or completely imaginary. And then.Let’s go through, step by step, how we have been building this, so, it might open to you a bit more. So in the beginning we just created the replica of this laboratory, this three dimensional file of this laboratory. Then we made it possible to visit that replica in virtual reality. and then we made it possible to change these antennas that are being tested on this platform in front of this curvy wall. And next thing that what we did was that we brought their measured radio signals and we developed ways to visualize those results. And that we did in a very close collaboration with the laboratory personnel so that we enssured the validity of what we are visualizing so that we are not only visualizing visual art because that does not add any value to our target audiences. The next thing we did was that we drilled a hole from reality to virtual reality. So we came from virtual reality to augmented virtuality so it is one step from merged reality where actually Varjo is going. And then we also had some talks about collaborative virtual reality, we have also done something with that. Because this laboratory has over its roughly couple of years of existence it has been gathering a quite substantial amount of interest around the world. So we have had every week at least one group visiting there. Mostly external groups And in the best day couple of weeks ago we had four groups visiting on one day, so, obviously, this disturbs a bit the activities in this laboratory so it would be really beneficial to have these groups visiting there without disturbing the actual activities there. And also groups that could be accommodated simultaneously so they would not have to be necessary aware that there are other groups visiting. And then we took some people for... some users from different places around the world. And we also showed that this technology can help reducing processes like travelling and also there are some green elements in this even though it was not even our key driver by itself but it is anyway there. Let’s take one step down deeper into this case. So, let’s talk about how we perceive the digital twin. The human eye, how we perceive this space similarly how we perceive the laboratory We get visible frequencies of light reflecting back from the surfaces into our eyes and that is how I can see this space. And therefore the most obvious visual manifestation of the digital twin of this laboratory in virtual reality. Sorry for the long sentence, but anyway. So we just replicate what we can see And then we can augment that like it has been happening in this picture. And then, the antenna. If we think about the antenna it doesn't have any senses to sense the visible light. So from its perspective, the laboratory does not exist unless its on. So, this antenna... this 5G antenna that has been tested it senses the radio signal coming from this probe walls of the antenna And even though I can see that this already gives some added value, this information, it would be better if I can dissolve this wall away and look through it and see what the antenna is actually seeing And that has some usages that we will dive even deeper now, So let’s talk about how this three dimensional user experience can enhance our communication with the laboratory. So the laboratory works in language that is as useful for the majority of people as "matrix code". So for the simplicity reason let’s use that term “matrix code” about that And the gurus, the real specialists who created this laboratory, they have no problem understanding that because they have created this laboratory. But it's, as I said, it is mostly useful for only them. And then, if we think about how the gurus, these real specialists, even though they think in highly abstract ways in this "matrix code", they still need some spoken language to communicate with verbs and sentences and things like that. And still it is as useful as Hebrew or Sanskrit for most of the people here in this audience. So most people fall behind. And that is the problem of all the spoken languages like Finnish or English or Swedish or Sanskrit or Sumerian... they are all so incredibly new languages. that our brain are not made to understand those, any of them We have to spend a quite substantial time trying to learn them to even understand those languages. So there are other languages that are actually hard coded into our brain and I think you know already where I am going to Because if you think about... I know some mammals in this world... Not personally. But almost all the mammals I can think about, when they are born, their life depends on understanding the visual language that the nature speaks to them with their eyes. And we have, thanks to the evolution, tens of millions of years of hard coding done into our brain. So we will understand a different language than this. So let the laboratory keep thinking in matrix code or whatever but then the guys who develop these antennas, these product developers. It will be...The laboratory is not their interest. They are just interested about how this laboratory can help. So let’s not torture them with the oscilloscopes or things like that. So let's see, for example myself here without any kind of background I can see bunch of things like where the frequence, where the radio signal should go, where it goes, how much energy goes where and there are other things but I don’t have time to explain But with the technical backgrounds, they can immediately see really much even by opening their eyes with 30 seconds looking at this. It would take a half an hour of them without this kind of communication to understand how the antenna is behaving Then there are Let's see, there is an issue with going forward Can you? Alright! So then there are these guys who would fall behind even with this because they don’t have a background Like, if you think about the baby when it is born. It has some stuff that are hard coded into its brain But then when any animal is born and grows up it gathers life experience. and it can digest what it sees la bit better Similarly with these antenna, developers, they are some competent and background life experience Then there are these guys who don’t have that experience From their point of view it would really be much better to just see their own use case and concentrate in that. And that’s where this becomes useful. And then we don’t just need to be passive consumers of information from this laboratory we can also talk back to the laboratory and command it. And it is really obvious that the gurus, because they have to modify and morph the laboratory's functionalities so they need to communicate to its deep down core language and that happens behind VR behind the scenes and that the happens with the “matrix code”. Similarly like in the movie Matrix, these guys who hacked the Matrix, they did it outside the Matrix. And then these product developers, because they consume this virtual reality way of communication here they can choose and they can start and they can stop tests inside virtual reality and immediately see if their product behaves as it should or if there is something that needs to be changed or even what it is that that should be changed And then there are these guys in the end of the food chain. If you think how this could benefit them the most. It is totally alright from their point of view that they don’t even know that the laboratory exists. Believe or not every one of you work like that too Because if you think about taking a flight you won’t worry about... you don't think about the avionics or air dynamics or what kind of kerosene the pain is using or what kind of CPUs are working to make the plain to stay in the air So similarly these guys they would be perfectly happy that their use case that is of their interest, they would be just interested in like: "would my drone be able to perform this kind of crazy movements or not, enabled by this network of connectivity solution that is available for them?" So let’s not even torture them with the existence of a laboratory or metric languages which is also another types of Hebrews They can just modify their use case and then they could ask some magical entity like “mirror mirror on the wall tell me if my drone will fall” or something like that And then this magically answers that “ok your drone will be alright”. And then they believe it because they. have... after some years ... don’t really know how long it takes for a big audience to really acquire this technology but they will believe that. They will just operate in this kind of levels. And how does it help? Most of these guys are in the end of the food chain. If we think about the the target audience of our environment, the things we have been creating here. Most of the people... Everyone actually of this target audiences will benefit from this laboratory when we let the laboratory to communicate to them about the use case they are interested. So as an end result there is no need for anybody to learn any funny new codes or foreign languages. The only thing they will need is their need and life experience and ability to see. Thank you. Awesome! Thank you, Iikka (Host) One word to describe it...it's just like: "Wow!" (Host) Eh... Questions from the audience? (Host) I could ask , something , do you have your own studies in psychology? And then, like... and I ask, all of you speakers here about people and their point of view, is it going to be, employee or people all together? You actually said quite at the end of the presentation that you can't estimate when we have anything like this in real life, but do you have, for example in Nokia, do you have end users or any of their experience at all? (Host) Do you ask end users (Host) I would say, mostly not. I trust my hunch I'm just using the word referring to some lately news... But is not also just the hunch, I believe, I read basic books of psychology and Aristotle rhetoric and things like that And I concentrate on how we are coded. I've read some history too, like... and biology and I try to figure it out, how to communicate to the cave man that we are and then as a result I believe that we can... If we communicate directly with the caveman that we are utilizing all these language that we know. We can reduce the need for intelligence and memory and motor skills and things like that. So we can have more people to benefit from the technology. And you said that... I didn't actually mean that it can take a long time to get this technology to exist That's not what I meant Some of the things that I showed here are not yet up and running but most of them are. True, thank you, Iikka Finning! (Host) 