 Hi everyone welcome to our fourth DDA vlog, I know it's been a while but we have been very busy here in the DDA team with some of the most incredible developments. You see the world of manufacturing is no exception from the remarkable global evolution of digital and for us at Howden this has never been more true. Firstly because our vision for digital transformation has led us through a remarkable pace of technology adoption and in fact in some respect this adoption rate is responsible for another cultural shift in our organization. Today we are piloting new technologies in an agile way and through a faster iterative customer validation cycle than ever before and we're doing this knowing that the benefits to our customers, from our digital transformation, far outweigh the risks behind such a rapid technology adoption let me talk to you about one of these amazing technology developments a little over a month ago the Mobile World Congress took place in Barcelona Spain and the World got to witness one of the most anticipated mobile technology launches in years. Microsoft introduced HoloLens 2 to the world and Howden was at the heart of this historical product launch. The HoloLens 2 launch was for sure an amazing experience and one of a kind, where the story of Howden presenting alongside two of the biggest tech companies in the world, who are also our trusted partners, is a story of both consistency and transformation at the same time. Consistency because of our roots Howden was founded arguably at the peak of the first Industrial Revolution and throughout our 165 years of experience we introduced a number of technical innovations to the world and today we are a global leader in air and gas handling applications. Transformation because like many other organizations in the world we are finding our way into the global wave of digitization but unlike many we have reacted with unparalleled agility to create a source of unique value to our customers. Our customers are operating in a very dynamic environment, driven by complex markets where any kind of downtime is increasingly unacceptable, and extending and optimizing the lifecycle of existing installations has become a key driver. Our customers are looking at maximizing investments by driving more value from the installed equipment and at the same time they're looking to optimize the operational efficiencies to enable energy savings in support of environmental regulations. Their requirements are always clustering around the same general theme of product reliability, product availability, and reduced total cost of ownership. In the backdrop of all of this the Howden rotating equipment operates as process critical and it's continuous operation is essential for the overall plant performance. The ability to plan maintenance around such critical assets in the least disruptive way that is synchronized with the overall maintenance cycle of the plant is essential to our customers and any unplanned downtime results in really costly shutdowns. With our digital solution, Uptime, our customers make the most of their operational data and experience the power of an intelligent system that is tailored to their maintenance and operational needs. One way to experience the full impact of a system such as Uptime is through mixed reality. In Howden we created in mixed reality a unique enabler that enhances both our digital twin models and our product knowledge that ultimately helped reshape our customers experience of owning Howden equipment. Our product design is more impactful than ever and our design engineers have never made the transition from 2D to 3D quicker and easier than they are now. Our work instructions are now created in the mixed reality environment and knowledge transfer is no longer prohibiting for our talent pool. We are servicing our equipment through mixed reality experiences and also enable our customers with more self-service options than ever before, allowing them to take more control of their equipment maintenance. We're also using mixed reality as the skin of the digital twin by superimposing process and digital twin values in the most impactful way, by overlaying on the physical application. Essentially we are using mixed reality to achieve the most important piece of our vision, around the transformation of our customer relationship. We are creating a full immersion of the customer experience from end to end, we're reconnecting sales to design to manufacturing to the installation and operation, into space where data is displayed right in front of you and overlaid in your physical world. Thank you all for watching this is it for our 4th vlog, we'll see you next time bye from the world of DDA and Howden. 