 Hi! You're watching UseWise YouTube channel,  I'm Adriana Baranek, CEO of Miadria group and   here with me is Mladen Baranek, our CTO. Hi!  We already talked in another video about   artificial intelligence and machine learning and  how you can use it in business and today we wanted   to talk about what are neural networks and  deep learning and how are they connected to AI   because those topics can  be used in various contexts   there are many wrong uses of those terms and  we wanted to shed a little bit of light on that.   Artificial intelligence encompasses   machine learning and part of machine learning   are neural networks. We can use neural  networks to mimic human brain behavior,   that was the idea how it came to be  where we build the layers of neurons and we   can send signals back and forth. The idea is  you basically send the input signals and train   a neural network for achieving some desired result.  If the result is positive, you   encourage that behavior and if the result  is not okay then you inform network that   it produced wrong result. Such neural networks were used in many   applications but they were not really  achieving a lot of good results, they have some   very specific domains where they can  be used with good enough results.   And then one specific way of applying neural networks is deep learning. With deep learning   suddenly it became possible to actually  do natural language processing, to do image   recognition and it was possible to build models so  the result of training neural networks is that you   you get a kind of a trained network that you can  afterwards use to see whether something fits   or does not fit or whether you recognize a cat in a video or there is no cat in a   video so basically you can build a neural  network where you would put a lot of videos   through a neural network and train that  network to recognize whether there is a cat   or there is no cat in that video and  such neural networks are quite useful   and they became a technology that is prevalent also in public cloud. One of the benefits of   deep learning is that you can start with already  trained neural network model and then you can   adapt it for a specific use case. For example, you can have a neural network   that can do text to speech for English  language but then you can use a voice   of some person and you can modify that neural  network to mimic that person speaking in English.   With public cloud, there is one specific  benefit that many services are offered  through APIs where you can, for example, train  voice or you can start with some image recognition   issue and then you can train it for your  specific use case if you're using such   deep learning neural networks. Google and Microsoft and   Amazon offer such services where you can  actually do text to speech or you can   do voice recognition or image recognition  and there are some other applications of   deep learning network as well. Basically, those services that we now have in the   public cloud and that are available to everybody  were developed mostly on universities using   mainframe computers in old times and things  have changed in a way that now you can access   those services and just make the best out of them for your business. It is quite   expensive to train deep learning network, it  requires a lot of effort and a lot of compute,   but when you train network, then obviously you  can use it even on very small devices and   it comes much cheaper to use it  as it is. From that perspective,   voice recognition and natural language  processing, translation stuff like that   wouldn't be economically viable in on-prem  environment, to train your own model. Most people and most companies  are currently using public cloud or   services from public cloud to leverage deep learning. One of the huge benefits of the public   cloud is also that you can pay by the time  that you really need those services and not   have to invest in huge infrastructure that will  just be standing there for most of the time and   not be enough when you really need to use that capacity. You get the flexibility of public cloud in   that package as well. There are many  uses - we did for one client   an app that uses the old school map and finds  icons on that map with image recognition   and there are many more uses. Even today in  many hotels when you go there you will find this   paper map that is really quite useless in the  modern world and hotels definitely could use the   image recognition and make an app so did  they get the best out of those paper maps for and there are many more uses. I think we can put below this video a demo link for that application so you can see. Yes we can put the link to that demo and   you can see how this app looks. This was great, thank Mladen, so much. If you liked the   video, subscribe to our channel, like the video.  You can always sign up for office hours on Friday,   you will also have the link below, Mladen  here can answer all your questions and make the   strategic plan how to use these technologies in  your business. Thank you so much, Mladen,   for taking your time. Thank you for watching and see you soon! Bye! 