 [MUSIC PLAYING] ROB BOYD: Welcome to TechWise TV. On today's show, it's the Cisco Catalyst 9800-L wireless controllers. The Catalyst access expansion to wireless continues. We recently featured the IOS XE-based Catalyst 9800, no-L, wireless controllers that can handle thousands of access points and multiple thousands of clients. But what about smaller deployments that need a hardware controller? Well, these networks are not any less valuable than the bigger ones. Smaller can still be enterprise-grade, and the Catalyst 9800-L may be just what you're looking for. Sujit Ghosh will join me in the labs, so we can take a close look at the hardware. But first, Priya is here to get us all acquainted in the lounge Priya, welcome to TechWise TV. It's your first time here, correct? PRIYA RAMARATHNAM: That's correct. Thank you for having me over Robb. ROB BOYD: Thank you for bringing new technology to us. It's always fun. We get to talk about new stuff. But I need you to fill in some blanks here. So obviously, we're talking about, I guess, a new member of the Catalyst 9800 family, something I'm still getting used to saying because not just that it's a new number. But that when we say that, we're talking wireless. So we had the 80 and the 40. We've talked about that on a previous show. But you've got the 9800-L. So what is that? How do you explain it? PRIYA RAMARATHNAM: That's correct. So 9800-L is a new member, which is going to perfectly fit into the complete portfolio [INAUDIBLE] and fill up the entire portfolio and fill that missing piece of the portfolio there. So 9800-L is basically targeted towards the low-end segment. It is best-suited for branches, and small and medium campus deployment. ROB BOYD: The smaller networks. OK. PRIYA RAMARATHNAM: Exactly So the 9800-L is actually going to be much better than the 3504. So just as we had the 3504 AireOS controllers, we're upping the game further with the Catalyst 9800-L, which is going to support 250 access points and 5,000 wireless clients. ROB BOYD: Really? So the scale has very much increased from that. And then we have, as you mentioned, IOS XE So we're seeing a consistency now. Not just the wireless portfolio as it is now. But of course, all of the enterprise networking portfolio for Cisco. PRIYA RAMARATHNAM: Exactly. ROB BOYD: A lot of benefits from that, yeah? PRIYA RAMARATHNAM: Absolutely. So we're going to take in all of the RF excellence, the decades of RF excellence, and in a way since that we have brought out with the AireOS controller, we're going to combine that with IOS XE, which is the most modern and modular operating system to bring to you what is the Catalyst 9800 series. And 9800-L is no different from that. It's going to be as powerful, resilient, secure, and programmable as any other 9800 [INAUDIBLE].. ROB BOYD: So anyone who's got time invested, or you're working with a consultant, or anybody that understands the one platform, it's exactly the same as the other one. It's just a smaller physical form factor for these smaller markets. And obviously, a different level of scale. But you were telling me earlier, just as a way to think about the subdivision of how you speak about these, you mentioned resilience, you mentioned security, you mentioned intelligence and programmability. Let's start with resilience. What would you highlight as resilience as part of this. PRIYA RAMARATHNAM: So resilience is something that means that the network is always on. So you don't want any disruptions on your network. So you want to see as minimal disruptions as possible onto your network. So wireless is no longer just a luxury that we're seeing. It's more of a missing-critical component of any business that's running. And we want to make sure that any of the software upgrades, updates, and during maintenance updates, that there is no real disruption into the network. So in order to support that, we have N+1 rolling AP upgrades that we have spoken about with the previous controllers. And all of that is going to trickle down to the 9800-L as well. Similarly, when you are going to connect new access points to the controller, or if you're going to have some updates just to a specific access point module, we're going to have AP device pack and AP service pack. And all of this is supported on the 9800-L. So there is complete consistency in terms of features with respect to 9800-L. And it's no different there all. ROB BOYD: And we've had, like, a N+1 Or high availability options with the AireOS model of the predecessor. But you've got so many more options now thanks to the modularity of the code, whether IOS XE. What about security, though? PRIYA RAMARATHNAM: Exactly, so security. So we spoke about encrypted Threat Analytics when the Catalyst 9800 came out. So we have seen infiltration of malwares coming into the network. And you do not know when it's going to explode onto the network. It's going to remain dormant, and all of a sudden, you're going to see it's going to pop up onto your network. So in that case, we have this 9800-L also supporting encrypted Threat Analytics. So any traffic that enters this controller is going to have this capability to have encrypted Threat Analytics. ROB BOYD: Stealthwatch and such, obviously, as a part of that solution. So the ability to identify things that weren't easy to see before, we sometimes think that's only a high-end network type of thing. But you're saying it works in the smaller networks via the L as well. PRIYA RAMARATHNAM: Exactly. And similarly, STA is also supported on a 9800-L. So that's going to support micro and macro-segmentation of the network. ROB BOYD: Which is a good baseline principle, I think, to support that right off the bat, kind of compartmentalize things. You also mentioned programmability or more intelligence? Is that a way to put it? PRIYA RAMARATHNAM: Absolutely. So as you know, the 9800-L also runs on the IOS XE platform. And anything that runs on the IOS XE platform is open to more programmability and openness in the whole platform and system. So anything that you're configuring, day zero to day end provisioning and management of that controller, is going to have its own flexibility and programmability and any version of it can be written over that. ROB BOYD: I was thinking NETCONF, YANG data models, stuff like that. Is that what we're looking at? PRIYA RAMARATHNAM: Exactly. Every single CLI that is supported on operational CLI is going to have an equivalent NETCONF and YANG model, making it more modular. So for anyone who is going towards the DevOps model will have the flexibility to write his or her own code, and have the flexibility on the controller and manage the box the way they want to. ROB BOYD: So we've got the new 9100 APs. Are these the only ones that are supported with this controller, or is there other broader support for some of these maybe migrating into this? PRIYA RAMARATHNAM: Oh, no. Of course, it's going to support all of the older controllers. Wave one and wave two access points are also going to be supported on the controllers. ROB BOYD: Excellent. PRIYA RAMARATHNAM: And it's going to have multiple deployment modes and management modes. So it can be managed through a DNA Center. It could be managed through Prime. It could be managed through Web UI or CLI. So it could be managed by anything that you want to. It is completely flexible. This is just a smaller footprint of the biggest catalyst family. And it's no different. It has complete consistency in terms of features. ROB BOYD: That's what I'm understanding as well. Yeah, so very, very flexible. You can [INAUDIBLE] a lot of different situations. Scale that actually surprises me how many-- because when I think small, I don't think up to 250. But you're also mentioning some kind of investment protection. PRIYA RAMARATHNAM: That's right. So with 3504 controllers of the AireOS family, it supported 150 access points. And now we've gone further with the 9800-L and apart from the fact that it's an IOS XE-based controller, which makes the controller all the more powerful, with resiliency and security that we just spoke about But it's also going to support 250 access points and 5,000 clients and 5 Gbps of throughput. Now, coming to investment protection that you just mentioned, investment protection is something that's key, and it's only going to happen with the 9800-L. So what we're doing differently over here is today, when you buy this particular hardware, 9800-L, in the future, you have the ability to add a software performance license and increase the scale more than 250 access points, and probably a higher throughput as well. So this is something that's very new, and you have the flexibility in expanding the scalability of the controller. ROB BOYD: So [? you'll get ?] a lot of growth with this as well without having to change out the hardware, which is quite nice. PRIYA RAMARATHNAM: Exactly. So you don't have to change the hardware, and you're going to have access to more number of access points and more throughput. ROB BOYD: Excellent. So you have the resilience, you've got the security. You've got the programmability. All this encompassed with scale, and all the consistency and such that we would expect. [? And actually, ?] you were also mentioning there was a couple of different form factors available with this? PRIYA RAMARATHNAM: That's correct. So we have two different versions of the controller. We have the fiber uplink and we have the copper uplink. Based on customers' network requirements, they can pick either the 9800-L copper version of the 9800-L fiber version. So we're giving complete flexibility and this whole portfolio. ROB BOYD: Don't force them to change their network. Just support the way you made the product. They can pick it out. PRIYA RAMARATHNAM: Exactly. ROB BOYD: Excellent. Well, looks like Sujit's ready over in the lab. So we'll go check on him right now. Well, Sujit, welcome back to TechWise TV. SUJIT GHOSH: Thank you. ROB BOYD: So many wireless topics that we have to cover these days, because we've got a lot of good options. So if we're talking about the 9800-L specifically to-- this is really for the smaller networks, right? SUJIT GHOSH: Smaller branch offices, and medium and small branch offices in your network. ROB BOYD: That makes sense. But it also means not necessarily compromising on what's available. You have a list of, really, some pretty enterprise-level features that [INAUDIBLE]. I wonder, if you could walk through, what's important here? SUJIT GHOSH: Absolutely. Whenever you're deploying your wireless network, as that is a primary medium of access HA, or high availability. That's the key. So this platform is going to run iOS XE at the back end. So as a result, we get a lot more features and functionalities of HA, with the help of iOS XE platforms, [INAUDIBLE] including seamless software updates, where you don't have to take the network down when you are upgrading the software in your network. That's key. That's a key area where we are focusing on. ROB BOYD: That's really what differentiates between just a home network that is great to have it going all the time, versus something that's business-critical. SUJIT GHOSH: Absolutely. [INAUDIBLE] zero downtime in your network [INAUDIBLE].. Also what we have over here is the two varieties of those appliances. We'll talk about that. And then what we have is support for ETA, encrypted traffic. ROB BOYD: So these are some pretty advanced security functionality. SUJIT GHOSH: Absolutely. With the close integration with Stealthwatch, we will be able to support ETA from day one. ROB BOYD: Nice. A lot of customers have standardized on that as well for visibility into their network for stopping new threats they haven't seen before. Very nice. SUJIT GHOSH: So if you have a branch office which is deployed thousands of miles away, and you don't have an admin person, you still have full security enabled on it, you will be able to see what is going on in that network in terms of security events, etc. ROB BOYD: Yeah, those branches are targets for sure. SUJIT GHOSH: Exactly. ROB BOYD: More so than the bigger office. SUJIT GHOSH: Also on top of it, we introduced, with IOS XE, the open standard. So all the NETCONF YANG models, which will be implemented on it. So you will be able to collect all programability, as well as telemetry information, from these controllers from day one. ROB BOYD: That just opens up a wide future of just ways to interact with it, to integrate it into pre-existing systems customers have already developed and depend on. SUJIT GHOSH: Absolutely ROB BOYD: No problem at all. [INTERPOSING VOICES] --closed box, so to speak. SUJIT GHOSH: If you are-- you can feed the data to DNA Center. At the same time, you will be able to take that to a third party. For example, if you have a set up for Kibana, et cetera, you will be able to take the data on to your third-party applications from day one. ROB BOYD: So what do you mean by support for all deployment modes? SUJIT GHOSH: Absolutely. So to start with, it will support the local mode of deployment. That means the APs are locally connected to the controller, or you can have a FlexConnect mode Or it will support SDA. So from the beginning itself, it will support all three modes of deployment. So local mode, FlexConnect, or SDA. ROB BOYD: [INAUDIBLE] access. Very well. So when we talk about investment protection on these uplink options, I think that's where you're talking about this notion. We have copper and fiber. We'll talk about that in just a moment. This is pretty good scale for these things as well. Because I think small office, I think really small. But these are medium-sized offices, I think, in a lot of situations. 250 APs? SUJIT GHOSH: Absolutely. That's the industry's first, most compact controller we are introducing, where you can scale all the way up to 250 access points per box in this case, and also at the same time support up to 5,000 clients on it. ROB BOYD: Now, what do you mean by seamless roaming with existing platforms? SUJIT GHOSH: So think about a situation, you have a branch office, and you are adding a new building to the branch office, or a couple of other buildings in the branch office. And you have to deploy a wireless network. And you have decided to put one of these 9800-L into the second branch office location, or the second building in that branch office location. So what we will be supporting is seamless roaming between your older controllers. If you had a 3504 controller at the branch office, we will be able to [? seamlessly ?] roam from a 9800 controller to this 3504 controllers from day one [INAUDIBLE]. ROB BOYD: So it's [INAUDIBLE] migration that says, hey, we can't have any kind of disturbance. Really, back to your HA points, is that this stuff needs to be up and running, even during upgrades of any sort. And certainly when we're transitioning to new platforms, and certainly we don't make the users aware of it, either. SUJIT GHOSH: Absolutely ROB BOYD: Let's go to this next slide here, because I'm curious. You've got two different models here. What is it we're looking at here? SUJIT GHOSH: Absolutely. So we have learned this from our previous controller generations, that it's not always possible to upgrade the uplink switches. So if you might have an uplink switch, we do not have support for SFPs and fiber, or it might just support only copper. So we will have two versions of this available from day one. You would be able to order a controller which has support for SFP-R fiber on it. Or you will be able to support a controller, which is standard copper interfaces, so that you can connect it to your-- ROB BOYD: So respect the cable plant, as well as the switches, obviously, because there's just big investments in all those type of things as well. And so these also have-- this has a lot of different support on the connectivity speed. SUJIT GHOSH: Correct. ROB BOYD: And we had mGig, I think. Did you mention that one yet? SUJIT GHOSH: We have support for mGig from day one. So you will be able to support two 10 mGig couple interfaces or fiber interfaces, as well four 2.5 mGig interfaces, which can be enabled with lag, so that you will be able to load-balance the traffic between those interfaces also from day one. ROB BOYD: Now, did you guys do this on purpose? These look like they're about half the size of a normal rack-mounted 1RU controller? SUJIT GHOSH: Absolutely, we did that. So we wanted to make it compact. But you always have the option of installing this together. ROB BOYD: So you can rack-mount these. SUJIT GHOSH: Absolutely. ROB BOYD: In an HA, you might have the same one, copper and copper, fiber and fiber, something like that. SUJIT GHOSH: Exactly. [INTERPOSING VOICES] Yes, I have a rack over here. ROB BOYD: I'll move these out of the way. SUJIT GHOSH: So you would be able to order this rack from Cisco itself, and you will be able to install these two controllers very simply on this. ROB BOYD: Give you that one as well. So they just literally slide in there, then they lock. SUJIT GHOSH: Yeah. And that's it. ROB BOYD: And then he locks it down in the front there. So they're not easy to walk away with. It looks like you have extra space back here as well. Is that for, like, the power supply, or something? SUJIT GHOSH: These are going to be for your two power supplies, which can be installed over here, and have a full network ready. And in the front panel, you have all your cables connected for your HA and uplink to your networks available. So it's a very nice, compact deployment for your branch offices. ROB BOYD: I like that. I like that. Is it time talk about management yet? SUJIT GHOSH: We're going to talk about a little-- [INTERPOSING VOICES] ROB BOYD: Thank you for bringing this back up, because the notion of having an active standby is not necessarily new to this platform, is it? SUJIT GHOSH: That's correct. So with our older platforms also, we had full support for HA, or what we call as SSO. Or in case of this platform, what we are taking this SSO or HA to the next level. We are going to do with the help of our [INAUDIBLE] is controller software upgrade or software maintenance updates called SMU. So we'll have two varieties of this available. One of them is called the hot patching and the cold patching. So imagine a scenario, you came across a bug in the software. And you have been provided a PSIRT release, where you need to make sure that you apply that patch. ROB BOYD: Yeah. Usually, we have to do these things quickly. But it involves taking the network down. SUJIT GHOSH: Exactly, so you don't have a downtime available. In this case, what you can do is take that patch, apply it on to your primary controller, and that patch will be copied back to your backup controller without a reboot. So your network is up and running at the same time you apply that critical patch onto your network. ROB BOYD: Oh, nice. SUJIT GHOSH: But maybe there are certain situations you might have to come up with a cold patch. Or we will give you a cold patch which will require a reboot, which you can schedule and put it in. But at least you are not doing a full overhaul of the software release. And that means that you don't have to go through the full testing procedure, because you might be having a strict test plan, which you need to go through every time you do a software upgrade. You can avoid that. You're just applying the patch to your existing network. ROB BOYD: So you guys really streamlined it a lot, taking advantage of that modularity with an IOS XE. SUJIT GHOSH: Exactly. ROB BOYD: Because it only has to deal with certain components within the code. Very nice. And a few other things? SUJIT GHOSH: Absolutely. So again, when we added the functionalities of IOS XE, we started at having a new functionality on the APs called rolling AO upgrade. So imagine you have a network with 5, 10, 15 access points in a floor, and you want to upgrade the software on those controllers. What we can do is now say, push the new software only to certain applets in your network. And we can determine that with the help of RRM, or radio resource manager. And decide that, in this floor, you have enough APs, and there's enough coverage with the existing APs, we take out-- ROB BOYD: The system picks out which ones can go out. The other ones can kind of pick up their transmit power levels. Cover it, maybe not as well as it would normally, the way you designed it, because it's temporary. SUJIT GHOSH: Correct and then once you finish upgrading one of the APs, you roll over to the second AP. And that's why we call it the rolling AP upgrade. At least you are not taking the full network down when you are going through this upgrade process. ROB BOYD: So quickly, before we run out of time, N+1 hitless rolling API. SUJIT GHOSH: That's when you are having a backup controller. You can always move the APs to a backup controller and go through that rolling upgrade process. And then once you have your primary controller, update it. Then you bring the APs back to your primary controller, again reducing downtime. ROB BOYD: I'm picking up a theme here. You guys really don't want the wireless to be down any longer than-- SUJIT GHOSH: Absolutely. ROB BOYD: Is that fair to say? Did you cover these? We got a couple of new things here you mentioned? SUJIT GHOSH: That's very important. Currently, if you have a new AP model coming out of Cisco, you always have to upgrade the software on the controller. ROB BOYD: Everything's got to happen at once. SUJIT GHOSH: Absolutely. But now, what we have is, if you come up with a new AP model, you will be able to come up with the AP device pack. So I will give you an AP device pack for that particular new AP model. So you can just install that AP device back on your existing controller and make the APs join your controller without upgrading the software fully. ROB BOYD: It's like a little temporary software bridge that's going to get us through that time period. SUJIT GHOSH: Exactly, so that you can do all your testing during that phase. And then once you are happy with all the hardware functionalities and the basic functionalities on those access points, install the next software release, which will give you all the features, functionalities, et cetera, on that box. ROB BOYD: Flexible per site, per model updates? SUJIT GHOSH: That's another important functionality we have added. For example, if you have a bug fix available from Cisco for this particular AP model, but you don't want to upgrade that in all the APs. So now you can see that these APs are in my IT department, and I'm going to just apply the patch, or the buck fix, which is Cisco-provided, on that particular AP model. ROB BOYD: [INAUDIBLE] run it in a real environment for a while. SUJIT GHOSH: Exactly, and if you're happy with that patch which we have provided, we can now copy that patch to other APs onto the network. And this was absolutely not possible with-- so bottom line is, with the help of IOS XE, now we have decoupled the requirement of the AP image and a controller image together. So you can run a different AP image and a controller image, but they can all function together in [INAUDIBLE].. ROB BOYD: That's perfect, that's perfect. Yeah, OK, that guinea pig as the SSID should've been my giveaway that maybe we were going to get updates sooner. SUJIT GHOSH: Yeah. ROB BOYD: OK, I want to look at the management side of this, because you have made a point-- you were telling me that the way in which we interact with these things should be very consistent from platform to platform. And so this is the web UI we're looking at here, correct? SUJIT GHOSH: Correct. So here is the look at the Web UI on the 9800-L controller. So as you can see over here, the look and feel is exactly the same or as other 9800 platforms, the 80 and 40 gig platforms, they are the same. Why? Because again, it's running the same software which we are running on all the platforms, including the high-end platforms, which we were talking about. As soon as you log in, you will be able to use the same menus. You can see the WLANs in your network, the active access points on it. And if there are any clients connected to your network, you will be able to see it. In this case, I have one client connected to it. You will be able to see all the application details of that and all the normal functionalities. ROB BOYD: I didn't know we could get that much just through the web interface. OK, that's awesome. SUJIT GHOSH: Also at the same time, this controller will be also coming with the basic setup menus on it. So in this case, what we have done is, in addition to the default interface, you will be able to have a Setup menu, which is called the Basic Setup Menu and the Advanced Setup Menu. ROB BOYD: OK, so if you want to see more details, they're still there. SUJIT GHOSH: Correct. You will be able to do that. So for example, if I go to the Advanced Setup menu, that takes you to what we call the design phase, deploy phase, and the deployment phase, where you are creating all those SSIDs and creating those tags, and then plugging into the multiple tags in your network. ROB BOYD: Yeah, that's nice. I know a lot of wireless engineers that don't work for Cisco, that have built careers around AireOS and you cause a little bit of worry in them when they start hearing that we were going to IOS XE. And obviously, this was a while back. But people played with the beta, and then of course now we've been in production on things, they are good with this. It apparently makes a lot of sense. the security principles are a lot easier. Policies are a lot easier to deal with. And you guys have kept the flexibility. SUJIT GHOSH: We have given you a nice flow on it so that you can walk through and create all your information as you move through. ROB BOYD: That's scary. I don't how if someone does that-- in terms of you always have to, how do you keep moving forward with people that have been with you for so many years and all that expertise? It's a delicate balancing act. But you guys are pulling it off. SUJIT GHOSH: Exactly. Well, we wanted to make that transition as smooth as possible, so that you can adapt to these new controllers. ROB BOYD: Well, this is awesome. Sujit, thank you so much. SUJIT GHOSH: Thank you. ROB BOYD: Guys, I hope you're enjoying this. There's obviously an option for everything. Big, small, wherever you need, in-between, it's all the same operating system now, thanks to IOS XE. And it's all Catalyst. So that's part of it across the entire network. But it's making things easier for us. Hope you enjoyed it. We'll see you again on the next one. [MUSIC PLAYING] 