 Are we making more data than we can manage? That's  the question we'll be discussing today on the Data   Center Frontier show. I'm your host Rich Miller  i'm the founder and editor of Data Center Frontier   where we track the new technologies that are  changing your world and the data center industry.   Just about everyone you know is probably using  more data today than they did yesterday and will   use even more tomorrow. This growing dependence  upon data has driven a massive explosion; a sort   of data tsunami that has been beneficial for the  data center industry. The growing amount of data   creates challenges both for end users and for  the companies that must store and manage that  data. Microsoft has been looking closely at this problem  and their baseline assumption is that pretty soon   there's going to be more data being  generated than we can effectively manage.   So they're looking at several new technologies for  data storage and they're a little bit different.   The first is DNA storage and the second is  holographic storage. Now these both kind of   sound like science experiments, but the science  fiction aspect of them distracts from   the fact that these are potential ways to  bring new levels of scale to data management.   In its research division, Microsoft is looking  at new ways to store data into synthetic DNA which   winds up being stored in a liquid solution.  They've come up with a prototype that uses   beakers and really looks like a lab set up  more so than a than a cloud computing center.   That's one of the things that there will have  to be managed going forward in trying to see   whether this is a technology that can ever  be comfortable in a real world data center.   There's lots of engineering work that needs  to be done before we can get to that point   but the motivation is that according to microsoft  if you took an exabyte of data right now you   need two large data centers each about the size of  a walmart to properly store and manage that data.   If DNA storage succeeds it's possible that that  could be shrunken down to a small chip of like a   single cubic centimeter. That's a compelling  possibility and would bring entirely new   scale to the way that data can be stored. And  that's important when we think about all of   the technologies going forward that are going  to require much more data than they use today .  An example would be video as we talk  about 4k and 8k high definition video.   These involve much larger amounts of data than the  current technologies do. The same is certainly true   for some of the virtual reality and  augmented reality that we see and   artificial intelligence which is something  that is really arriving today in a big way, and   is driving much larger data sets as we come up  with models that can manage you know billions   upon billions of data points and put them into  calculations that can conduct and automate   different types of work. Basically we are growing  data at an explosive rate across the board. At Data   Center Frontier we think about data generation in  terms of streams - there's many different streams   streams of of data coming into the data center  industry from a lot of different industries.   not all of these new technologies have to succeed  spectacularly for this to have a huge impact upon   the data center demand and the technologies  themselves that live inside the data center   and must manage this data tsunami. When you  think about holograms, most of us think of   "Star Wars" and that scene where the hologram of  Princess Leia pops up. "Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi."   Holograms have lots of other functions though,  including the fact that they can store data.   This is a technology that's been uh known  about it's been around since the 1960s   but it's been really hard to commercialize  partly because of the technology that's required   to successfully execute it.  One of the key requirements   is high definition cameras, and that's an area  where our smartphone technology of today has come   a long way and has made it much more feasible  to think about using holograms for storage. Microsoft has done a lot of interesting  research in this area with its HololLens   product which is most familiar to many gamers  who who who use it for virtual reality kind of uh   gaming but also has applications in the commercial  world helping people build and design products.   So the HoloLens gives some insights into how the  holographic systems might be used for storage.   In Microsoft's case they have looked at  different ways to embed the data in crystals and it's a little bit different from the  optical storage systems that we see today.   It goes back to light and using lasers  to write data but rather than just using   one surface it can really do the storage in  parallel and give you a lot more storage capacity.   In traditional data storage systems information  is stored in a binary series of ones and zeros   that are written onto spinning disks or tape  using magnetics or using lasers can be written   onto dvds or blu-ray disks. In a DNA system data  is stored in a liquid solution containing DNA   and then is read by systems that can  combine electronic and molecular components. They use synthetic DNA so it doesn't  repurpose human or animal DNA.   Mark Russinovich, who is the chief technical  officer at Microsoft Azure, discussed these   projects recently at Microsoft Ignite and joked  that your data storage of your family photos   can't be used to to create some sort of crazy  animals running around or weird creatures.   But there is a science fiction aspect of this  that is hard to get your head around and Microsoft   acknowledges that it's a long way to go before  you can have this uh sort of ready for showtime in   the data center. But the potential gains in terms  of the volume of storage make it worth pursuing. Microsoft has not been bashful about investing in  research that pursues kind of moonshot projects   to advance new technologies. A good example  that many of you may be familiar with   is its underwater edge data center project, which  is called Project Natick, in which they took   a bunch of servers and sealed them in a capsule  and dropped them to the the ocean floor about   1,000 yards off of Scotland to see how they  would perform. One of the key ingredients in that   was pumping the capsule full of nitrogen  so that the environment that the   servers are living in, and one of the things that  they found is that in the nitrogen environment   servers' shelf life was increased dramatically.  they had one-eighth the rate of failures that most   land-based traditional servers have, so that's one  area in which they're starting to see a dividend   on their investment in these moonshot projects.  Microsoft sees DNA as a another possible venue   where the gains may more than justify the kind  of research dollars that they're putting into it.   More recently Microsoft has begun talking about  its holographic data storage system which takes   data within optical light beams and it's stored  as an image inside a crystal of lithium niobate.   Holographic storage is capable of repeat  recording and reading millions of bits in parallel   enabling data transfer rates that are far greater  than those that you get by traditional optical   storage. Microsoft Research Cambridge and  the Azure team have been working together   on a prototype that has successfully  demonstrated many of the concepts   that they think will be the way that this  will work in an Azure Cloud data center.   These technologies are making rapid progress  but they're still likely many years away from   implementation of any kind of scale in an actual  data center. Even after new technologies become   viable they're adopted gradually over  time providing data center operators with   an opportunity to adapt their designs and  best practices for these new technologies.   For an example let's look at cloud computing  which has been one of the most disruptive and   impactful IT trends. Amazon Web Services, the first  major cloud computing platform, debuted in 2006.   We are nearly 14 years on and Gartner says  that the enterprise adoption of cloud computing   of platforms is at about 30 percent - there's still  a much larger chunk of people who aren't in the   cloud than are. But microsoft's interest in these  technologies underscores the innovation challenge   for companies that are targeting the hyperscale  data center sector which is an increasingly large   portion of the data center business and drives  many of the innovations that we've seen in data   center construction and speed to market as well as  networking and storage. Service providers that want   to target these hyperscale data center providers  must reckon with these new technologies that they   are looking at and the spec the specifications  that will be required to support them. So maybe DNA storage and holographic  storage aren't right around the corner   but they're in the pipeline and they are one of  the many technologies that we're tracking at Data   Center Frontier that we think will may eventually  make their way to the data center and change the   way that this business is operated. The future is  pretty amazing and sometimes that involves science   fiction that becomes very real and lives inside  a data center. Thanks, that is it for this week.   I'm Rich Miller and this has been the Data Center  Frontier Show. Please subscribe to our podcast   listen to it wherever you get your quality podcast  and be sure to give us a good rating and tell   all your friends about it thanks and  we'll talk to you again very soon. 