 Any computer is essentially a machine able to manipulate a series of inputs according to a table of instructions. To stream this video, your device is processing a considerable amount of information to elaborate a video output. This information is made up of a stream of simple units named bits, which can be 1 or 0. In order to do something useful with this information you need to process it. The elementary processing unit of any silicon based technology is the transistor. It acts essentially as a switch, as its function is to allow or block the information flow. By combining several switches you can process information in a logical way. That’s how the digital revolution started! To sum up: if you want to make a computer all you need is a bunch of switches. Did you know that not only computer process information? While your computer works with electrical inputs, molecules can perform a 1-0 operation when interacting with other molecules, ions or light. The output can be fluorescence, which is the emission of light and represents a simple way to detect whether a molecule is there or not. There is our molecular switch! If we find a way to combine several of them in the proper way, we can do math with molecules! This is the basis of molecular computing machines. One good thing about them is that they are small, so small that they can fit in a living cell. Of course you may ask, why would you need to put a computer in a cell? Here comes the interesting part. Researchers frequently use fluorescence to sense the physical parameters responsible for the correct function of a cell. If a molecule is supposed to wink back at you but it doesn’t, it might be an alarm for a disease or toxicity. Of course it is a bit trickier than that, as you normally need to monitor multiple chemical and physical factors at the same time in order to see the big picture. The LogicLab network aims to use molecular computation to answer important biomedical questions by re-formulating them as logic operations. By assembling a series of elementary molecular switches the questions can be answered in a short time and with a straight forward YES/NO readout. In this way we can build up tailor made diagnostic tools able to identify cellular dysfunctions at a very early stage. This helps the researchers to prevent and treat atherosclerosis or other vascular diseases. Today, molecular computers are already being used in solutions to activate drugs, perform molecular arithmetic or build up memory devices. To apply our molecular computers as diagnostic devices we need to find a way to transfer them to a complex environment such as a living cell. LogicLab combines the knowledge and the effort of researchers from all over Europe, working together to develop a new concept of molecular logic sensors that will pave the way for their future applications. If you want to know more about molecular computers and what we can do with them, click the links in the description and visit our websites. 