 From the production of one of the first petrol cars in the 19th century, to the invention of the connected and  autonomous cars of tomorrow, the history of PSA Group is marked by over 2 centuries of dynamic industrial heritage. We are developing technical solutions that will make the cars of the future even more intelligent and  autonomous. Some of these technologies are already part of your daily life : The "Distance Alert" function warns you when your car is at risk of crashing. The "Active Safety Brake" is activated after  the alert if needed. If you don't take a break after two hours of driving, the "Driver Alert Warning" is set off. For parking, the Park Assist function is  also available. Between 2018 and 2020, "HANDS OFF" automated functions  will become available : On expressways, you will be able to let the vehicle adjust its own speed and stay in its lane. If you agree, the car will  overtake automatically. You will be able to regain control of  your vehicle at any moment if needed. After 2020, advanced automated functions called "EYES OFF" will be available : In busy traffic, your vehicle will be  able to take over driving entirely. You will be able to carry out other  activities in complete safety, while being ready to regain control if  necessary. Parking manoeuvres will be fully automated from your Smartphone. PSA Group's prototypes have already  travelled nearly 100.000km at the end  of 2016. The sensor configuration will ensure total driving safety. Ultra-sound and camera belts on the  bodywork will ensure a 1st 360° safety system. Radars will ensure a 2nd coverage system. At the front of the vehicle, radars,  cameras and lasers will cover a distance of 200 metres. High definition maps will allow precise  GPS vehicle positioning. Secure calculators will make suitable  decisions for adapted driving. Within the vehicle, sensors will check  the driver's state and ensure that he or she is able to regain control within  the required time. The autonomous vehicle is already a  reality, we are producing it to make your life easier. 