 Hi Lifelong Learners, Would you trust a computer to drive? Today we talking about the future of driverless cars. They are here to stay and we will see more and more of them in the future. By 2030 30% of cars in Dubai are scheduled to be driverless. The driverless vehicles of the future will park themselves, travel on high speed with almost no gap between vehicles and MIT has even proven we will not need traffic lights in the future - cars will just sync at intersections and move forward without stopping. KPMG predicts that accidents will reduce by 80% by 2040 with the implementation of these cars. and if you think about cost, 2/3 of the cost of a taxi fare is for the driver. So a driverless taxi will be much cheaper. A likely outcome is that you will be in a car pooling program with your friends and family. The cars will self drive and just pick you and drop you off. To understand the future, we need to talk about the 6 levels of driverless cars At Level 0 - It is the car that your father or grandfather learnt to drive on. There is no automation except perhaps gear changing, - the driver controls everything Level 1 - you have assistance in one direction (latitude or longitude) i.e. you have cruise control and perhaps emergency breaking. The car can do 1 thing at 1 time. Many cars in 2017 are already at this level. level 2 - the driver is responsible for the driving but has assistance in both latitude and longitude. So the can change lanes by itself. It keeps you in your lane, you indicate, it checks for vehicles and then safety changes lanes for you and settles you in the new lane. It also keeps a safe distance from the car in front and behind. The driver is still actively involved in the vehicle however. level 3: is interesting. The driver needs to be actively monitoring the car at all times and ready to take control But the car should be handling most situations. This is a little dangerous because that the driver will not be fully engaged and this will lead to accidents if they are required to take over. As a result, many manufacturers are trying to skip from level 2 to level 4. because at level 4: the car is fully autonomous some environment such as driving on a highway. If it enters an environment outside its "operational design domain (ODD)" it will safety transition to a human driver. Ford aiming to release a level 4 car by the year 2021 level 5: This is the highest level. The car is equal or better than a human driver and can handle all situations including driving on non-sealed roads. Potentially there is no steering wheel. No option for human control. Manufacturers are currently focused on level 4 at the moment which may mean that the next generation may never learn to drive! What a new world we live in! So, would you trust a computer to drive? Post below! If you enjoyed this give us a thumbs up and subscribe by clicking the button and bell below. 