 - CES, the Consumer Electronics Show. When it first started in the late 60s it was the place to showcase such breakthroughs as the pocket radio and the first ever VCR. Now the four day gadget gala dazzles visitors with the latest trends in tech, from smart home appliances to virtual reality. GARY SHAPIRO: We are seeing the future. We're seeing robotics, wearable devices that will tell us how we're healthy and when and whether we're sick. We're seeing everything from all sorts of different drones, to things that keep us healthy. We've also seen a whole new category of clothing, introduced focusing on sleepwear and technology. HOST: And, of course, it's the way we'll be traveling around in the future that interests me the most. So Honda have used their robotic technology to develop this. It's a UNI-CUB, and it's basically for people with walking difficulties to get around with just a little bit of weight balance, or for lazy people like me that have spent too much time walking around CES. Now, as well as all the latest car tech, CES also showcases the latest gizmos and gadgets, including the world's most waterproof case ever. I think it's time for a dip. Have you ever thought about the humanization of a car? Well, Toyota have. And they just launched their concept car, Concept I. Unbelievably looking. Using facial recognition, it can even tell whether you're feeling happy or sad. Making the headlines at this year's CES is the launch of the new Faraday Future electric super car. Promising a relatively affordable fully autonomous and ever so sexy fully electric ride. This super car is equipped with a 130 kilowatt hour battery and is packed with more mod cons than you can shake a gear stick at. RICHARD KIM: This is the launch of FF91. From a distance-- from 100 feet away-- we wanted this to see this very progressive spaceship on the road. This is a production car. Everything here is the really deal. HOST: So, it's already autonomous. RICHARD KIM: It's all-- it's ready to go. That's level four autonomy. This car is not only the fastest electric production car, it's going to be the most connected production car, and have the best self-driving capability. HOST: So, how fast is it? RICHARD KIM: Zero to 60 and 2.39 seconds. HOST: That's very fast. RICHARD KIM: So, the fastest if you want to drive it. But, if you're in the back seat trying to enjoy, I don't know, connectivity, music, movies, faster connectivity than your own home or office. So fastest to drive, fastest connection. So, we're measuring performance for different people depending on someone who may not even have a driver's license wanting to have their version of performance. HOST: Since the car has been designed to be self-driving, it's conceived with the passenger as much in mind as the driver. RICHARD KIM: The old days of buying a car you would get in the driver's seat and say, yes, I want it, or no, I don't. Now we know, because of ride sharing and the millennials, that maybe aren't so interested in driving, that every seat in the house matters. HOST: Oh, wow. RICHARD KIM: So we do a grand entrance. HOST: And, to my delight, "CNN Supercharged" has been granted an exclusive backseat experience, no other journalist has yet been able to sit in the rear of the car. So, apparently this is called zero gravity, and I think it might be a little slice of heaven in what is a very chaotic CES. Oh, we're going further and further back. Oh yeah, I could get used to this. So stressful driving around town isn't it? Oh my God, it carries on. Faraday has remained rigidly silent on the subject of cost. It has been speculated in the press to come with a price tag of around $200,000. When is this actually going to be hitting the rodes? RICHARD KIM: 2018 sometime. HOST: 2018? RICHARD KIM: Yeah. A year and a half ago I was by myself in that design department. So, to be here with the production car-- HOST: Just a year and a half ago? RICHARD KIM: Yeah, a year and eight months ago? HOST: Wow, have you slept? RICHARD KIM: Every other day I do. HOST: Every other day? Perfect. Well, considering you've been working with very little sleep, congratulations. RICHARD KIM: Thank you. HOST: Absolutely stunning, and very excited to see on our rodes in 2018. 