RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves significant risks, a number of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following discussion highlights some of these risks and the possible impact of these factors on our business, financial condition, and future results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be adversely impacted, causing the trading price of our common stock to decline. In addition, these risks and uncertainties may impact the “forward-looking” statements described elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. They could affect our actual results of operations, causing them to differ materially from those expressed in “forward-looking” statements. Global economic and political conditions may further impact our industries, business and financial results.Our overall performance depends largely upon domestic and worldwide economic and political conditions. The United States and other international economies have experienced cyclical downturns from time to time in which economic activity was impacted by falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, poor liquidity, decreased government spending, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies and overall uncertainty with respect to the economy. These economic conditions can occur abruptly. If economic growth in countries where we do business slows or if such countries experience further economic recessions, customers may delay or reduce technology purchases. Our customers include government entities, including the U.S. federal government, and if spending cuts impede the ability of governments to purchase our products and services, our revenue could decline. In addition, a number of our customers rely, directly and indirectly, on government spending. Geopolitical trends toward nationalism and protectionism and the weakening or dissolution of international trade pacts may increase the cost of, or otherwise interfere with, conducting business. These trends have increased levels of political and economic unpredictability globally, and may increase the volatility of global financial markets; the impact of such developments on the global economy remains uncertain. Political instability or adverse political developments in any of the countries in which we do business could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. A financial sector credit crisis could impair credit availability and the financial stability of our customers, including our distribution partners and channels. A disruption in the financial markets may also have an effect on our derivative counter-parties and could also impair our banking partners, on which we rely for operating cash management. Any of 2018 Form 10-K  14Table of Contents these events could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.If we fail to successfully manage our business model transition to cloud-based products and more flexible product licenses, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.To address the industry transition from personal computer to cloud, mobile, and social computing, we accelerated our move to the cloud and are offering more flexible product licenses. To support our transition, we discontinued selling new perpetual licenses of most individual software products effective February 1, 2016, and discontinued selling new perpetual licenses of suites effective August 1, 2016. On June 15, 2017, we commenced a program to incentivize maintenance plan customers to move to subscription plan offerings. Through this program we offer discounts to those maintenance plan customers that move to subscription plan offerings, while at the same time increasing maintenance plan pricing over time for customers that remain on maintenance.As a result, we expect to derive an increasing portion of our revenues in the future from subscriptions. This subscription model prices and delivers our products in a way that differs from the historical perpetual pricing and delivery methods. These changes reflect a significant shift from perpetual license sales and distribution of our software in favor of providing our customers the right to access certain of our software in a hosted environment or use downloaded software for a specified subscription period. During the first three years of the transition, revenue, billings, gross margin, operating margin, net income (loss), earnings (loss) per share, deferred revenue, and cash flow from operations have been impacted as more revenue is recognized ratably rather than upfront and as new offerings bring a wider variety of price points.Our ability to achieve our financial objectives is subject to risks and uncertainties. The new offerings require a considerable investment of technical, financial, legal, and sales resources, and a scalable organization. Market acceptance of such offerings is affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: security, reliability, performance, current license terms, customer preference, social/community engagement, customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage their data, public concerns regarding privacy and the enactment of restrictive laws or regulations. Whether our business model transition will prove successful and will accomplish our business and financial objectives is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: customer demand, attach and renewal rates, channel acceptance, our ability to further develop and scale infrastructure, our ability to include functionality and usability in such offerings that address customer requirements, tax and accounting implications, pricing, and our costs. In addition, the metrics we use to gauge the status of our business model transition may evolve over the course of the transition as significant trends emerge. If we are unable to successfully establish these new offerings and navigate our business model transition in light of the foregoing risks and uncertainties, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.Our strategy to develop and introduce new products and services exposes us to risks such as limited customer acceptance, costs related to product defects, and large expenditures, each of which may not result in additional net revenue or could result in decreased net revenue.Rapid technological changes, as well as changes in customer requirements and preferences, characterize the software industry. Just as the transition from mainframes to personal computers transformed the industry 30 years ago, we believe our industry is undergoing a similar transition from the personal computer to cloud, mobile, and social computing. Customers are also reconsidering the manner in which they license software products, which requires us to constantly evaluate our business model and strategy. In response, we are focused on providing solutions to enable our customers to be more agile and collaborative on their projects. We devote significant resources to the development of new technologies. In addition, we frequently introduce new business models or methods that require a considerable investment of technical and financial resources such as our introduction of flexible license and service offerings. It is uncertain whether these strategies will prove successful or whether we will be able to develop the necessary infrastructure and business models more quickly than our competitors. We are making such investments through further development and enhancement of our existing products and services, as well as through acquisitions of new product lines. Such investments may not result in sufficient revenue generation to justify their costs and could result in decreased net revenue. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, either with respect to our software or hardware products or the manner in which we provide such products, or if we are not able to adapt our business model to meet our customers' requirements, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted.In particular, a critical component of our growth strategy is to have customers of our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products expand their portfolios to include our other offerings and cloud-based services. We want customers using individual Autodesk products to expand their portfolio with our other offerings and cloud-based services, and we are taking steps to accelerate this migration. At times, sales of licenses of our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT or individual Autodesk flagship products have decreased without a corresponding increase in industry collections or cloud-based 2018 Form 10-K  15Table of Contents services revenue or without purchases of customer seats to our industry collections. Should this continue, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Also, adoption of our cloud and mobile computing offerings and changes in the delivery of our software and services to our customers, such as product subscription offerings, will change the way in which we recognize revenue relating to our software and services, with a potential negative impact on our financial performance. The accounting impact of these offerings and other business decisions are expected to result in an increase in the percentage of our ratable revenue, as well as recurring revenue, making for a more predictable business over time, while potentially reducing our upfront perpetual revenue stream.Our executive management team must act quickly, continuously, and with vision, given the rapidly changing customer expectations and technology advancements inherent in the software industry, the extensive and complex efforts required to create useful and widely accepted products and the rapid evolution of cloud computing, mobile devices, new computing platforms, and other technologies, such as consumer products. Although we have articulated a strategy that we believe will fulfill these challenges, if we fail to execute properly on that strategy or adapt that strategy as market conditions evolve, we may fail to meet our customers' expectations, fail to compete with our competitors' products and technology, and lose the confidence of our channel partners and employees. This in turn could adversely affect our business and financial performance.A significant portion of our revenue is generated through maintenance revenue; if decreases in maintenance revenue are not offset by increases in subscription revenue, our future revenue and financial results will be negatively impacted.Our maintenance customers have no obligation to renew their maintenance contracts after the expiration of their maintenance period, which is typically one year. The discontinuance of our perpetual licenses for most individual software products on February 1, 2016 and for perpetual suites on August 1, 2016 resulted in the loss of future opportunities to sell maintenance. On June 15, 2017, we commenced a program to incentivize maintenance plan customers to move to subscription plan offerings. As a result, we expect customer renewal rates will decline or fluctuate over time as a result of a number of factors, including the overall global economy, the health of their businesses, the perceived value of the maintenance program and planned maintenance pricing increases. If our non-renewing maintenance customers do not transition to subscriptions, our future revenue and financial results will be negatively impacted.We may not be able to predict subscription renewal rates and their impact on our future revenue and operating results.Our customers are not obligated to renew their subscriptions for our offerings, and they may elect not to renew. We cannot assure renewal rates, or the mix of subscriptions renewals. Customer renewal rates may decline or fluctuate due to a number of factors, including offering pricing, competitive offerings, customer satisfaction, and reductions in customer spending levels or customer activity due to economic downturns or financial markets uncertainty. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions or if they renew on less favorable terms, our revenues may decline.Revenue from our offerings may be difficult to predict during our business model transition.The discontinuance of our perpetual licenses for most individual software products on February 1, 2016 and for perpetual suites on August 1, 2016 has and will continue to result in the loss of future upfront licensing revenue. This also has frozen the growth of our maintenance revenue because there will be no further opportunities to attach maintenance licensing. On June 15, 2017, we commenced a program to incentivize maintenance plan customers to move to subscription plan offerings. As a result, we expect our maintenance revenue to decline over time, but it may decline more quickly than anticipated due to low maintenance renewals. At the same time, our subscription  revenue may not grow as rapidly as anticipated. Our subscription pricing allows customers to use our offerings at a lower initial cost when compared to the sale of a perpetual license. Although our subscriptions are designed to increase the number of customers who purchase offerings and create a recurring revenue stream that is more predictable over time, it creates risks related to the timing of revenue recognition and expected reductions in cash flows in the near term.Actions that we are taking to restructure our business in alignment with our strategic priorities may not be as effective as anticipated.During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we commenced a world-wide restructuring plan to support the Company's strategic priorities of completing the subscription transition; digitizing the Company; and re-imagining manufacturing, construction, and production. Through the restructuring, we seek to reduce our investment in areas not aligned with our strategic priorities, including in areas related to research and development and go-to-market activities. At the same time, we plan to further invest in strategic priority areas related to as digital infrastructure, customer success, and construction.2018 Form 10-K  16Table of Contents As a result of these actions, we will incur additional costs in the short term that will have the effect of reducing our GAAP operating margins. We may encounter challenges in the execution of these efforts, and these challenges could impact our financial results. If we are unable to successfully complete our restructuring efforts, our business and operating results may be harmed. We are dependent on international revenue and operations, exposing us to significant regulatory, global economic, intellectual property, collections, currency exchange rate, taxation, political instability and other risks, which could adversely impact our financial results.We are dependent on our international operations for a significant portion of our revenue. International net revenue represented 64% and 63% of our net revenue in fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively.  Our international revenue, including that from emerging economies, is subject to general economic and political conditions in foreign markets, including conditions in foreign markets resulting from economic and political conditions in the U.S. Our revenue is also impacted by the relative geographical and country mix of our revenue over time. At times, these factors adversely impact our international revenue, and consequently our business as a whole. Our dependency on international revenue makes us much more exposed to global economic and political trends, which can negatively impact our financial results, even if our results in the U.S. are strong for a particular period. We anticipate that our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our net revenue, and, as we expand our international development, sales and marketing expertise, will provide significant support to our overall efforts in countries outside of the U.S. Risks inherent in our international operations include:•economic volatility;•fluctuating currency exchange rates, including risks related to any hedging activities we undertake;•unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and practices;•delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology;•different purchase patterns as compared to the developed world;•tariffs, quotas, and other trade barriers and restrictions;•operating in locations with a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent business practices, particularly in emerging economies;•increasing enforcement by the U.S. under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and adoption of stricter anti-corruption laws in certain countries, including the United Kingdom;•difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales and development operations;•local competition;•longer collection cycles for accounts receivable;•U.S. and foreign tax law changes  impacting how multinational companies are taxed;•tax arrangements with foreign governments, including our ability to meet and renew the terms of those tax arrangements;•laws regarding the management of and access to data and public networks;•possible future limitations upon foreign owned businesses;•increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;2018 Form 10-K  17Table of Contents •inadequate local infrastructure;•greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property;•software piracy; and•other factors beyond our control, including popular uprisings, terrorism, war, natural disasters, and diseases.Some of our business partners also have international operations and are subject to the risks described above. The Brexit vote has exacerbated and may further exacerbate many of the risks and uncertainties described above. The proposed withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union could, among other potential outcomes, adversely affect the tax, tax treaty, currency, operational, legal and regulatory regimes to which our businesses in the region are subject. The withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the United Kingdom and the European Union and significantly disrupt trade between the United Kingdom and the European Union and other parties. Further, uncertainty around these and related issues could lead to adverse effects on the economy of the United Kingdom and the other economies in which we operate. Even if we are able to successfully manage the risks of international operations, our business may be adversely affected if our business partners are not able to successfully manage these risks.We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to liability if we violate the controls. Our offerings are subject to U.S. export controls and economic sanctions laws and regulations that prohibit the shipment of certain products and services without the required export authorizations or export to locations, governments, and persons targeted by U.S. sanctions. While we have processes in place to prevent our offerings from being exported in violation of these laws, including obtaining authorizations as appropriate and screening against U.S. Government and international lists of restricted and prohibited persons, we cannot guarantee that these processes will prevent all violations of export control and sanctions laws.  We also note that if our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected, through reputational harm as well as other negative consequences including government investigations and penalties. We presently incorporate export control and sanctions compliance requirements in our channel partner agreements. Complying with export control and sanctions regulations for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities.Violations of U.S. sanctions or export control laws can result in fines or penalties. While we have extensive compliance procedures in place, licensing of our product offerings may have been made in potential violation of the export control and economic sanctions laws. We filed a Voluntary Self Disclosure in December 2016 with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) with respect to the sale of certain licenses in an aggregate amount of less than $700,000. We are currently waiting for OFAC to complete its review of this matter. We could be subject to monetary penalties or other sanctions by OFAC in connection with its review of this issue. Our software is highly complex and may contain undetected errors, defects or vulnerabilities, each of which could harm our business and financial performance.The software products that we offer are complex, and despite extensive testing and quality control, may contain errors, defects or vulnerabilities. Some errors, defects and vulnerabilities in our software products may only be discovered after the product or service has been released. Any errors, defects or vulnerabilities could result in the need for corrective releases to our software products, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, an increase in product returns or lack of market acceptance of our products, any of which would likely harm our business and financial performance.Existing and increased competition and rapidly evolving technological changes may reduce our revenue and profits.The software industry has limited barriers to entry, and the availability of computing devices with continually expanding performance at progressively lower prices contributes to the ease of market entry. The industry is presently undergoing a platform shift from the personal computer to cloud and mobile computing. This shift further lowers barriers 2018 Form 10-K  18Table of Contents to entry and poses a disruptive challenge to established software companies. The markets in which we compete are characterized by vigorous competition, both by entry of competitors with innovative technologies and by consolidation of companies with complementary products and technologies. In addition, some of our competitors in certain markets have greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, and other resources. Furthermore, a reduction in the number and availability of compatible third-party applications, or our inability to rapidly adapt to technological and customer preference changes, including those related to cloud computing, mobile devices, and new computing platforms, may adversely affect the sale of our products. Because of these and other factors, competitive conditions in the industry are likely to intensify in the future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced net revenue and profit margins and loss of market share, any of which would likely harm our business.We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows.Because we conduct a substantial portion of our business outside the U.S., we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and economic conditions change.    Our exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows.We use derivative instruments to manage a portion of our cash flow exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As part of our risk management strategy, we use foreign currency contracts to manage a portion of our exposures of underlying assets, liabilities, and other obligations, which exist as part of our ongoing business operations. These foreign currency instruments have maturities that extend for one to twelve months in the future, and provide us with some protection against currency exposures. However, our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be completely successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our financial results.The fluctuations of currencies in which we conduct business can both increase and decrease our overall revenue and expenses for any given fiscal period. Although our foreign currency cash flow hedge program extends beyond the current quarter in order to reduce our exposure to foreign currency volatility, we do not attempt to completely mitigate this risk, and in any case, will incur transaction fees in adopting such hedging programs. Such volatility, even when it increases our revenues or decreases our expenses, impacts our ability to accurately predict our future results and earnings.Security incidents may compromise the integrity of our or our customers’ products, services, data or intellectual property, harm our reputation, damage our competitiveness, create additional liability and adversely impact our financial results.As we digitize the Company and use cloud and web base technologies to leverage customer data to deliver the total customer experience, we are exposed to increased security risks and the potential for unauthorized access to, or improper use of our and our customers' information. Like all software products and systems, ours are vulnerable to security incidents.  We devote resources to maintain the security and integrity of our systems, products, services and applications (online, mobile and desktop).  We accomplish this by enhancing security features, conducting penetration tests, code hardening, releasing security vulnerability updates and accelerating our incident response time. Despite these efforts, we may not prevent security incidents.Hackers regularly have targeted our systems, products, services and applications, and we expect them to do so in the future. The impact of security incidents could disrupt the proper functioning of our systems, products or services; cause errors in the output of our customers' work; allow unauthorized access to sensitive, data or intellectual property, including proprietary or confidential information of ours or our customers; or other destructive outcomes. The risk of a security incident, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. These threats include but are not limited to identity theft, unauthorized access, DNS attacks, wireless network attacks, viruses and worms, advanced persistent threat (APT), application centric attacks, peer-to-peer attacks, phishing, malicious file uploads, backdoor trojans and distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks. In addition, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, vendors, partners or users to disclose information to gain access to our data or our users’ data and there is the risk of employee, contractor, or vendor error or malfeasance. Any of the foregoing could attack our systems, products or services. Despite efforts to create security barriers to such programs, it is virtually impossible for us to entirely eliminate this risk. 2018 Form 10-K  19Table of Contents If any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation may suffer, our competitive position may be diminished, customers may stop buying our products and services, we could face lawsuits and potential liability, and our financial performance could be negatively impacted.Increasing regulatory focus on privacy issues and expanding laws may impact our business or expose us to increased liability.Our strategy to digitize the Company involves increasing our use of cloud and web based technologies and applications to leverage customer data. To accomplish this strategy, we must collect customer data, which may include personal data. Federal, state and foreign government privacy and data security laws apply to the treatment of personal data.  Governments, the plaintiffs’ bar, privacy advocates and customers have increased their focus on how companies collect, process, use, store, share and transmit personal data.The General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") will apply in all EU member states effective May 25, 2018, and replace the current EU Data Protection Directive. The GDPR introduces new data protection requirements in the EU and substantial fines for non-compliance. The GDPR increases our responsibility and potential liability in relation to personal data, and we have and will continue to put in place additional processes and programs to demonstrate compliance. Compliance with these laws is costly and could delay or impede the development of new offerings. Any failure to comply with GDPR or other data privacy laws could lead to government enforcement actions and significant penalties. Further, any perceived privacy right violation could cause result in reputational harm, third-party claims, lawsuits or investigations. Additionally, we store customer information and content and if our customers fail to comply with contractual obligations or applicable laws, it could result in litigation or reputational harm to us. GDPR, other new laws and self-regulatory codes may affect our ability to reach current and prospective customers, to understand how our products and services are being used, to respond to customer requests allowed under the laws, and to implement our new business models effectively. These new laws and regulations would similarly affect our competitors as well as our customers. These requirements could impact demand for our products and services and result in more onerous contract obligations.We rely on third-parties to provide us with a number of operational and technical services; third-party security incidents could expose us to liability, harm our reputation, damage our competitiveness and adversely impact our financial performance.We rely on third-parties, such as Amazon Web Services, to provide us with operational and technical services. These third parties may have access to our systems, provide hosting services, or otherwise process data about us, our customers, employees, or partners.  Any third party security incident could compromise the integrity or availability or result in the theft of data. In addition, our operations, or the operations of our customers or partners, could be negatively affected in the event of a security breach, and could be subject to the loss or theft of confidential or proprietary information, including source code.  Unauthorized access to this data may be obtained through break-ins, network breaches by unauthorized parties, employee theft or misuse, or other misconduct. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation may suffer, our competitive position may be diminished, customers may stop buying our products and services, we could face lawsuits and potential liability, and our financial performance could be negatively impacted. We rely on third-party services; any interruption or delay in service from these third parties could expose us to liability, harm our reputation, damage our competitiveness and adversely impact our financial performance.We rely on a number of third party suppliers, such as Amazon Web Services, in the operation of our business for the provision of various services and materials that we use in the operation of our business and production of our products. We may from time to time rely on a single or limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for these services or materials. The inability of such third parties to satisfy our requirements could disrupt our business operations or make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. If any of these situations were to occur, our reputation could be harmed, we could be subject to third party liability, including under data protection and privacy laws in certain jurisdictions, and our financial performance could be negatively impacted.2018 Form 10-K  20Table of Contents If we do not maintain good relationships with the members of our distribution channel, our ability to generate revenue will be adversely affected. If our distribution channel suffers financial losses, becomes financially unstable or insolvent, or is not provided the right mix of incentives to sell our products, our ability to generate revenue will be adversely affected.We 