RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves significant risks, a number of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following discussion highlights some of these risks and the possible impact of these factors on our business, financial condition, and future results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be adversely impacted, causing the trading price of our common stock to decline. In addition, these risks and uncertainties may impact the “forward-looking” statements described elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. They could affect our actual results of operations, causing them to differ materially from those expressed in “forward-looking” statements. Global economic and political conditions may further impact our business, financial results, and financial condition. As our business has expanded globally, we have increasingly become subject to risks arising from adverse changes in global economic and political conditions. The past several years were characterized by weak global economic conditions, volatile credit markets, relatively high unemployment, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, increased government deficit spending and debt levels, uncertainty about certain governments' abilities to repay such debt or to address certain fiscal issues, and volatility in many financial instrument markets. If economic growth in countries where we do business slows, or if such countries experience further economic recessions, customers may delay or reduce technology purchases. This could result in reductions in sales of our products and services, longer sales cycles, and slower adoption of our technologies.Over the past several years, many of our customers have experienced tighter credit, negative financial news, and weaker financial performance of their businesses and have reduced their workforces, thereby reducing the number of licenses and the number of maintenance contracts they purchase from us. In addition, a number of our customers rely, directly and indirectly, on government spending. Current debt balances of many countries without proportionate increases in revenues have caused many countries to reduce spending and in some cases have forced those countries to restructure their debt in an effort to avoid defaulting under those obligations. This has not only impacted those countries but others that are holders of such debt and those assisting in such restructuring.These actions may impact, and over the past several years have negatively impacted, our business, financial results, and financial condition. Moreover, our financial performance may be negatively impacted by:•lack of credit available to and the insolvency of key channel partners, which may impair our distribution channels and cash flows; •counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury functions, including timely access to our cash reserves and third-party fulfillment of hedging transactions; •counterparty failures negatively affecting our insured risks; •inability of banks to honor our existing line of credit, which could increase our borrowing expenses or eliminate our ability to obtain short-term financing; and •decreased borrowing and spending by our end users on small and large projects in the industries we serve, thereby reducing demand for our products. Uncertainty about current and future economic and political conditions on us, our customers and partners, makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments.A slower economic recovery in industries important to our business may adversely affect our business, financial results, and financial condition.  If a macro-economic recovery does not occur as rapidly as anticipated, our ability to meet our long-term financial targets may also be adversely affected.If we fail to successfully manage our business model transition to cloud-based products and more flexible product licenses, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.To address the industry transition from personal computer to cloud, social, and mobile computing, we have accelerated our move to the cloud and are offering more flexible product licenses.  As part of this transition, we announced in fiscal 2014 that we are discontinuing upgrades after fiscal 2015 and, on February 4, 2015, we also announced that new commercial seats of 2015 Form 10-K  15Table of Contents most standalone software products will be available only by desktop subscription beginning February 1, 2016. As a result, we expect to derive an increasing portion of our revenues in the future from subscriptions. This subscription model prices and delivers our products in a way that differs from the historical perpetual pricing and delivery methods. These changes reflect a significant shift from perpetual license sales and distribution of our software in favor of providing our customers the right to access certain of our software in a hosted environment or use downloaded software for a specified subscription period.Our ability to achieve our financial objectives is subject to risks and uncertainties. The new offerings require a considerable investment of technical, financial, legal, and sales resources, and a scalable organization. Market acceptance of such offerings is affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: security, reliability, performance, current license terms, customer preference, social/community engagement, customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage their data, public concerns regarding privacy and the enactment of restrictive laws or regulations. Whether our business model transition will prove successful and will accomplish our business and financial objectives is subject to numerous uncertainties, including but not limited to: customer demand, attach and renewal rates, channel acceptance, our ability to further develop and scale infrastructure, our ability to include functionality and usability in such offerings that address customer requirements, tax and accounting implications, pricing, and our costs.  In addition, the metrics we use to gauge the status of our business model transition may evolve over the course of the transition as significant trends emerge.  If we are unable to successfully establish these new offerings and navigate our business model transition in light of the foregoing risks and uncertainties, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.Our strategy to develop and introduce new products and services exposes us to risks such as limited customer acceptance, costs related to product defects, and large expenditures that may not result in additional net revenue or could result in decreased net revenue.Rapid technological changes, as well as changes in customer requirements and preferences, characterize the software industry. Just as the transition from mainframes to personal computers transformed the industry 30 years ago, we believe our industry is undergoing a similar transition from the personal computer to cloud, mobile, and social computing. Customers are also reconsidering the manner in which they license software products, which requires us to constantly evaluate our business model and strategy. In response, we are focused on providing solutions to enable our customers to be more agile and collaborative on their projects. We are also developing consumer products for digital art, personal design and creativity, and home design. We devote significant resources to the development of new technologies. In addition, we frequently introduce new business models or methods that require a considerable investment of technical and financial resources such as an increase in our portfolio of, and focus on, suites and, most recently, our introduction of flexible license and service offerings. We are making such investments through further development and enhancement of our existing products and services, as well as through acquisitions of new product lines. Such investments may not result in sufficient revenue generation to justify their costs and could result in decreased net revenue. For example, in fiscal 2015, we announced that we would create Spark, a 3D printing software platform for developers to facilitate the advancement of 3D printing technology, and begin manufacturing and selling Ember, an Autodesk-branded 3D printer. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, either with respect to our software or hardware products or the manner in which we provide such products, or if we are not able to adapt our business model to meet our customers' requirements, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted.In particular, a critical component of our growth strategy is to have customers of our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products expand their portfolios to include our suites and cloud-based services. We want customers using standalone Autodesk products to expand their portfolio with our suites and cloud-based offerings, and we are taking steps to accelerate this migration. At times, sales of licenses of our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT or standalone Autodesk flagship products have decreased without a corresponding increase in suites product or cloud-based services revenue or without purchases of customer seats to our suites.  Should this continue, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Also, adoption of our cloud and mobile computing offerings and changes in the delivery of our software and services to our customers, such as desktop subscription (formally referred to as rental) offerings, will change the way in which we recognize revenue relating to our software and services, with a potential negative impact on our financial performance.  The accounting impact of these offerings and other business decisions are expected to result in an increase in the percentage of our ratable revenue, as well as recurring revenue, making for a more predictable business over time, while potentially reducing our upfront perpetual revenue stream.  Additionally, the software products we offer are complex, and despite extensive testing and quality control, may contain errors or defects. These errors or defects could result in the need for corrective releases to our software products, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, an increase in product returns or lack of market acceptance of our products, any of which would likely harm our business.Our executive management team must act quickly, continuously, and with vision, given the rapidly changing customer expectations and technology advancements inherent in the software industry, the extensive and complex efforts required to 2015 Form 10-K  16Table of Contents create useful and widely accepted products and the rapid evolution of cloud computing, mobile devices, new computing platforms, and other technologies, such as consumer products. Although we have articulated a strategy that we believe will fulfill these challenges, if we fail to execute properly on that strategy or adapt that strategy as market conditions evolve, we may fail to meet our customers' expectations, fail to compete with our competitors' products and technology, and lose the confidence of our channel partners and employees. This in turn could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our entry into 3D printing presents many of the risks described above concerning developing and introducing new products as well as new risks for us. The manufacturing and 3D printing markets are highly competitive and some of our competitors have superior experience and resources to us. We have limited experience designing, developing, and selling hardware products and no experience developing and selling printers.  The market for 3D printing is nascent and may not develop as rapidly as we expect. Our sale of 3D printers could subject us to product and other liability that we do not currently face.  If any of these risks materialize, it could adversely affect our business and financial performance as well as our reputation and brand. We are dependent on international revenue and operations, exposing us to significant regulatory, global economic, intellectual property, collections, currency exchange rate, taxation, political instability, and other risks, which could adversely impact our financial results.We are dependent on our international operations for a significant portion of our revenue. International net revenue represented 71% and 70% of our net revenue in fiscal 2015 and 2014, respectively. Our international revenue, including that from emerging economies, is subject to general economic and political conditions in foreign markets, including conditions in foreign markets resulting from economic and political conditions in the U.S. Our revenue is also impacted by the relative geographical and country mix of our revenue over time. At times, these factors adversely impact our international revenue, and consequently our business as a whole. Our dependency on international revenue makes us much more exposed to global economic and political trends, which can negatively impact our financial results, even if our results in the U.S. are strong for a particular period. Further, a significant portion of our earnings from our international operations may not be freely transferable to the U.S. due to remittance restrictions, adverse tax consequences or other factors. Our intent is that amounts related to foreign earnings permanently reinvested outside the U.S. will remain outside the U.S., and we will meet our U.S. liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings (such as our senior notes), or both. However, if, in the future, amounts held by foreign subsidiaries are needed to fund our operations in the U.S., or to service our external borrowings, the repatriation of such amounts to the U.S. could result in a significant incremental tax liability in the period in which the decision to repatriate occurs and payment of any such tax liability would reduce the cash available to fund our operations.We anticipate that our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our net revenue, and, as we expand our international development, sales and marketing expertise, will provide significant support to our overall efforts in countries outside of the U.S. Risks inherent in our international operations include:•fluctuating currency exchange rates, including risks related to any hedging activities we undertake;•unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and practices;•delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology;•tariffs, quotas, and other trade barriers and restrictions;•transportation delays;•operating in locations with a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent business practices, particularly in emerging economies;•increasing enforcement by the U.S. under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, adoption of stricter anti-corruption laws in certain countries, including the United Kingdom;•difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales and development operations, •longer collection cycles for accounts receivable;2015 Form 10-K  17Table of Contents •potential changes in tax laws, including possible U.S. and foreign tax law changes that, if enacted, could significantly impact how multinational companies are taxed;•tax arrangements with foreign governments, including our ability to meet and renew the terms of those tax arrangements;•laws regarding the management of and access to data and public networks;•possible future limitations upon foreign owned businesses;•increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;•inadequate local infrastructure;•greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property; and •other factors beyond our control, including popular uprisings, terrorism, war, natural disasters, and diseases. Some of our business partners also have international operations and are subject to the risks described above. Even if we are able to successfully manage the risks of international operations, our business may be adversely affected if our business partners are not able to successfully manage these risks.Existing and increased competition and rapidly evolving technological changes may reduce our revenue and profits. The software industry has limited barriers to entry, and the availability of computing devices with continually expanding performance at progressively lower prices contributes to the ease of market entry. The industry is presently undergoing a platform shift from the personal computer to cloud and mobile computing. This shift further lowers barriers to entry and poses a disruptive challenge to established software companies. The markets in which we compete are characterized by vigorous competition, both by entry of competitors with innovative technologies and by consolidation of companies with complementary products and technologies. In addition, some of our competitors in certain markets have greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, and other resources. Furthermore, a reduction in the number and availability of compatible third-party applications, or our inability to rapidly adapt to technological and customer preference changes, including those related to cloud computing, mobile devices, and new computing platforms, may adversely affect the sale of our products. Because of these and other factors, competitive conditions in the industry are likely to intensify in the future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced net revenue and profit margins and loss of market share, any of which would likely harm our business. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. Because we conduct a substantial portion of our business outside the U.S. and we make certain business and resource decisions based on assumptions about foreign currency, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and economic conditions change, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. We use derivative instruments to manage a portion of our cash flow exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As part of our risk management strategy, we use foreign currency contracts to manage a portion of our exposures of underlying assets, liabilities, and other obligations, which exist as part of our ongoing business operations. These foreign currency instruments have maturities that extend for one to twelve months in the future, and provide us with some protection against currency exposures. However, our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be completely successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our financial results. The fluctuations of currencies in which we conduct business can both increase and decrease our overall revenue and expenses for any given fiscal period. Although our foreign currency cash flow hedge program extends beyond the current quarter in order to reduce our exposure to foreign currency volatility, we do not attempt to completely mitigate this risk, and in any case, will incur transaction fees in adopting such hedging programs. Such volatility, even when it increases our revenues or decreases our expenses, impacts our ability to accurately predict our future results and earnings. 2015 Form 10-K  18Table of Contents If we do not maintain good relationships with the members of our distribution channel, or achieve anticipated levels of sell-through, our ability to generate revenue will be adversely affected. If our distribution channel suffers financial losses, becomes financially unstable or insolvent, or is not provided the right mix of incentives to sell our products, our ability to generate revenue will be adversely affected. We sell our software products both directly to end-users and through a network of distributors and resellers. For fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014, approximately 83% and 84% of our revenue was derived from indirect channel sales through distributors and resellers, respectively, and we expect that the majority of our revenue will continue to be derived from indirect channel sales in the future. Our ability to effectively distribute our products depends in part upon the financial and business condition of our distributor and reseller network. Computer software distributors and resellers typically are not highly capitalized, have previously experienced difficulties during times of economic contraction and experienced difficulties during the past several years. We have processes to ensure that we assess the creditworthiness of distributors and resellers prior to our sales to them. In the past we have taken steps to support them, and may take additional steps in the future, such as extending credit terms and providing temporary discounts. These steps, if taken, could harm our financial results. If our distributors and resellers were to become insolvent, they would not be able to maintain their business and sales, or provide customer support services, which would negatively impact our business and revenue. We rely significantly upon major distributors and resellers in both the U.S. and international regions, including the distributor Tech Data Corporation and its global affiliates (“Tech Data”). Tech Data accounted for 25% and 24% of our total net revenue for fiscal 2015 and 2014, respectively. Although we believe that we are not substantially dependent on Tech Data, if Tech Data were to experience a significant disruption with its business or if our relationship with Tech Data were to significantly deteriorate, it is possible that our ability to sell to end users would be, at least temporarily, negatively impacted. This could in turn negatively impact our financial results. Over time, we have modified and will continue to modify aspects of our relationship with our distributors and resellers, such as their incentive programs, pricing to them and our distribution model to motivate and reward them for aligning their businesses with our strategy and business objectives. Changes in these relationships and underlying programs could negatively impact their business and harm our business. In addition, the loss of or a significant reduction in business with those distributors or resellers or the failure to achieve anticipated levels of sell-through with any one of our major international distributors or large resellers could harm our business. In particular, if one or more of such distributors or resellers were unable to meet their obligations with respect to accounts payable to us, we could be forced to write off such accounts and may be required to delay the recognition of revenue on future sales to these customers. These events could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.Our financial results fluctuate within each quarter and from quarter to quarter making our future revenue and financial results difficult to predict. Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and will continue to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to change significantly or experience declines. In addition to the other factors described in this Part I, Item 1A, some of the factors that could cause our financial results to fluctuate include: •general market, economic, business, and political conditions in particular geographies, including Europe, APAC, and emerging economies;•failure to produce sufficient revenue, billings or subscription growth, and profitability;•failure to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance to our business model transition, including the impact of the end of upgrades and perpetual licenses;•weak or negative growth in one or more of the industries we serve, including AEC, manufacturing, and digital media and entertainment markets;•fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the effectiveness of our hedging activity; •failure to achieve and maintain cost reductions and productivity increases;•dependence on and the timing of large transactions; 2015 Form 10-K  19Table of Contents •changes in product mix, pricing pressure or changes in product pricing;•changes in billings linearity;•the ability of governments around the world to adopt fiscal policies, meet their financial and debt obligations, and to finance infrastructure projects;•lower growth or contraction of our maintenance program;•restructuring or other accounting charges and unexpected costs or other operating expenses; •failure to expand our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT customer base to related design products and services; •our inability to rapidly adapt to technological and customer preference changes, including those related to cloud computing, mobile devices, new computing platforms, and 3D printing; •the timing of the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; •the success of new business or sales initiatives and increasing our portfolio of product suites; •the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels; •failure to accurately predict the impact of acquired businesses or to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, and successfully integrate such acquired businesses and technologies; •perceived or actual technical or other problems with a product or combination of products; •unexpected or negative outcomes of matters and expenses relating to litigation or regulatory inquiries; •increases in cloud services-related expenses;•security breaches and potential financial penalties to customers and government entities;•timing of additional investments in the development of our platform or deployment of our services;•timing of product releases and retirements; •changes in tax laws or regulations, tax arrangements with foreign governments or accounting rules, such as increased use of fair value measures; •changes in revenue recognition or other accounting guidelines employed by us and/or established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other rule-making bodies;•changes in sales compensation practices; •failure to effectively implement our copyright legalization programs, especially in developing countries; •failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products; •renegotiation or termination of royalty or intellectual property arrangements; •interruptions or terminations in the business of our consultants or third-party developers;•the timing and degree of expected investments in growth and efficiency opportunities; •failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements;  •catastrophic events or natural disasters;2015 Form 10-K  20Table of Contents •regulatory compliance costs;•potential goodwill impairment charges related to prior acquisitions; and•adjustments arising from ongoing or future tax examinations.We have also experienced fluctuations in financial results in interim periods in certain geographic regions due to seasonality or regional economic or political conditions. In particular, our financial results in Europe during our third quarter are usually affected by a slower summer period, and our Asia Pacific operations typically experience seasonal slowing in our third and fourth quarters.  Our operating expenses are based in part on our expectations for future revenue and are relatively fixed in the short term. Accordingly, any revenue shortfall below expectations has had, and in the future could have, an immediate and significant adverse effect on our profitability. Greater than anticipated expenses or a failure to maintain rigorous cost controls would also negatively affect profitability. Our business could suffer as a result of risks, costs, and charges associated with strategic acquisitions and investments.We regularly acquire or invest in businesses, software products and technologies that are complementary to our business through acquisitions, strategic alliances or equity or debt investments. For example, in fiscal 2015 we acquired Delcam, a leading supplier of advanced CADCAM and industrial measurement solutions for the manufacturing industry. The risks associated with such acquisitions include, among others, the difficulty of assimilating products, operations and personnel, inheriting liabilities such as intellectual property infringement claims, the failure to realize anticipated revenue and cost projections, the requirement to test and assimilate the internal control processes of the acquired business in accordance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the diversion of management's time and attention. In addition, such acquisitions and investments involve other risks such as: •the inability to retain customers, key employees, vendors, distributors, business partners, and other entities associated with the acquired business; •the potential that due diligence of the acquired business or product does not identify significant problems; •exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, or other third parties; •the potential for incompatible business cultures;  •significant higher than anticipated transaction or integration-related costs;  •potential additional exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and•the potential impact on relationships with existing customers, vendors, and distributors as business partners as a result of acquiring another business.We may not be successful in overcoming such risks, and such acquisitions and investments may negatively impact our business. In addition, such acquisitions and investments have in the past and may in the future contribute to potential fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. These fluctuations could arise from transaction-related costs and charges associated with eliminating redundant expenses or write-offs of impaired assets recorded in connection with acquisitions and investments. These costs or charges could negatively impact our financial results for a given period, cause quarter to quarter variability in our financial results or negatively impact our financial results for several future periods. 2015 Form 10-K  21Table of Contents Because we derive a substantial portion of our net revenue from a small number of products, including our AutoCAD-based software products and suites, if these products are not successful, our revenue will be adversely affected. We derive a substantial portion of our net revenue from sales of licenses of a limited number of our products, including AutoCAD software, products based on AutoCAD, which include our suites that serve specific markets and products that are interoperable with AutoCAD. Any factor adversely affecting sales of these products, including the product release cycle, market acceptance, product competition, performance and reliability, reputation, price competition, economic and market conditions, and the availability of third-party applications, would likely harm our financial results. During fiscal 2015 and 2014, combined revenue from our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products, not including suites having AutoCAD or AutoCAD LT as a component, represented 28% and 30% of our total net revenue, respectively. A breach of security in our products, services or computer systems may compromise the integrity of our products or services, harm our reputation, create additional liability and adversely impact our financial results. We make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our source code and computer systems. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity, and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. These threats include but are not limited to identity theft, unauthorized access, DNS attacks, wireless network attacks, viruses and worms, advanced persistent threat (APT), application centric attacks, peer-to-peer attacks, phishing, backdoor trojans, and distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks.  Any of the foregoing could attack our pro