RISK FACTORSWe operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves significant risks, a number of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following discussion highlights some of these risks and the possible impact of these factors on our business, financial condition and future results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted, causing the trading price of our common stock to decline. In addition, these risks and uncertainties may impact the “forward-looking” statements described 2014 Form 10-K  14Table of Contents elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. They could affect our actual results of operations, causing them to differ materially from those expressed in “forward-looking” statements. Global economic conditions may further impact our business, financial results and financial condition. As our business has expanded globally, we have increasingly become subject to risks arising from adverse changes in global economic and political conditions. The past several years have been characterized by weak global economic conditions, a tightening in the credit markets, relatively high unemployment, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, increased government deficit spending and debt levels, uncertainty about certain governments' abilities to repay such debt or to address certain fiscal issues (such as “austerity” measures in Southern Europe), and volatility in many financial instrument markets. While some recent indicators point to a slow economic recovery, on the whole indicators continue to suggest a mixed trend in economic activity among the different geographical regions and markets.Over the past several years, many of our customers have experienced tighter credit, negative financial news and weaker financial performance of their businesses and have reduced their workforces, thereby reducing the number of licenses and the number of maintenance contracts they purchase from us. In addition, a number of our customers rely, directly and indirectly, on government spending. Current debt balances of many countries without proportionate increases in revenues have caused many countries to reduce spending and in some cases have forced those countries to restructure their debt in an effort to avoid defaulting under those obligations. This has not only impacted those countries but others that are holders of such debt and those assisting in such restructuring. These actions may impact, and over the past several years have negatively impacted, our business, financial results and financial condition. In addition, these factors are causing, and over the past several years have caused, us to restructure our business and in turn we have and will incur restructuring charges. Moreover, our financial performance may be negatively impacted by: •lack of credit available to and the insolvency of key channel partners, which may impair our distribution channels and cash flows; •counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury functions, including timely access to our cash reserves and third-party fulfillment of hedging transactions; •counterparty failures negatively affecting our insured risks; •inability of banks to honor our existing line of credit, which could increase our borrowing expenses or eliminate our ability to obtain short-term financing; and •decreased borrowing and spending by our end users on small and large projects in the industries we serve, thereby reducing demand for our products. Even if economic conditions in the U.S. and foreign markets improve generally, a slower economic recovery in industries important to our business, such as the manufacturing and digital media and entertainment industries, may adversely affect our business, financial results and financial condition.  If a macro-economic recovery does not occur as rapidly as anticipated, our ability to meet our long-term financial targets may also be adversely affected.Existing and increased competition and rapidly evolving technological changes may reduce our revenue and profits. The software industry has limited barriers to entry, and the availability of computing devices with continually expanding performance at progressively lower prices contributes to the ease of market entry. The industry is presently undergoing a platform shift from the personal computer to cloud and mobile computing. This shift further lowers barriers to entry and poses a disruptive challenge to established software companies. The markets in which we compete are characterized by vigorous competition, both by entry of competitors with innovative technologies and by consolidation of companies with complementary products and technologies. In addition, some of our competitors in certain markets have greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources. Furthermore, a reduction in the number and availability of compatible third-party applications, or our inability to rapidly adapt to technological and customer preference changes, including those related to cloud computing, mobile devices, and new computing platforms, may adversely affect the sale of our products. Because of these and other factors, competitive conditions in the industry are likely to intensify in the future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced net revenue and profit margins and loss of market share, any of which would likely harm our business. 2014 Form 10-K  15Table of Contents We believe that our future results largely depend upon our ability to offer products that compete favorably with respect to reliability, performance, ease of use, range of useful features, continuing product enhancements, reputation and price. If we fail to successfully manage our business model transition to cloud-based products and more flexible product licenses, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.To address the industry transition from personal computer to cloud, social, and mobile computing, we have accelerated our move to the cloud and are offering more flexible product licenses.  While we expect to increase our subscription base, value per subscription, billings, bookings, ratable and recurring revenue over time as a result of this business model transition, our ability to achieve these financial objectives is subject to risks and uncertainties. The new offerings require a considerable investment of technical, financial, legal and sales resources, and a scalable organization. Market acceptance of such offerings is affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: security, reliability, performance, current license terms, customer preference, social/community engagement, customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage their data, public concerns regarding privacy and the enactment of restrictive laws or regulations. Whether our business model transition will prove successful and will accomplish our business and financial objectives is subject to numerous uncertainties, including but not limited to: customer demand, attach and renewal rates, channel acceptance, our ability to further develop and scale infrastructure, our ability to include functionality and usability in such offerings that address customer requirements, tax and accounting implications, pricing and our costs.  In addition, the metrics we use to gauge the status of our business model transition may evolve over the course of the transition as significant trends emerge.  If we are unable to successfully establish these new offerings and navigate our business model transition in light of the foregoing risks and uncertainties, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.Our strategy to develop and introduce new products and services exposes us to risks such as limited customer acceptance, costs related to product defects and large expenditures that may not result in additional net revenue or could result in decreased net revenue.  Rapid technological changes, as well as changes in customer requirements and preferences, characterize the software industry. Just as the transition from mainframes to personal computers transformed the industry 30 years ago, we believe our industry is undergoing a similar transition from the personal computer to cloud, mobile and social computing. Customers are also reconsidering the manner in which they license software products, which requires us to constantly evaluate our business model and strategy. In response, we are focused on providing solutions to enable our customers to be more agile and collaborative on their projects. We are also developing consumer products for digital art, personal design and creativity, and home design. We devote significant resources to the development of new technologies. In addition, we frequently introduce new business models or methods that require a considerable investment of technical and financial resources such as an increase in our portfolio of, and focus on, suites and, most recently, our introduction of flexible license and service offerings. We are making such investments through further development and enhancement of our existing products and services, as well as through acquisitions of new product lines. Such investments may not result in sufficient revenue generation to justify their costs and could result in decreased net revenue. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, either with respect to our software products or the manner in which we provide such products, or if we are not able to adapt our business model to meet our customers' requirements, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted.In particular, a critical component of our growth strategy is to have customers of our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products expand their portfolios to include our suites and cloud-based services. Over time, we aim to migrate customers using standalone Autodesk products to expand their portfolio with our suites and cloud-based offerings. At times, sales of licenses of our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT or standalone Autodesk flagship products have decreased without a corresponding increase in suites product or cloud-based services revenue or without purchases of customer seats to our suites.  Should this continue, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Also, adoption of our cloud and mobile computing offerings and changes in the delivery of our software and services to our customers, such as desktop subscription (formally referred to as rental) offerings, will change the way in which we recognize revenue relating to our software and services, with a potential negative impact on our financial performance.  The accounting impact of these offerings and other business decisions are expected to result in an increase in the percentage of our ratable revenue, as well as recurring revenue, making for a more predictable business over time, while correspondingly reducing our upfront perpetual revenue stream.  Additionally, the software products we offer are complex, and despite extensive testing and quality control, may contain errors or defects. These errors or defects could result in the need for corrective releases to our software products, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, an increase in product returns or lack of market acceptance of our products, any of which would likely harm our business. 2014 Form 10-K  16Table of Contents Further, given the rapid speed of changing customer expectations and advancement of technology inherent in the software industry, the extensive and complex efforts required to create useful and widely accepted products and the rapid evolution of cloud computing, mobile devices, new computing platforms and other technologies, such as consumer products, our executive management team must act quickly, continuously and with vision. Although we have articulated a strategy that we believe will fulfill these challenges, if we fail to execute properly on that strategy, adapt that strategy as market conditions evolve or fail to internalize and execute on that strategy, we may fail to meet our customers' expectations, fail to compete with our competitors' products and technology and lose the confidence of our channel partners and employees. This in turn could adversely affect our business and financial performance. We are dependent on international revenue and operations, exposing us to significant regulatory, global economic, intellectual property, collections, currency exchange rate, taxation, political instability and other risks, which could adversely impact our financial results. We are dependent on our international operations for a significant portion of our revenue. International net revenue represented 70% and 71% of our net revenue in fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. Our international revenue, including that from emerging economies, is subject to general economic and political conditions in foreign markets, including conditions in foreign markets resulting from economic and political conditions in the U.S. Our revenue is also impacted by the relative geographical and country mix of our revenue over time. These factors have recently adversely impacted and may in the future adversely impact our international revenue, and consequently our business as a whole. Our dependency on international revenue makes us much more exposed to global economic and political trends, which can negatively impact our financial results, even if our results in the U.S. are strong for a particular period. Further, a significant portion of our earnings from our international operations may not be freely transferable to the U.S. due to remittance restrictions, adverse tax consequences or other factors. Our intent is that amounts related to foreign earnings permanently reinvested outside the U.S. will remain outside the U.S., and we will meet our U.S. liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings (such as our Senior Notes), or both. However, if, in the future, amounts held by foreign subsidiaries are needed to fund our operations in the U.S., or to service our external borrowings, the repatriation of such amounts to the U.S. could result in a significant incremental tax liability in the period in which the decision to repatriate occurs and payment of any such tax liability would reduce the cash available to fund our operations.We anticipate that our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our net revenue, and, as we expand our international development, sales and marketing expertise, will provide significant support to our overall efforts in countries outside of the U.S. Risks inherent in our international operations include fluctuating currency exchange rates, including risks related to any hedging activities we undertake, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and practices, delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions, transportation delays, operating in locations with a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent business practices, particularly in emerging economies, increasing enforcement by the U.S. under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, adoption of stricter anti-corruption laws in certain countries, including the United Kingdom, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales and development operations, longer collection cycles for accounts receivable, potential changes in tax laws, including possible U.S. and foreign tax law changes that, if enacted, could significantly impact how multinational companies are taxed, tax arrangements with foreign governments, including our ability to meet and review the terms of those tax arrangements, and laws regarding the management of and access to data and public networks, possible future limitations upon foreign owned businesses, increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities, inadequate local infrastructure, greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property, and other factors beyond our control, including popular uprisings, terrorism, war, natural disasters and diseases. Some of our business partners also have international operations and are subject to the risks described above. Even if we are able to successfully manage the risks of international operations, our business may be adversely affected if our business partners are not able to successfully manage these risks.Our financial results fluctuate within each quarter and from quarter to quarter making our future revenue and financial results difficult to predict. Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and will continue to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to change significantly or experience declines. In addition to the other factors described in this Part I, Item 1A, some of the factors that could cause our financial results to fluctuate include: •general market, economic, business and political conditions in particular geographies, including Europe and emerging economies, 2014 Form 10-K  17Table of Contents •failure to produce sufficient revenue, billings or subscription growth and profitability,•results and future projections related to our business model transition, •confusion on the part of analysts and investors about the short-term and long-term impact to our business resulting from our business model transition;•weak or negative growth in one or more of the industries we serve, including architecture, engineering and construction, manufacturing, education and digital media and entertainment markets, •dependence on and the timing of large transactions, •changes in product mix, pricing pressure or changes in product pricing, •changes in billings linearity,•fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the effectiveness of our hedging activity, •the ability of governments around the world to adopt fiscal policies, meet their financial and debt obligations, and to finance infrastructure projects, •lower growth or contraction of our upgrade or maintenance programs, •failure to achieve and maintain planned cost reductions and productivity increases,•the effectiveness of our internal business reorganization,•restructuring or other accounting charges and unexpected costs or other operating expenses, •failure to expand our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products customer base to related design products, •our inability to rapidly adapt to technological and customer preference changes, including those related to cloud computing, mobile devices, and new computing platforms, •the timing of the introduction of new products by us or our competitors, •the success of new business or sales initiatives and increasing our portfolio of product suites, •the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels, •failure to accurately predict the impact of acquired businesses or to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, and successfully integrate such acquired businesses and technologies, •perceived or actual technical or other problems with a product or combination of products, •unexpected or negative outcomes of matters and expenses relating to litigation or regulatory inquiries, •failure to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance of key new applications, •increases in cloud services-related expenses,•security breaches and potential financial penalties to customers and government entities,•timing of additional investments in the development of our platform or deployment of our services,•timing of product releases and retirements, 2014 Form 10-K  18Table of Contents •failure to continue momentum of frequent release cycles or to move a significant number of customers from prior product versions in connection with our programs to retire major products, •changes in tax laws or regulations, tax arrangements with foreign governments or accounting rules, such as increased use of fair value measures, •changes in sales compensation practices, •failure to effectively implement our copyright legalization programs, especially in developing countries, •failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products, •renegotiation or termination of royalty or intellectual property arrangements, •interruptions or terminations in the business of our consultants or third party developers,•the timing and degree of expected investments in growth and efficiency opportunities, •failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements,  •catastrophic events or natural disasters,•regulatory compliance costs,•costs associated with acquisitions of companies and technologies,•potential goodwill impairment charges related to prior acquisitions, and•adjustments arising from ongoing or future tax examinations.We have also experienced fluctuations in financial results in interim periods in certain geographic regions due to seasonality or regional economic conditions. In particular, our financial results in Europe during our third quarter are usually affected by a slower summer period, and our Asia Pacific operations typically experience seasonal slowing in our third and fourth quarters.  Our operating expenses are based in part on our expectations for future revenue and are relatively fixed in the short term. Accordingly, any revenue shortfall below expectations have had, and in the future could have, an immediate and significant adverse effect on our profitability. Greater than anticipated expenses or a failure to maintain rigorous cost controls would also negatively affect profitability. Our business could suffer as a result of risks, costs and charges associated with strategic acquisitions and investments such as our fiscal 2015 acquisition of Delcam plc (“Delcam”).We regularly acquire or invest in businesses, software products and technologies that are complementary to our business through acquisitions, strategic alliances or equity or debt investments. For example, we recently acquired Delcam, a leading supplier of advanced CADCAM and industrial measurement solutions for the manufacturing industry. The risks associated with such acquisitions include, among others, the difficulty of assimilating products, operations and personnel, inheriting liabilities such as intellectual property infringement claims, the failure to realize anticipated revenue and cost projections, the requirement to test and assimilate the internal control processes of the acquired business in accordance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the diversion of management's time and attention. In addition, such acquisitions and investments involve other risks such as: •the inability to retain customers, key employees, vendors, distributors, business partners, and other entities associated with the acquired business; 2014 Form 10-K  19Table of Contents •the potential impact on relationships with existing customers, vendors and distributors as business partners as a result of acquiring another business; •the potential that due diligence of the acquired business or product does not identify significant problems; •the potential for incompatible business cultures;  •significant higher than anticipated transaction or integration-related costs;  •potential additional exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and•exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, or other third parties. We may not be successful in overcoming such risks, and such acquisitions and investments may negatively impact our business. In addition, such acquisitions and investments have in the past and may in the future contribute to potential fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. These fluctuations could arise from transaction-related costs and charges associated with eliminating redundant expenses or write-offs of impaired assets recorded in connection with acquisitions and investments. These costs or charges could negatively impact our financial results for a given period, cause quarter to quarter variability in our financial results or negatively impact our financial results for several future periods. If we do not maintain good relationships with the members of our distribution channel, or achieve anticipated levels of sell-through, our ability to generate revenue will be adversely affected. If our distribution channel suffers financial losses, becomes financially unstable or insolvent, or is not provided the right mix of incentives to sell our products, our ability to generate revenue will be adversely affected. We sell our software products both directly to end-users and through a network of distributors and resellers. For fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013, approximately 84% and 83%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from indirect channel sales through distributors and resellers, and we expect that the majority of our revenue will continue to be derived from indirect channel sales in the future. Our ability to effectively distribute our products depends in part upon the financial and business condition of our distributor and reseller network. Computer software distributors and resellers typically are not highly capitalized, have previously experienced difficulties during times of economic contraction and experienced difficulties during the past several years. We have processes to ensure that we assess the creditworthiness of distributors and resellers prior to our sales to them. In the past we have taken steps to support them, and may take additional steps in the future, such as extending credit terms and providing temporary discounts. These steps, if taken, could harm our financial results. If our distributors and resellers were to become insolvent, they would not be able to maintain their business and sales, or provide customer support services, which would negatively impact our business and revenue. We rely significantly upon major distributors and resellers in both the U.S. and international regions, including the distributor Tech Data Corporation and its global affiliates (“Tech Data”). Tech Data accounted for 24% and 23% of our total net revenue for fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. Although we believe that we are not substantially dependent on Tech Data, if Tech Data were to experience a significant disruption with its business or if our relationship with Tech Data were to significantly deteriorate, it is possible that our ability to sell to end users would be, at least temporarily, negatively impacted. This could in turn negatively impact our financial results. Over time, we have modified and will continue to modify aspects of our relationship with our distributors and resellers, such as their incentive programs, pricing to them and our distribution model to motivate and reward them for aligning their businesses with our strategy and business objectives. Changes in these relationships and underlying programs could negatively impact their business and harm our business. In addition, the loss of or a significant reduction in business with those distributors or resellers or the failure to achieve anticipated levels of sell-through with any one of our major international distributors or large resellers could harm our business. In particular, if one or more of such distributors or resellers were unable to meet their obligations with respect to accounts payable to us, we could be forced to write off such accounts and may be required to delay the recognition of revenue on future sales to these customers. These events could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Because we derive a substantial portion of our net revenue from a small number of products, including our AutoCAD-based software products and suites, if these products are not successful, our revenue will be adversely affected. 2014 Form 10-K  20Table of Contents We derive a substantial portion of our net revenue from sales of licenses of a limited number of our products, including AutoCAD software, products based on AutoCAD, which include our suites that serve specific markets, upgrades to those products and products that are interoperable with AutoCAD. Any factor adversely affecting sales of these products, including the product release cycle, market acceptance, product competition, performance and reliability, reputation, price competition, economic and market conditions and the availability of third-party applications, would likely harm our financial results. During fiscal 2014 and 2013, combined revenue from our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products, not including suites having AutoCAD or AutoCAD LT as a component, represented 30% and 33% of our total net revenue, respectively. A significant portion of our revenue is generated through maintenance revenue; decreases in maintenance attach or renewal rates or a decrease in the number of new licenses we sell would negatively impact our future revenue and financial results. Our maintenance customers have no obligation to attach maintenance to their initial license or renew their maintenance contract after the expiration of their initial maintenance period, which is typically one year. Our customers' attach and renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the overall global economy, the health of their businesses, and the perceived value of the maintenance program. If our customers do not attach maintenance to their initial license or renew their maintenance contract for our products, our maintenance revenue will decline and our financial results will suffer. In addition, a portion of the growth of our maintenance revenue has typically been associated with growth of the number of licenses that we sell. Any reduction in the number of licenses that we sell, even if our customers' attach rates do not change, will have a negative impact on our future maintenance revenue. This in turn would impact our business and harm our financial results. We recognize maintenance revenue ratably over the term of the maintenance contracts, which is predominantly one year, but may also range up to five years. Decreases in net maintenance billings will negatively impact future maintenance revenue, however future maintenance revenue will also be impacted by other factors such as the amount, timing and mix of contract terms of future billings. Our restructuring and cost reduction actions may not be as effective as anticipated.During fiscal years 2013 and 2014, we undertook restructuring plans.  If we are unable to realize the outcomes from the restructuring efforts as planned, we may need to undertake additional restructuring efforts, and our business and operating results may be harmed.  In taking any future restructuring actions, we may incur additional costs that negatively impact our operating margins.  Additionally, a prolonged and slow economic recovery or a renewed recession in U.S. or foreign markets could also lead to additional restructuring actions and associated costs.In the past, we have taken actions to reduce our cost structure to more closely align our costs with our revenue levels. In taking these actions, we have attempted to balance the cost of such initiatives against their longer term benefits. If we do not achieve the proper balance of these cost reduction initiatives, we may eliminate critical elements of our operations, the loss of which could negatively impact our ability to benefit from an economic recovery. We cannot assure that our cost cutting efforts will achieve appropriate levels of expenses, and we may take additional actions in the future. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. Because we conduct a substantial portion of our business outside the U.S. and we make certain business and resource decisions based on assumptions about foreign currency, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and economic conditions change, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. We use derivative instruments to manage a portion of our cash flow exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As part of our risk manageme