GENERALWe are a global leader in design software and services, offering customers productive business solutions through powerful technology products and services. We serve customers in the architecture, engineering and construction; product design and manufacturing; and digital media and entertainment industries. Customers are able to design and create better things and processes by visualizing, simulating and analyzing real-world performance early in the design process. These capabilities allow our customers to foster innovation, optimize and improve their designs, save time and money, improve quality, communicate plans, and collaborate with others. Our professional software products are sold globally, both directly to customers and through a network of resellers and distributors.SegmentsWe report segment information based on the “management” approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions, allocating resources and assessing performance as the source of our reportable segments. Prior to the third quarter of fiscal 2017, we had four operating segments: Architecture, Engineering, and Construction (“AEC”), Manufacturing (“MFG”), Platform Solutions and Emerging Business (“PSEB”), and Media and Entertainment (“M&E”). As a result of our business model transition, there have been a number of changes in the business including the shift from selling perpetual licenses to subscription-based offerings and organizational changes in how the business is managed including a restructuring announced in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. In the third quarter of fiscal 2017, these organizational changes resulted in a change in the internal reporting provided to our chief operating decision maker (“CODM”). These internal reports are used by the CODM to assess the performance of the business on a consolidated basis. Accordingly, our CODM now allocates resources and assesses the operating performance of Autodesk as a whole.  As such, beginning in the third quarter of 2017 Form 10-K  4Table of Contents fiscal 2017, we concluded that we had one segment manager (the CODM), one operating segment, and one reporting unit for goodwill impairment purposes.A summary of our revenue by geographic area and product family is found in Note 13, “Segments,” in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.Corporate InformationWe were incorporated in California in April 1982 and were reincorporated in Delaware in May 1994. Our principal executive office is located at 111 McInnis Parkway, San Rafael, California 94903, and the telephone number at that address is (415) 507-5000. Our internet address is www.autodesk.com. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investor Relations portion of our web site at www.autodesk.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The public may also read and copy any material we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E. Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 (800) SEC-0330.PRODUCTSOur architecture, engineering and construction products improve the way building, civil infrastructure, process plant and construction projects are designed, built, and used. Our product development and manufacturing software provides manufacturers in automotive, transportation, industrial machinery, consumer products and building products with comprehensive digital engineering solutions that bring together data from all phases of the product development and production life cycle, creating a single digital model. Our digital media and entertainment products provide tools for digital sculpting, modeling, animation, effects, rendering, and compositing for design visualization, visual effects and games production. Our portfolio of products and services enables our customers to foster innovation, optimize and improve their designs, save time and money, improve quality, communicate plans, and collaborate with others. Autodesk’s product offerings include:•AutoCADAutoCAD software, which is our largest single revenue-generating product, is a customizable and extensible CAD application for professional design, drafting, detailing, and visualization. AutoCAD software provides digital tools that can be used independently and in conjunction with other specific applications in fields ranging from construction and civil engineering to manufacturing and plant design.•AutoCAD LTAutoCAD LT software is purpose built for professional drafting and detailing. AutoCAD LT includes document sharing capability without the need for software customization or certain advanced functionality found in AutoCAD. Users can share all design data with team members who use AutoCAD or other Autodesk products built on AutoCAD. AutoCAD LT software is our second largest revenue-generating product.•Industry CollectionsLaunched in August 2016, Autodesk's Industry Collections, our newest subscription offerings, provide our customers with increased access to a broader selection of Autodesk products, greater value, more flexibility, and a simpler way to subscribe and manage Autodesk subscriptions. To make way for industry collections, we ended the sale of the Design and Creation Suites on July 31, 2016, including Building Design Suites, Infrastructure Design Suites, and Product Design Suites. The collections are tailored to provide the essential software needed by professionals within each industry: AEC, Product Design, and M&E.  The AEC Collection aims to help our customers design, engineer, and construct higher quality, more predictable building and civil infrastructure projects, commonly used by AEC industry experts, such as AutoCAD, AutoCAD Civil3D, and Revit. 2017 Form 10-K  5Table of Contents The Product Design Collection offers connected, professional-grade tools that help our customers make great products today and compete in the changing manufacturing landscape of the future. The collection offers access to a wide range of our products, including AutoCAD and Inventor.The M&E Collection provides end-to-end creative tools for entertainment creation. This collection enables animators, modelers and visual effect artists to access the tool they need, including Maya and 3ds Max, to create compelling effects, 3D characters and digital worlds.•3ds Max3ds Max software provides 3D modeling, animation, and rendering solutions that enable game developers, design visualization professionals and visual effects artists to digitally create realistic images, animations, and complex scenes and to digitally communicate abstract or complex mechanical, architectural, engineering, and construction concepts.•MayaMaya software provides 3D modeling, animation, effects, rendering and compositing solutions that enable film and video artists, game developers, and design visualization professionals to digitally create engaging, lifelike images, realistic animations and simulations, extraordinary visual effects, and full length animated feature films.•RevitRevit software is built for Building Information Modeling ("BIM") to help professionals design, build, and maintain higher-quality, more energy-efficient buildings. Using the information-rich models created with Revit, architects, engineers, and construction firms can collaborate to make better-informed decisions earlier in the design process to deliver projects with greater efficiency. Revit includes features for architectural, mechanical, electrical and plumbing design as well as structural engineering and construction, providing a comprehensive solution for the entire building project team.•InventorInventor enables manufacturers to go beyond 3D design to digital prototyping by giving engineers a comprehensive and flexible set of tools for 3D mechanical design, simulation, analysis, tooling, visualization, and documentation. Engineers can integrate AutoCAD drawings and model-based design data into a single digital model, creating a virtual representation of a final product that enables them to validate the form, fit, and function of the product before it is ever built.•AutoCAD Civil 3DAutoCAD Civil 3D products provide a surveying, design, analysis, and documentation solution for civil engineering, including land development, transportation, and environmental projects. Using a model-centric approach that automatically updates documentation as design changes are made, AutoCAD Civil 3D products enable civil engineers, designers, drafters, and surveyors to significantly boost productivity and deliver higher-quality designs and construction documentation faster. With AutoCAD Civil 3D products, the entire project team works from the same consistent, up-to-date model so they stay coordinated throughout all project phases.•CAM SolutionsOur computer-aided manufacturing ("CAM") software, obtained via our Delcam acquisition, offers industry-leading solutions for Computer Numeric Control ("CNC") machining, inspection, and modelling for manufacturing. A comprehensive line-up of expert products, including PowerMill, FeatureCAM, PowerInspect, PowerShare, and others, help our customers manufacture complex, innovative products and components with maximum quality, control, and production efficiency.•Fusion 360Fusion 360 is the first 3D CAD, CAM, and Computer-aided Engineering ("CAE") tool of its kind. It connects the entire product development process on a single cloud-based platform that works on both Apple and PC operating systems. 2017 Form 10-K  6Table of Contents •BIM 360BIM 360 construction management software enables almost anytime, anywhere access to project data throughout the building construction lifecycle. BIM 360 empowers those in the field to better anticipate and act, and those in the back office to optimize and manage all aspects of construction performance.•ShotgunShotgun is cloud-based software for review and production tracking in the M&E industry. Creative companies use the Shotgun platform to provide essential business tools for managers and visual collaboration tools for artists and supervisors, who often work globally with distributed teams. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND INTRODUCTIONThe technology industry is characterized by rapid technological change in computer hardware, operating systems, and software. In addition, our customers’ requirements and preferences rapidly evolve, as do their expectations of the performance of our software and services. To keep pace with these changes, we maintain a vigorous program of new product development to address demands in the marketplace for our products. The software industry is undergoing a transition from the personal computer to cloud, social, and mobile computing. In fiscal 2017, we continued to successfully implement a strategic transition of our business model announced in fiscal 2014. To support our transition, effective February 1, 2016, we discontinued the sale of new commercial seats of most individual software products, which are now exclusively available by desktop subscription, and discontinued selling perpetual licenses of suites while introducing industry collections effective August 1, 2016. Industry collections allow access to a broad set of products and cloud services that exceeds those previously available in suites - simplifying the customers' ability to access a complete set of industry tools. We now offer term-based product subscriptions for individual products and industry collections, cloud service offerings, and flexible enterprise business agreements ("new model subscription offerings"). These offerings are designed to give our customers increased flexibility with how they use our products and service offerings and to attract a broader range of customers such as project-based users and small businesses. The transition to a subscription model reflects the significant and growing interaction of our desktop software and our cloud services, working together to bring an integrated workflow to our customers.We dedicate considerable technical and financial resources to research and development to further enhance our existing products and to create new products and technologies to expand our market opportunity. For example, in fiscal 2017, we continued strategically investing in digital manufacturing by bringing together a number of products and technologies, focused on providing integrated solutions for additive, subtractive, hybrid manufacturing, robotics and simulation. Digital manufacturing solutions provide our customers with the tools necessary to advance their manufacturing and production software, processes and systems in order to achieve efficiency and cost reduction improvements. Digital manufacturing provides a unique opportunity for these customers to connect designing, making, and using. We anticipate ongoing investments in digital manufacturing and other product groups to both serve existing customers and expand market opportunity.Research and development expenditures were $766.1 million or 38% of fiscal 2017 net revenue, $790.0 million or 32% of fiscal 2016 net revenue and $725.2 million or 29% of fiscal 2015 net revenue. The increase in research and development expenditures as a percentage of revenue compared to fiscal 2016 and 2015 was driven by the decrease in our total revenue as a result of our business model transition. Our software is primarily developed internally; however, we also use independent firms and contractors to perform some of our product development activities. Additionally, we acquire products or technology developed by others by purchasing or licensing products and technology from third parties. We continually review these investments in an effort to ensure that we are generating sufficient revenue or gaining a competitive advantage to justify their costs.  The majority of our research and product development is performed in the United States, China, Singapore, Canada, and the United Kingdom. However, we employ experienced software developers in many of our other locations. Translation and localization of our products are performed in a number of local markets, principally Singapore and Switzerland. We generally localize and translate our products into German, French, Italian, Spanish, Russian, Japanese, Korean, and simplified and traditional Chinese.We plan to continue managing significant product development operations internationally over the next several years. We believe that our ability to conduct research and development at various locations throughout the world allows us to optimize 2017 Form 10-K  7Table of Contents product development, lower costs, and integrate local market knowledge into our development activities. We continually assess the significant costs and challenges, including intellectual property protection, against the benefits of our international development activities.For further discussion regarding risks from our product development and introduction efforts, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”MARKETING AND SALESWe license or sell our products and services globally, primarily through indirect channels consisting of distributors and resellers. To a lesser extent we also transact directly with our enterprise and named account customers and with customers through our digitally transacted online Autodesk branded store. Our indirect channel model includes both a two-tiered distribution structure, where distributors sell to resellers, and a one-tiered structure, where Autodesk sells directly to resellers. We have a network of approximately 1,700 resellers and distributors worldwide. For fiscal 2017, approximately 72% of our revenue was derived from indirect channel sales through distributors and resellers, and we expect that the majority of our revenue will continue to be derived from indirect channel sales in the future.     We anticipate that our channel mix will continue to change, particularly as we scale our digitally transacted online Autodesk branded store business and our largest accounts shift towards direct-only business models. Importantly, we expect our indirect channel will continue to transact and support the majority of our revenue as we move beyond the business model transition. We employ a variety of incentive programs and promotions to align our reseller channel with our business strategies.Sales through our largest distributor, Tech Data Corporation and its global affiliates, accounted for 30%, 25%, and 25% of our net revenue for fiscal years 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. We believe our business is not substantially dependent on Tech Data. Our customers through Tech Data are the resellers and end users who purchase our software licenses and services. Should any of the agreements between us and Tech Data be terminated for any reason, we believe the resellers and end users who currently purchase our products through Tech Data would be able to continue to do so under substantially the same terms from one of our many other distributors without substantial disruption to our revenue. No other distributor, reseller, or direct customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue.Our customer-related operations are divided into three geographic regions, the Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (“EMEA”), and Asia Pacific (“APAC”). Each geographic region is supported by global marketing and sales organizations. These organizations develop and manage overall marketing and sales programs and work closely with a network of domestic and international sales offices. Fiscal 2017 net revenue in the Americas, EMEA, and APAC was $871.9 million (43%), $800.4 million (39%), and $358.7 million (18%), respectively. We intend to continue to make our products available in foreign languages. We believe that international sales will continue to comprise the majority of our total net revenue. Adverse economic conditions and currency exchange rates in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue, including emerging economies, may have an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. A summary of our financial information by geographic location is found in Note 13, “Segments,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our international operations and sales subject us to a variety of risks; see Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion.We also work directly with reseller and distributor sales organizations, computer manufacturers, other software developers, and peripherals manufacturers in cooperative advertising, promotions, and trade-show presentations. We employ mass-marketing techniques such as webcasts, seminars, telemarketing, direct mailings, sponsorships, advertising in business and trade journals, and social media. We have a worldwide user group organization and we have created online user communities dedicated to the exchange of information related to the use of our products and services.  We generate revenue primarily through various offerings that provide recurring revenue. The largest is our maintenance plan program, under which customers who own a perpetual use license for the most recent version of the underlying product are able to renew a previously purchased maintenance plan that provides them with unspecified upgrades when and if available, and receive online support during the term of their maintenance contract. We also offer subscriptions which provide our customers with flexible term-based licenses of our software and services. With the discontinuation of the sale of most perpetual licenses, we have accelerated our transition away from selling a mix of perpetual licenses and maintenance plans toward a single subscription model.2017 Form 10-K  8Table of Contents Our ability to effectively distribute our products depends in part upon the financial and business condition of our distributor and reseller networks. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, business with any one of our major distributors or large resellers could harm our business; see Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion.CUSTOMER AND RESELLER SUPPORTWe provide technical support and training to customers through a multi-tiered support model, augmented by direct programs designed to address certain specific customer needs. Most of our customers receive support and training from the resellers and distributors from which they purchased subscriptions or licenses for our products or services, with Autodesk in turn providing second tier support to the resellers and distributors. Other customers are supported directly via self-service using the Autodesk Knowledge Network which guides customers to answers in our online support assets, support forums, webinars or to support representatives using a number of different modalities such as social media, phone, email and webchat. We also support our resellers and distributors through technical product training, sales training classes, webinars and other knowledge sharing programs. EDUCATION, SUSTAINABILITY, AND PHILANTHROPIC PROGRAMSEducationAutodesk is committed to helping fuel a lifelong passion for design and making among students of all ages. We offer free educational subscriptions of Autodesk's professional software to students, educators, and educational institutions worldwide. Through Autodesk Design Academy, we provide secondary and postsecondary schools hundreds of standards-aligned class projects to support design-based disciplines in Science, Technology, Engineering, Digital Arts, and Math (STEAM) using Autodesk's professional-grade design, engineering and entertainment software. Autodesk Design Academy curricula is also syndicated on iTunes U and Udemy, where millions of students go to learn online. Classes are available on our Instructables website for anyone looking to expand their "making" skills. Our intention is to make Autodesk software ubiquitous and the design software of choice for those poised to become the next generation of professional users.Sustainability ProgramsTo help our customers imagine, design, and create a better world, our Sustainability initiatives focus our efforts on the area where we can have the greatest impact enabling sustainable practices through our products delivering free sustainable-design learning and training resources, providing software grants to qualifying nonprofits and entrepreneurs, and leading by example with our sustainable business practices. Through our products and services, we are supporting our customers to better understand and improve the environmental performance of everything they make.Climate ChangeIn addressing the global challenges posed by climate change, we make it possible for our customers to innovate and respond to associated changes in regulation, building code, physical climate parameters and other climate-related developments.  This effort can directly and indirectly create more demand for existing and new Autodesk products and services in the short and long-term. Furthermore, our leadership is committed to taking climate action and that commitment goes hand-in-hand with our reputation in the marketplace.Climate Change Management ActionsTo drive continued progress and meet growing demand, we continue to expand the solutions, education, and support we offer, helping customers secure a competitive advantage for a low carbon future by designing high-performance buildings, resilient cities and infrastructure, and more efficient transportation and products. To continue to grow this market, we provide software and support to early stage entrepreneurs and start-up companies who are designing clean technologies. We plan to expand these offerings in the future based upon demand and opportunity in response to challenges posed by climate change.Internally, we are investing in best practices to mitigate our greenhouse gas emissions and climate change risk through investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency, disaster management and recovery strategies, and materials innovation. We are on track to meet our science-based greenhouse gas reduction target of 43% absolute emissions by 2020.2017 Form 10-K  9Table of Contents Climate Change GovernanceUltimately, our co-CEOs, have the highest level of direct responsibility for addressing our climate-change related risks and opportunities. Autodesk has established an Environmental Core Team which reports indirectly to our co-CEOs. The Environmental Core Team has direct responsibility for setting and implementing the corporate sustainability strategy, including the climate change strategy. Emissions Performance & Other Key Performance IndicatorsBy end of fiscal 2016, Autodesk had reduced its greenhouse gas emissions for its operational boundary by 33% from our fiscal year 2009 baseline to 172,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent. This reduction was accomplished through increased investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency in our global real estate portfolio, and continued transition from physical software delivery to cloud and electronic software delivery. In fiscal 2017, we added emissions from our supply chain to our measurement boundary. More information about our sustainability commitment can be found in our annual sustainability reports, which we have published on our website since 2008.  Our fiscal 2017 sustainability report will be published in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.PhilanthropyThe Autodesk Foundation (the "Foundation"), a privately funded 501(c)(3) charity organization established and solely funded by us, leads our philanthropic efforts. The purpose of the Foundation is twofold: to support employees to create a better world at work, at home, and in the community by matching employee’s volunteer time and/or donations to nonprofit organizations; and to support organizations and individuals using design to drive positive social and environmental impact. In the latter case, we use grant funding, software donations, and training to accomplish this goal, selecting the most impactful and innovative organizations around the world, thus, leading to a better future for our planet. On our behalf, the Foundation also administers a discounted software donation program to nonprofit organizations, social and environmental entrepreneurs, and others who are developing design solutions that will shape a more sustainable future. DEVELOPER PROGRAMSOur business and our customers benefit from our relationships with an extensive developer network. These developers create and sell their own interoperable products that further enhance the range of integrated solutions available to our customers. One of our key strategies is to maintain an open-architecture design of our software products to facilitate third-party development of complementary products and industry-specific software solutions. This approach enables customers and third-parties to customize solutions for a wide variety of highly specific uses. We offer several programs that provide strategic investment funding, technological platforms, user communities, technical support, forums, and events to developers who develop add-on applications for our products. For example, we have created our web services platform, Autodesk Forge. The Forge Platform includes a number of web services that enable software developers to rapidly develop the next generation of applications, and experiences that will power the future of making things. Forge facilitates the development of a single connected ecosystem for integrating Autodesk applications with other enterprise, web and mobile solutions.COMPETITIONThe markets for our products are highly competitive, are subject to rapid change, and can have complex interdependencies between many of the larger businesses. We strive to increase our competitive separation by investing in research and development, allowing us to bring new products to market and create exciting new versions of existing products that offer compelling efficiencies for our customers. We also compete through investments in marketing and sales to more effectively reach new customers and better serve existing customers.Our competitors include large, global, publicly traded companies; small, geographically focused firms; startup firms; and solutions produced in-house by their users. Our primary global competitors include Adobe Systems Incorporated, ANSYS, Inc., Apple Inc., AVEVA Group plc, Avid Technology, Inc., Bentley Systems, Inc., Dassault Systèmes S.A. and its subsidiary Dassault Systèmes SolidWorks Corp., Environmental Systems Research Institute, Inc. (ESRI), Intergraph Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hexagon AB, MSC Software Corporation, Nemetschek AG, PTC, 3D Systems, Siemens PLM, SONY Corporation, Technicolor, and Trimble Navigation Limited, among others.The software industry has limited barriers to entry, and the availability of computing power with continually expanding performance at progressively lower prices contributes to the ease of market entry. The industry is presently undergoing a 2017 Form 10-K  10Table of Contents platform shift from the personal computer to cloud and mobile computing. This shift further lowers barriers to entry and poses a disruptive challenge to established software companies. The design software market is characterized by vigorous competition in each of the vertical markets in which we compete, both from existing competitors and by entry of new competitors with innovative technologies. Competition is increasingly enhanced by consolidation of companies with complementary products and technologies and the possibility that competitors in one vertical segment may enter other vertical segments that we serve. In addition, some of our competitors in certain markets have greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, and other resources than we do. Because of these and other factors, competitive conditions in these industries are likely to continue to intensify in the future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced net revenue and profit margins, and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion of risks regarding competition.We believe that our future results depend largely upon our ability to better serve customers by offering new products, including cloud and mobile computing products, whether by internal development or acquisition, and to continue to provide existing product offerings that compete favorably with respect to ease of use, reliability, performance, range of useful features, continuing product enhancements, reputation, price, and training.INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND LICENSESWe maintain an active program to legally protect our investment in technology through intellectual property rights. We protect our intellectual property through a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protections, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions. The nature and extent of legal protection associated with each such intellectual property right depends on, among other things, the type of intellectual property right and the given jurisdiction in which such right arises. We believe that our intellectual property rights are valuable and important to our business.Nonetheless, our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, the laws and enforcement of the laws of various foreign countries where our products are distributed do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. Enforcement of intellectual property rights against alleged infringers can sometimes lead to costly litigation and counterclaims. Our inability to protect our proprietary information could harm our business.From time to time, we receive claims alleging infringement of a third party’s intellectual property rights, including patents. Disputes involving our intellectual property rights or those of another party have in the past and may in the future lead to, among other things, costly litigation or product shipment delays, which could harm our business.We retain ownership of software we develop. Desktop software is licensed to users pursuant to ‘click through’ or signed license agree