GENERALWe are a global leader in design software and services, offering customers productive business solutions through powerful technology products and services. We serve customers in the architecture, engineering and construction; manufacturing; and digital media, consumer, and entertainment industries. Our sophisticated software products enable our customers to experience their ideas before they are real. Customers are able to imagine, design, and create their ideas by visualizing, simulating and analyzing real-world performance early in the design process by creating and manipulating digital prototypes. These capabilities allow our customers to foster innovation, optimize and improve their designs, save time and money, improve quality, communicate plans, and collaborate with others. Our professional software products are sold globally, both directly to customers and through a network of resellers and distributors. Additionally, we offer tools and user communities for personal design and creativity. These applications and user communities are available over the Internet and through various digital storefronts, including the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store. SegmentsWe report based on four reportable operating segments:•Architecture, Engineering, and Construction (“AEC”), which accounted for 38% of our net revenue in fiscal 2016;•Manufacturing (“MFG”), which accounted for 29% of our net revenue in fiscal 2016; 2016 Form 10-K  4Table of Contents •Platform Solutions and Emerging Business (“PSEB”), which accounted for 27% of our net revenue in fiscal 2016; and•Media and Entertainment (“M&E”), which accounted for 6% of our net revenue in fiscal 2016.A summary of our net revenue and results of operations for our business segments is found in Note 13, “Segments,” in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.Our AEC, MFG, and PSEB segments derive revenue from the sale of licenses and subscriptions for software products and services to customers who design, build, and own buildings, infrastructure, and manufactured products. In addition to software products, the AEC, MFG, and PSEB segments offer a range of services, including consulting, support, and training, largely dedicated to enhancing our ability to sell licenses and subscriptions to our software products. Our M&E segment derives revenue from the sale of licenses and subscriptions for software products to creative professionals, post-production facilities, and broadcasters for a variety of applications, including feature films, television programs, commercials, music and corporate videos, interactive game production, web design, and interactive web streaming. In addition, our animation products produced by our M&E segment are often used by customers of products from our other segments for the visualization of their designs.The principal products and services of these segments include the following: •Flagship products, which accounted for approximately 45% of our net revenue in fiscal 2016, are our core individual horizontal, vertical, and model-based design products including AutoCAD, AutoCAD LT, AutoCAD Mechanical, AutoCAD Civil 3D, AutoCAD Architecture, AutoCAD Map, Autodesk Maya, and 3ds Max.•Suites, which accounted for approximately 37% of our net revenue in fiscal 2016, are a combination of products that target a specific user objective (product design, building design, etc.) and support a set of workflows for that objective, including Autodesk Building Design Suites, Autodesk Product Design Suites, Autodesk Infrastructure Design Suites, and AutoCAD Design Suites.•New and Adjacent products, which accounted for approximately 18% of our net revenue in fiscal 2016, are new product offerings as well as products that are not considered flagship or suites, including Delcam, Moldflow, Alias Design, Vault, and Autodesk Creative Finishing products.Corporate InformationWe were incorporated in California in April 1982 and were reincorporated in Delaware in May 1994. Our principal executive office is located at 111 McInnis Parkway, San Rafael, California 94903, and the telephone number at that address is (415) 507-5000. Our internet address is www.autodesk.com. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investor Relations portion of our web site at www.autodesk.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The public may also read and copy any material we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E. Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 (800) SEC-0330.PRODUCTSThe principal product offerings from Autodesk’s different segments are as follows:AECOur AEC software products help to improve the way building, civil infrastructure, process plant and construction projects are designed, built, and used. A broad portfolio of solutions enables greater efficiency, accuracy, and sustainability across the entire project lifecycle. Our AEC solutions include advanced technology for building information modeling (“BIM”), AutoCAD-based design and documentation productivity software, sustainable design analysis applications, collaboration, and project management solutions. BIM, an integrated process for building and infrastructure design, analysis, documentation, and construction, uses consistent, coordinated information to improve communication and collaboration between the extended project team. AEC provides a comprehensive portfolio of BIM solutions that help customers deliver projects faster and more economically, while minimizing environmental impact. The segment’s principal product offerings included the following during fiscal 2016:2016 Form 10-K  5Table of Contents •Autodesk Building Design Suites    Autodesk Building Design Suites ("BDS") give the power of BIM or computer-aided design ("CAD"), with tools for modeling, visualization, and documentation. With a comprehensive set of tools, BDS gives customers the ability to manage all phases of design and construction. Three editions of BDS are available to meet each customer's particular business needs and offer the depth and breadth of the Autodesk portfolio.•Autodesk Infrastructure Design SuitesThe Infrastructure Design Suites are the BIM for Infrastructure design solution that combines intelligent, model-based tools to help the user to gain more accurate, accessible, and actionable insight. With unique access to the Autodesk infrastructure software portfolio, users can benefit throughout the execution and lifecycle of transportation, land, and water projects. Three editions of Infrastructure Design Suites are available to meet each customer's particular business needs and offer the depth and breadth of the Autodesk portfolio.• AutoCAD Civil 3DAutoCAD Civil 3D products provide a surveying, design, analysis, and documentation solution for civil engineering, including land development, transportation, and environmental projects. Using a model-centric approach that automatically updates documentation as design changes are made, AutoCAD Civil 3D products enable civil engineers, designers, drafters, and surveyors to significantly boost productivity and deliver higher-quality designs and construction documentation faster. With AutoCAD Civil 3D products, the entire project team works from the same consistent, up-to-date model so they stay coordinated throughout all project phases.•AutoCAD Map 3DAutoCAD Map 3D software provides direct access to data needed for infrastructure planning, design, and management activities. AutoCAD Map 3D software helps professionals working on transportation, land development, water, and power projects to more easily create, manage, and analyze design geographic information system and asset data.•Autodesk Revit Purpose-built for BIM, the Autodesk Revit products collect information about a building project and allow this information to be coordinated across all other representations of the project, so that every drawing sheet, 2D and 3D view and schedule is based on internally consistent and complete information from the same underlying building database. The Autodesk Revit products, including AutoCAD Revit Architecture Suite, AutoCAD Revit MEP Suite, and AutoCAD Revit Structure Suite, provide an intuitive, sophisticated, model-based design and documentation system for architects; mechanical, electrical, and plumbing ("MEP") engineers; structural engineers; design-build teams; and other design and building industry professionals.MFGOur MFG segment provides manufacturers in automotive and transportation, industrial machinery, consumer products and building products with comprehensive digital engineering solutions that bring together data from all phases of the product development and production life cycle creating a single digital model based on Autodesk Inventor software. Our solutions are scalable, attainable, cost-effective, and allow for real-world simulation, enabling a broad group of manufacturers to realize benefits with minimal disruption to existing workflows. In addition, Autodesk is redefining the product development process with the introduction of a cloud-based Product Innovation Platform consisting of next generation technologies like Fusion 360 and PLM 360. These solutions support manufacturers' transformation to "agile" based product development processes versus the traditional "waterfall" cycle conventional PLM technologies offer. MFG’s principal product offerings included the following during fiscal 2016:•Autodesk Product Design Suites Autodesk Product Design Suites ("PDS") is a comprehensive solution for digital prototyping, delivering 3D design, visualization and simulation tools to complete the entire engineering process. The digital prototyping capabilities of PDS can help customers design better products, reduce development costs and get to market faster. Two editions of PDS are available to meet each customer's particular business needs and offer the depth and breadth of the Autodesk portfolio.2016 Form 10-K  6Table of Contents •AutoCAD MechanicalAutoCAD Mechanical software is purpose-built to accelerate the mechanical design process. AutoCAD Mechanical software offers users significant productivity gains and helps save hours of design time by including all the functionality of AutoCAD software, in addition to comprehensive libraries of standards-based parts and tools for automating common design tasks.•Autodesk DelcamThe Autodesk Delcam family of products provides CAD and computer-aided manufacturing ("CAM") software for the manufacturing industry. PowerMILL, Delcam's leading product, is a CAM software solution allowing production of complex shapes, providing our customers with advanced toolpath strategies to minimize machining times and maximize component quality.•Autodesk MoldflowThe Autodesk Moldflow family of injection molding simulation software provides tools that help manufacturers optimize the design of plastic parts and injection molds, and study the injection molding process.•Autodesk Inventor Autodesk Inventor allows manufacturers to go beyond 3D design to digital prototyping by giving engineers a comprehensive and flexible set of tools for 3D mechanical design, simulation, analysis, tooling, visualization, and documentation. With Autodesk Inventor, engineers can integrate AutoCAD drawings and model-based design data into a single digital model, creating a virtual representation of a final product that enables them to validate the form, fit, and function of the product before it is ever built. •Autodesk PLM 360PLM 360 is a cloud-based product lifecycle management ("PLM") application that automates key tasks related to the management of processes, projects, and people. Because PLM 360 is on the cloud, software deployment, management and organizational access to data can be achieved instantly compared to traditional PLM technologies.•Autodesk Fusion 360Fusion 360 offers a cloud-based product development environment comprising CAD, CAM, and computer-aided engineering ("CAE") software which enables an integrated concept-to-production toolset. Fusion 360 enables manufacturers to integrate industrial design, mechanical engineering, simulation and manufacturing workflows, in a single solution that supports data management and collaboration on the cloud.PSEBOur PSEB segment includes our design platform product, AutoCAD. AutoCAD underpins our design product offerings for all the industries we serve. For example, our AEC and MFG segments offer tailored versions of AutoCAD software for their respective industries. AutoCAD also provides a platform for our developer partners to build custom solutions for a range of diverse design-oriented markets. PSEB's revenue primarily includes revenue from sales of licenses of our design products, AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT, as well as the AutoCAD Design Suite and many other design and consumer products. The segment’s principal product offerings included the following during fiscal 2016:•AutoCADAutoCAD software, which is our largest single revenue-generating product, is a customizable and extensible CAD application for professional design, drafting, detailing, and visualization. AutoCAD software provides digital tools that can be used independently and in conjunction with other specific applications in fields ranging from construction to manufacturing, civil engineering, and process plant design.2016 Form 10-K  7Table of Contents •AutoCAD LTAutoCAD LT software is purpose built for professional drafting and detailing. AutoCAD LT includes document sharing capability without the need for software customization or certain advanced functionality found in AutoCAD. Users can share all design data with team members who use AutoCAD or other Autodesk products built on AutoCAD. AutoCAD LT software is our second largest revenue-generating product.M&EOur M&E segment consists of two product groups: Animation and Creative Finishing. Animation products are sold as software only and provide tools for digital sculpting, modeling, animation, effects, rendering, and compositing for design visualization, visual effects and games production. Creative Finishing products are sold as software solutions for editing, finishing and visual effects design and color grading. Principal product offerings in our M&E segment’s Animation and Creative Finishing product groups included the following during fiscal 2016:Animation•Autodesk MayaAutodesk Maya software provides 3D modeling, animation, effects, rendering and compositing solutions that enable film and video artists, game developers, and design visualization professionals to digitally create engaging, lifelike images, realistic animations and simulations, extraordinary visual effects, and full length animated feature films.•Autodesk 3ds MaxAutodesk 3ds Max software provides 3D modeling, animation, and rendering solutions that enable game developers, design visualization professionals and visual effects artists to digitally create realistic images, animations, and complex scenes and to digitally communicate abstract or complex mechanical, architectural, engineering, and construction concepts.Creative Finishing•Autodesk Flame and Autodesk LustreAutodesk Flame software is an interactive real-time design, finishing, grading, and visual effects solution for supervised post-production. Autodesk Lustre software is a high-performance color grading solution used by artists for creative look development and final color and lighting effects for both film and television. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND INTRODUCTIONThe technology industry is characterized by rapid technological change in computer hardware, operating systems, and software. In addition, our customers’ requirements and preferences rapidly evolve, as do their expectations of the performance of our software. To keep pace with these changes, we maintain a vigorous program of new product development to address demands in the marketplace for our products. The software industry is undergoing a transition from the personal computer to cloud, social, and mobile computing. In fiscal 2016, we continued to successfully implement a strategic transition of our business model announced in fiscal 2014. We accelerated our move to the cloud and expanded our flexible product license offerings. We continued to expand desktop subscription for a broader range of our product portfolio, expanded our token-based licensing program to more enterprise customers, and continued to expand our industry-leading cloud-based offerings, including the launch of our North American eStore which creates a better customer experience and can meaningfully increase the volume of our online business. These offerings are designed to give our customers even more value and flexibility to use our products, and also to attract new types of customers, such as project-based users and small businesses that have more variable needs. Further, to support our transition, effective February 1, 2016, we discontinued the sale of new commercial seats of most individual software products, which are now exclusively available by desktop subscription, and we plan to discontinue selling perpetual licenses of suites products effective August 1, 2016. We dedicate considerable technical and financial resources to research and development to further enhance our existing products and to create new products and technologies to expand our market opportunity. For example, in fiscal 2016, we began 2016 Form 10-K  8Table of Contents investing in an Internet of Things ("IoT") platform integrated with our cloud infrastructure. IoT will allow our customers to develop applications for predictive maintenance, improved design quality, and smarter connected design systems. We believe that IoT will play an increasingly important role for our customers as the buildings and products they design contain embedded sensors and computation. IoT provides a unique opportunity for our customers to connect designing, making, and using. We anticipate ongoing investment in IoT to both serve existing customers and expand market opportunity.Research and development expenditures were $790.0 million or 32% of fiscal 2016 net revenue, $725.2 million or 29% of fiscal 2015 net revenue and $611.1 million or 27% of fiscal 2014 net revenue. Our software is primarily developed internally; however, we also use independent firms and contractors to perform some of our product development activities. Additionally, we acquire products or technology developed by others by purchasing or licensing products and technology from third parties. We continually review these investments in an effort to ensure that we are generating sufficient revenue or gaining a competitive advantage to justify their costs. The majority of our research and product development is performed in the United States, China, Singapore, and Canada. However, we employ experienced software developers in many of our other locations. Translation and localization of our products are performed in a number of local markets, principally Singapore and Switzerland. We generally localize and translate our products into German, French, Italian, Spanish, Russian, Japanese, Korean, and simplified and traditional Chinese.We plan to continue to manage significant product development operations internationally over the next several years. We believe that our ability to conduct research and development at various locations throughout the world allows us to optimize product development, lower costs, and integrate local market knowledge into our development activities. We continually assess the significant costs and challenges, including intellectual property protection, against the benefits of our international development activities.In addition, our business and our customers benefit from our relationships with a network of over 4,100 third-party developers who develop and sell their own products that further enhance the range of integrated solutions available to our customers.For further discussion regarding risks from our product development and introduction efforts, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”MARKETING AND SALESWe license or sell our products and services globally, primarily through indirect channels consisting of distributors and resellers. To a lesser extent we also transact directly with a select set of customers who are primarily large corporations. Our indirect channel model includes both a two-tiered distribution structure, where distributors sell to resellers, and a one-tiered structure, where Autodesk sells directly to resellers. We have a network of approximately 2,000 resellers and distributors worldwide. For fiscal 2016, approximately 79% of our revenue was derived from indirect channel sales through distributors and resellers, and we expect that the majority of our revenue will continue to be derived from indirect channel sales in the future. We anticipate that our channel mix will change to support our new business model and are proactively working with our channel partners to ensure a smooth transition. We employ a variety of incentive programs and promotions to align our reseller channel with our business strategies. Sales through our largest distributor, Tech Data Corporation and its affiliates, accounted for 25%, 25%, and 24% of our net revenue for fiscal years 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. We believe our business is not substantially dependent on Tech Data. Our customers through Tech Data are the resellers and end users who purchase our software licenses and services. Should any of the agreements between us and Tech Data be terminated for any reason, we believe the resellers and end users who currently purchase our products through Tech Data would be able to continue to do so under substantially the same terms from one of our many other distributors without substantial disruption to our revenue. No other distributor, reseller, or direct customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue.Our customer-related operations are divided into three geographic regions, the Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (“EMEA”), and Asia Pacific (“APAC”). Each geographic region is supported by global marketing and sales organizations. These organizations develop and manage overall marketing and sales programs and work closely with a network of domestic and international sales offices. Fiscal 2016 net revenue in the Americas, EMEA, and APAC was $972.8 million (39%), $934.6 million (37%), and $596.7 million (24%), respectively. We intend to continue to make our products available in foreign languages. We believe that international sales will continue to comprise the majority of our total net revenue. Adverse economic conditions and currency exchange rates in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue, including emerging economies, may have an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. A summary of our financial information by geographic location is found in Note 13, “Segments,” in the Notes to Consolidated 2016 Form 10-K  9Table of Contents Financial Statements. Our international operations and sales subject us to a variety of risks; see Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion.We also work directly with reseller and distributor sales organizations, computer manufacturers, other software developers, and peripherals manufacturers in cooperative advertising, promotions, and trade-show presentations. We employ mass-marketing techniques such as webcasts, seminars, telemarketing, direct mailings, sponsorships, advertising in business and trade journals, and social media. We have a worldwide user group organization and we have created online user communities dedicated to the exchange of information related to the use of our products.We generate revenue through several subscription-based business models in addition to perpetual use software license sales. The largest is our maintenance program, under which customers who own a perpetual use license for the most recent version of the underlying product are able to purchase maintenance that provides them with unspecified upgrades when-and-if-available and are able to download e-Learning courses and receive online support over a one year or multi-year maintenance service period. We also offer more flexible term-based license offerings to our customers.Our ability to effectively distribute our products depends in part upon the financial and business condition of our distributor and reseller networks. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, business with any one of our major distributors or large resellers could harm our business; see Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion.CUSTOMER AND RESELLER SUPPORTWe provide technical support and training to customers through a multi-tiered support model, augmented by direct programs designed to address certain specific customer needs. Most of our customers receive support and training from the resellers and distributors from which they purchased subscriptions or licenses for our products or services, with Autodesk in turn providing second tier support to the resellers and distributors. Other customers are supported directly via self-service using the Autodesk Knowledge Network which guides customers to answers in our online support assets, support forums, webinars or to support representatives using a number of different modalities such as social media, phone, email and webchat. We also support our resellers and distributors through technical product training, sales training classes, webinars and other knowledge sharing programs. EDUCATION, SUSTAINABILITY, AND PHILANTHROPIC PROGRAMSEducationAutodesk is committed to helping fuel a lifelong passion for design in students of all ages. We offer free educational licenses of Autodesk software worldwide to students, educators, and educational institutions. In fiscal 2016, we initiated Project Ignite, a free and open learning platform delivering a unique package of technology, learning content, and services created specifically for the classroom. The Project Ignite learning platform additionally offers classroom bundles, which include hardware such as 3D printers and electronics kits along with professional development and training services to help educators.  Through Autodesk Design Academy, we provide secondary and postsecondary school markets hundreds of standards-aligned class projects to support design-based disciplines in Science, Technology, Engineering, Digital Arts, and Math (STEAM) while using Autodesk's professional-grade 3D design, engineering and entertainment software used in industry. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2016, we also made Autodesk Design Academy curricula available on iTunes U. Our intention is to make Autodesk software ubiquitous and the design software of choice for those poised to become the next generation of professional users.Sustainability ProgramsTo help our customers imagine, design, and create a better world, our Sustainability Programs focus our efforts where we can have the greatest impact: providing sustainability solutions, delivering sustainable design learning and training opportunities, expanding access to technology, and leading by example with our sustainable business practices. This benefits our customers, who use our products and services to improve design decisions to have long-term positive social and environmental impacts. Through the Autodesk Foundation, the Autodesk Technology Impact Program, and the Autodesk Entrepreneur Program, we’re helping nonprofits and entrepreneurs design high-impact solutions to social and environmental challenges by providing them with funding, training, and easy access to our professional software suites at either no charge or for a small license fee. 2016 Form 10-K  10Table of Contents Climate ChangeAutodesk recognizes inherent opportunities related to climate change, which have potential to expand our business. Opportunities driven by changes in regulation, changes in building code, physical climate parameters and other climate-related developments can directly and indirectly create more demand for existing and new Autodesk products and services in the short and long-term. Opportunities relating to Autodesk’s leadership on climate action can further improve our reputation in the marketplace.Climate Change Management ActionsTo drive continued progress and meet growing demand, we continue to expand the solutions, education, and support we offer, helping customers secure a competitive advantage for a low carbon future by designing high-performance buildings, resilient cities and infrastructure, and more efficient transportation and products. To continue to grow this market, we provide software and support to early stage entrepreneurs and start-up companies who are designing clean technologies. We plan to expand these offerings in the future based upon demand and opportunity in response to challenges posed by climate change.Internally, we are investing in best practices to mitigate our greenhouse gas emissions and climate change risk through investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency, disaster management and recovery strategies, and materials innovation. We are on track to meet our science-based greenhouse gas reduction target of 43% absolute emissions by 2020.Climate Change GovernanceUltimately, our CEO, Carl Bass, has the highest level of direct responsibility for addressing our climate-change related risks and opportunities. Autodesk has established an Environmental Core Team which reports indirectly to Mr. Bass. The Environmental Core Team has direct responsibility for setting and implementing the corporate sustainability strategy, including the climate change strategy. Emissions Performance & Other Key Performance IndicatorsAutodesk has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions for its operational boundary by 27% from our fiscal year 2009 baseline to 76,700 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent. This reduction was accomplished through increased investment in renewable energy, LEED certification and energy efficiency in our global real estate portfolio, and continued transition from physical software delivery to cloud and electronic software delivery. More information about our sustainability commitment can be found in our annual sustainability reports, which we have published on our website since 2008.PhilanthropyThe Autodesk Foundation (the "Foundation"), a privately funded 501(c)(3) charity organization established and solely funded by us, leads our philanthropic efforts. The purpose of the Foundation is twofold: to support employees to create a better world at work, at home, and in the community by matching employee’s volunteer time and/or donations to nonprofit organizations; and to support organizations and individuals using design to drive positive social and environmental impact. In the latter case, we use grant funding, software donations, and training to accomplish this goal, selecting the most impactful and innovative organizations around the world, thus, leading to a better future for our planet. On our behalf, the Foundation also administers a discounted software donation program to nonprofit organizations, social and environmental entrepreneurs, and others who are developing design solutions that will shape a more sustainable future. DEVELOPER PROGRAMSOne of our key strategies is to maintain an open-architecture design of our software products to facilitate third-party development of complementary products and industry-specific software solutions. This approach enables customers and third parties to customize solutions for a wide variety of highly specific uses. We offer several programs that provide strategic investment funding, technological platforms, user communities, technical support, forums, and events to developers who develop add-on applications for our products. For example, we have established the Autodesk Spark program to support ideas that push the boundaries of 3D printing and nurture the companies that will advance innovations within 3D printing hardware and software. We have also created the Autodesk Forge program to support innovators that build solutions to facilitate the development of a single connected ecosys