 Get ready for the digital world in woodworking with the cloud platform tapio. This is Mr. Cass. He is the managing director of a woodworking company. He knows that digitization is becoming increasingly important. His machines are already networked and communicating with each other. But with the aid of a cloud platform and the IoT, Mr. Cass can take the production to a new level. What is behind this? IoT stands for "Internet of Things" This means that machines and other everyday objects are networking with the Internet and can independently communicate with each other. The data is exchanged through a secure storage space on the Internet. This is called the cloud. But how will Mr. Cass's company become part of this? It's simple: with tapio, the open cloud platform for the woodworking industry. It centrally combines Mr. Cass's machine data on an Internet server and evaluates how it can be optimized. His anonymized data and that of numerous other cloud users are creating the foundation for new product developments. These will make the production even more efficient and transparent. Here is an example: Mr. Cass uses an app to get an overview of the costs and machine utilization and this across all company locations. He can be confident all data are in the best hands, because tapio uses the highest data security standards. In the event that the data ever get lost locally Mr. Cass easily retrieves them with a few clicks from the cloud. The machine operator, Mr. Barth, remotely controls his machines. He uses his smart watch-for example-to monitor the production progress and the condition of the machines. This gives Mr. Barth flexibility and freedom, which he can use for things such as breaks. If a problem arises, the app notifies him with an error message. This is accompanied by a suitable solution based on experiences from the cloud. The production planning and maintenance also profit from tapio. Thanks to a real time overview of the machine conditions, the production is much easier to plan. Repairs are scheduled proactively, since the system provides current information on the condition of a machine part. Another advantage is that even partners and tool manufacturers are linked through the open platform. Mr. Cass and his team are delighted! tapio takes the work of their company to a new digital level. Thanks to transparent processes and new digital products solutions, they can relax because they know the business and the machines are running. You too can benefit from the global network of the woodworking industry. More information about tapio is available here. tapio digital. wood. works. 