 Hi, my name is Adam Kocoloski. I'm an IBM Fellow and the CTO for Watson's Data Platform. As an IBM Fellow and CTO I'm ultimately responsible for a lot of the technical strategy within my business. Identifying new technology trends that are relevant to the business leadership and sort of charting out the course for us to anticipate what's next in the world of technology and how we can apply it to make our clients most successful. So  in the world of Watson's Data Platform we are doing our best. We are working-- around the clock to build out a cloud-native data lake environment. What does that mean? We've had a lot of people who clearly have recognized that data is a natural resource that they want to accumulate and derive insight from. And we're also seeing, of course, the resurgence? No, the real, sort of-- coming into production of large-scale cloud platforms. So this intersection of the world of public cloud and-- large-scale data environments derives-- really demands a new approach to the way that people derive insights from data. And that approach is, sort of, nowhere more apparent than in this world of the Internet of things, where you have orders of magnitude more connected devices generating orders of magnitude more data than we used to have where most data came from human interactions with computers. And so in Watson's Data Platform we're really taking a step back and looking at how do we give people what they expect from, you know, sort of a centralized data management platform, and do it in a way that takes advantage of the elasticity and flexibility and agility of the public cloud? You know, as a CTO, you're responsible for advising the business on the right technical strategy. And you know, I think in 2017 it's both a challenging and very exciting time to be in that capacity, because the pace of innovation and the introduction of new technologies has never been faster. You see companies across the board adopting open source and contributing to open source, and introducing new technologies one after the other that are, sort of, disrupting things that were only introduced six to 12 months earlier. So, you know, on the one hand it's incredibly exciting to be a part of that world that is moving so very rapidly. But on the other hand, you know, you don't want to end up in a position where you're making strategic decisions based on sound bites. You know, it's imperative to have some authenticity. To have, really, hands-on experience with the technologies on which you're gonna bet the business. And so I think the tension there is how do you, sort of, stay abreast of things that truly are cutting edge, but get deep enough into the ones on which you're gonna make a real key bet? And I think, you know, that tension is just part of-- all of our lives, sort of, in this technology space right now. But it makes it a very sort of-- fun environment in which to work. So yeah, I think as you are seeing really commercial applications of smart, connected devices-- sort of burgeon beyond the-- the, sort of, early adopters into more of a universal adoption across the industry-- I think you'll see at least a lot of-- optimization around the basics of getting devices online, managing the telemetry and sorta just coping with the scale of things, right? I think where you're going to see a lot of activity in the next couple of years is on the intersection of A.I. algorithms and connected devices. If you look at the way people interact with A.I. today, it's really very cloud-based. You know, algorithms are trained in the cloud, but they're also deployed in the cloud. And you talk to cloud-based APIs in order to do that inferencing, whether it's image recognition or conversational systems or what have you. The world of IoT demands a somewhat different approach, though, where really part of that algorithm needs to be deployed to the device. Either because, like in a connected car scenario, you really have much more stringent latency requirements, or simply because you want that device to operate in more challenging environments where you may not have pervasive connectivity to the cloud. And I think you're starting to see in the research side, people take a hard look at the way these networks are designed and how they can be decomposed and split across the cloud and the edge. And I-- personally I feel like that's gonna be one of the biggest-- technology trends over the next couple of years, is seeing that come into production. Yeah, so the-- the world of app design, I think-- is certainly gonna be influenced by the challenges of IoT. I think you see this, actually, first in the mobile application space. If you look at a lot of mobile applications today, they're designed to be fully cloud-connected all the time. But some folks are taking a harder look at how you can build progressive web applications. How you can build offline applications that really give the best possible user experience regardless of the connectivity. They enhance themselves when connectivity is available, right? But they're able to operate in all kinds of environments. And I think you're going to see-- a bit of cross-pollination and a lot of support from the worlds of mobile application development and the world of, sort of, edge framework processing-- and a lot of, sort of, learning-- across both sides. After that, you know, I think-- application developers and designers are fundamentally creative people, and I think it's gonna be driven by the business use cases for these different connected devices. How do you turn digital disruption from an end unto itself as to really recognizing that it is a means to an end? For some people, it's readily apparent. You know, their business has been disrupted by a new entrant into the space, right? And I think many, sort of, C-suite executives are realizing that their most dangerous competition may come from someone who's not even currently in their industry, right? And I think that's one of the driving forces behind them taking a look at what a digital transform requires. And you know, so I think for many of them, you know, you sorta see the leading indicators-- because of, you know, digital companies who are changing your users' expectations around how the service you provide or the product you provide is going to be consumed, right? So I guess, you know, for some people-- you know, if digital transformation seems like a journey being taken for the sake of itself-- you know, I think the thing to look at is the existing streams of revenue, the existing customer base, and how their experience today may be different than the way they're consuming social media, the way they're consuming digital services, the way they're consuming things in their personal life. Because someone's going to make that connection between the convenience and effectiveness and efficiency of the way they're doing things in the digital world, and demand that kind of transformation occurs in the business itself. 