 Hello and welcome to another “All About Apps” edition from the Cleveroad studio. Today we are talking about Internet of Things and a veiled threat behind it. Analytics talk about the fast-growing IoT market, which is more than just a technological phenomenon. It promises new possibilities to the business and economical models as well as fundamentally better quality of life to its users. However, as every new concept it may bring some hidden threats and risks. How it works The IoT technology turns around advanced human-machine interaction, cloud computing, progressive mobile and virtual connections, networks of data-gathering sensors. The idea is to make everything in our life 'smart'. In order to provide real-time responses the data is compiled and analyzed by the applications, based on servers. Intuitive mobile applications enable end-users to control devices remotely. So, who plays its cards around IoT? IoT development has two sides: - one is consumer devices, - other is the software and infrastructure. Most software development companies increase their range of services by developing IoT applications. The most prosperous scope is wearable devices. Developing smart watches and smart glasses apps is becoming as common as mobile and web development. Though many companies are struggling to ride the wave in IoT solutions development, only a few of them are capable to deal with all the computing, storage, networking and database needs. For example, Google has introduced its new IoT platform Brillo which will allow its users to run all connected to the Internet home electronics, including light bulbs, speakers, locks and thermostats. Bright prospects of the Internet of Things make it hard enough to forecast all possible imperfections. Nevertheless, developers are aware of the crucial problems that can prevent IoT from being a world-spread concept as it is aimed to be. Until recently, the main problem of the Internet of Things was the exhaustion of IPv4-address. With the introduction of IPv6, this barrier was overcome. But the safety issues are still urgent. All about data security of Android apps you can find out in our previous video, here is the link On the one hand, the Internet of things carries many advantages; on the other it can affect the user's private life. Starting from unauthorized access to any home-device, finishing with calculation of medication dosages and free admission to money resources from any outsider who has access to the application. Next problem of the IoT is energy efficiency. Getting dependent on the connected devices we need to be sure that at some point we won't be trapped because of a smartphone battery discharge. The necessity of increasing the battery life and providing the infrastructure of charging stations comes up. And the solutions are being actively suggested. For instance, the Israel project StoreDot offers a fully charged battery in a few seconds. The synchronization question remains open. For efficient work and increasing demand for Internet-connected devices, they need to be quickly and accurately synchronized. The Internet of Things is not the distant future, but a reality to reckon with, adjusting strategies to meet the new conditions. The full version of an article you can find at the Cleveroad blog. Subscribe to our channel and wait for a new research about the cost of a website in 2017. Take care of yourself. See you soon! 