BUSINESSServiceNow’s purpose is to make the world of work, work better for people. We believe that people should work the way they want to, so we build applications that help automate existing processes and create efficient, digitized workflows. Our products and services enable the steps of a job to flow naturally across disparate departments, systems and processes of a business. When work flows naturally, great experiences follow.We deliver digital workflows on a single enterprise cloud platform called the Now Platform®. Our product portfolio is currently focused on providing Information Technology (IT), Employee and Customer workflows in pre-packaged product offerings. We also enable our customers to use the Now Platform App Engine to design and build workflow applications that are purpose built for their own business. Getting a job done in an enterprise (what we call a “workflow”) usually requires different people in various functions of an organization to work together. Often they rely on different technology systems and inefficient, manual processes. One example, to illustrate, is the new hire process. When a new employee is hired, he or she needs to be set up in the employer’s HR system of record and payroll, have a desk assigned, get a computer, get access to necessary internal systems, and perform other tasks. Successfully onboarding the new employee requires different departments of the business, utilizing different systems and databases, to coordinate and complete their specific tasks. Our digital workflow platform transforms the old, manual ways of completing these tasks. A new employee’s manager approves the new hire’s specifics in the HR systems; that approval triggers a notification to the facilities team so they can assign a desk to the new employee; that assignment triggers a notification to the IT group for computer and systems access configuration, etc. Each person acting in this workflow only needs to use the Now Platform. The digital management of this workflow is possible because our technology platform hides the complexity of working across multiple, siloed departments and systems of record to make work flow more seamlessly. This enables our customers to deliver their employees the experiences they want and their customers the service they expect. Our digital workflow management tools are applied across an enterprise and in complex and sophisticated workflows.The Now Platform is the foundation of our IT, Employee and Customer workflow offerings. The Now Platform has one code base and one data model, which allows our applications and those developed by our customers to work seamlessly with each other. Any workflow used in an enterprise is a candidate for a Now Platform-based application. Our native mobile applications greatly assist in the roll-out of automated workflows to our customer’s employees. Third-party developers can also build applications on the Now Platform App Engine and can make them available for download at our ServiceNow Store.We primarily deliver our software via the Internet as a service through a simple and easy-to-use interface so that we can rapidly deploy our packaged offerings, and customers can easily build their custom applications. In a minority of cases, customers choose to host our software by themselves or through a third-party service provider. 1Table of ContentsWe market and sell our products and services to enterprises across industries, including government, financial services, healthcare, telecommunications, manufacturing, IT services, technology, oil and gas, education and consumer products. We sell our products through subscription services and primarily through direct sales. We also offer professional services, both directly and through partners, to help our customers deploy and utilize our products and platform.We were incorporated as Glidesoft, Inc. in California in June 2004 and changed our name to Service-now.com in February 2006. In May 2012, we reincorporated in Delaware as ServiceNow, Inc.Our Products Our portfolio includes the Now Platform, and pre-packaged applications specifically designed for automating IT, Employee and Customer workflows. The Now Platform supports custom workflow creation and application development (the Now Platform App Engine) and a third-party application marketplace (the ServiceNow Store). Each of our products and services helps in critical aspects of our customers’ digital transformation process, and some of these products and services, as captured in the graphic and described below, are used in multiple workflows.2Table of ContentsThe Now Platform and Now Platform App EngineThe Now Platform allows our customers to manage workflows across all of their systems using a common user interface. This allows us to deliver specific enterprise applications and services (e.g., employee on-boarding as described above), which spans multiple departments, back-end systems and processes across an organization. Among the many services that our platform supports are workflow automation, electronic service catalogs and portals, configuration management systems, data benchmarking, performance analytics, encryption and collaboration and development tools. All of our products are built on the Now Platform, which allows our customers to create a common user experience to manage workflows across all of their systems. The Now Platform also powers three native mobile experiences for everyday work across the enterprise: Virtual Agent, Now Mobile and Mobile Onboarding. Enterprises can take advantage of consumer-like, mobile experiences, such as getting help from human resources or ordering a computer, from our platform. Our goal is to make our customers’ work lives as simple, easy and mobile-friendly as their personal lives.3Table of ContentsOur platform also features the Now Platform App Engine, which enables customers and third-party developers to create, test and deploy their own applications. They can do so within an integrated development environment while leveraging the single data model and common services of the Now Platform. Examples of applications our customers have developed include: an application developed by a company with a large network of seasonal retail stores and offices to track progress and identify issues in opening and closing their seasonal retail stores and offices, which enabled significant cost savings; an application developed by the IT office of a university that allocated and billed costs associated with IT maintenance, allowing the university to retire multiple legacy software systems; and an application developed by a mortgage company to ensure that loan files were complete and accurate prior to packaging and selling the loans to investors. These types of applications which extend the automation of our customers’ workflows have been developed and deployed by our customers and third-party developers using the Now Platform App Engine, and many are available through our marketplace (ServiceNow Store).The ServiceNow Store has hundreds of certified, ready to use applications from a growing independent software vendor ecosystem. The ServiceNow Store enables departments across an enterprise to do more with the Now Platform with certified applications that complement and extend the Now Platform into new use cases.   IT WorkflowsOur company’s roots are in IT workflows. Our founder initially saw a need for an integrated system in IT that identified issues, assigned those issues to the right people for resolution and remediated any systemic problems that created the issues. Our IT products have become increasingly sophisticated in assisting IT departments to serve their customers, manage their networks, identify and remediate threats and develop and build their products. With our IT workflows, we help customers bridge the gap between traditional IT practices and the needs of modern businesses. The following is an overview of the IT workflow products we offer; many of these products are also used in our Employee and Customer workflows.Now IT Service ManagementAs our flagship product suite, IT Service Management (ITSM) defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates the IT services an enterprise offers its employees, customers and partners. Among the ITSM product suite’s capabilities are recording incidents, remediating problems and automating routine tasks and requests. With ITSM, our customers can elevate their IT service experience by improving IT productivity, achieving new insights and consolidating IT services. For example, we enable our customers to provide service portals where their employees can request IT services, order software and hardware and submit IT incidents all in one place.Now IT Business ManagementOur IT Business Management (ITBM) product suite enables customers to manage their IT priorities, including the scope and cost of IT projects, the development of software related to those projects and the overall management of the customer’s IT project portfolio. With ITBM, we help our customers gain visibility, track progress, and continuously plan and optimize resources as priorities shift.Now DevOpsOur enterprise DevOps product provides visibility across a product development toolchain. It integrates with the leading DevOps toolchains to provide automated change management, information gathering and collecting and a single dashboard across planning, development, testing, deployment and operations. With DevOps, our customers can streamline their software development and deployment processes.Now IT Operations Management Our IT Operations Management (ITOM) product suite connects a customer’s physical and cloud-based IT infrastructure with our applications and platform. It identifies a customer’s IT infrastructure components (e.g., servers) and associated business services (e.g., email) which are dependent upon that infrastructure. It also maintains a single data record for all IT configurable items, which allows our customers to exercise control over their on-premises or cloud-based infrastructures and orchestrate key processes and tasks. With ITOM, our customers can enhance visibility of IT resources, manage service health and optimize cloud delivery and spend.4Table of ContentsNow IT Asset ManagementOur IT Asset Management (ITAM) product automates customers’ IT asset lifecycles with workflows to track the financial, contractual and inventory details of IT and non-IT assets throughout their lifecycles. With ITAM, our customers gain visibility into the full IT asset lifecycle to help optimize costs and automate workflows.Now Security OperationsOur security operations product connects with internal and third-party security alerts from a customer’s infrastructure to prioritize and respond to incidents and vulnerabilities according to their potential impact on a customer’s business. Our security operations product includes security incident management, threat enrichment intelligence, vulnerability response management and security incident intelligence sharing. With our security operations product, we help simplify our customers’ incident response by allowing them to replace manual tasks with automated security orchestration and to prioritize and remediate vulnerabilities and security incidents.Now Integrated Risk Management Our integrated risk management product creates a common set of policies and controls to help our customers meet the requirements of an ever-expanding regulatory environment. It also allows our customers to be more resilient and monitor risk and compliance events in real time to take action to remediate and mitigate risks. With our integrated risk management product, customers can assess risk and make strategic decisions with confidence by being able to continuously monitor and prioritize risks.Employee WorkflowsOur Employee workflow products provide service at every stage of an employee’s engagement with an employer. With our Employee Workflows, our customers can simplify how their employees get the services they need, to help improve employee satisfaction and boost productivity. We enable Employee workflows through our Now HR Service Delivery and Now Finance Operations Management products, in addition to ITSM. Now HR Service DeliveryOur HR service delivery product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates HR services related to employee requests. HR service delivery capabilities include HR case management, employee self-service, knowledge management and management of employee lifecycle events across multiple departments, such as onboarding, transfers and off-boarding. For example, tasks that start in HR but require action from other departments, such as new hire equipment selection and fulfillment, can be easily automated and orchestrated. With HR service delivery, we make it easy for our customers’ employees to get the services they need, allowing our customers to use fewer resources to serve more employees, streamline employee lifecycle events, and increase visibility, staffing efficiency and delivery of services.Now Finance Operations ManagementOur finance operations management product and its first application, Finance Close Automation (FCA), are built for the office of the CFO. FCA is designed to complement enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems and digitize workflows to accelerate the financial statement close process and reduce financial close risks. With FCA, our customers can connect their finance teams, tasks and systems in a centralized workspace and manage their financial systems more effectively.5Table of ContentsCustomer WorkflowsOur Customer workflow products help enterprises create a seamless experience for their customers - from identifying a customer issue to resolving that issue and its underlying cause. With our Customer workflows, we help our customers increase customer loyalty and, in some cases, fix issues before they are known to their customers. We enable Customer workflows through Now Customer Service Management and Now Field Service Management products, in addition to ITOM.Now Customer Service ManagementOur customer service management product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates customer service cases and requests. It allows common customer requests, such as password resets, to be automated with out-of-the-box self-service, and for other cases it routes work from the customer service agent to field service, engineering, operations, finance or legal personnel to resolve the underlying issues. With customer service management, we help our customers elevate their customer service by boosting resolution efficiency and improving service quality through service automation and management.Now Field Service ManagementOur field service management product allows field service agents to be effectively assigned, deployed and managed on the same underlying customer service management platform that created and managed the customer incident. With field service management, we help our customers efficiently manage location-based work tasks, including dynamic scheduling and visual dispatch.Professional Services Our professional services include expert services and customer success programs, offered by ServiceNow alone and in a co-delivery model with our network of partners, to help customers become proficient in the use of our platform and to maximize the value of their ServiceNow investment. Expert services include process design (including identifying inefficiencies in existing workflows), implementation, configuration, architecture and optimization services. Our focus is on supporting customers as they embark on enterprise digital transformations to reimagine their service management strategy and roadmap. Customer success programs include training and certification programs for all of our products, expertise from support professionals and our Customer Success Center, an online resource.  Customer SupportAs part of their subscription, customers receive support 24 hours a day, seven days a week around the globe, from technical resources located in the United States and internationally. We also offer self-service technical support through our support portal, which provides access to documentation, knowledge base articles, online training, online support forums and online incident filing.Our Technology and OperationsWe operate a multi-instance architecture that provides each customer with its own dedicated application logic and database. This architecture is designed to deliver high-availability, scalability, performance, security and ease of upgrading. We have a standardized, Java-based development environment, with the majority of our software written in industry-standard software programming languages. Our cloud infrastructure primarily consists of industry-standard servers, networks and storage components. Our operating system is Linux and databases are MySQL and MariaDB. We host our full software-as-a-service experience on our own private cloud and intend to host it using public cloud service providers for certain highly regulated customers. Our data centers operate in paired configurations to enable replication for high-availability and redundancy. We currently operate data centers in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States, and we continuously evaluate our data center operations and capacity in existing and new geographies.We offer customers the option to deploy our services on dedicated hardware in our data centers. Our architecture also gives us the added flexibility to allow customers the option of deploying our services internally or under contract with a third party to host the software in order to support unique regulatory or security requirements, and, while there are some limitations on agility and flexibility as compared to our cloud offering, a minority of our customers have elected this alternative. The customer support we provide for self-hosted customers is similar to the support we provide to customers deployed in our managed data centers.6Table of ContentsSales and Marketing We sell our product offerings and services primarily through our global direct sales organization. We also sell services through managed services providers and resale partners.Our marketing efforts and lead generation activities consist primarily of customer referrals, digital advertising (including via our website), trade shows, industry events, brand campaigns and press releases. We also host our annual Knowledge user conference, webinars and other user forums, including regional forums which we call Now@Work, where customers and partners both participate in and present on a variety of programs designed to educate them on industry best practices and help accelerate their success with our services.We continue to expand our sales capabilities in new geographies, including through investments in direct and indirect sales channels, professional services capabilities, customer support resources, post-sales customer support resources and strategic alliance and implementation partners. We also plan to increase our investment in our existing locations in order to achieve scale efficiencies in our sales and marketing efforts.Customers We primarily sell our services to large enterprise customers, and we host and support large, enterprise-wide deployments for our customers. As of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 6,200 enterprise customers. Our customers operate in a wide variety of industries, including government, financial services, healthcare, manufacturing, IT services, technology, oil and gas, telco, education and consumer products. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues for any of the periods presented.  Remaining Performance ObligationsOur remaining performance obligations (RPO) were $6.6 billion and $4.9 billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. RPO represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized, which includes deferred revenue and non-cancelable amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. We believe RPO, which excludes customer deposits and time and materials contracts, is an indicator of customer backlog orders believed to be firm that is aligned with the current revenue recognition standard. Refer to Note 9 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on remaining performance obligations.Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development, testing and validation of our solutions. We focus on innovating and developing new services and core technologies and further enhancing the functionality, reliability and performance of our existing solutions. Using emerging technologies, we can anticipate customer demands and then bring new services and new versions of existing services to market quickly in order to remain competitive in the marketplace. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to strengthen our existing applications, expand the number of applications on our platform, enhance our user experience and develop additional mobile, automation and machine intelligence technologies.Acquisitions and InvestmentsIn addition to continuing to invest in our own research and development efforts, we have made acquisitions and investments in the past and will continue to assess opportunities for strategic acquisitions and investments to complement our technology and skill sets and expand our product reach. Our focus is on building out our platform and products through both acquisitions and investments to support customer needs.Competition We compete in markets that are rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As these markets continue to mature and new technologies and competitors enter such markets, we expect competition to intensify. Our current competitors include:7Table of Contents•large, well-established, enterprise application software vendors and large integrated systems vendors;•new entrants to the market developing technologies to solve similar problems in different ways;•solutions developed in-house by our potential customers or using integrations with other tools;•vendors of infrastructure-as-a-service, platform-as-a-service providers and development operations; and•established and emerging cloud vendors.Many prospective customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate their current enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate away from their current solution to ours. Accordingly, we compete with both cloud-based and traditional, enterprise-application, software vendors. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services they offer. As we continue to expand the breadth of our services to include offerings in new markets, we expect increasing competition from platform and application development vendors focused on these markets.Various factors influence purchase decisions in our industry, including total cost of ownership, level of customer satisfaction, breadth and depth of product functionality, security, adherence to industry standards, brand awareness, flexibility and performance. We believe that we compete favorably with our competitors on each of these factors. However, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. They may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, customer requirements and buying practices. An existing competitor or potential competitor could introduce new technology, or more effectively utilize existing technology, that reduces demand for our services. Acquisitions, integrations and consolidation by and among other companies in our industry may allow potential competitors to offer integrated or bundled products, enhanced functionality, or other advantages, which may impact our competitive position. In addition, some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Larger competitors may also have the operating flexibility to bundle competing products and services with other offerings, which may enable them to offer their products and services at a lower price. As competition intensifies, we expect pricing competition to continue or increase.Intellectual Property We rely upon a combination of U.S. and international copyright, trade secret, patent and trademark laws and confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality and license agreements, to establish, protect and grow our intellectual property (IP) rights. In addition, we enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, partners, vendors, consultants and other third parties and control access to our IP and other proprietary information. We also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products or services. In certain of our partnership arrangements, our partners may develop technology on the Now Platform that may be subject to copyright or other intellectual property rights that we may agree to with the partner.We continue to grow our global patent portfolio and IP rights that relate to our platform, applications, services, research and development and other activities. Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and IP. We have over 700 U.S. and foreign patents, including patents acquired from third parties, and over 780 pending patent applications. We do not believe that our proprietary technology is dependent on any single patent or other IP right or group of related patents or IP rights. We file patent applications to protect our IP and have and may continue to acquire additional patents, patent portfolios, or patent applications. However, we cannot be certain that any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent or whether the examination process will result in patents of value or applicability. In addition, any patents that have been or may be issued or acquired may be contested, circumvented, found unenforceable or invalidated, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon them.Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop products and services that provide features and functionality similar to ours. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. The laws of the countries in which we operate may offer little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Our competitors could also independently develop services equivalent to ours, and our IP rights may not be broad enough for us to prevent competitors from utilizing their developments to compete with us. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business.8Table of ContentsOur industry is characterized by frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other IP rights. From time to time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other IP rights against us, our channel partners or our customers. In addition, based on our greater visibility, expanding solutions footprint, and market exposure as a public company, we face a higher risk of being the subject of IP infringement claims. For example, in 2016 we settled two patent-related litigation matters and recorded a one-time charge of $270.0 million related to aggregate legal settlements. See “Risk Factors—Lawsuits against us by third parties that allege we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and operating results” for additional information.Employees As of December 31, 2019, we had 10,371 full-time employees worldwide. None of our U.S. employees are represented by a labor union. Employees in certain European countries are represented by workers’ councils and have the benefits of collective bargaining arrangements at the national level. We have not experienced interruptions of operations or work stoppages due to labor disagreements.Available InformationYou can obtain copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our website at www.servicenow.com/company/investor-relations/sec-filings.html as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing and our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 9Table of Contents