RISK FACTORS We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business and IndustryWe expect our revenue growth rate to decline, but we may not accurately predict the rate or magnitude of such decline. Our capacity is largely driven by production factors such as facilities, data centers and a trained workforce that require long term investments and expense commitments which we cannot easily adjust in the short term. As our costs increase, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to generate or sustain profitability or positive cash flow from operations. From the year ended June 30, 2009 to the year ended December 31, 2014, our revenues grew from $19.3 million to $682.6 million. We expect that our revenue growth rate will continue to decline into the foreseeable future. We also expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to invest in our capacity in order to support anticipated growth. These investments may not result in increased revenues or growth in our business. Even if our revenue continues to increase, we expect to continue to incur a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) loss during future periods due to increased costs such as non-cash charges associated with equity awards and business combinations and other expenses. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors that may result in increased costs. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability and we may be unable to generate positive cash flow from operations. If we fail to grow our revenues sufficiently to keep pace with our growing investments and other expenses, our operating results will be harmed.Our quarterly results may fluctuate, and if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors or our previously issued financial guidance, or if any forward-looking financial guidance we give does not meet the expectation of analysts or investors, our stock price could decline substantially. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly financial results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts who follow our stock, or we fail to meet or exceed any forward-looking financial guidance we have issued, or if any forward-looking financial guidance we give is below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts who follow our stock, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Some of the important factors that may cause our revenues, operating results and cash flows to fluctuate from quarter to quarter, or which could impact any forward-looking financial guidance we give for any period, include: •our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers’ requirements;•the number of new employees added;•the rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force;•the cost, timing and management effort for our development of new services;•the length of the sales cycle for our services;•changes in our pricing policies, whether initiated by us or as a result of competition;•the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operation and expansion of our business;•significant security breaches, technical difficulties or interruptions of our services;•new solutions, products or changes in pricing policies introduced by our competitors;•changes in foreign currency exchange rates;•changes in effective tax rates;•general economic conditions that may adversely affect either our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase additional subscriptions, delay a prospective customer’s purchasing decision, reduce the value of new subscription contracts or affect renewal rates;•seasonality in terms of when we enter into customer agreements for our services;•changes in the average duration of our customer agreements;•changes in our renewal and upsell rates;•the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers;•extraordinary expenses such as litigation costs or damages, including settlement payments;•the impact of new accounting pronouncements;•changes in laws or regulations impacting the delivery of our services; and•the amount and timing of stock awards and the related financial statement expenses.8Many of these factors are outside of our control, and the occurrence of one or more of them might cause our operating results to vary widely. As such, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues, operating results and cash flows are not meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.We face cyber-security risks, including but not limited to, unauthorized use or disclosure of customer data, theft of proprietary information, denial of service attacks, loss or corruption of customer data, and computer hacking attacks.  If any of these risks occur, our reputation may be harmed, our services may be perceived as not secure, we may lose prospective customers, existing customers may curtail or stop using our services, our ability to operate our business may be impaired, and we may incur significant liabilities.Our operations involve the storage, transmission and processing of our customers’ confidential, proprietary and sensitive information including in some cases personally identifiable information, protected health information, proprietary intellectual property and credit card and other sensitive financial information. We do not control or monitor the information that customers process in our services, we are unaware of the type, sensitivity and value of the customer information processed in our services and we do not vary our service offering and security measures due to the content of customer data. We have legal and contractual obligations to protect the confidentiality and appropriate use of customer data. Cyber-security risks, including but not limited to, unauthorized use or disclosure of customer data, theft of proprietary information, denial of service attacks, loss or corruption of customer data, and computer hacking attacks could expose us to substantial litigation expenses and damages, indemnity and other contractual obligations, government fines and penalties, mitigation expenses and other liability. Additionally, unauthorized persons may obtain access to our own sensitive, proprietary or confidential information or systems including our intellectual property and other confidential business information and our information technology systems. Such access could be used to compromise our competitive position, our ability to deliver our services or our ability to manage and operate our business. The security measures protecting our customers' and our own information and systems could be breached as a result of third party action, employee error or employee misconduct. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until successfully launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, we could suffer severe reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, we could lose potential sales and existing customers, our ability to operate our business may be impaired, we may be subject to litigation or regulatory investigations or orders, and we may incur significant liabilities. We do not have insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that may result from security breaches.Disruptions in our services could damage our customers’ businesses, subject us to substantial liability and harm our reputation and financial results.Our customers use our services to manage important aspects of their businesses, and any disruptions in our services could damage our customers' businesses, subject us to substantial liability and harm our reputation and financial results.  From time to time, we have found defects in our services, and new defects may be detected in the future. We provide regular updates to our services, which frequently contain undetected defects when first introduced or released. Defects may also be introduced by our use of third-party software, including open source software. Disruptions may also result from errors we make in delivering, configuring, or hosting our services, or designing, installing, expanding or maintaining our cloud infrastructure.  Disruptions in service can also result from incidents that are outside of our control. We currently serve our customers primarily using equipment managed by us and co-located in third-party data center facilities operated by several different providers located around the world. These centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct, equipment failure and adverse events caused by operator error. We cannot rapidly switch to new data centers or move customers from one data center to another in the event of any adverse event. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services and the loss of customer data.  In addition, our customers may use our services in ways that cause disruptions in service for other customers.  Our reputation and business will be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our services are unreliable.  Disruptions in our services may reduce our revenues, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, subject us to claims and litigation, cause our customers to delay payment or terminate or fail to renew their subscriptions, and adversely affect our ability to attract new customers.  The occurrence of payment delays, or service credit, warranty, termination for material breach or other claims against us, could result in an increase in our bad debt expense, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, an increase to our warranty provisions or service level credit accruals or other increased expenses or risks of litigation. We do not have insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that may result from claims arising from disruptions in our services.9We depend on our senior management team and if we lose key employees or are unable to attract and retain the employees we need to support our operations and growth, our business could be harmed.Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our management team and many key individual contributors. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of employees, which could disrupt our business. Our employees are generally employed on an at-will basis, which means that our employees could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could have a serious impact on our business. In the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for engineers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software and Internet-related solutions, as well as competition for sales executives and operations personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In particular, competition for experienced software and cloud-based infrastructure engineers in the San Francisco Bay area, San Diego, Seattle, London and Amsterdam, our primary operating locations, is intense. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be harmed.If we are not able to enhance our existing service, develop new applications and promote our services for the development of custom applications, our business and operating results could be harmed. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenues from existing customers depends on our ability to enhance our services and provide it in a way that is broadly accepted. In particular, we need to continuously modify and enhance our services to keep pace with changes in user expectations, including increased demand for intuitive and attractive user interfaces, Internet software practices, and communication, database, hardware and security technologies. In addition, we must effectively make our services available in additional ways, including on mobile devices. If we are unable to respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to these rapid developments, our services may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete.  Our success also depends on our ability to develop new applications and promote our services for the development of custom applications. We derive a substantial majority of our revenue from subscriptions to our suite of applications for use within IT, and we expect this will continue for the foreseeable future.  We are expanding the breadth of our services to include offerings for service domains outside of IT and offerings for small and medium-sized businesses. The success of any enhancement or new application, and the success of our efforts to promote the use of our services for development of custom applications, depends on several factors, including timely completion, adequate quality testing, introduction and market acceptance. Any new service that we develop may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may not be priced appropriately, and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. For instance, from time to time we have changed the way that we price and package our services, and we anticipate that we will continue to make periodic adjustments to our pricing and packaging in the future, and prospective or existing customers may not accept any new pricing or services packaging we have adopted or may adopt in the future.  In addition, sales of new services may erode sales of our existing similar services.  If we are unable to enhance our existing service, successfully develop new applications or promote the use of our services for the development of custom applications, our business and operating results could be harmed.We may not timely and effectively scale and adapt our technology to meet our customers’ performance and other requirements. Our future growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to meet the expanding needs of our customers as their use of our services grows. We expect the number of users and transactions we manage, the amount of data we transfer, process and store, the number of locations from which our services are being accessed, and the number of processes and systems we manage to continue to grow. In the past, a few of our largest customers experienced reduced levels of availability, performance and functionality due to the scale at which they implemented our services. In order to meet the performance and other requirements of our customers, we intend to continue making significant investments to develop and implement new technologies in our services and cloud-based infrastructure operations. These technologies, which include databases, applications and server optimizations, network and hosting strategies, and automation, are often advanced, complex, new and untested. We may not be successful in developing or implementing these technologies. In addition, it takes a significant amount of time to plan, develop and test improvements to our technologies and infrastructure, and we may not be able to accurately forecast demand or predict the results we will realize from such improvements. We are also dependent upon open source and other third-party technologies and may be unable to quickly effect changes to such technologies, which may prevent us from rapidly responding to evolving customer requirements. To the extent that we do not effectively scale our services and operations to meet the growing needs of our customers, we may not be able to grow as quickly as we anticipate, our customers may reduce or cancel use of our services, we may be unable to compete effectively and our business and operating results may be harmed.  10The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. The markets in which we compete to manage services across the enterprise are fragmented, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for service management matures, we expect competition to intensify. We face competition from in-house solutions, large integrated systems vendors, and established and emerging cloud and software vendors. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more established customer relationships, larger marketing budgets and greater resources than we do.  Our primary competitors include BMC Software, Inc., CA, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company and International Business Machines Corporation. Further, other potential competitors not currently offering competitive products may expand their services to compete with our services.  Moreover, as we expand the breadth of our services to include offerings for service domains outside of IT, and offerings for small and medium sized businesses, we will face additional competition from platform vendors including Salesforce.com, Inc. and from application development vendors focused on these other markets. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements.  An existing competitor or new entrant could introduce new technology that reduces demand for our services.  In addition to product and technology competition, we face pricing competition.  Some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Some of our larger competitors have the operating flexibility to bundle competing products and services with other software offerings, including offering them at a lower price as part of a larger sale. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully and competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our services to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which could harm our business.We may acquire or invest in companies, which may divert our management’s attention, and result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and technologies successfully or achieve the expected benefits of such acquisitions or investments. We have acquired companies in the past and may evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets in the future. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our service offerings or our ability to provide services in international locations, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in other companies. An acquisition, investment or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, their technology is not easily adapted to work with ours, or we have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in ownership, management or otherwise.  Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may often be subject to conditions or approvals that are beyond our control. Consequently, these transactions, even if undertaken and announced, may not close. For one or more of those transactions, we may: •issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders;•use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business;•incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay;•incur large charges or substantial liabilities;•encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse technologies, software or business cultures; and•become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges.Acquisitions may also disrupt our business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our existing business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown risks or liabilities. For example, in July 2014 we completed the acquisition of a privately-held company based in Israel, Neebula Systems Ltd., or Neebula. To succeed with this acquisition, we need to successfully retain Neebula’s key personnel and implement Neebula’s technology on the ServiceNow platform. We may experience difficulties in this integration due to differences in operations, technology and culture between ServiceNow and Neebula, and other challenges associated with operating a business in a geography in which we did not previously have substantial engineering operations and which is currently involved in regional conflicts.11If the market for our technology delivery model develops more slowly than we expect, our growth may slow or stall, and our operating results would be harmed. Use of cloud-based applications to automate and manage service relationships is at an early stage. We do not know whether the trend of adoption of enterprise cloud-based solutions we have experienced in the past will continue in the future. In particular, many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate legacy software into their businesses over time, and some have been reluctant or unwilling to migrate to cloud-based solutions. Furthermore, some organizations, particularly large enterprises upon which we are dependent, have been reluctant or unwilling to use cloud-based solutions because they have concerns regarding the risks associated with the security of their data, the physical location of data centers in which their data is stored and processed, and the reliability of the technology delivery model associated with these solutions. It is possible that various governmental jurisdictions around the world in which we compete will adopt laws regarding access to, the processing of, or the location of storage of, data that prevents or imposes prohibitively expensive hurdles for us to provide our cloud-based solutions to enterprises within such jurisdictions. In addition, if either we or other cloud-based providers experience security incidents, loss of customer data, disruptions in delivery or other problems, the market for cloud-based solutions as a whole, including our services, will be negatively impacted. If the adoption of cloud-based solutions does not continue, the market for these solutions may stop developing or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would harm our operating results.Failure to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our services. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our services will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to effectively expand our sales and marketing operations and activities. We are substantially dependent on our direct sales force to obtain new customers. From December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014, our sales and marketing organization increased from 615 to 1,011 employees. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force both domestically and internationally. There is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining a sufficient number of direct sales personnel and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals.  Further, new hires require significant training and time before they achieve full productivity, particularly in new sales territories and our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as quickly as we plan, or at all. Moreover, we do not have significant experience as an organization developing and implementing overseas sales and marketing campaigns, and such campaigns may be expensive and difficult to implement, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to conduct such campaigns. Our business will be harmed if our expansion efforts do not generate a significant increase in revenues. Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties and their continued performance. We depend on various third parties, such as implementation partners, systems integrators, managed services providers and sales partners in order to grow our business.  Our sales efforts have focused on large enterprise customers and there are a limited number of partners with the capacity to provide these customers a significant level of services.  In order to continue our growth, we need to recruit these partners and these partners need to devote substantial resources to our solutions.  Accordingly, we need to build services, implement partner programs, and provide training and other resources to recruit, retain and enable these partners.  Our agreements with partners are typically non-exclusive and do not prohibit them from working with our competitors or from offering competing solutions. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to our partners to favor their solutions or otherwise disrupt the relationships we have with our partners. In addition, global economic conditions could harm the businesses of our partners, and it is possible that they may not be able to devote the additional resources we expect to the relationship. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenues could be impaired and our operating results would suffer.  As we expand the breadth of our services to include offerings for service domains outside of IT, and offerings for small and medium sized businesses, we may need to establish relationships with additional sales and implementation partners.  Further, reliance on third parties exposes us to risk of poor performance and failed customer expectations. If a customer is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by a third party, we could incur additional costs to address the situation, the profitability of that work might be impaired, and the customer’s dissatisfaction could damage our reputation or ability to obtain additional revenues from that customer or prospective customers.12Our business depends substantially on our existing customers purchasing additional subscriptions from us, and renewing their subscriptions upon expiration of the subscription term. Any decline in customer additional purchases or renewals would harm our operating results. In order for us to maintain or improve our operating results, it is important that our existing customers expand their use of our service by adding new users and new applications of our service across the enterprise, and renew their subscriptions upon expiration of the subscription contract term. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions, and our customers may not renew subscriptions with a similar contract period or with the same or a greater number of users. Although our renewal rates have historically been high, some of our customers have elected not to renew their agreements with us and we cannot accurately predict renewal rates. Moreover, in some cases, some of our customers have the right to cancel their agreements prior to the expiration of the term. Our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our customers' satisfaction with our subscription service, professional services, customer support, or prices, the prices of competing solutions, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, the effects of global economic conditions, or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. Our growth also depends in part on our ability to sell more subscriptions and additional professional services to our current customers. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions, renew on less favorable terms or fail to add more authorized users or fail to purchase additional professional services, our revenues may decline, and our operating results would be harmed.Because our sales efforts are targeted at large enterprise customers, we face longer sales cycles, substantial upfront pre-sales costs and less predictability in completing some of our sales. If our sales cycle lengthens, or if our sales investments do not result in sufficient sales, our operating results could be harmed. We target our sales efforts at large enterprise customers. Because these customers are often making an enterprise-wide decision to deploy our services, sometimes on a global basis, we face long sales cycles, complex customer requirements, substantial upfront pre-sales costs and less predictability in completing some of our sales. Our sales cycle is generally six to nine months, but is variable and difficult to predict and can be much longer. Large enterprises often undertake a prolonged evaluation of our services, including whether they need professional services performed by us or a third party for their service management needs, and a comparison of our services to products offered by our competitors. Some of our large enterprise customers initially deploy our services on a limited basis, with no guarantee that these customers will deploy our services widely enough across their organization to justify our substantial pre-sales investment. If our sales cycle lengthens or our substantial upfront pre-sales investments do not result in sufficient subscription revenues to justify our investments, our operating results could be harmed.We may be unable to develop or obtain intellectual property that provides us with a competitive advantage or prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property.  Defending our intellectual property may result in substantial expenses that harm our operating results.Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our proprietary rights. We have recently begun to seek patent protection for our technology. We may not be successful in obtaining patent protection, and any patents issued in the future may not provide us with competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellect