RISK FACTORS We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry  Defects or disruptions in our service could diminish demand for our service, harm our financial results and subject us to substantial liability. Our customers use our service to manage important aspects of their businesses, and any errors, defects, disruptions to our service or other performance problems with our service could hurt our reputation and may damage our customers' businesses. From time to time, we have found defects in our service, and new errors in our existing service may be detected in the future. For example, recently a few of our largest customers experienced reduced levels of availability, performance and functionality due to the scale at which they had implemented our service. We cannot be sure that we will not experience similar or other issues at even larger scales in the future.  We provide regular product updates, which frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or released. Defects may also be introduced by our use of third-party software, including open-source software. Defects can be hard to detect and may result in disruptions to our service. In addition, our customers may use our service in ways that cause disruptions in service for other customers. In some of these instances, customers have delayed, and may in the future delay payment to us, may elect not to renew, and may make service credit claims, warranty claims or other claims against us. Such instances may also adversely impact our future sales. Further, if we do not meet the stated service level commitments we have guaranteed to our customers or suffer extended periods of unavailability for our service, we have provided and in the future may be contractually obligated to provide these customers with credits for future service. The occurrence of payment delays, service credit, warranty or other claims against us could result in an increase in our bad debt expense, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, an increase to our warranty provisions or service level credit accruals or other increased expenses or risks of litigation. We do not carry insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that may result from claims arising from defects or disruptions in our service or the potential harm to the future growth of our business due to defects or disruptions. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. If we are not able to manage this growth and expansion, or if our business does not grow as we expect, our operating results may suffer. We continue to experience rapid growth in our customer base and have significantly expanded our operations during the last several years. In particular, we are aggressively investing in: significant expansion of our cloud infrastructure and associated service capacity; our global sales, marketing and operations activities and personnel; and additional office facility lease commitments and administrative employees. Our employee headcount has increased to 1,077 as of December 31, 2012 from 603 as of December 31, 2011. We signed new leases for a larger corporate office in San Diego in February 2012, additional office space in Amsterdam in September 2012, in San Jose in November 2012 and in London in December 2012. In addition, we hired new senior management in 2011 and 2012. Our rapid growth has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure facilities and other resources. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to expand our sales force, facilities, infrastructure and operations, and refine our operational, financial and management controls, human resource policies, and reporting systems and procedures. For instance, in 2012 we implemented a new financial enterprise resource planning system to help manage our future growth and are in the process of integrating that system with our customer relationship management system. If we fail to efficiently expand our sales force, operations, cloud infrastructure or IT and financial systems, or if we fail to implement or maintain effective internal controls and procedures, our costs and expenses may increase more than we plan and we may lose the ability to close customer opportunities, enhance our existing service, develop new applications, satisfy customer requirements, respond to competitive pressures or otherwise execute our business plan. Additionally, as our operating expenses increase in anticipation of the growth of our business, if such growth does not meet our expectations, our financial results likely would be harmed.We have a limited history of operating profits, did not generate a profit in the year ended December 31, 2012, and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We have not been consistently profitable on a quarterly or annual basis and experienced a net loss of $37.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, our accumulated deficit was $105.5 million. While we have experienced significant revenue growth over recent periods, this growth rate is likely to decrease and we may not return to profitability. Over the past year, we have significantly increased our expenditures to support the development and expansion of our business, which has resulted in increased losses. We plan to continue to invest for future growth, and as a result, we do not expect to be profitable 7for the foreseeable future. In addition, as a public company, we will continue to incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. As a result of these increased expenditures, we will have to generate and sustain increased revenues to achieve future profitability. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including without limitation the other risks and uncertainties described in this filing. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors that may result in losses in future periods. If these losses exceed our expectations or our revenue growth expectations are not met in future periods, our financial performance will be harmed.We face security risks, including but not limited to theft of personal data, theft of proprietary information, denial of service attacks and other hacking attacks.  If our security measures are breached or unauthorized access to customer data is otherwise obtained, our service may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our service, and we may incur significant liabilities. Our operations involve the storage and transmission of our customers’ confidential information, and security breaches, computer malware and computer hacking attacks could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other liability. For example, our third-party data center facility in London was subjected to a distributed denial of service attack in January 2012 that prevented some of our customers hosted in that data center from using our service intermittently for a period of about three hours. While we have administrative, technical, and physical security measures in place, and try to contractually require third parties to whom we transfer data to implement and maintain appropriate security measures, if our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to our customers’ data, including personally identifiable information regarding users, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers’ data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until successfully launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose potential sales and existing customers. We need to continue to invest in enhancements to our cloud infrastructure and if our required investments are greater than anticipated or fail to yield anticipated cost savings and performance benefits, our financial results will be negatively impacted. We have made and will continue to make substantial investments in new equipment to support growth at our data centers, provide enhanced levels of service to our customers and reduce future costs of subscription revenues. In the year ended December 31, 2012, we purchased $20.8 million in equipment for use in our data centers. Ongoing improvements to our cloud infrastructure may be more expensive than we anticipate, and may not yield the expected savings in operating costs or the expected performance benefits. In addition, we may be required to re-invest any cost savings achieved from prior cloud infrastructure improvements in future infrastructure projects to maintain the levels of service required by our customers. We may not be able to maintain or achieve cost savings from our investments, which could harm our financial results. We may not timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology to meet our customers’ performance and other requirements. Our future growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to meet the needs of new customers and the expanding needs of our existing customers as their use of our service grows. As our customers gain more experience with our service, the number of users and transactions managed by our service, the amount of data transferred, processed and stored by us, the number of locations where our service is being accessed, and the number of processes and systems managed by our service on behalf of these customers have in some cases, and may in the future, expand rapidly. Recently, a few of our largest customers have experienced reduced levels of availability, performance and functionality due to the scale at which they have implemented our service. In order to meet the performance and other requirements of our customers, we intend to continue to make significant investments to develop and implement new technologies in our service and cloud infrastructure operations. These technologies, which include databases, applications and server optimizations, network and hosting strategies, and automation, are often advanced, complex, new and untested. We may not be successful in developing or implementing these technologies. In addition, it takes a significant amount of time to plan, develop and test improvements to our technologies and infrastructure, and we may not be able to accurately forecast demand or predict the results we will realize from such improvements. We are also dependent upon open source and other third-party technologies and may be unable to quickly effect changes to such technologies, which may prevent us from rapidly responding to evolving customer requirements. To the extent that we do not effectively scale our service and operations to meet the needs of our growing customer base and to maintain performance as our customers expand their use of our service, we may not be able to 8grow as quickly as we anticipate, our customers may reduce or cancel use of our services and we may be unable to compete as effectively and our business and operating results may be harmed. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party data center facilities could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. We currently serve our customers from third-party data center facilities, operated by several different providers, located around the world, with the largest located in Virginia, California, London and Amsterdam. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems, or those of our third-party data centers, could result in interruptions in our service. Impairment of or interruptions in our service may reduce our revenues, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, subject us to claims and litigation, cause our customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers. Our business will also be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. We do not control, or in some cases have limited control over, the operation of the data center facilities we use, and they are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct, and to adverse events caused by operator error. We cannot rapidly switch to new data centers or move customers from one data center to another in the event of any adverse event. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism or other act of malfeasance, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our service and the loss of customer data. If the market for our technology delivery model and SaaS develops more slowly than we expect, our growth may slow or stall, and our operating results would be harmed. Use of SaaS applications to manage and automate enterprise IT is at an early stage. We do not know whether the trend of adoption of enterprise SaaS solutions we have experienced in the past will continue in the future. In particular, many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate legacy software into their businesses over time, and some have been reluctant or unwilling to migrate to SaaS. Furthermore, some organizations, particularly large enterprises upon which we are dependent, have been reluctant or unwilling to use SaaS because they have concerns regarding the risks associated with the security of their data and the reliability of the technology delivery model associated with these solutions. In addition, if other SaaS providers experience security incidents, loss of customer data, disruptions in delivery or other problems, the market for SaaS solutions as a whole, including our service, will be negatively impacted. If the adoption of SaaS solutions does not continue, the market for these solutions may stop developing or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would harm our operating results. The market in which we participate is intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. The market for enterprise IT operations management solutions is fragmented, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry in some segments. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater name recognition, much longer operating histories, more established customer relationships, larger marketing budgets and significantly greater resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. With the introduction of new technologies, the evolution of our service and new market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. If we fail to compete effectively, our business will be harmed. Some of our principal competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. If we are unable to achieve our target pricing levels, our operating results would be negatively impacted. In addition, pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our service to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. We face competition from in-house solutions, large integrated systems vendors and smaller companies with point solutions including SaaS offerings. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. Our primary competitors include BMC Software, Inc., CA, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company and International Business Machines Corporation, all of which are much larger and have substantially more financial resources than we do, and have the operating flexibility to bundle competing products and services with other software offerings, including offering them at a lower price as part of a larger sale. In addition, many of our competitors offer SaaS solutions and may make acquisitions of businesses or assets that improve their service offerings. Further, other established SaaS providers not currently operating in enterprise IT operations management may expand their services to compete with our service. Many of our current and potential competitors have established marketing relationships, access to larger customer bases, pre-existing customer relationships and major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators and resellers. In addition, some competitors may offer software that addresses one or a limited 9number of enterprise IT operation functions at lower prices or with greater depth than our service. Moreover, as we expand the scope of our service, we may face additional competition from platform and application development vendors. Additionally, some potential customers, particularly large enterprises, may elect to develop their own internal solutions. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. Because our sales efforts are targeted at large enterprise customers, we face longer sales cycles, substantial upfront sales costs and less predictability in completing some of our sales. If our sales cycle lengthens, or if our substantial upfront sales investments do not result in sufficient sales, our operating results could be harmed. We target our sales efforts at large enterprises, which we define as companies with over $750 million in revenues and a minimum of 200 IT employees. For instance, we derived approximately 11% of our revenues from large enterprise customers in the financial services industry for the year ended December 31, 2012. Because our large enterprise customers are often making an enterprise-wide decision to deploy our service, sometimes on a global basis, we face long sales cycles, complex customer requirements, substantial upfront sales costs and less predictability in completing some of our sales. Our sales cycle is generally six to nine months, but is variable and difficult to predict and can be much longer. Large enterprises often undertake a prolonged evaluation of our service, including whether the customer needs professional services performed by us or a third party for its unique IT and business process needs, and a comparison of our service to products offered by our competitors. Moreover, our large enterprise customers often begin to deploy our service on a limited basis, but nevertheless demand extensive configuration, integration services and pricing concessions, which increase our upfront investment in the sales effort with no guarantee that these customers will deploy our service widely enough across their organization to justify our substantial upfront investment. It is possible in the future we may experience even longer sales cycles, more complex customer needs, higher upfront sales costs and less predictability in completing some of our sales as we continue to expand our direct sales force and thereby increase the percentage of our sales personnel with less experience in selling our service, expand into new territories and expand into functional areas outside of the traditional ITIL processes. If our sales cycle lengthens or our substantial upfront sales and implementation investments do not result in sufficient sales to justify our investments, our operating results may be harmed. Our business depends substantially on our customers renewing their subscriptions and purchasing additional subscriptions from us. Any decline in our customer renewals would harm our future operating results. In order for us to maintain or improve our operating results, it is important that our customers renew their subscriptions when the initial contract term expires and add additional authorized users to their subscriptions. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions, and we cannot assure you that our customers will renew subscriptions with a similar contract period or with the same or a greater number of authorized users. Although our renewal rates have been historically high, some of our customers have elected not to renew their agreements with us and we cannot accurately predict renewal rates. Moreover, in some cases, some of our customers have the right to cancel their agreements prior to the expiration of the term. Our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our customers' satisfaction with our subscription service, professional services, customer support, or prices, the prices of competing solutions, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, the effects of global economic conditions, or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to sell more subscriptions and additional professional services to our current customers. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions, renew on less favorable terms or fail to add more authorized users or fail to purchase additional professional services, our revenues may decline, and we may not realize improved operating results from our customer base. If we are not able to develop enhancements and new applications that achieve market acceptance or that keep pace with technological developments, our business could be harmed. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenues from existing customers depends in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our existing service and to introduce new services. In order to grow our business, we must develop a service that reflects future updates to the ITIL framework and extends beyond the ITIL framework into other areas of enterprise IT operations management.  We are also dependent on achieving growth in demand for our platform. The success of any enhancement or new service depends on several factors, including timely completion, adequate quality testing, introduction and market acceptance. Any new service that we develop may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may contain defects or may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. If we are unable to successfully develop new applications or enhance our existing service to meet the evolving requirements of our customers, our business and operating results will be harmed. Because we designed our service to be provided over the Internet, we need to continuously modify and enhance our service to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, database and security technologies and standards. 10If we are unable to respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to these rapid technological developments and standards changes, our service may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete and our operating results may be harmed. If we fail to integrate our service with a variety of operating systems, software applications and hardware that are developed by others, our service may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete, and our operating results would be harmed. Our service must integrate with a variety of network, hardware and software platforms, and we need to continuously modify and enhance our platform to adapt to changes in cloud-enabled hardware, software, networking, browser, security and database technologies. Any failure of our service to operate effectively with future infrastructure platforms and technologies could reduce the demand for our service, resulting in customer dissatisfaction and harm to our business. If we are unable to respond to these changes in a cost-effective manner, our service may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete and our operating results may be negatively impacted. In addition, an increasing number of individuals within the enterprise are utilizing mobile devices to access the Internet and corporate resources and to conduct business. If we cannot effectively make our service available on these mobile devices and offer the information, services and functionality required by enterprises that widely use mobile devices, we may experience difficulty attracting and retaining customers. A portion of our revenues are generated by sales to government entities and heavily regulated organizations, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. A portion of our sales are to governmental agencies. Additionally, many of our current and prospective customers, such as those in the financial services and health care industries, are highly regulated and may be required to comply with more stringent regulations in connection with subscribing to and implementing our service. Selling to these entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will successfully complete a sale.  Furthermore, engaging in sales activities to foreign governments introduces incremental compliance risks specific to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and other similar statutory requirements prohibiting bribery and corruption in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Government and highly regulated entities often require contract terms that differ from our standard arrangements and impose compliance requirements that are complicated, require preferential pricing or “most favored nation” terms and conditions, or are otherwise time consuming and expensive to satisfy. Due to the additional requirements of the U.S. federal government, we are in the process of establishing compliance with the Federal Information Security Management Act and other federal standards relating to our operations, security controls, processes and architecture. Individual agencies also have unique requirements, such as requirements that we use U.S.-only personnel or a requirement to use our service in a non-hosted environment. We may not be able to meet these standards or requirements. Even if we do meet them, the additional costs associated with providing our service to government and highly regulated customers could harm our margins. Moreover, changes in the underlying regulatory conditions that affect these types of customers could harm our ability to efficiently provide our service to them and to grow or maintain our customer base. Failure to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our service. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our service will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to effectively expand our sales and marketing operations and activities. We are substantially dependent on our direct sales force to obtain new customers. From December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012, our sales and marketing organization increased from 242 to 350 employees. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force both domestically and internationally. We believe there is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining a sufficient number of direct sales personnel. New hires require significant training and time before they achieve full productivity, particularly in new sales territories. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as quickly as we would like, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. Because we do not have a long history of expansion in our sales force, we cannot predict whether or to what extent our sales will increase as we expand our sales force or how long it will take for sales personnel to become productive. Moreover, we do not have significant experience as an organization developing and implementing overseas marketing campaigns, and such campaigns may be expensive and difficult to implement. Our business will be harmed if our expansion efforts do not generate a significant increase in revenues. Our current management team is new and if we lose key members of our management team or are unable to attract and retain executives and employees we need to support our operations and growth, our business may be harmed. Each of our executive officers either joined us recently or has taken on a new role in the organization. These changes in our executive management team may be disruptive to our business. Our success depends substantially upon the continued services of this new group of executive officers, particularly Frank Slootman, our Chief Executive Officer, who joined us in May 2011, and 11Frederic B. Luddy, our founder and Chief Product Officer, who are critical to our vision, strategic direction, culture, services and technology. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives. Our executive officers are generally employed on an at-will basis, which means that our executive officers could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or the failure by our executive team to effectively work with our employees and lead our company could harm our business. In the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for engineers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software and Internet-related solutions, as well as competition for sales executives and operations personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In particular, competition for experienced software and cloud infrastructure engineers in San Diego, San Jose, Seattle, London and Amsterdam, our primary operating locations, is intense. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be harmed. Our quarterly results may fluctuate, and if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors or our previously issued guidance, our stock price and the value of your investment could decline substantially. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly financial results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts who follow our stock, or fail to meet or exceed any forward guidance we issue, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Some of the important factors that may cause our revenues, operating results and cash flows to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include: •our ability to retain and increase sales to existin