 Steelcase is a company that was founded in 1912 and today it’s the largest global contract furniture company in the world, in the B2B business. We spend a lot of time, effort and research in understanding people, understanding work and understanding people at work. We call this facility LINC which is an acronym for Learning + Innovation Center. There is quite a big emphasis on the learning aspect as well, because one of the main challenge today is how fast we are able to learn from the market, from our customers, from each other. I think a lot of people over last couple of years thought that 3D printers are this sort of magic tool that you just have to buy and you suddenly become a great creator and make all of your own stuff. That is obviously not true. You still have to know what you are doing you still have to create stuff that can be printed and you have to actually know quite a bit about what materials to use and how to print things. We are constantly learning. I think that one of the things that is really amazing about the BigRep is that you can, in a furniture context, you can create full scale samples. With a lot of other 3D printers you have these miniatures, you put a puppet on top, you a get a little bit of idea about some of the proportions but you don’t really understand what a piece of furniture means in the real world, because it’s human scale, it’s related to space, related to the human body. We can now take a 3D printed shell and get it upholstered by an upholstery specialist. Somebody can already develop the patterns, the fabric patterns, the leather patterns, the type of stitching, the kind of padding that you would need around the 3D printed shell, before we even have a tool made. Here we have the BigRep part, 3D printed, full scale. We have another one on the back. They have a slightly different language. Here it’s fully hollow and here it’s partially massive. So we have these two languages that we try. We just put a metal bar and then and then we have this ply wood. When we evaluate in 3D there is still the virtual barrier. Whereas making remains for me the essence of how we work, because you can really see the product being live. It’s not the final material, it’s not the final geometry but making this really allows you to see it live, see the light that goes through, see the assembly of the product and allows to really validate, or not, a concept direction. We see the BigRep is ideal to print largest scale object when we need real scale, one to one. It’s quite a luxury to have such a large 3D printer to play with to be honest. 