 We've had refugees probably since the beginning of time, I imagine. Right now, there are more refugees than we've had since World War II. I'm Scott, I'm the CEO and co-founder of a two-man company, Good Works Studio. We're very singularly focused on interpreting design into specifically the refugee space. Thereare 65 million refugees in the world right now and the estimates of those refugees that are actually living in the field in shelters is somewhere between 13 and 20 million. On average those families live in the shelter from 10 to 20 years And they're living in wax canvas tents. There's a lot of unmet needs with these families We want to very singularly hone in on those needs. We've kind of developed a knack for looking for and attacking problems that we think that design has a place to improve quality of life My name is Sam Brisendine, I'm with Good Works Studio and I'm the Chief Product Officer Our first product, Emergency Floor, is a modular flooring system that we've been able to install in less than 10 minutes in every shelter that we've ever put it in. It's not something that a lot of people have focused on, the need for flooring. Even outside of a refugee context something like 1/5 of the world's population lives directly in the dirt, and there's a lot of health implications that go with that. Parasitic infections, rates of diarrhea In our context in Lebanon and Iraq, it gets below freezing almost every night for three months of the year. So it's also hypothermia and other issues related to not sleeping because it's too cold outside. We knew in 2017 that we wanted to launch a second product in addition to Emergency Floor and we were also looking at a low capital reserve as a company. When you're a young company like we are we have limited funds, and a lot of our products are pretty sophisticated in nature in that the manufacturing process that we use might be really efficient, but the tooling costs are really high. Previously we had outsourced 3D printing and different prototyping methods It was just going to be an impossibility to do the amount of iterations that we needed So it was just kind of a dream to have access to it on our own To have a 3D printer that we could send prints to on a daily basis We saw the competition and it was like Man, this would be so wonderful We entered and got a Gigabot 3D printing allows us to quickly iterate between ideas with very little upfront investment What's great about Gigabot is it allows us to prototype in ways that we never did before, and to have that ourselves as opposed to trying to contract it out, to have that access to a 3D printer has been huge. Traditionally companies have larger budgets to create new technologies than we do. We can actually create workable models that we can take measurements from Study them, learn from them, iterate over and over again. We can prove a concept before we have to actually commit an enormous amount of capital to something a 5, 10, 15 thousand dollar mold just to find out that it wasn't doing what we thought it would. The scale that Gigabot can print in unlocks a lot of ideas 3D printing actually allows us to not be held back by some of the basic constraints of product design. It just kind of increases the efficiency of the way that we can work because we can iterate, see it, test it, tweak it, and move on. Design can do good for those who can't afford it. We do this because we believe that design should find its way into these areas of life where people are in need and they don't always get the attention that they deserve. 