  [INSPIRATIONAL MUSIC] MIT is a community of thinkers and a community of fearless investigation and experimentation. Entrepreneurship is that link between identifying innovative ways of doing things and then implementing them in the solution to problems. What's important is not just developing an idea and publishing a paper, but really getting the work that we do to the point where we're going to help people. We really see the symbiosis between the great challenges of the world and what MIT can bring to help solve and contribute to those great problems. We see our role more in giving students the tools and techniques that they need to actually be a more effective entrepreneur. If you don't start out with limitations, you take people who believe in infinite possibility. Pretty amazing what they can produce. Welcome. My name is Ian Waitz. I'm Dean of Engineering. It's my great pleasure to introduce the first of three symposia, organized by the MIT community, to celebrate and honor Rafael Reif on the occasion of his inauguration as the 17th president of MIT. This first symposium is titled, Infinite Innovation. Innovation is very much ingrained in the DNA of MIT. For 151 years, our students, faculty, staff, and alumni have been at the center of many of the world's great technological innovations. And today, the world needs our brand of innovation and leadership more than ever before. The complex global challenges that we face require our particular talents in collaborating in multidisciplinary teams, within MIT and with others around the world, to create practical solutions to a very complex, multidisciplinary challenges. It's particularly fitting that we highlight innovation as part of the inaugural celebrations for Rafael Reif, because president Reif himself is a great innovator. Now, it's too easy to think about the administration at MIT as them, and everyone else as us. Because in fact, at MIT, most of the senior administrators are faculty members. So it's all us. And I think that Rafael embodies that, perhaps better than anyone. He's been a faculty member for 30 years. He, like many people at MIT, grew up in a place that's very different from Cambridge, Massachusetts. Like many at MIT, he became very successful on the merits of his intellect and contributions. And, as I noted, like many at MIT, he's a first class innovator. He's made contributions and inventions and developed new processes and technologies that have advanced the state of the art of three-dimensional circuit design. However, what I find most inspiring about President Reif is that he's continued to be innovative as an administrator. And I think nowhere is this more apparent than in his creative leadership of MITx and edX and bringing these forward from MIT. I find it to be inspiring. These will have profound benefits to residential education and MIT and global education around the world. So it's therefore quite appropriate to highlight MIT's exceptional brand of innovation as part of these inaugural celebrations. The symposium today showcases members of the MIT community who work collaboratively to bring new ideas into reality to change the world. To do that, to showcase those individuals, we've designed a unique format. No one will speak for more than four minutes. And there are no words on any of the charts, so a little bit unusual. You will hear first from MIT faculty members who are at the forefront of their fields doing truly inspired work. And the only challenge in putting together this program was to pick just this small number of faculty members from across the MIT community. Then we will have a short break. And you will hear from student innovators in a session introduced by Dean Schmittlein. And then you will hear people talk about future visions of MIT in a session introduced by Provost Kaiser. And finally, we will close with remarks from President Reif. Welcome. [APPLAUSE] Good morning. So I'm going to tell you a story inspired by the idea of infinite innovation. And since I'm a neuroscientist, it's a story about the human brain. In a minute, you'll see a picture of the human brain. And what you see on there is a region highlighted in red. That's a region of activity. And what we're highlighting is a region we call visual cortex. And we call a visual cortex for, it seems like, really simple reasons. It's where visual information goes in your brain from your eyes. When it first leaves your eyes, it heads straight back to this part highlighted in red. That's also how you get this brain region going. So if you wanted to make this brain region get active, you would shine patterns of light on the person's eyes. Each pattern of light would get a pattern of activity in this brain region. And that's also what happens if this brain region gets damaged. So if, from injury or stroke, part of this brain injury were to be damaged, you would be blind in part or all of your visual field. And this is part of a bigger philosophy in neuroscience some people have called the Swiss Army Knife Metaphor for the human brain. And that's to think of the human brain as sort of a collection of special purpose parts, each of which was evolved for a pretty particular function. So you can think of this as the little tiny scissors in the Swiss Army Knife, which can be incredibly useful in one set of problems or contexts where vision or the little scissors is what you need. And I used to think that this brain region was the model brain region, the one that we really understood, the one we should use as our example when we were trying to understand new brain regions that we were just coming to as scientists. So this brain region has a long scientific history because its function is really similar in humans and in other animals. And I thought we could use it as the model to emulate, as we tried to understand more complicated human brain regions, like the ones we use for language and morality, and the ones that we study in my lab. So in my lab, we were trying to figure out, how do these other brain regions off in the frontal lobe and the temporal lobe, how did they compute language? And that seems like both a really hard and a really different kind of problem. And to just give you one tiny sense of it, when you compute language, you need to be able to figure out the structure of the language independent of the meaning. And that's the part of the language that you recognize in things like the Jabberwocky poem. When you hear, "Twas brillig, and the slithy toves did gimble in the wabe," you recognize that that's English because part of your brain can pull the structure out of language independent of the meaning. And so I thought of those brain regions evolved for the special computational problems of language as like another special bit of the Swiss Army Knife, maybe like the corkscrew. And certainly, what I thought was that the corkscrew and the little tiny scissors had almost nothing to do with one another, which is where I was surprised. Because the picture that you're seeing here, although I told you it's visual cortex, that's a picture of activity in the brains of adults who have been blind since they were born. And so, of course, when we got that activity we weren't shining light on their eyes. We were letting them listen to language. And they were using these brain regions to understand language, and not just language, but the structure of language, and even Jabberwocky, which for me is like watching somebody use the little tiny scissors to open a really good bottle of wine. And so now, my lab gets to do the hard part, which is figure out how they did it. Thanks. [APPLAUSE] To quote Monty Python, and now for something completely different. My name's Marty Schmidt. I'm a professor in electrical engineering computer science, and also serve as associate provost at the Institute. This morning, what I want to do is hopefully convince you that in this slide, what you're looking at is two factories that can manufacture products at the micro nanoscale. And furthermore, what I want to convince you of, hopefully, is that there's some tremendous untapped opportunities associated with one of these factories. Now, the figure on the left may be familiar to you if you know the semiconductor industry. What you're looking at is basically a factory in upstate New York. It's an IBM facility for manufacturing semiconductor wafers. A factory like this typically would cost about $5 billion to build. It's a factory that produces on the order of 20,000 12-inch wafers per month. Those are some pretty staggering numbers. And what this factory does is, it manufacturers the product that's on that wafer through a complicated sequence of steps, which we refer to as an integrated process. And one of the unique aspects of a factory like this is, it runs one process, typically. In the case of this facility in IBM, it manufactures a CMOS wafer. But it might manufacturer a DRAM wafer. And then what happens is, that wafer is sawed up. And each wafer contains a unique two-dimensional design. But the process sequence is identical for all wafers. Another interesting fact about that manufacturing capability is that one of the rules of thumbs for the economics of semiconductor manufacturing is that, the revenue derived from this facility in one year needs to roughly match the capital investment. So what that means is, that factory has to produce $5 billion worth of wafers for sale in order for the economics of that facility to work. Now happily, that works in the semiconductor arena because you can manufacture many different products with this one integrated process. And in fact, that manufacturing paradigm has been extended to the way in which solar panels are manufactured, as well as in the way in which things like flat panel displays are manufactured, as well. And so that works quite well. So well, you might ask, well, what's the problem? Well, the problem fundamentally is that, if I want to innovate a new product in the micro nanoscale, and if that product requires a unique process, I need to build one of these $5 billion factories. So if you start your company and your A round of investment needs to be $5 billion, there really aren't a lot of venture capitalists that'll make that investment. And what has happened over time is, as the cost of manufacturing at the micro nanoscale has escalated, there's a lot of innovative opportunities and innovative products that we're not able to pursue because there's not a $5 billion market at the end of the rainbow. And we need a new paradigm for manufacturing. And what I would suggest to you is that the factory on the right is one of those paradigms. Namely, what you're looking at on the left, the IBM facility, that's a facility which manufacturers, say, a 12-inch wafer. That wafer, when you buy it, might cost you about $1,000. And it's going to take about a month for it to make that wafer for you. The factory on the right will produce-- and that wafer that came out of the IBM facility will have about 16 discrete layers associated with it. The factory on the right produces, in this case, a printed image, which is comprised of four discrete layers. And it produces that for $0.12 in about 25 seconds. So if you sort of normalize all that and say, what would it take to do a 16-layer structure on the size of a 12-inch wafer, you'll get it for $2 in about two minutes. $2, two minutes, $1,000 a month. Now admittedly, I've made a lot of assumptions about not needing to anneal various materials and everything. But I've left about six orders of magnitude of opportunity between the $1,000 a month and the $2 in two minutes. And furthermore, what's interesting about it is that each one that comes out of that factory is different. It can be a unique process, just like the pictures that come out of your printer are unique. And so this is what we think is an interesting opportunity. And in fact, we're working on that. Already with collaborators here, as well as at other locations, we've made wafers, substrates with transistors, with light emitting diodes and with solar cells. And we think there's a tremendous amount of research opportunities to further advance this factory concept. And I'll close by saying what might be the impact of this. And let me just cite a recently released report on manufacturing in Massachusetts. An interesting fact is that 70% of the manufacturing firms in Massachusetts have fewer than 100 employees. And collectively, those 70% of the manufacturing firms in Massachusetts employ 40% of all the manufacturing workers in Massachusetts. If you go to 500-person companies, that's 99% of the entire manufacturing industry in terms of companies in Massachusetts. And it's 75% of the employment base. So if we can put these factories into smaller firms, I would argue, there's a lot of innovation that we could get at the micro nanoscale. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Hello. My name is Angela Belcher. And my hometown is San Antonio, Texas. I'm faculty in the Department of Biological Engineering, Material Science and Engineering, and the Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research. Just as DNA is a basic fundamental building block and genetic code of life, it's been my life's work to try to give genetic information to non-living structures and devices so they can have the opportunity to share many of the wonderful qualities of living organisms, such as the ability to pass on codes for the ability to synthesize these materials under environmentally friendly conditions using non-toxic precursors and not adding toxic materials back into the environment, for ability to self-repair, to self-assemble, and to become better as a function of time. To give this life to non-living materials, my fantastic students have worked on selecting and evolving organisms, simple organisms such as viruses and bacteria and yeast, to be able to expand their toolkit of elements on the periodic table that they can use to manufacture technologically important materials for uses in energy, the environment, and in cancer research. So in order to do this, organisms in the ocean have evolved over hundreds of millions of years to build really exquisite materials under these conditions. But the challenge has been for us to be able to evolve organisms to be able to grow materials on the order of weeks or months, or at least on the order timescale of less than a PhD thesis. And so in order to do this, we've been able to do billions of experiments at a time to look for DNA sequences that code proteins that can build solar cells and batteries and other materials that we're interested in. And in order to do this, we've been working with really fantastic collaborators here at MIT. An example here is the ability to select a DNA sequence that codes for the ability to increase a solar cell efficiency by 33%. By evolving viruses in collaboration with professor Paul Hammond's group, we've been able to have viruses pickup single walled carbon nanotubes and assemble them into existing solar cells so that these solar cells are more efficient in collecting electrons. The same with batteries here, by engineering organisms to make more efficient battery structures that are able to be processed at room temperature, room conditions, and can be roll-to-roll processed and even stamped. Another example is through biological engineering, having organisms that can put together both organic and inorganic catalysts that can drive many reactions, such as creation of fuels, therapeutics. And by looking at millions of sequences, we've been able to come up with inorganic sequences that can then take methane and convert it to ethylene and other fuel sources for drop-in fuel replacement. Another example is, by engineering yeast to be able to take whey CO2 from coal plants and convert it into building supplies under environmentally friendly conditions, so taking waste CO2, using yeast to build environmentally-friendly materials to be integrated into buildings and can allow you to store CO2 on geologic timescales. Another example is using some of the same sequences that we isolated from batteries and solar cells, working with Professor Bhatia's group in electrical engineering, has been able to engineer new kinds of probes for the detection of very teeny tumors for detection of cancer. And so this is a way of being able to look for very small, deeply embedded tumors. And then extending that idea to be able to convince non-biological structures to be able to have some of the same properties as photosynthesis, to be able to have very efficient properties for quantum coherence, to be able to very efficiently collect light. So all of this is brought together by the integration of DNA, giving genetic information to non-living structures. And as was mentioned before, DNA is encoded in our ability to make materials. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Great. My name is Chris Voigt. I'm an Associate Professor in the Department of Biological Engineering and the co-director of the Synthetic Biology Center. My lab is developing a programming language for cells. Now, this doesn't mean that we want to have biology overtake computers. Rather, what we're trying to do is to implement computational control over all of the amazing things that can be done by nature. For example, imagine if you took cells that had been engineered to produce a chemical or a fuel. If you could program them, then you could implement control algorithms to allow them to each individually optimize their production. Imagine also a bacterium that's been programmed to swim in the human body in order to identify disease cells and deliver a therapeutic. And it's not just about bacteria. You could also program smart plants to sense and respond to their environment or human beta cells to release insulin under a set of conditions. So the way that we build a genetic program is, we start with the genetic circuit, which is encoded in a unit of DNA. And instead of implementing the computational function with electrons, we do with biochemical interactions. And the way we build a program is, we then stitch together those pieces of DNA in order to build a more complex program. What you're looking at on this screen is a plate of E. coli that have been programmed to implement an edge detection algorithm. So they each contain synthetic DNA that allows them to see the image, calculate where the edge should be, and then present the end result of that calculation back to the user. This requires two circuits in about 1,700 base pairs of DNA. Now, for real applications, we need many more than two circuits. The problem has that the field hasn't been able to build enough circuits. And it's technically challenging to put together the DNA. So a couple of years ago, my lab bit the bullet where we designed a very simple logic gate. And then we used DNA synthesis and a screening pipeline to build hundreds of gates and developed theory to understand how to put those gates together for a program. So we put all of those elements into a software package that allows a user or a researcher to go in and specify at a high level what program you want. And that's automatically compiled into a DNA sequence. So this has had a huge impact on the projects in my lab, where we're going to publish a paper this year in Nature started a couple of years ago, where an outstanding postdoc built the largest program to date. It consists of seven genetic circuits and about 20,000 base pairs of DNA. But since now, we've put this infrastructure in place, a current graduate student at MIT, who just started his third year, just finished constructing 256 programs with up to 13 circuits in over a megabase of DNA. And he did it in about a year. So now that we have this ability to build these rudimentary genetic programs, we've been then implementing them to control a variety of complex biological processes. This year, we published a paper where we used a synthetic program to control nitrogen fixation. This is a 16-gene pathway that's critical for agriculture in the environment. We also have a project funded by the Army, where we're producing metal nanoparticles in cells. These are pathways that require control of over 100 genes. And we also have a project with the Gates Foundation where we're programming bacteria to sense the microbiome and report the presence of diseased states back to the user. So now, in order to go up to the next level, we're going to need another step change of several orders of magnitude. And in order to achieve that, we developed a partnership with the Broad Institute, where together, we're going to apply manufacturing principles to the process of building DNA. And we want to be able, not just to build hundreds of circuits, but tens of thousands. We want to make them smaller and faster and more robust. And we want to be able to use these circuits to build programs to access all of the amazing biological functions that are currently encoded in the DNA sequence databases. They're just ripe to be discovered, including new materials in pharmaceuticals. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Hello, everyone. I'm Ramesh Raskar from Nashik, state of Maharashtra in India. And I'm an Associate Professor at MIT Media Lab. Now, 50 years ago, Dr. Edgerton, right here at MIT, inspired us with that picture of a bullet piercing through an apple. And now, 50 years later, we can visualize the world a million times faster with an imaging platform that can see the world, not a million or a billion, but one trillion frames per second. You can watch a movie on our website of a bullet of light, a pulse of laser, a packet of photons shattering through a bottle. And on the picture here, you can see a time lapse, a color-coded time lapse of how the energy from this bullet of light will propagate through the bottle. And with such ultrafast imaging that's aware of the speed of light, we can create cameras that can see around corners, beyond the line of sight. The idea is to shine a light with a very sharp bullet of light, a packet of photons, onto the door. Part of the light reflects into the hidden space. A tiny fraction comes back to the door, an even tinier fraction back to the camera. And by analyzing these multiple bounces of light at nearly the speed of light, we can actually figure out the 3D shapes of what's around corners. And it's not just science fiction. We have demonstrated this in our lab. And in the future, we might be able to use this technology to look around corners to build cars that can avoid collision with what's around the bend, or build endoscopes to see deep inside the body around occluders, or look for survivors in hazardous conditions. So right now, I think we should stop obsessing, when it comes to photography, about the megapixels in your cameras. And start focusing on the next dimension in imaging. It's about time. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Hello, everyone. My name is Dina Katabi. I'm a Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. And what you see on this slide is a variety of applications that are at the core of our highly-technical society. All of these applications, they have to process data and signals. So let me ask you this. What is a tool that is used by all of these applications to process their signals? What is a tool that is used by video compression, audio compression? A tool that is used in medical imaging and also is used in oil exploration? The tool that is used in communication systems, in radar and GPS and many other applications? This is test question for the new president. So actually, the tool that is used in processing signals in all of these applications it's a Fourier transform. Now pretty much, all of you guys every day use it for your transform. Because if you use Wi-Fi, you are using the free transform. If you see video, watch video, you are using the free transform. And this is exactly why the free transform is so important, because it is so widely used, it's ubiquitous. So how do we compute the Fourier transform? There is this famous algorithm called the fast Fourier transform, or FFT. It was invented in the mid 1960s, and today is one of the most famous, most widely-studied algorithms of the 20th century. And any improvement to the performance of the FFT would translate directly to improvement of all of these applications. And if the improvement is large enough, then it can enable even new applications. So for a scientist or researcher, the cool question is, how do I get that improvement? How do I design an algorithm that can compute the Fourier transform faster and more efficiently than FFT? You know what? It turned out that more signals are actually sparks. So if you plot the signal in the frequency domain, you will notice that there are some subset of the frequencies that are large. But most of the frequencies are small and close to the noise level. And of course, the large frequencies are the ones that matter. And being large, it means that they are easier to find. So by leveraging this positive property, we have developed a new algorithm that can compute the Fourier transform faster and cheaper than FFT. The new algorithm is called Sparse FFT. So how much faster than FFT can we compute the Fourier transform? The speed depends on the sparsity of the data. But the sparser the data, the faster the algorithm is going to run. So for common applications that are using the Fourier transform at the common sparsity level that we see in these applications, our initial results show a speed up at five times to 10 times. And if your data actually is very sparse, then the speed up can be as high as 100 times, even more. So you might be sitting there and wondering, which one of these applications is actually sparse? All of them. And actually, this is why we are very much excited about this new algorithm, the Sparse Fourier transform, because it promises to make a difference for so many domains. Thanks. [APPLAUSE] It's me? [INAUDIBLE] Yes. I can go ahead. Good morning, everybody. My name's Fiona Murray. I grew up in a small town in England. And I made my way to MIT via Oxford and Harvard. I'm a professor in the Sloan School of Management. And I'm Faculty Director of the Trust Center for MIT Entrepreneurship. Unlike other people that you're going to hear from today, I don't invent cool gadgets. I don't explore the wonders of biological systems. And I don't discover and develop new, exciting materials. So you might ask, why am I here? As a former chemist, the questions that I asked today are really about organizations and institutions. I want to ask, how can they be designed to really ensure that people like our faculty, our students, and our alumni are successful innovators? And by innovators, I don't just mean that they have extraordinary inventions. I mean, how can we make sure that they transform those inventions into innovations that have dramatic social and economic impact? This question really matters for MIT. It also matters for our region, and it matters for our global economy. Why, you might ask? That's because we know that innovation basically drives growth and prosperity. And yet, when governments spend money on research, often when they're hoping for innovation, what they actually get is a pile of publications at the end of the day. And so our puzzle is to really understand and cultivate the conditions for transformational innovation, rather than just a race for publications. MIT, I'm fortunate to say, is really my sandbox. The researchers that you see here today and many others allow me to put them under my microscope. And to really understand innovation, I study other places around the world, some as successful as MIT, others less successful. I look at things in Russia, in the UK, and Singapore, Germany, China. By comparing innovation processes around the globe and across scientific communities, my colleagues and I are trying to uncover some important truths that can really dramatically change how we think about innovation, and backing those up with serious empirical evidence. These truths, though, are already obscured by a mythology of innovation that's really kind of typified by an image like this. And this is the romantic mythology of the lone genius. Think of Newton discovering alone in a small English village. The massive popularity of Steve Jobs's biography is testimony to the fact that we're still obsessed with this cult of the individual genius. Even at MIT today, we've rather conveniently asked individuals to get up on the stage and asked them, how did you do it? Starting from a different place, I say, how did you actually do it? What kinds of role did organizations play for you? And what can we learn that takes us beyond the myth? So let's start with Newton again, because he actually gives us a clue. He says, he stood on the shoulders of giants and that he actually collaborated and developed his ideas with his colleagues. Today, teams are really critical. Data show that the most productive scientists around the world build collaborative teams with large laboratories, collaborating across fields, across disciplines, across organizations. And my research has shown that they can be much more productive and effective if they basically share resources, they share their results openly with one another, and they have mechanisms to share failure and mistakes as well as success. Teams are even more central to transformational innovation. Working alone, inspiring innovators likely fail. The best teams have people from diverse backgrounds with diverse skills. OK. So is that it? No. We've learned that really, to make the innovation process effective, we also need an ecosystem. Today at MIT and in the community beyond, innovation flourishes because people with ideas build relationships to those with complementary talent, with capital, with mentoring, advice, and with expertise. And they share and collaborate with others much further beyond the team than we could ever really have envisioned if we just focused on that lone individual. Conventional wisdom says that is really competition that's driving this kind of behavior. But in fact, in many of the studies that we've done and in the organizational experiment we ran this summer with the Founder Skills Accelerator, we actually studied those teams and found that the best of the teams did well because they reached out. They reached out for expertise and they tapped into this extraordinary ecosystem that we have here around us. In our studies of business competitions and innovation prizes, we find the same insights, even when the stakes are higher, when the stakes are a $10 million prize for an efficient vehicle, $100,000 for the best business plan. So what does all this evidence really add up to? It says, I think, that innovation is about smart, competitive teams. But it's also about building collaborative ecosystems. Over the past two decades, led in no small part, I think, by MIT and its alumni, we've built an ecosystem for collaborative entrepreneurial innovation that I think has enabled us to transform our world-leading inventions into world-changing innovations. And so, President Reif, I want to congratulate you, and also thank you for continuing the important work of nurturing this ecosystem. Thank you all very much. [APPLAUSE] Hi. I'm Don Boroson. I live in Needham. And I work at MIT's Lincoln Laboratory out in Lexington, where I'm a laboratory fellow. Of course, we all know, the modern world that the internet and other similar global networks for defense and commercial purposes are the lifeblood of the way our world works today. Sending lots and lots of data around is really, really important. And of course, the technology that's used is optical fibers with little lasers that modulate very, very quickly. But there are organizations and companies who have problems for which optical fiber is not the solution. Satellites, for instance, if you're a low earth orbiting satellite with trying to monitor the earth, if you're a geosynchronous orbit satellite trying to provide satellite radio or during high rate relays, obviously, fiber doesn't cut it. And NASA is even farther. They would like to send back data from the moon, from asteroids, from planets, and wherever they send their science instruments. Of course, radio frequencies have been highly successful for the last 50 years, solving all these problems in space. But thanks to the ever-growing need for more and more data, we're starting to run out of spectrum near the earth. And for very long distances, although there's enough spectrum, it turns out that the technology to send high data rates over very, very long distances turns out to be very expensive and very, very heavy and really not possible to send on a rocket out to, say, Jupiter. It's been known, however, that for the last 30, 40 years, that optical technology, similar to what we do in the fibers, has the potential to solve both those problems, very high data rates without a spectrum constraint near the earth, and small terminals to do high data rates from far away. About 10 years ago, my group at Lincoln Laboratory and then soon followed by others, first demonstrated high data rate laser communications from geosynchronous orbit. And that really started the ball rolling. And in fact, there are groups around the world right now working towards operational systems. But the NASA problem has yet to be solved. So we are presently-- we at Lincoln Laboratory, our group is presently undertaking a program to be the first to send high data rate from a lunar-orbiting satellite back to the earth. It's called the Lunar Laser Communications Demonstration, LLCD. And it's flying on this little spacecraft. It's really about this big, not very big. It's called LADEE, the Lunar Atmosphere and Dust Environment Explorer. And we plan to send 600 megabits per second back to the earth, which is sort of like a 100 cable modem. So it's a pretty sizable amount. And the task, of course, is to just solve this problem. But to have the part that goes to the moon be small and have it be very, very efficient. And so our team at Lincoln has come up with a number of innovations. The telescope is only four inches. And even so, the beam is very narrow and hard to point. And so we've invented an inertially stabilized system. We used fiber telecommunications components to make the transmitter and the receiver. And this always gets a gasp, but it's only a half of a watt laser that we're using from the moon. And so at the Earth and it needs to be very, very efficient and so we've developed an extremely efficient receiver based on superconducting technologies. And the interesting thing about that is that we've developed that jointly with a campus group. So thanks to that collaboration, we're able to do systems that, until we announced how to do it, we were the only ones that could do it. So where do we stand? When I go back to work, we are in the final stages of checking out our space terminal. And we're going to be delivering it to the people building the satellite, the NASA group, this fall. And then it has a lot of testing to do. And then at the end of next summer, it's going to be launched out of the Wallops launch facility in Virginia. We're also building the ground terminal based on the superconducting technology. And although it will ultimately be transported to White Sands, New Mexico, we are presently setting it up outside Lincoln. And we're going to try to check it out in various seasons. So the LLCD, we hope, will be the first step towards getting high data rates to NASA kinds of distances. And we hope that, after this success, the follow on missions will use laser communications as operational and not just as a demonstration. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Good morning. My name is Paula Hammond. And I'm from Detroit, Michigan. I'm a Professor in Chemical Engineering in the Koch Institute for integrative Cancer Research. One of the things that fascinates me is RNA. It's a fascinating molecule because RNA can actually turn genes on and off. It's one of the most incredible discoveries in medicine. However, there is a problem. RNA is a short strand. When it gets into the cell, it turns off the gene. But it's very hard to get RNA to those cells so that you can actually turn off genes that cause disease. So how can we actually design a system that will allow us to deliver RNA to people's bodies? Some of the barriers include the fact that when RNA is in the bloodstream, it's rapidly degraded by enzymes. Another problem is that RNA itself can be recognized by cells which, think of it as an antagonist and take it away. So we need a package for RNA. A number of people have tried to package RNA. And some of the difficulties are that, because it's very highly negatively charged but small, it takes a lot of positively charged material to be added to it so that you can package it into a small enough package that it can be injected into the bloodstream. It needs to be very small in this package so that it can actually get to the cancer, for example, that we're trying to target. And the problem here is that these materials are often very toxic. You need a lot of RNA to address a number of the diseases that we're interested in. But the amount of material used to deliver it is sometimes 30 to 40 times excess of the RNA. So it's very difficult to get the potency that you need. So how can we package this very powerful molecule in a very dense form, so that we don't have the toxicity and the side effects, but we have the good effects of RNA? Well, in our lab, we make polymers, which are very long chain molecules. They're usually synthetic. And we're used to building these materials and then manipulating them so that they self-assemble into larger structures. What we did in this case was, we borrowed from nature a mechanism for making RNA, which is a short 20 base pair, very short segment, into a very long strand. We take a circular DNA, which codes for RNA. And that circular DNA keeps repeating the sequence of interests for that gene that's going to address cancer again and again and again. And in between the segments, it introduces a segment that can be cleaved inside the cell so that once delivered, it breaks down again into the short strands. So we create this long yarn-like piece. This is the interesting part. Now the surprising part is what happens when we actually assemble these systems. They actually form their own structure. Rather than just getting globs of large yarn-like material, we actually ended up with polyRNA that folds itself into the shape of a sponge. This is what we call an RNAi microsponge that looks a lot like the scrunchie that's used by a number of people in the shower. It's very porous. It's only two microns in size. It's very uniform. And if we just add a small dash of a charged material to it, it can be condensed down into a very tiny nanoparticles system that can get into the tumor of interest. So we've actually been able to do that and show that we can eliminate or turn down a gene by introducing our polyRNA sponge system. We're very excited about this. Here you can see the change in the gene that expresses luciferase, which gives us this glowing effect on the left hand flank of this mouse tumor. Over a period of several days, we can see the diminishment of the signal. We're now taking this to the Koch Institute and a number of collaborators so that we can explore this further. And this is one of the wonderful things about it at MIT, is the opportunity to collaborate with our friends. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Hello. My name is Rob Miller. I'm an Associate Professor in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, and Associate Director of MIT CSAIL, the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Lab. And in my research group today, actually, we have a very important deadline, a conference paper deadline. So we're working hard on polishing our research paper for submission to that conference. But there's a page limit. Papers aren't allowed to be more than 10 pages long. So I want you to imagine I'm an author, I'm down to the wire, I'm up against this deadline, and I'm over length. 10 and a half pages, 11 pages, this happens all the time. But I need to focus on the content. I need to make my paper as good as possible. I really need help cutting it to length. So the solution we study is how we can throw a crowd at this problem. That is, how can we ask a large group of people making small contributions-- so not reading my whole paper, but reading little bits of it, and suggesting edits, ways to make it shorter and coordinating with an algorithm all of those contributions, so that they don't conflict with each other and so that they're high quality. And bring all of those contributions back into a user interface, this is actually our prototype running inside Microsoft Word, that lets me as the author grab a slider and drag the length of my paper to exactly where I want it to be. And automatically choose among all of those suggestions that the crowd made. So we're studying how to build crowd-powered systems like this and how to make them fast and reliable. So this particular system in Microsoft Word can draw on dozens or hundreds of people, in a matter of minutes, to cut text by 15% without losing-- and that's one page, basically, out of an 11 page paper, without losing any meaning or quality. So I haven't told you where we get this crowd from. It's possible to hire them, to pay them. There are web sites out there where you can hire a large group of people fast and pay each one a few cents for a small chunk of their time. I could draw on my social network, Facebook or Twitter. I could get help from the rest of the school. So there are other people at MIT that don't have a deadline today, but might be willing to pay it forward to help me today charity in exchange for my help as a member of their crowd sometime in the future when they have a deadline. And thinking more broadly, beyond just this particular problem of interest to academics, we're thinking about how an individual person can draw on help from a crowd in real time, when they really need it. So we've built a system with the University of Rochester that allows a blind person with a smartphone camera to draw on help from a crowd to see what's around them. We're working on a system for drivers to get help with their information needs from a crowd without taking their attention off the road. And back here within MIT, we've built a system for MIT students in programming classes to be able to draw on a crowd of classmates and teaching staff and alumni from around the world to get feedback about their programs much faster than we were ever able to do with traditional grading. So what I want you to try to imagine is a future in which our devices, our applications are not just imbued with artificial intelligence, but with human intelligence, with human help that's available when you need it most. And where you, me, everybody is also a member of crowds for other people, contributing your help to the people that need it the most. I'm very excited. MIT is a wonderful place to do this kind of work, particularly now, particularly because of President Wright's vision that has led to MITx. So MIT is reaching out, trying to educate a crowd of millions. And I'm certainly happy to do my little part. And I hope all of you are, too. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Good morning. My name's Yang from Beijing, China. Currently, I'm Gail E. Kendall Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and also associate professor of material science engineering at MIT. I work with graduate students and postdocs to tackle challenges in energy storage, intellectual chemical energy lab, or e square lab. Renewable energy technologies produce electricity. And we would like to utilize and store electricity to power our cars and make our electric grid more efficient. This can also reduce our dependence on fossil fuel and the greenhouse gas emission. We can store electricity in chemical bonds, such as hydrogen, by splitting water. This process also produce oxygen. We can recombine them in batteries and fuel cells to form water again and produce electricity to power our needs. Unfortunately, the rate of such reactions is extremely slow. So if we could accelerate the reaction rate, we'd be able to make energy storage more efficient and more cost effective. Our approach is to seek a design principle to help us guide the search of catalysts that can accelerate the reaction rate where we link the catalyst characteristic to the reaction rate by experimentally serving whitespace of catalyst chemistry. And recently we have figured out what factor can control the reaction rate. Specifically is this anti-bonding electrons or the outer shell electrons of capitalist surface, which can influence the reaction rate by several order of magnitude and forming a volcano trend. With this fundamental understanding, we were able to design and discover a new catalyst chemistry that can accelerate the reaction rate 10 times higher than the gold standard for such reactions. The new catalyst chemistry consists of earth abandoned elements free of precious metals. This work has involved chemists, physicists, material scientist, and mechanical engineers. MIT, with its interdisciplinary culture, is a great place for this research and also research in the energy space. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Good morning. Good morning, everybody. My name is Carlo Ratti. I am head of the MIT Senseable City Lab. And what we do-- I just want to show this diagram. What we do is that we think that today something very exciting is happening is that our cities-- that our cities are being covered layer by many, many different type of networks of sensors of electronics. And because of that, they are starting to work in a new way. It's almost as if our cities were becoming like computers in open air. And I just wanted to share with you one example, one project. In this project, for instance, we looked at the global removal chain on the supply chain, by looking at how small tags can actually help us to see where trash goes. Here we see deployment we did in Seattle or many different pieces of trash and then started following. Here's just one example of one of the projects we've been working on. And here you see the traces from Seattle 3,000 objects, the day of deployment, all the trash, how it moves around. After a few days, you see the main landfills next to Seattle, but then a big surprise. You know, in this case, everybody knows a small piece of the chain, but how far things were traveling. Sometimes, in a very clumsy way, look at from Seattle to Chicago to down the back of California, a lot of waste came naturally to the east coast, here. Cell phones and cartridges and any other type of e-waste and keep on moving after a few months. So this is just one example of how, today, we can actually learn about how our cities work in a way that we couldn't just a few years ago. I had a quick fun thing, actually, I wanted to share with you that happened. After this project, we learned a lot of things in the papers. And it was reviewed in science and in stone about the data and what we can do with the data. But something funny happened, actually, following the project that a burglar came to our lab at MIT and stole a lot of stuff, including some of the tags that tell you where they go. And this is-- and this is actually what happened. There should be a quick video. The video should continue. So, actually, this was a number of computers that were at an exhibition at The Museum Modern Art, at MoMA. And these computers had tags and ways to report. So then, some computers were in the lab. [MUSIC PLAYING] Well, you know, this is just an example of some of projects we do. We think that the best projects, actually, from our lab are the ones that, like in this case, it went to MoMA, The Museum of Modern Art, it was reviewed in science, and it was in many scientific articles. So we think, you know, that what we want to say is that we think there's a very beautiful new field that actually could bring a lot of us here, at MIT, together. It's in between electrical engineering, computer science, architecture, and also the social sciences. It's about really how our cities, if you want, are becoming like computers in open air. But the beauty of it is that we can all program them together in a collective way. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Hi, I'm Peko Hosoi from Corvallis, Oregon. And I'm currently an associate professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and director of the Hatsopoulos Microfluids Lab. And I can't believe I have to follow that last talk. Thanks, [LAUGHS]. So my research interest lies at the interface of fluid mechanics and robotics. And the work I'm going to talk to you about, today, we've done in collaboration with Boston Dynamics, who make high performance hydraulic robots. And there are many reasons why you might want to use hydraulics if you're going to build a complicated robotic system. So for one thing, you can use a centralized pump to pressurize your fluid and then distribute it to your limbs, which can simplify your actuation systems. But there are limitations associated with hydraulics. So for one thing, hydraulics are very large. So when you think about hydraulics, you typically think about something like construction equipment, something like forklifts or excavators or front loaders. Or if you're familiar with robots, you might know Boston Dynamics robot, BigDog. And BigDog is actually the size of a small horse. So the reason these systems are so big is that you need to have valves in them to control the flow. And valves require precision machining to fabricate. So as the system size goes down, the cost goes up. So a valve, that's maybe about this big, can cost you $1,000 or even $10,000 per valve. So in these robotic systems, you might need tens or even hundreds of these valves. So it becomes rapidly economically infeasible to build them. So what we're doing is we're looking at using active fluids-- see, active fluids to using these hydraulic systems. So an active fluid is a fluid that changes its micro structure when you apply a field. So the inset over here is an example of that. And when you change the micro structure, it can dramatically change the material properties of the fluid. So imagine that you can take olive oil and turn it into peanut butter by flipping a switch. And then if you flip the switch back, you take your peanut butter, and you turn it back into olive oil. And now imagine that you take that fluid and you put it into your hydraulic robotic system, OK? So now you have your centralized pump that's distributing the oil. It's going through channels to whatever appendages you might have. If you now apply a voltage across one of those channels, the fluid locally turns into peanut butter, which stops the flow and acts as a valve. So those valves we can now manufacture for less than $5 a valve compared to the $1,000 cost associated with commercially available technologies. So already you can build a lot of systems that we couldn't build before. But what I think is even more exciting is that you can then take these to build dynamic architectures. So I have an example up here. So imagine you take two plates and you flow the fluid between those two plates and you divide the plates into pixels. So this should be the movie. So the fluid comes in at the bottom and out of the top. The pixels, you can now apply voltages selectively across the different pixels. So red means the voltage is on. White means the voltage is off. So you should think of the white areas as channels and the red areas as walls or blockages. So the exciting thing about this is that you can now electronically change the physical structure of the valve channels. And the scale of this, I should say, each of those pixels is about a centimeter. So the whole thing is about this big. So the take home message here is that using these active fluids we can now build cheap small hydraulic machines that we couldn't build before. Thanks for your attention. [APPLAUSE] Good morning. My name's Bob Langer, and I'm an institute professor. And I'm associated with a number of departments, chemical engineering, bioengineering, mechanical engineering at HST. And I'm also in the Koch Institute. The problem that I would like to go over with you this morning, that we've been trying to address, which has really been a huge problem in the area of cancer and many other diseases, is when you take a drug like when you swallow a pill or get an injection, the drug goes all over the body and, of course, causes a lot of toxicity because of that. And generally only a tiny amount gets to the place where you want it to go. So the challenge is could we ever come up with a way that we could take whatever drug, including the kinds of things that Paula Hammond talked about before, like, RSI RNA-- could we ever come up with a way to take these drugs and target them right to the site that you wanted to? Think about cancer, for example. Could you take a cancer drug, which you know causes very bad side effects, and could you target that right to the cancer cell and hopefully no other cell in the body? So over the last 20 years, we've been working on ways of using nanotechnology to do just that, to work out ways where we could take virtually any drug, put it in a little nanoparticle, and then, using a certain type of chemistry, target right to the place, right to the cell that you want it to go to. So how did we do that? Well, I'd like to tell you that I can explain things OK, because I'm a professor here, and you have to learn how to explain things. But fortunately, for me, a little over a year ago, Nova, the TV show, they came to film some of what we were doing, and they made a video of this. And so I thought I would show you that video. If we could turn that on please. It starts with a nanoparticle of anti-cancer drugs. That gets encased in a plastic that releases the drug over time. That, in turn, gets a special wrapping that disguises the package as a water molecule to fool the body's immune system, and last but not least, the address where it should be delivered, a key that will only fit the lock of cancer cells. I should tell you that the biologists and clinicians I worked with, they tell me it really doesn't blow the cell up quite like that. But it does kill it. And what we've done is working with Omid Farokhzad who's a clinician and a number of our students. And then we even set up a company buying biosciences. Over the years at MIT, we tested this in test tubes, small animals, medium-size animals, large animals, like primates, and most recently, human beings. We've done about 30 patients. And these are just a couple of the very promising early results. These are cat scans. The nanoparticles have been shown to be very safe, actually, safer than giving the drug itself. And if you look at some of the patients, there's been very promising results. See, these are cat scans. And you can see the tumors here in the lung. But two months later, they're gone. Here's another example where you see the tumor. And, again, two months later, it's gone. So now we're testing-- going to hope to test this on many more patients to look at further safety and efficacy to see if someday that we can really come up with entirely new ways of thinking about treating cancer and other diseases. To me, MIT has been a particularly special place to do this work, not only because of the brilliant students, but also on postdocs. But also like, even the institute that I'm in, the Koch Institute, it's very unique. There's really no other place like it in the world. Half the people are biologists, really wonderful biologists, some of the best in the world. And half of them are engineers. In fact, you heard from some of them, like Angie Belcher and Paul Hammond before. So to me, it's been a wonderful place to do this, because this kind of work is truly interdisciplinary. It involves many fields. But I hope it can create an entire new paradigm for how patients are treated, someday, and how one can use nanotechnology to affect many, many diseases. Thank you, very much. [APPLAUSE] I want to thank all of the first session speakers for a terrific set of talks that displayed small windows into the innovation enterprise here at MIT. We now have time for a break. It's a 20 minute long break, and we will start promptly at 20 minutes to the hour, so 40 past, with a session introduced by Dean Schmittlein with student innovators. [APPLAUSE] Hello. [CHATTER] Hello, MIT. My name's David Schmittlein. I'm from Northampton, Massachusetts. We were supposed to say where we're from. One are my friends, just in the lobby said, "Well, you haven't come very far, have you?" [LAUGHTER] I am the dean of MIT Sloan School of Management and very proud to welcome you back to Infinite Innovation here at MIT, and specifically to this session related to the innovation that's led by our MIT students, our amazing MIT students. You know, if you talk with people about students at MIT and ask them what's the first word that they say, quite often it's, smart. And smart, in a way, makes me feel bad, because they are smart. But that is such just the tip of the iceberg when you think about and try to describe MIT students. So they're passionate and engaged. They're problem solvers, not just p-set solvers. And they're optimistic. They're not cynical. In fact, when the author and journalist, Thomas Friedman, came here a couple of years ago to meet with our students, he used as the title of the column that he wrote about MIT students, the thing they said about themselves, "We are the people we've been waiting for." As Mr. Friedman said, "How great is that?" So if you go back 151 years in William Barton Rogers writing the charter that the state of Massachusetts approved for MIT, these students have to be the fulfillment of the promise made in that charter. Practical knowledge, that was one of the three promises. Second, learning by doing. And third, people who bring together science, humanities, and the professions for the benefit of all. Our MIT students really do deliver on that charter, on that purpose. And you're going to get to hear from seven of them, now, describing innovations they have led at MIT. Please welcome the first. [APPLAUSE] Good morning, folks. I'm Anurag Bajpayee from Lucknow, India. And I just recently, just two weeks ago, finished my PhD in mechanical engineering here. [APPLAUSE] And my work at MIT revolved around water treatment to enable unconventional oil and gas. As you may have heard, unconventional fossil fuel is literally revolutionizing American energy. There are hundreds of years worth of shale oil and shale gas trapped within rocks right here in North America. But one of the greatest challenges with the full exploitation of this resource is the water contamination issues surrounding this. There's a lot of water that gets contaminated as a result of this extraction. Now this water cannot be reused or discharged, because it's so contaminated. It's so salient and so contaminated that the industry has never seen such a water sample before. So what's happening is that the existing technologies are either meeting their limits or are just prohibitively expensive. So what we bring is a completely new way of looking at water treatment to solve a completely new problem. Directional solvent extraction is a molecular approach to desalination and water treatment. Here we look at the bonds that this water molecule forms with the contaminants, figure out ways of how to break those bonds, and replace them with something else. So we take a directional solvent that will dissolve water, not dissolve salts and other contaminants and not dissolve in water. Usually, if A dissolves in B, B dissolves in A. Bur we're looking for this rare characteristic of materials, which have this asymmetric solubility with water. So we take this directional solvent, mix our contaminated water with it, increase its temperature. What that does is it increases the solubility of the water in the solvent. So the water gets dissolved out into the solvent. The contaminants get rejected, which we remove. Now, we're left with the solvent, which now contains the pure water molecules dissolved in it. And we cool it back down. So sure enough, what was absorbed gets precipitated out. We collect that, remove that as our pure product water, and recycle the solvent. So now you have a way of dealing with highly contaminated water without the use of membranes, without having to boil the water, and without having to use any complicated or expensive machinery. So what this was was a bunch of beakers and test tubes that we develop. And since then, we've converted this to an actually working machine, which we hope to take to the oilfields and provide onsite water treatment and enable this oil and gas as a startup that we're spinning out of MIT. And this keeps us excited and keeps us going, because you can imagine the sheer size of the opportunity and the sheer size of the problem, the challenge that we need to meet here. And this could have amazing economic societal consequences, and not to mention, the significant geopolitical consequences of shifting the power imbalance around fossil fuel energy, today. And this work is extremely interdisciplinary. It would not have happened if it weren't for people at MIT who are willing and eager to work across disciplines and work with new radical ideas. No, we were not a water treatment lab or a molecular chemistry lab when this all started. But then we became both. And then we went out to the oil fields in North Dakota to learn where the real problem was at. Thank you, very much. [APPLAUSE] Hi, I'm Katie [INAUDIBLE]. I'm from Lancaster, Pennsylvania. I'm a fourth year student in biology. And I work in the Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research in the Vander Heiden lab. Our lab is interested in how cells control their metabolism in a variety of physiological situations to meet the unique needs of those situations. One type of cell that has a very specific set of metabolic needs is a cancer cell. And for many years, the focus in cancer biology research has been on signaling pathways, which control the decision a cell makes to divide or not to divide. While that decision is very important, in order to proliferate, a cell also needs to be able to rapidly synthesize all of the molecules it needs to build a new cell, like lipids, DNA, and proteins. A normal non-proliferating cell really only needs to be able to maintain its homeostasis. If a cell has the correct signal telling it to decide to divide, but doesn't have these building blocks, it's not going to be able to form a tumor. So our lab is interested in targeting metabolism as an alternative approach to how to attack cancer. Now, surprisingly, there's relatively little known about how cancer cells change the regulation of their metabolic fluxes in response to these new requirements that they acquire when they become cancerous. Our lab has taken the approach of using heavy isotope tracers to follow carbon through the metabolic network and identify key regulatory nodes in this way. By doing this, we've really been able to make some discoveries that challenge people's longstanding ideas about how basic metabolism really works. So one thing that we know is that all cancer cells express a very specific isoform of the enzyme pyruvate kinase, called, PKM2. This isoform is special, because it can actually be turned off. Now, at first this might seem counterintuitive. Why would you want to turn off an enzyme in a rapidly dividing cell that's key for the metabolism of sugar, which is the main nutrient of mammalian cells? However, upon further examination, it actually makes sense, given their biosynthetic goals. Cells have two main options of what they can do with the sugar that they take up from their environment. On one hand, they can send the sugar through PKM2, which can then be made into a compound that's taken up by the mitochondria, burned all the way to carbon dioxide to release energy. This is what many normal non-proliferating cells do. But if you're trying to synthesize all these molecules, in order to build a new cell, it's not productive. Because you lose all of the carbon and make it energy instead. On the other hand, if you're a cancer cell, you can turn off your PKM2, get buildup of carbon upstream, and have this carbon shunted into the biosynthetic pathways that will help you make the components of the new cell. Given this information, in collaboration with the NIH Chemical Genomics Center, we've been able to synthesize some small molecule activators of PKM2. These molecules will cut off the cancer supply of these building blocks, rerouting metabolism away from the biosynthetic pathways. And most exciting, it can actually impair tumor growth in mice. Furthermore, most small molecule drugs, right now, are actually enzyme inhibitors. They turn off an enzyme. And so the compounds that we've made, suggest a new paradigm for drug discovery. They show that under certain conditions you can use a small molecule to actually boost or increase the activity of an enzyme and achieve your therapeutic effect in that way. We hope that by furthering our understanding of the metabolic network in cancer cells, we'll be able to gain new insights that will allow us to make more effective therapies like this, that can rebound metabolism and make a big difference for cancer patients. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] It's 6:00 AM. I am wearing a safety vest and a hardhat, spraying on tic spray, about to spend three hours running around a landfill following a landfill technician doing his job. My name is Melinda Hale. I'm from Fishkill, New York. And I am currently a PhD student in the mechanical engineering department. Here's how a landfill works. As the trash decomposes, it naturally produces methane, from which is a byproduct of the decomposition. You can't let that methane escape into the atmosphere. Because, one, it's a greenhouse gas, terrible for the environment. Two, it stinks. But you can't let the methane sit in the trash pile, because it's flammable. It can cause underground fires. It can cause explosions. Also a bad thing in a landfill. So what the landfill does is they drill wells, vertical wells, all around the landfill, like the one you see in this slide, and they pull a vacuum on the whole thing to suck the methane out. So what is that landfill technician doing? He is running around the landfill with a handheld meter adjusting each well. It turns out that there is an optimum point for the vacuum at every well. And he's desperately trying to keep the whole thing tuned. This would be like if you had a neighborhood with hundreds of homes, and you had an air conditioning technician running around turning the AC up and down, trying to keep every home at 72. So what am I doing running around after this technician? Well, in real life, there is no AC technician running around to 200 homes, because every home has a thermostat. And so, even though every home is different, the thermostat keeps it at the optimum point. So why are there not thermostats for landfill wells? We have the technology. That's what I do. What you see in the slide is a cylindrical package attached to the top of the well. That's a sensor package that I've built that takes the same data the landfill technician does and uses it to automatically tune that well without us ever having to do anything. We've built a thermostat for the well. So why does that matter? Every year in the US alone, the revenue from landfill gas to energy is over a billion dollars. I have eight pilot sites all around New England, and the initial testing shows that we can get 20% more methane out of the trash just by keeping things properly regulated automatically. That's 20% more renewable fuel from the trash under our feet. That's a big deal. And it just shows you that MIT is a beautiful place. We are bringing innovation and technology to every industry, even to landfills. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Today, I'm going to talk to you about something we don't often discuss at MIT, art. My name is Kim Gordon, and I'm originally from Worcester, Massachusetts. And I'm currently a second year student at the MIT Sloan School of Management. My team and I are creating a means for the digital generation to experience art through technology. Stunning artwork is created every day, but most of you will never see it, because you don't have access to it. What we all do have very easy access to is technology. And people are becoming increasingly comfortable using it. My generation uses technology for everything. We listen to music on our iPods. We read books on our Kindles. We stream videos through Netflix. What we don't have is the same access to art, which is why my partner, Shambhavi Kadam, and I built Medium, a company that allows people to discover, display, and enjoy art digitally. The first step is discovery. You can discover art in two ways. You can sort art, or you can get personalized recommendations. You can sort art through various categories. And you can get personalized recommendations through a sophisticated algorithm that will actually match your tastes to art you will love. The second step is display. We've essentially turned every device that has a screen and a wireless connection into an art frame, from your TV, to your computer, to your tablet, to your smartphone. The third step is enjoy. We've actually built all of this already, and we're in the process of testing it. So far, the reception has been really incredible from both ends. Within two weeks of launching our platform to artists, we had 25 very talented artists excited to get their work on Medium. We then launched a small alpha pilot to our potential customers. And within a half an hour, it filled up and then some. This isn't surprising. Because for people who love art, art is an emotional experience. Just like the right song at the right time can change your mood or can even change your day, the right piece of art can do the same. It's this emotional connection that makes the Medium compelling. But what we have built to date is really just the tip of the iceberg. Display technology is advancing so quickly that in 30 years the world will look very different. Not only will it be visually more stunning, we will interact with it in new ways we can't even imagine. That means the possibilities for art are endless. And that's why we're starting now. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Good morning. I'm Adam Paxson from Trout Lake, Washington. Right now, I'm working in the Department of Mechanical Engineering with Professor Kripa Varanasi. But back before I started doing research as a grad student, back when I was finishing up my undergrad here in mechanical engineering, I was faced with a very difficult problem. What do I work on? Well, the way I saw it and still do today, supplying the world with energy is the biggest problem we've ever faced as a society. I knew I wanted to do something that would help with this energy problem. But given the massive range of research going on here, how could you possibly choose? Then four years ago, I sat in on a presentation by this professor who was working on something that would touch every segment of energy from solar to wind to nuclear. In our lab, we engineer surfaces for interacting with thermal fluids from condensation to boiling to freezing, interacting with everything from turbine blades to pipelines to aircraft wings. My own research focuses on applications to steam power plants and designing surfaces to improve the phase change processes within them. I was blown away when I realized just how much power comes from steam plants. They produce roughly 80% of the nearly 3,000 gigawatts that the world uses. Each one of these dots represents a steam plant, which means it also represents a great opportunity for improving efficiency. If you take a look at your typical steam plant, you quickly find that one of the most inefficient parts of this is the condenser. Its job is to pull steam through the turbine and condense it back into liquid. Basically, the faster you can get water from the condenser, the more power you can pull through the turbine. So I've designed and constructed sort of a miniature power plant in the lab to test these different surfaces under condensation. And this is a video taken from that rig. Now, every single condenser on that map is made with materials like the one on the right, which are hydrophilic, which means that when you condense steam on them, it forms this thick film a liquid the blocks the heat transfer. There's an easy trick to get the water out faster. If, instead, you can make the surface water repellent, like the one on the left, you can get the water to bead up and roll off. But our lab has come up with some much better tricks to get the water off even faster. This is a video that's played back in real time. That speckling that you see is actually a bunch of tiny drops coalescing and merging into a larger drop. This happens extremely fast in a couple of milliseconds. And when it does, the meniscus of this new drop hits down on the surface with enough force to shoot the drop off. Right now, our lab is working on methods for manufacturing these surfaces on an industrial scale. And by having people with backgrounds in chemistry and material science and mechanical engineering all working together in the same room, it's amazing how much more we can get done than if we just had one discipline alone. We're hoping to make a very big impact in energy efficiency. If you can retrofit all of these steam plants with dropwise condensers, you've just saved the world's 300 gigawatts of energy. To put that in perspective, that's a little more than the combined output of every single wind turbine in the world. That's something that's pretty amazing to get to work on every day. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Good morning. My name is Heather Murdock. I'm from Virginia Beach, Virginia. And I'm a fourth year PhD student in materials science and engineering. In materials science and engineering, we examine the structure, property, and processing relationships between a wide range of materials. In my research, I specifically focus on metals, which are a vital component of a wide range of structural and functional materials and applications. There's a direct correlation between the internal structure of a metal and its properties. Specifically, most metals are composed of small crystals called grains, where the atoms are arranged in an ordered pattern. Each grain has a different orientation, and the boundaries between the greens are where the orientations of atoms collide. The length scale and the orientation of these grains is what's most important in the properties of the material, controlling things such as the strength, the toughness, the flexibility, even electrical and optical properties. At MIT, we like to push the boundaries of what we can achieve with the internal structure of materials. Specifically, if we push the length scale of these grains down to the nanometer range-- down to the nanometer range, we can get into a new regime of property structure relationships, seeing huge gains in many properties. The problem with this approach is that nano crystalline materials are incredibly unstable. Each one of these boundaries represents a defect in the crystal with energy associated with it. As you can see in the nanoscale picture, there is many more grain boundaries in the material. So, unfortunately, with all of this excess energy, that provides a driving force for grain growth, which means at the nanoscale grains will grow back to the larger grains, and we'll lose all of the properties that we've gained by pushing it down to the smaller length scale. My research solves this problem, however, by lowering the energy associated with the grain boundaries. To do that, we pick second elements that will preferentially move to these grain boundaries. Depending on the elements we choose, their size, their physical properties, and their chemical interactions, we can lower the energy associated with these boundaries all the way to zero, which makes the material entirely stable with respect to grain growth. Once we've done this, that means that we've opened up a whole range of new materials and applications. To date, we've done over 500 predictions of metal alloy systems and created design maps for engineers to use, in order to select nano crystalline materials in their applications. These applications range from creating lighter and stronger armor plating for the military, to increasing efficiency of thermoelectrics, to improving corrosion resistance of electrical connectors. So it's really exciting to be at MIT and to be able to have opportunities like this that go all the way from the lab to applications. Thank you [APPLAUSE] Imagine, if a doctor could know within a day or two whether the drug they've administered to a cancer patient is actually working. Imagine what that would mean to the patient to know that the drug they're receiving is actually working. My colleagues and I are working to make that a reality. My name's [INAUDIBLE]. I'm finishing my PhD in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer science. I work with Professor Michael Cima in the Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research. When a cancer patient goes to the doctor, and they want to confirm that the cancer is real and it can be treated, they take a needle biopsy where they remove a sample of material, send it off to the lab, and then the lab results will come back. The doctor can decide what the best course of treatment is. At that point, they begin treating the patient and all the terrible side effects that come with that. And then they wait to see if there is a change, or even worse, no change in the tumor. At that point, they can make a change to the drug or the dose, but valuable time is being lost. And I designed this small sensor to fit directly down that biopsy needle, so at the same time in the same procedure where they're removing this tissue sample, they can put a small sensor right into the center of this tumor and start to get information back from within the tumor that you can't get by imaging and that you can't get from a blood test. Now how does this work? It uses the same physics and technology that runs a large MRI machine, but on a much smaller scale, taking the essential elements and put some on the device in the form of a circuit that boosts the signal by 50 times. It also allows us to work completely wirelessly and without any batteries. To give you an idea, the smallest commercial battery for Medical applications is the exact same size as this whole device. And this is just our prototype. The other half of this is an external sensor, a reader, that you'll bring close to this device, and it will read off the information. So now with the combination of some scanner on the outside, which is small and portable, and this sensor right in the center of the tumor, we can perform virtual biopsies, completely non-invasive interrogation to see what's going on inside. So here's how our scenario would work. The oncologist, now has a new tool that she can use to see if the drug that's being administered is working. More importantly, very, very quickly find the drug that will work for that patient. The bottom line is this, cancer patients don't have time to waste. And we need to be treating them with the right drug from the beginning of their treatment as early as possible to give them the best chance for recovery. And this device is going to help that become a reality. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Hello, I'm Chris Kaiser. I grew up on the Stanford campus in Palo Alto, California. I've been at MIT for 27 years. And I've been the provost for 10 weeks. [LAUGHS] [APPLAUSE] And I wanted to say, parenthetically, how much I'm enjoying this symposium. This is really fantastic. I'm here to introduce a session on a vision for the future of innovation at MIT. And in thinking about innovation, I think in where innovation is going, I think it's worth considering where does innovation come from. And I think here at MIT the answer is actually quite simple and has been abundantly demonstrated here today, it comes from highly energetic visionary focused people. But as Ian Wade said at the beginning of the symposium, innovation is in the DNA of MIT. So why is it that MIT has been able to attract innovators consistently for so long? And I think the answer there really connects back to what Fiona Murray was saying, which is ecosystems are important. And in the simplest terms, I would say the ecosystem at MIT that drives innovation is simply as follows, we have energetic, dedicated, brilliant faculty. Those faculty attract the best students. We have brilliant and energetic students, and those students attract the best junior faculty. And it's this symbiosis applied year over year, decade over decade that has really driven and formed and nurtured the ecosystem that we have here, today. Before I bring out the next speaker, I wanted to say how much I feel that this is a fitting tribute to Rafael on the occasion of his inauguration. Because he has been able to hear something that I know that he deeply appreciates hearing from their own words, his faculty, colleagues, and students from MIT, talk about their work using the language of MIT. And now we'll bring out the first speaker for the future of innovation. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Good morning, everybody. My name is Amos Winter. And I grew up in Chesterfield, New Hampshire, which is a small town about two hours west of here. And I was a grad student here and then postdoc and now an assistant professor in mechanical engineering. And most of my research work relates to technologies in developing countries and emerging markets. And this is one of my projects, that Leveraged Freedom Chair. And this is the device that's designed to go on rough terrain, in order to give mobility to people who need wheelchairs in the developing world. And there's about 20 to 40 million people who need a wheelchair but don't have one in this context. And the key innovation behind the design is that the user propels himself by pushing on the levers. And then to the change mechanical advantage, he just slides his hands up to go on sand or mud and slides his hands down to go faster by pushing through a big angle in every stroke. And because the person in this device does the complex mechanical task of moving his hands up and down, the machine itself can be made from a simple assembly of bicycle parts that you can get anywhere around the world. Now the, reason I wanted to highlight this project today is I think it illustrates the future of MIT in regards of doing research that can impact developing countries in emerging markets. And the reason this is important is because that's where the action is right now. All the big economic changes in the world over the coming decades are going to be in markets like China, India, Russia, Brazil. And all the compelling social world problems related to water, health, energy are in developing countries. And for scientists, like us, we can use our research then to make an impact in engineering, science, economics, and in society. So as far as the LFC in this space, the reason this product works is because we had to combine rigorous engineering theory to make it light and perform well in the intended terrain with user-centered design by getting feedback from the end users so they can ensure that they create with us a product that will meet their needs. We used the scientific method and took the laboratory into the field into the village in order to test this device in situ and measure that yes, these users do get an advantage and can travel 80% faster, 40% more efficiently, and create 50% higher torque at the wheel than they could with a normal wheelchair. This project also illustrates reverse innovation. Because we had such tight constraints in this space, because we had to make something simple, robust, easy to manufacture, and also that cost 10 times less or more than its Western world equivalents, we really had to push it innovation beyond the last 140 years where wheelchairs have been relatively unchanged. And as a result, the merits of the technology don't just relate to the developing world, they're relevant worldwide. And so now we're taking this technology, translating it to the US and European markets to make a higher end version for wheelchair users here that could benefit from the mobility of a device like this. This is also important in the broader context. Because reverse innovation allows us to make globally relevant products and also, hopefully, will enable us firms to engage emerging markets and also help our economy here. And then, finally, doing these projects helps us make or allows us to make social impact. So this picture was taken in India during our last field trial, where 10 out of the 11 subjects, who were using normal wheelchairs, switched to using the LFC as their primary mobility aid. And with a normal wheelchair, none of these people could leave their house without the assistance of a family member. But with the LFC, they were able to independently travel over 2.7 kilometers per day. And this man, in particular, a [INAUDIBLE],, was a tailor who, when he fell out of a tree and injured his spine, could no longer make the trip from his house to his shop in his normal wheelchair. But the day after getting the LFC, he jumped in it, rode them the kilometer and half, opened up his shop, and started selling clothes again, won a contract to make school uniforms, and started providing again for his family. Thanks, very much. [APPLAUSE] Hi, I'm Anjali Sastry from Mumbai, the US, and points in between. I teach system dynamics and run the GlobalHealth Lab at the Sloan School of Management. You're going to see a picture of my students on the ground in Kyetume, Uganda. They're sitting with Reuben Mubiru and his colleagues. My team got to learn about this clinic, its operations, and its challenges. They designed an improvement effort from here, then went and worked on the ground for several weeks side by side with the clinic employees and delivered improvements in strategy and management systems, that a year later, when we went back to check, had resulted in Kyetume serving more patients, delivering better and more medications, improved service quality, and internal processes, and also allowed them to get their first ambulance. This is one of about 50 projects, I've done in India and Africa, that are designed for impact. But I want to share with you three ideas that could leverage this impact even further. So this is part of my vision for my MIT's future. The first idea takes on the gap between what we know and what we do. So medical science offers us lots of solutions to the problem of disease, both treating and preventing. But not all of that knowledge and not all of the medications and treatments get to the people who need it. If we take this gap seriously and look at what it means, we could really make huge innovations in how we impact the world directly. What's interesting is that if you think about implementation, it's often treated as fairly trivial. People say it's just implementation. The rest is just implementation. And I want to get away from that notion. After all, engineering isn't just the implementation of science. It's a whole field. Could we take on the challenges of health care delivery and build a field that took into account all of the challenges that relate to making businesses and organizations run better, innovating new ways to share information and move things around, new ideas for how to manage stakeholders and improve policies? This would bring to bear all of social science. This is what we're concerned about in social science. And if we could take every implementation effort that we undergo and link it to some kind of insight about what works in the world, we could aid our shared quest for better organizations and better institutions and better policies. So implementation really matters. My second big idea has to do with how we iterate when we deal with a challenging situation. We know that we can't always get things right, no matter how fine they are. The finest professors cannot sit in a room and crack a complex problem in the real world. So we've got to go out there and try stuff, test existing hypotheses, test creative new ideas. How do we do that in a way that allows us to accumulate our knowledge across different projects, across different efforts, across time and space? We learned in our experience at Kyetume that we had to iterate with that individual project. But we had many more new ideas to test next. And I think one of the challenges we have at MIT is connecting individual efforts to the bigger challenges of building on past knowledge and extending what we already know. My last idea that I wanted to talk about is to take-- sorry, I just want to make sure I get the language right here. If we can really take seriously what it means to appreciate what does work. So can we partner with organizations that have cracked a problem but also have interesting problems, document what does work, and learn and scale on what does deliver value? If we could do that we could get closer towards the ideas that Barton Rogers first laid out. If we're going to have an earnest cooperation between industry and between the world and MIT, then we need to earnestly set out to improve, iterate, and appreciate. Thank you, very much. [APPLAUSE] Good morning. My name is Paulo Lozano. I'm an associate professor in the Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics. I came from Mexico City in 1996 as a graduate student. So it was a long time ago. So I most like the place. It's wonderful to be at MIT. I'm also an associate-- the associate director of the Space Propulsion Laboratory in our department. And well, in our laboratory, basically, what we do is we investigate new ways of move spacecraft once they have been launched into space, once they are orbiting, move them from one point to another. It could be from a lower orbit to, say, a lunar orbit or visit the planets and so on. So in a sense, in the Space Propulsion Lab, we are rocket scientists, right? Now, there is a difference between being a rocket scientist and being a rocket scientist at MIT. How does the brain of our rocket scientist at MIT look like? Looks something like this. So, specifically, what we are developing in my lab are ways to create spacecraft that are really, really small. Why is that? Well, as we know spacecraft are very expensive. Every time we launch a rocket into space and perform an ambitious mission, we have to spend millions of dollars, hundreds of millions of dollars to launch this mission. If instead of that, say, we have something the size of a shoe box, and we are able to move that from one place to another and investigate in detail what's going on with planets and do relevant science, we have to pack a lot of technology in those little things. But also, because they are small, it's more affordable to launch them into space. They are relatively inexpensive. And that's a big thing for the future. Because, then, students can put together systems. Small companies can put together space systems that do relevant tasks. For example, nations that otherwise wouldn't have access to space, might have access to space and to relevant science and technology. So it's very challenging to pack all the things required in a spacecraft on such a small volume. And in particular, one of the most challenging things to do is to have a propulsion system. And that's what we do in our laboratory. If you take any technology, existing technology, and try to miniaturize it to fit in a small satellite, it's very difficult. It's very difficult, and so we have to create new things. And the way we do it in our lab is we take advantage of microfabrication technologies, new technologies that have been developed in the recent years and new things that we come up with. For example, create on a surface made of porous metal, these microscopic tips. And then we package everything on a small silicon chip that is just the size of a coin. Now, this is an ion drive thruster. So it's kind of thing that we see in Star Trek and so on, right? So it's very different from a regular chemical propulsion rocket. In our regular propulsion chemical rocket, while particles come out from the engine at, say, 5,000 meters per second, in something like this, particles come out at 50,000, 60,000 meters per second. So you save a lot of propellant. That's one of the reasons you can put one of these on a small satellite and perform an ambitious mission. So what is in store for us for the future? Since we can micro fabricate these things, and the performance is great and doesn't depend on scale, they are already small, we can then implement them in many different types of missions. So for example, we can make a flat panel thruster and apply it to a bigger spacecraft. With what in mind? Maybe a human mission to the planets, a human mission to an asteroid and so on. So in a sense, we're kind of helping implement a vision for the future using new technology that we can do only at MIT. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Hello, my name's Troy Van Voorhis. I hail from the great state of Indiana. And I am a professor at MIT's Department of Chemistry. And my vision for MIT's future is one where we are able to provide clean energy solutions to power the planet, fuel to run our cars and heat our homes, electricity to illuminate our darkness, all from sustainable sources. And, in particular, I am interested in solar energy conversion. Because if we could just take 0.0001% of the sunlight that strikes the surface of the earth and convert that solar energy into useful work, we could create an economy that was completely independent of fossil fuels. Now in order to do this, we need to overcome the effects of entropy, the natural tendency of energy to dissipate as heat, rather than doing useful work. And so, invariably, we want to convert solar energy into some other form, like, for example, electronic energy, either as charge is stored in a battery or electrons forming chemical bonds. Because electrons are things that we can control and manage. But in order to do this, we need to appreciate the fact that electrons obey the subtle and strange laws of quantum mechanics. So for example, here, I have a plot of the energies, the electronic energies available to an organic photovoltaic material. And alongside the energies, I also have the extent of localization or delocalization of these electronic states. So very localized states are at the top. And what we see is that if we shine very high energy photons on this material, we create very high energy electronic states. And these states tend to be very localized. They are trapped. They're hard to move. But these same high energy states have a tendency to lose energy and gain entropy. And as they lose energy, they become progressively more delocalized. Their quantum mechanical wave functions spread out and cover a larger fraction of the material. This makes the electrons more mobile, easier to move about, easier to control, and it's ultimately this correlation between delocalization and energy that makes these materials great candidates for converting sunlight into electricity. And in fact, these phenomena like this that could one day lead to abundant low-cost, flexible solar cells. Now, it's often said that ideas change the world, ideas like this. This is false. Ideas don't change the world. People change the world. People, who understand the importance of ideas and their potential, change the world, people who can take a simple material like this and make a paper thin flexible photovoltaic, people who can take a new catalyst and incorporate it into a photosynthetic architecture, people who can take those technologies and deploy them in the developing world. And the reason I love working at MIT is because, as we've seen this, today, MIT produces more people like that than anywhere else on earth. Thank you, very much [APPLAUSE] Hello, my name is Vladimir Bulovic, born in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, adopted home in Lexington, Massachusetts, and as a week ago, a proud citizen of United States. [APPLAUSE] Thank you. Thank you. I'm presently a director of Microsystems Technology Laboratories here at MIT. I'm also a professor in electrical engineering and computer science. And with that, I feel inclined to emphasize the pursuits of MTL, as we know it here, and MTL's focus on nano and microtechnology. So having all the insights into nano and micro world, I can tell you that we are just at the dawn of the age of nanotechnology. We are at the Renaissance of a variety of ideas that will be enabled by the nano world. And the best way to, maybe, emphasize this is to say, well, now has been around for a while, as we know it. And the answer is, yes, for past two decades, scientists and engineers have spent significant amount of effort trying to understand what the nano world looks like, how to image it, how to manipulate it. Just take a look at the image on the left made by a lab of Professor Karl Berggren. It's likely the smallest MIT logo ever written on the grain of gold. The importance of it is actually the little scale bar of five nanometers that corresponds roughly speaking to 20 atoms. And the mere fact that we can take an image of a 5 nanometer line on a tiny chunk of a grain of gold with such accuracy and precision where you can read the MIT logo, tells us that we can see the nano world, and we can write the nano world. And with that, opportunities are boundless. So if I look at that, and I say, now we can truly manage the world of the nano, truly understand what happens down on the nanoscale and recognize the fact that, indeed, most of our devices, electronics, optics, photonics actually operates on that scale. Then I can ask, well, what is the next challenge? It sounds everything is sold. Well, no, our really big challenge, the challenge of the 21st century is advancing such nano abilities that we have, pushing them towards the macroscopic applications, bringing the nanoscale world out to the macro scale. Indeed, there are many examples that might emphasize our abilities to do that. I'll highlight our capabilities of chemists, chemical engineers, materials scientists, our colleagues who so fearlessly put together large quantities of the nanomaterials to enable its glowing ability or optical absorption ability, chemical sensing ability. Just take examples, for example, of Karen Gleason's work on making solar cells on paper. It sounds like a little bit of a silly idea, I mean, until you recognize that it's really the weight of the solar cell that right now is limiting our ability to deploy them. It's the fact that when I want to ship a solar cell to a remote African village, the donkey carrying it to the village only cares about how many watts its carrying on its back and if it be able to carry more watts of inefficient cells, if they happen to be lightweight. Also more robust, as paper doesn't easily break. Or take a look at work of Tim Swagger, who engineers molecular solids or polymeric solids that, in the presence of explosives, stop glowing. Indeed, coming up with ways of making an extreme sensitivity chemosensor is right now used in Afghanistan and Iraq or work of Varanasi s less sticky ketchup bottles, or more seriously, looking at ways of improving the efficiency of turbines. All these advancements are enabled by our appreciation of where the challenges lie. And those challenges lie in big questions. The fact that the microelectronics industry today has energy density inside microprocessors that's comparable to nuclear reactors tells us that challenges of scaling down, indeed, lie in the new computational paradigms of nanotechnology. Or the fact that we can use quantum dots, colloidal solids, to generate glow of better light bulbs, like the ones you see up on the top. Why? Because 20% of our energy is utilized for lighting. 80% of that energy happens to be waste heat. Indeed, a lot can be done through the improvements in the nanoscale. And MIT is the place to do it. Because to us, crossing the boundaries, combining engineering and sciences is a norm, not an oddity. And as a result, here in the halls of MIT, we'll find a way to chart the future of 21st century. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] 