 Nanotechnology is like a do-it-all major  in this industry 4.0 era. We have this major  at Vietnam Japan University. Today, we invite the representative of  the Master’s program in Nanotechnology, Dr. Pham Tien Thanh, to the talk. He is instructor and coordinator of  the Master’s program in Nanotechnology, Vietnam Japan University,  Vietnam National University. Thank you, MC, for your introduction. Greetings to the audience, parents, and  students who are watching the program. Greetings to the Professor. There are some questions  from candidates interested in  our Nanotechnology program. The first question, “Can you please  introduce nanotechnology?” Before answering this question,  I would like to introduce the size of nanoparticles  so we can figure out easily. Normally, our eyes can see things  in different sizes and colors. However, our eyes can’t clearly see things  smaller than 100 nanometers. Our hair strand is  around 100-200 nanometers, so basically, our eyes can’t differentiate  stuff smaller than a hair strand. With the development of  optical microscope, we can see things smaller than  1 nanometer. However, 1 nano = 1/1000  micro-nanometer. To see things that tiny, we need to see  them through highly-developed equipment, such as scanning electron microscope  and transmission electron microscope. Another example that is  pretty easy to comprehend is the picture of the coronavirus  recently causing the COVID-19 pandemic. The size of the coronavirus is about 100 nanometer in a sphere shape. How nano-size matters interact is  very different from the macro-size world. So that’s an overview of the nano size. Nanotechnology is the technology that  we study in the nano-sized world to interact and control the super small  matters, such as molecules and atoms, to create supernatural equipment that can assist us in our daily life and scientific research  as of now and in the future. So that's basically the nanotechnology. Can you please introduce the nanotechnology program from Vietnam Japan University  for our audience? Similar to other programs,  Nanotechnology is based on the cooperation of  Osaka University in Japan. This is one of  the top three universities in Japan. The nanotechnology program here is similar to the courses at Osaka University. However, as we’ve known,  the development and facilities between the two universities are different. Therefore, this course has made  some adjustments to align with the academic condition  in Vietnam. Nanotechnology course is the combination of theoretical classes and experiments, then students will have  intensive programs into nanotechnology and other interdisciplinary subjects suitable to the sustainable growth in accordance with the philosophy  of Vietnam Japan University. The program also provides students with knowledge and skills to develop, solve, and skillfully practice  the technologies that are desirable and applicable in the current conditions  and that in the future. Besides, after 2 years, 50% of the course load is instructed by Japanese professors from Osaka University and  other top universities in Japan. The rest of the course load is  in charge by prestigious professors from Vietnam National University  or other Vietnamese universities. So can you please share more about  the applications of nanotechnology so that our students and those interested  in this field can understand better? As you can see, nanotechnology becomes  interdisciplinary studies that can apply in numerous fields. I would like to provide  some examples of nanotechnology in the application of nanoelectronics. Most of us use smartphones with various features that can replace a computer. To have it function, the most important part is the chip inside that phone. This chip has a lot of transistors,  around a billion of them, each transistor is about 6-7 nanometers. Nanotechnology is very important  in creating these transistors. In our daily life, we can find  different things that are the applications  of nanotechnology, especially carbon nanotube material. The material in tennis and badminton racquets, or the cover of high-quality cars are all carbon nanotube. The other familiar good in our daily life  having this material is bed mattress. They are manufactured to have  silver nanoparticles on the surface for antimicrobials and to kill the odor  and increase their usage efficiency. Fabric is also woven with nano strands  to improve its longevity. Nanotechnology is often found  in biomedical field as well, i.e. rapid tested kits for flu, cancer,  and poisonous molecules in food. They are the most popular applications  of nanotechnology in our daily life. For those interested in the MNT program, what are the criteria  to apply for the course? First is the criteria for the correct  and close course groups. The nanotechnology program is  interdisciplinary studies, including various fields. Thus, there is no requirement for  the correct and close course groups. Candidates graduating from technology  majors, such as Physics, Chemical, and Biochemical,  can apply for this program. However, to ensure the quality of  the program, candidates are required to have their graduate GPA  of at least 2.5/4.0. These are the main criteria for  this Nanotechnology program. Besides, similar to other  technology majors at VJU, the candidate needs to have at least 3/6 for  their Vietnamese Standardized Test of English Proficiency or equivalent. From the information from Professor,  we can see Nanotechnology is such a broad field. When being an MNT student,  what will students learn specifically? Can you please share the details? As I’ve introduced in the introduction to the Nanotechnology program, the Nanotechnology program is a  combination of theory and experiments, then students will have intensive  knowledge relating to nanotechnology and other interdisciplinary studies based on the three core subjects, Chemistry, Physics, and Biology. From there, students will learn how to address and solve the problems  in the nanotechnology field. When looking into detailed information  about the program, besides required classes, in core classes  such as quantum mechanics and introduction to nanotechnology,  students will learn the following course load as in 3 groups,  Physics, Chemistry, and Biology, and their interdisciplinary studies  among these 3 subjects. Besides, students can do experiments  from their first year (freshman) and internships in Japan or Vietnam, depending on the situation. These are courses available for students of the nanotechnology program. In your sharing, you have mentioned some internship and experiment opportunities. Are students prepared with sufficient  equipment for their experiments? At the My Dinh dorm, we have one lab with many modern pieces of equipment, such as scanning electron microscope,  sputtering machine, and a system of machines  to create nanoparticles. Students can learn to do experiments  from the first year to actively work on their experiment and  research work right after admissions. Besides, the nanotechnology program always tries to create learning experiences for our students to work on  suitable machines in the lab. Obviously, before using the machines, students need to attend refresher courses  on how to use these machines. Then the students can work on this up-to-date and expensive lab equipment. Besides, the program cooperates with  other lab rooms from Vietnam National University and  the Institute of Chemistry and Material. Specifically, students can use  scanning electron microscope, very expensive equipment at  the Institute of Chemistry and Material. This is a unique opportunity that  differentiates it from other universities. The course also provides internship programs in Japan. During this time, students can have  their experiments in the lab of Osaka University and Tokyo Institute of Technology, the top universities in Japan. Thus, students can get used to  modern equipment. This is a superb opportunity for the students to create their basic knowledge of their research works in the future, or  in the near future at this master’s program. Therefore, the university always tries  to accommodate the academic needs of students for their practice on equipment that we or our partners have. I see. There is a question, “I want to pursue a research track. When joining MNT, what kinds  of support do I receive to assist my research work?” Until now, the Nanotechnology program  has 3 classes that graduated. Class 3 just graduated so we  haven’t yielded the statistics yet, but Class 1 and 2 have theirs  on jobs after graduation and where they continue their studies. 10/18 graduates join Doctorate programs  in different universities worldwide, notably Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan. 5 of them received  Japanese Government scholarships at some Japanese universities, such as  Osaka University and the University of Tsukuba. This is such a good opportunity  to help students do their research and continue their studies for  doctorate programs abroad. There are two main reasons for  their abroad doctorate studies: first, 50% of the course load is taught  by Japanese professors so the students can interact, show their abilities to their Japanese instructors, and understand the research culture  of Japan. This is a crucial factor to earn  Japanese scholarships. Besides, students can have their internship in Japan so they clearly define their research orientation and instructors. These are the advantages  to build scholarship applications. With these conditions, our graduates  have a high chance to continue their doctorate studies  at abroad universities. Besides doctorate studies orientation, our nanotechnology program also  has an applied science orientation. The program has a large course load  for experiments so that students can get used to  the equipment. Thus, some of our graduates work for  Japanese corporations in Vietnam and Japan. Two of our graduates now work in Japan. So the career opportunity  of our program is very broad. Besides working towards  doctorate degrees, students can work for corporations  in and out of the country or pursue a teaching career  at Vietnamese universities. Thank you very much for  Dr. Pham Tien Thanh’s helpful sharing. For candidates who find  this Master’s program suitable, please do not hesitate to send  your application to our admissions office at Vietnam Japan University  to be a student of the Master’s program  for Nanotechnology. 