 Good afternoon everybody, well afternoon at least  if you are living the finish time. And a warm welcome to the Aalto University's public lecture  series. And as you know the theme is the Future of Technology and Finland. This is the second  lecture what we are having. We were having excellent lectures last week, and I am sure already  that we will have excellent lectures as well this afternoon today. My name is Jarno  Limnéll, I am the professor of practice here in Aalto University and  concentrating especially the security and cyber security issues, which are of course  part of this technological development as well. Some practicalities, very short. First of  all, please unmute your mics. When and hopefully, when you are having questions, comments, please use  chat, that's very easy to use and then I will pick a few of your questions also and present  those to the lecturers after the lectures. To our students, please verify your presence. You  will find the password given by Juho in the chat very soon, well actually at the moment, and  then you have to go to the my courses and use that code over there in order to make or  verify your presence. But like I said, warm welcome and warm welcome also CEO and President of VTT, Antti Vasara. Good afternoon Antti. - Good afternoon Jarno. - Hey what this story.. I have  to ask what is VTT in english? It's just VTT. We don't translate it, so it is  that. But we call generally these things Research and Technology Organizations, RTOS, so  that's how they are called in europe, but VTT is VTT. - And I have to say that when  I was asking you, and thank you very much for joining this public lecture series, and  when I was asking you to give this lecture, I was changing emails and discussing with you  about this theme what you have been presenting and saying also publicly lately  this like a five exponential hope and technologies. If  I may ask, why you are talking about hope? Hope is is something that we all need. I think  that we need it at the moment a lot, because everything seems to be about pandemias  and crises and those kinds of things, but when you see that what is cooking in  Science and Technology at the moment, I think that hope comes very naturally, because  I think that we have such a fantastic time at the moment in our hands that we can solve these  challenges, and that's what I want to talk about today and pick a few areas that where  I see that Science can really provide answers. - That's what you are more or less on daily  basis thinking about in your work. - Yeah, yes, that is what we do. And of course we have 2 000  colleagues who are, I’m standing on their shoulders here during this lecture, so this is  sort of, I’m just channeling the thoughts that they are having and the work that  they are doing, but I think that there’s, we think that there's a lot of reason for  hope. - Very well said. Hey, warm welcome Antti Vasara, please floor is yours. - Thank you and  I will now try to get my slides showing. So as I said, I’m CEO for VTT, and  we are a 2000 person strong research research organization and of  course our daily work is researching different types of technologies and scientific areas.  But what gives relevance to the work that we do, is that we want to find these big,  big questions, these big, big challenges, that are out there and find solutions to those utilizing  the research and the work that we're doing. And that I think is a really, really something,  something to think about also in terms of, that when you think about science and  technology, we are very easily immersed in the, and especially experts go very  deep into the technologies and to the details and that’s how of course you get the  things done. But at the same time then to always try to reflect on then that, why are we  doing this, what is the relevant of this thing, and the relevant comes from then that, we  can really produce things that push mankind forward, but also then give us hope, and that's what I want to be talking about today. Now without being too cliche, I think  that the next decade, the decade that we are living now, will be a very pivotal time in  history. Of course every decade there have been big things happening, but we are facing  really big challenges. We have sort of really hairy nasty challenges that are very systemic  in nature making them very complex to solve, like climate change or resource depletion and these  kinds of things. We are still living through a time that although we start seeing that the  negative effects of these type of things, but at the same time, we still have time to  react. But we are early in the curve, that most of the time, we don't notice the  early effects of these things that severely in our lives, and it is  very human then to be thinking then that; Oh, I have time then to start addressing these things  later on. And now during this decade, we will define then that, how difficult it is  going to tackle these challenges? And we will basically have to either spend a lot of money,  then later on in solving these things, or pardon my tough language here, that all we  will pay in human lives and sort of the welfare of humans, or we can start paying  through acting on these things and utilizing Science and Technology then to early on, early  on change things, so that there will be a positive future for us, but also than future  generations. And I think in Finland especially and in many countries in Europe, we are very  forward-looking in education, we have excellent technological expertise and also sort of the  awareness of these things, so we are in really good position then to be utilizing this  moment and making, making a real imp. I think that we were all very much  woken by the pandemia and COVID-19 that, how quickly a crisis can happen, and how  quickly things can turn, almost overnight our lives went in from sort of a normal  day-to-day things into radically different. And in a way that, I would say that, it is a  big, big shame that, if we now can like recover from this crisis and not come  out of it by being better than we were before. So in the sense then that, how we can use  this type of crisis as a way of renewing things even radically sometimes, but improving all the  time for the better. And when I’m talking about this, of course I am in no way downplaying  the human suffering that has been caused by the pandemia and loss of life, and also the  economic things, so those are of course the key priorities to address and making sure  that both, people's lives are safe and also so that the likelihood of people. But  at the same time, it is then that, when we are in a situation like that, we need to look for  opportunities that, how do we now support them? The long-term well-being start solving these systemic  problems and utilize these types of disruptions as a way of then tackling  the hard problems, and also then that we are all the time keeping in  mind that we need to do growth sustainably. And think about then that this is really  is a long-term race, and not sort of a short sprint maximizing that what we have now, but finding  ways that, how we grow sustainably. And in here, I don't think that you're  surprised that, if I or when I say that I strongly believe then that, the key to many  of these things lies in what we can do with Science and Technology, both in creating the  sustainable growth, but also then the hope. And in a sense that, when seeing that what is  at the moment already possible in the laboratories at Universities or Research Institutes, like  VTT, or some companies, or startups. That is the thing that gives me then hope that, we  can tackle, we can tackle these things and get really ahead of the curve in terms of  then that taking control of some of these changes. And that's where then the idea then  came to basically bring forward a few areas of what we're calling exponential hope here,  meaning then that, hey we can be concrete and also kind of like showing then that what is  at the moment possible and what can then happen as a result of that. Exponential here means, and  an exponential is of course a very widely used term, but exponential here means then that,  this is not sort of an incremental change that what a certain technology can  create or a certain area can create, but the real paradigm shift that you really can  like jump to a different level, so that you see a real performance gain or productivity  gain or sustainability gain. And at the moment kind of like looking at  what's happening in many areas. We can see that it's not only one area that where we are seeing  of real exponential growth, like in the old days it was steam engine happening and  then like that created the industrial revolution, but it's happening on so many different areas.  Hope has already discussed then that, I think that we all need hope, in terms of then that the  collected, how the news address these issues and what is sort of comes  naturally is then that, we are extremely receptive to bad news and we can see all the negative and  collect the doomsday scenarios of these global challenges, but we can actually tackle these  challenges, and also while doing that, we can then also create well-being jobs and unsustainable  growth sort of then that, the not only are we taking care of the challenges, but we are also  making sure that the society companies people are doing better than before. And that's  kind of like, where it comes end that kind of like combining these things together that, if you  start looking that what is possible also your hope can grow exponentially and  of course that's not a scientific term, but it is a sentiment that, I hope that you  will share with me and us. So the areas that we picked are five. Biotechnology and food production, Quantum technology, Small nuclear reactors, Chemical  plastics recycling and optimizing or optimization the use of materials. I on purpose wanted to have a  short list. So these are the five ones that we have picked, and as many people have already commented  that, there are brilliant areas outside of this list of five that would deserve to be here,  but since in order to keep the list short, I had to make choices and these are the  ones that we picked to basically like introduce areas that are perhaps not that  well known in the common discussion, but also then that, where we from our own work  know that things are really progressing in an exciting way. So by choosing  these, I am not saying that other areas are uninteresting, but this is the  focus here. So let's get going. So first one I’ve picked around, food production  and how to use biotechnology then to enable sustainable growth also in the  food system. So why is this relevant? A really big challenge for mankind will be and  already has been is, how do we feed the growing global population? And that  sort of been the story of mankind for many thousands of years, and there have been  different phases that, when farming started and then sort of more industrial scale farming  has and agriculture has really started to grow in the past 100 to 200 years. But we are seeing  the limits of that, how to feed the global population, ever-growing population and making sure  that everybody has healthy food, but also then that we are starting to test the limits of the  planetary system that, how do we minimize the negative environmental impacts coming from  the scale of food production. The food productions, what is being done there is, per se, not  the problem, but the scale that is needed, is the problem, we need additional things  in here. And one area, which is really promising, is what can be called cellular agriculture, or  single cell agriculture that, how you use different types of single cell organisms, microbes, plant  cells, animal cells, and the tools and trade of biotechnology to produce food instead of,  kind of like just having animals on fields or sort of the traditional agriculture.  And what we can do here is then that, we use them for example microbes to turn different type of feedstocks into sustainable food ingredients. And I will be  using as an example here in this presentation for example, how you can create egg, white egg protein  without chickens, or milk proteins without cows. And the benefit coming from this is then that, the  being able to produce additionally food in a sustainable way, where also the environmental  footprint is smaller, but also then that, how we can scale cellular agriculture in a way, that  it's not increasing the land usage and the environmental effects of that, but also in a sense  then that leaving room for traditional agriculture to produce more food for humans, instead of  animals as it is happening at the moment. What this could then mean in practice, is example eggs without chicken, I’ll come back to that one, sort of, kind of like, producing  certain type of proteins, using biotechnology. We can also, kind of like, create sort of a  sustainable foods from the microbial masses itself. Corn is one example. Solene from Solar  Foods do this vertical farming instead of the horizontal farming, which has many  beneficial effects. But also then that, the food production can be done in totally new places  where it's not possible at the moment, the deserts, space and even kind like, if you think  about then that, during the finish winter certain type of things are just impossible  to do here, so in a sense that, also make certain type of agriculture then possible all year round also in our climate. This case example here where to  dig a little bit deeper is this what we sort of, I mean calling  eggs without chicken. Egg protein is needed in very many foods, and  especially if you're allergic to eggs, you notice then that, how so many foods that you can buy  from store actually have egg protein in there. And quite a large chunk of the eggs that  are produced, are used only to get the albumin, the egg protein that's used to kind of give structure, and a certain type of characteristics to food, so what if you could produce that protein  directly to be used in manufacturing foods. That could have a really big impact on both, on  land usage and these types of things, but also then the amount of greenhouse gases being emitted and  other type of positive things. So these are very promising things and kind of  thinking about, how do they use these as a way of scaling up food production in a way that doesn't  then overburden the planet. Why This then makes sense in Finland, and why we are  excited about this as an opportunity feeling? So, we actually have a very high level expertise  in many areas, technology areas, food areas that are related to this. I think that, the  Finnish consumers are open-minded for new food innovations and in that sense then that,  this would be a good jumping ground or like a building ground for new companies then to start  testing their ideas and then going abroad. And this is also kind of, like then the overarching  theme in all these five areas here then that, research is generating ideas, research  are generating possibilities, and then we hope then that, companies can pick up from the work  that universities research organizations are creating, and then turning them into commercial  innovations and really can like make the impact happen and create the jobs. So moving swiftly  forward. Quantum technology is an area, that as a well I used to study or I did my  studies in physics, so this makes me really, really excited about seeing them that what  can be done with quantum technology. And where the promise there lies, and the  challenge, that we can solve here is that, if you think about what transistors, microprocessors,  modern day computers, mobile phones, these types of things have enabled, they have been absolutely  instrumental in so many different fields, and you could say then that the invention of  transistor has been the basis for modern day wealth and well-being. And now we are seeing then  that, kind of like, that we're basically hitting the laws of nature in, how to all the time keep on  improving. We have been blessed with getting all the time more and more computing power  every year, and now we are starting to see then that the although there are still many things to  do on that front for years to come, we are seeing that, it will start to plateau. What if we could  then do a giant leap in performance, and jump to an entirely different level, so in the same way  as transistors and microprocessors and computers, if you were using an abacus before, then a computer  is like magic what you can do with that. So, what if we get orders of many orders of magnitude  improving that what we can calculate, what we can simulate, and what type of problems we can do? And  this could really unlock them in many, many fields really rapid development. So we could develop  medicines and vaccines, or new types of materials, really kind like forward artificial  intelligence and these types of things, and sort of the possibilities are really endless. And  what this could mean is then that, the world around is quantum physical, so if we can  harness then the kind of quantum physics to do the calculations, we can then or at least  we believe at the moment, that we could really then simulate that what happens in molecules,  chemical biological processes, different type of materials, and start designing these materials  and proteins to be what we want. We could have absolutely unhackable internet,  quantum internet, or at least unhackable through current means, and in that way also sort of  make sure then that, the benefits that we're getting from communications, could  be also utilized in the future. And then what has already been used  already for a while then that, they cannot be doing sensors and sensing applications based on quantum technology like brain scanning has been done for some time with essentially quantum technologies, and  many other applications there as well. And why this type of thing it makes sense  in Finland? People are reading in the newspapers that China is spending billion, tens  of billions of euros in quantum computing, the same in U.S, Europe, Germany, these type of places  are spending a lot. But actually even though that, we don't have the billions to spend here, we have  long-term expertise in electronic superconducting circuits and these types of things, which are  required here Aalto university, or the former Helsinki University of Technology had  housed the Low Temperature Physics Laboratory, which was pioneer in its sense, in its own  area, but that has led them into development of many of these areas that where we can actually then make progress now and develop quantum computers. And what this could mean that,  in Finland is that we could create a new expert industry around building a different  type of either a quantum computer…the sort of full quantum computers, or then different types  of subsystems and components, and they are already all the startups and companies operating in  this field. And this is similar to them that the even though, that we didn't invent  the transistor, we have created a very striving electronics industry in Finland that has then  went into essentially to all different domains. Then we can also then utilize quantum computers as  a tool then to solve things, so what can be for example done with quantum  computers or at least, what we at the moment know that can be done, is then this modeling  of really complex molecules, or really complex systems at the level, that is just impossible with  classical computers. And this would then enable many of the current industries that  are operating in pharmaceuticals or materials science side, then to get tools how they  can take their product development then to a totally new level. So moving swiftly on,  as the clock is ticking mercilessly forward. Next challenge that we want to tackle is then, clean energy. And one thing there is, that we know that, we need clean electricity,  carbon-free electricity, and actually in Finland the situation starts to be already quite good even  today, but then we also need to create a clean heat, which is needed both in district heating,  but in most of the industrial processes that are done in the energy  intensive industries. And we believe that there are of course multiple ways, how you can also create a carbon-free energy, but a key piece in the puzzle will be small nuclear reactors.  The small nuclear reactors are basically, they are sort of normal  nuclear reactors, but they are used slightly differently when they are producing  heat than when they are producing electricity. Essentially nuclear reactors are gigantic water  boilers, so they're like electric kettle that you use for to  to warm water for your tea, so they boil water. Now for electricity production, then you  need to be using that hot water, then to transform, first you transform the nuclear  energy to heat, then you transform the heat and the mechanical energy, and then the generators  change it then to electricity, so there are many steps. But if your end goal is to produce heat  only, then you get it straight from the nuclear process, and that means then that,  actually these type of reactors can be made a lot more simpler, not a lot more  cheaper to manufacture, but also then that from their safety features to be also extremely safe as the systems are quite simple to build. And this means  then that, we could be building these type of small modular reactors  in a scalable, almost industrial way, and building these modules that can be  used in either in industrial processes, or in for example district heating. And the size of  these types of things are sort of it's an industrial hole, so it's not kind  of like a table dock device, but still that they are in a size then that they are kind of  comparable, then to for example to the current district heating power plants that are  out there. But these would then generate at running time completely carbon-free, the heat  that's needed, district heating or industrial uses, or they can be also used then to generate  hydrogen. Hydrogen is a great way to store energy, so both for solar and  wind energy, but also then to be turned into these so-called synthetic fuels so that  they can be used in conventional engines. So many other benefits here as well, but  this is sort of an area also again that would make sense for Finland, because we have very  ambitious carbon neutrality targets, so we really need to do something about the CO2 emissions of  our heat generation. We have a long tradition of doing safe nuclear energy, and also actually,  we have the knowledge, both on the research side at the universities, but also in companies then that, how we could build these type of nuclear reactors and turn this also into an export  area. In the rest of time, I rush forward. There would be so many things to say and too  little time. I moved to the fourth area. And this is important, both from the circular economy  point of view, but also then to tackle the other environmental problems that we have  also in addition then to greenhouse emissions. Plastics are a really useful material. They have  been, you could say almost a life safer in improving food hygiene and eliminating food waste, and in so many different areas, because they are cheap to make, and easy  to manufacture, and easy to mold into different type of shapes. The trouble  then with the current way of using plastics is then that, globally only 10 percent of  plastics is recycled, in Finland it is 25 percent, but the recycling of plastics is very difficult at  the moment, because usually most that can be done is mechanical recycling where  you basically grind the plastics into smaller pieces, and then use  that material then to make at the best similar quality plastic as before, but each  time it's recycled, the quality of the plastic degrades, so that in the end it can only be  used for burning. And what we need here, is now a rapid increase in the recycling rates. In Finland  the target is that by 2025, 50 percent of plastics should be recycled. It's only five years  to go and we need to get from 25 percent to 50 percent, and mechanical recycling doesn't cut that  target, so in that sense then that, we need to do something very quickly. Chemical  plastics recycling basically breaks the plastics down to its building blocks, turns them into  monomers or molecules, small molecules that can be then used as a raw material again to make new  plastics. So that's how you really get the circular use of plastics happening there,  and of course this has been known for quite some time, but it requires a lot of energy, and basically the economics haven't been working  there. But when you both have to take into account, then the environmental hazards that  are coming from, not recycling the plastic, it's ending up in all the wrong places  in many places of the world. The need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions  and the use of fossil raw materials, and then improving technologies, then suddenly this  becomes actually relevant. And what can be then done here is then that, the firstly  just basically being able to kind of generate high quality plastic materials, sort of replacing  the sort of fossil raw materials and then creating steel materials that are equally  good. But also then that, the utilizing new streams of waste plastic that in the past have  not been able to use as a feed stock anywhere, and this would  absolutely have then the positive effects. And again here, now I know, I’m repeating myself,  but here again, we believe that, this is an area that can be turned into an export industry  for Finland. So of course, we can solve the issues here in Finland with this, but also  then by combining the knowledge that we have in the relevant fields like, thermochemistry and  biotech, and then the knowledge about kind of like, doing for example industrial scale gasification  pyrolysis, which are the technologies that we think, that are extremely promising in  here. We can turn this into an also an export industry, how to take this type of industrial escape plants, then sell them elsewhere, but also then that, we have expertise  about collection and recycling systems, and how to organize that, so then that kind  of thinking about the totality of the system here. And so far for example, if you look at some of these areas then that, in food packaging you end up combining many different types of  plastics together to get the desirable features there, like then that, the plastic can  stop the water leaking through, but also then that it provides an air seal  there, so that the food stays fresh. But the fact from using many types of different  plastics it then leads into having very difficult recyclable plastics, and this could be  then recycled easily with the chemical means, and this would would be an absolute breakthrough  in terms of also getting then the recycling rates up. Last, but not least, before I run out of time.  Optimizing material use, but also then that kind of like that how do we start designing materials that  have those type of characteristics, that we want them to have instead of just them that kind  of, but comes from a process if you do the steps. Now, this is a very broad  area in the sense then that, we see many types of challenges that we need to be starting  to use materials that are easier to recycle. How to enable circular  economy requires also then that, the products are designed and the materials are designed for  circularity. Also then that we see that, we have certain type of environments and kind like building certain type of machines that where we need materials that are more durable, or  have certain type of performance criteria and it kind of like, it's basically  trial and error to try to find those things. But what if we could design the materials  digitally? So using both, computer simulations, physics chemistry modeling, and in that way  create exactly the type of material that you want, and be able to then produce it with  additive manufacturing. You could then minimize the use of materials maximizing the performance,  but also maximizing the recyclability and in that way also, we think that we can minimize  that how much sort of the growth in the resource usage  that's happening due to growing population. And this means then that, both sort  of advances on the circular economies side, but designing these types of materials  that exactly have the right type of performance. Now at the moment, we already have those type of  tools, and for VTT we have customers utilizing those type of tools. But think  about then that we're now utilizing sort of, you could say microscopic level  techniques, so we're not getting down to the real quantum mechanical behavior of the materials and  kind of really getting into that what's going on there, but think about then that, when we  can get quantum computers for these boys and girls who are doing the work at the moment,  and then we can really start designing materials that would be unthinkable at the moment. And again  here I think that, this makes a lot of sense for Finnish industry  to be looking at, because basically, we have lots of companies that who have excellent  knowledge on materials science and engineering, we have universities and research organizations that  can do the modeling and starting to do the materials research. But also in a sense then that,  we have industrial companies building heavy machinery, and these  types of things that where the benefits from these type of high performance materials  can be also utilized immediately. And we have large companies like Metso Outotec, who  are already in this business and have a global scope. So again here, it's great place for  both, startups and existing companies to start generating the business. So to wrap it up, then these are five areas, which I went through extremely fast, that way we can see  then that, we can utilize the science to create businesses for future. This is sort of the, like  the famous Wayne Gretzky quote that, don't skate the where the puck is, but skate to  where this puck will be. Science shows you that where the puck will be. Now hopefully in Finland  we are now kind of tackling these areas, and many other areas outside the  list of five, and start putting both, the sort of this to the center of both, the innovation  policy, but also industrial policy, but also then that companies are excited to do this work and  create the jobs and the prosperity in Finland and starting to build their research and product  development innovation work here. This is a choice that we can make. We can either complain  that, there are so many challenges and the future looks grim, or we can actually act on it and  do something about this. And that's where my hope and optimism is  coming from then that, we can do this. We have both, the science and the technology to do  this, and we have the companies here, so hopefully we are smart enough now then to act on  this and create something great for the future. And there I finish before I run completely out  of time, thank you. - Thank you very, very much Antti. Excellent presentation, and I have to say,  that in my head there are lots of thoughts. And I really like also that,  I think it's much more easier to talk about the future of the technology  to discussing about the different threats and risks, and some bad issues, but I really  like this main theme what you are having that, when we are utilizing technology in the right  way, it actually brings us hope in a great way. But what would you say, we have a lot of students  also listening at the moment, when they are thinking about that, okay, they understand this  development of technology different aspects of it, and probably they are thinking about that, okay,  what kind of skills I need in order to succeed and survive in this Omni technology present world? What  would be your best guidance to these students? So of course many of these areas are kind like  heavy, in technology, and science and kind like, if you want to build the inner workings of a quantum  computer, it really helps to understand quantum mechanics and those kinds of things. But then  when you expand from there that machine, the quantum computer doesn't alone solve anything.  It has to be utilized, it has to be understood that how it's used, and you have to understand the  challenge that is being solved. So in that sense then that all of these areas, even if I didn't  have time to kind like, really kind of start expanding on these things require that there are  people who understand humanities, how humans behave, can help in making the sort of the ethical  choices that need to be made, so these are all extremely broad-based. So in that sense then  that the studying, basically everything is useful, you can't go much wrong there,  but it's how you want to apply it? And that's a choice that you only can influence that,  then that are you curious and try to understand, are you curious then to walk to the next door  laboratory where they're doing something strange that you don't understand, but ask them  that what they're doing and like thinking about, okay, how can we utilize. And that type of curiosity and broad-mindedness I hope that the students of today will have, and  I was too narrow-minded, I was too much of a physicist when I was studying that, I was  kind of only in my own box, and that advice I would give to my younger self to  be, kind of like looking broader and being curious. - Excellent, excellent point to students,  and also to us, a little bit older ones as well. So in a nutshell you are saying that,  actually the next technology trend is humanity and about ethical choices what we are making. Hey, I  will arise two questions from the chat Antti, first of all a quote, so if you produce  eggs and milk without animals, what will happen to our society and economy, especially  the rural area, what will happen to them? So I don't believe that eggs and cows will go  anywhere, but it's basically a question of then that, if everybody at the moment on the planet  would be eating eggs and milk as we are doing here, we would run out of planet. So that's  the point is then that, how do we make also normal agriculture sustainable on this  planet, without basically asking half of the population to be without it and half  the population having it. So in that sense then that, this is about sustainable production and  it's of course a larger thing, and I didn't go of course into kind of like, the systemic thing  there. Then the other thing is then that, the who is saying that tomorrow's farm is going to  be only about having them the fields there. You can also start kind of like then doing this  type of vertical farming there and at the farm, so this might be also then that the way that,  the farmers livelihood changes in the future. So we don't know yet, but these are  the things that we need to keep in mind, but I believe that, it is an evolution that  will lead into good things for all. - Very good. That question was from Anna Pursiainen.  Then there are a few questions concerning about the recycling, and if you have a time Antti, it would be great if you would comment them in chat, just after a while. But hey, one more question. I  think this is very good one also from Kari Heiska. If you have to select one out of these five, what would you select for a  success story for Finland during this decade? - Yeah, it's kind of like, which one of your five  children you love the most? I sort of the… now all of these are exciting, so in a sense  then that, they have different type of risks and different kind of difficulties, so  I believe that all of these five will lead into commercial success already during the 20’s, but  it's also possible then that, like in many many areas of technology development  we underestimate the impact, but we are over optimistic about the schedule, so some  of these might take a lot longer to solve, but then the impact is even bigger. So I’m like trying to evade the question because, I can't pick that one from out of  the five all of them, and I also believe that we can do all five. - You love equally  all of your five children. Yeah, and also then that, I think that, we can afford to invest in  all of them and we must invest in all of them. So people are rightfully worried about  Kaipola and Naantali and kind like, what are happening then to the industries that where there is a sort  of disruption happening from the market side. So how to replace these is then that, we need to  have lots and lots of new buds growing, so then that we can have them  successful industries creating the jobs then in the future. - Excellent, thank you very much  Antti! Excellent lecture, like I said. And like I said, if you have time, please look at the chat, the  questions and comments what has been putting over there. So, we will go forward. Today's second  lecture is CEO in Technology Industries of Finland Jaakko Hirvola. Welcome Jaakko! - Thank you, thank you, it's a pleasure to be here.  Thanks for the invitation. - It’s our pleasure that you are giving your precious time to us… - We see.  - Hey, after listening Antti, I have to say that, how hopefully you look to the future? - How  hopefully do i look to the future? Very much, very much, so I think that the future is very  much in our own hands, and representing the technology industries, I believe that  we have a lot of solutions that we can play with to make the future much  brighter than many other people think. - I think we are having a great hopeful atmosphere  here today. First speaking Antti about the hope, and then your title is Technology industries  new normal - from COVID crisis to growth. It's something very positive. So, please. - Thank you, thank  you. - Jaakko, floor is yours. - Thank you. Let me share my screen here. Thank you and good afternoon or  evening everybody. It's good to be here and speak about the New normal of the  Technology Industries. I noticed there were some familiar names in the audience, so I’m expecting  very tricky questions after this, so please, all your comments are welcome  as well. So the title is Tech industry's new normal from COVID crisis  to growth, and this is based on a scenario work that we did in our organization to  try to understand what the future might bring now after the COVID  event. I should say event just only started, so it's yet likely  to take a lot of time until we are over with it. So I’ll briefly look into where  we are now and how we move forward, but first just brief introduction to  Technology industries what we mean by that. So it's a combination of sectors,  that you can see here representing 50 percent of total Finnish exports. So we are very  much dependent on, I mean the whole Finnish welfare system is pretty much dependent on  the success of the technology industries sectors. Two thirds of the private sector  research and development innovation funding is coming from this sector, and the industry  employs 320 000 people directly, but the indirect impact is equally big so it  has a major impact in the Finnish society. Now understanding what the industry  comprises of. We have sub sectors mechanical engineering, which is the biggest  one. Companies like Kone, everybody should know that by brand name. We have electrical and electric  technical engineering, so companies like Nokia. Metals producers like Outokumpu, SAB. IT companies  like Tieto, and consulting engineering companies. So five fairly different sectors. The first three  ones are very sort of industrial and the last two more, service oriented. All in all, our 1600  member companies, and it's worth noting that more than 90 of these are small and medium-sized  enterprises, despite the big names that I listed. So, where are we now? If I first take a few  words about the what the situation is now, then after that have a look at what options  do we have, and introducing the scenario work, and then introducing our, let's say,  the favorite option that we are striving for a bit more in detail, and lastly look at  what are the sort of enabling factors that we need to have in place in order to succeed in this  sort of, hopeful journey that we are starting here and as noted, I’m really positive about  future, but it requires some actions from all of us. So where are we now? Looking  at the tech industries point of view and maybe just a quick reminder, that  the Technology Industries of Finland is is an association representing the  employers listed in the previous pages. So what everybody knows, is that we negotiate  the collective agreements with the unions for those companies, but in this context,  primarily you could say this is a lobbying organization trying to impact the policy making  and make sure that we have an a favorable industrial policy in place, so that we  can make the Finnish industries competitive. So where are we or actually beginning a bit  further before, where were we before the crisis? We during the last few years, we saw the Finnish cost competitiveness getting a bit  better, but now it's getting worse again. The graph on the right shows the unit work,  labor cost development compared to Eurozone in yellow, and compared to developed  trading partner countries in blue, and you see that the cost of the Finnish labor  is getting more expensive compared to our competition. That's the challenge of course,  because we need to be competitive on the global market, we are very exposed to the global market.  Now cost is not everything. Productivity is equally important, and you might argue, that the  even more important than something that we can do with a lot about. Now looking at the  industrial productivity development, it's not satisfactory, but it's  okay, compared to the whole Finnish development, which is in orange in  the graph and the Tech Industries in purple. So we see that we are sort of…the direction  has been right anyway. What has been a major challenge in the Tech Industries and in Finland  more broadly is that, we had a long decrease period, since the collapse of Nokia mobile business, so since the financial crisis. You see in green the research development and  innovation funding going down year by year, and most of the fixed investments is more or less  flat, and if I would compare that with the depreciation of the fixed assets, that you would  see that the fixed investments is less than the depreciation across the years, which is definitely  not a good trend. Something positive. We are consistently noted as an innovative  economy, and we have a lot of strengths related to that, that we can play with  according to Bloomberg we are number seven in the list of most innovative economies.  However, we are moving down. we were third, I believe last year, so anyways  it's a good position to be in. So that's where we are sort of before the crisis,  and when the crisis hit, what happened. And now you see only red dots, there's  nothing much positive about that, so what we saw. First of all, it's worth mentioning  that the Tech Industries is rather… the development is a bit delayed, compared to our service sector, so  the collapse is coming later than in the service sectors, but it's clearly now in our  hands at the moment. The demand globally and across Europe has collapsed, and you see the  changing RFP’s in the graph to the right. Indicating, that we are sort of approaching  the rock bottom figures in 2008 and 2009. Our member companies, half of them say, that  according to their figures and assessments, the worst is yet to come at the moment, so the  game is not over. 1/3 is laying off people, we just announced, that we are likely to see 10 000 jobs  destroyed during the autumn because of the crisis, and there's a number of bankruptcies  expected as well. So rather pessimistic view at the moment so, because of this sort of  serious situation, we wanted to see, that okay, so this being the situation and the demand probably  not recovering very quickly, and the demand will probably be a bit different moving forward  during the next few years, how should we go about looking at the future and what  options do we have? So, what we did? We had a strategy project with Accenture Strategy, looking at the situation that  we have, not only the COVID status and COVID scenarios how  the virus would be spreading, of course there are different scenarios for that as well.  Looking at also global factors and particularly the global economy and the impact  on the Finnish sectors and businesses. And thereby coming down to what the  overall impact would be on Finnish technology industries. To understand the  scenarios, let me first go through the framework for analyzing the impact that we used  it looks a bit complex, but let's take it piece by piece. On the left you see the  COVID impact, so understanding the illness cases trends, safety measures and restrictions.  The restrictions are really crucial in the global globally working businesses, how freely can our maintenance and sales people  work across country boundaries, that's a relevant question, of course it has  to be safe, but it has to be also smooth. Then in the middle, a surrounding the  individual technology company. We see on the top left corner factors related to the global  trade and economy. We see signs of protectionism, we see varying signals about state stability in various continents, fluctuation in exchange rates, countries behaving a different ways, some giving  strong export subsidies, for example reactions on consumer taxation and so forth. So  looking at holistically on the global trade situation and possible development  trends there. On the top right, the demand and picture, what happens in China,  what happens in U.S, in Russia, other. So demand and trust in economy. Several  concerns raising from all these countries reflected also their ability to cooperate with  EU, and affecting the demand behaviors and the demand trends  with the Finnish export businesses. Majority of our technology industries exports is  going to Europe, which makes EU of course the most important continent. About 70% of our  expertise is directed to Europe. On the bottom left, we see the business environment of the company, so  factors that have a big impact, one is the competitiveness that I already mentioned  earlier, the challenges that we have there on the labor market. So need to be a fair level  playing field with the other countries. Issues, like trusting the financing system stock  market, you know nervousness on the market as a whole. And on the right, taxes funding,  and financing of the companies. So policies by the decision makers, politicians, on  factors, like corporate taxation, public funding, financing. Now we see seeing these stimulus  packages offered generously across all countries, and that of course has an impact on.  First of all, saving some companies, but also to some extent twisting the market to something else than, you know  purely market-driven open market. On the right, we also look at the  renewal of possibilities, not quite as sort of future looking technologies as Antti listed, but  basically the digitalization of everything. Of course one impact from COVID has been, that  digitalization has been boosted across countries and particularly on individual  level, but also on company level. Sustainable development is something. So  particularly when it comes to climate change mitigation, that's such a big strong trend, that  it can't be neglected. It has been a bit sort of overshadowed by the COVID crisis, but it's a really  strong trend that is affecting everything we do, so that is clearly a strong renewal trend.  And also reflecting to the EU funding and the stimulus packages, we see that there's a  very strong focus on digitalization and climate change mitigation. So this is the overall  framework. And then at the bottom, we'll have activities by which the companies can manage  the COVID impact, but also activities that the politicians can do by making good  decisions on the business environment. So this is the framework. Looking at the drivers  of the renewal: digitalization and sustainable development. Mentioned as the  strongest one by the project team. Now as mentioned, the COVID has already  strengthened the digitalization trend. Climate change is there high on the agenda  anyway, and we see the drivers supported by EU I already mentioned. Green deal. The 7-year  budget of EU and the stimulus packages. The next generation EU package with the  resilience and recovery package, which is 750 billion in total on Europe level,  and something like 3 billion will be given to Finland. So, “How, we use that money, that 3 billion?”, is an interesting question in Finland, but also, how do we get  access to the stimulus impact across Europe where 750 billion will be  spent on making the economy run again. So, do we have a competitive edge regarding the  renewal, looking at some factors here? In the analysis of the situation, we are  again the leader in the digitalization DESI index. What does it mean for businesses? What  does it mean for small and medium-sized businesses? We are for runners in 5G and 6G. So basically  all these capabilities in Sweden and Finland, in Ericsson and Nokia. Can we leverage it combining  that with the industrial digitalization very acute and practical question. We clearly have  lost the business-to-consumer game in already to the global giants, but the game  is very much open for when it comes to business to business, or government to citizen, or even  machine to machine level in the industrial play. We have a strong commitment in across  the Finnish industries and particularly in Finnish tech industries to commit to the  carbon neutrality target by 2035 as stated by the Finnish government. We signed  that commitment as well. As a practical exercise, we have done low carbon  roadmaps for various industries, including ours, which seems to be an EU best practice. We  haven't seen similar roadmaps done anywhere else, but now we have a clear common view  of shared by the policymakers and the government and the industries  about the carbon neutrality target and the activities on a high level,  which is a real strength for Finland. Now this is a bit complex, but I just show,  how Accenture wanted to look at the digitalization capability using the digitalization index, the  DESI index, where we are the leaders, they took the factors out from the DESI index factors,  or the factors that are related to businesses, companies, digitalization capability.  And if you look at the graph on the right, you see that the gap between Finland and  the rest of EU is even widening, so their message is clearly that this is a really strong  capability, that we have to be proud of and leverage that in our future success. Keeping that in mind, looking at  the scenarios, how these were made. And briefly, I don't want to look go  through all the drivers that we have here, but just looking at briefly what they are on  a sort of a title level in industry. The severity of the COVID virus illnesses is one driver of course.  Then we have a number of drivers related to the global trade and economy. We have a number  of drivers for demand and trust in economy, Business environment, and then the funds  and financing drivers, and the renewal as we already discussed. Now the scenarios were  made like this looking at each of the drivers and looking at the for each scenario,  if that individual driver would have a negative event flow, then that would, you know, be on  the left on the graph, and if it would have a positive impact, that would be more towards the  right of the graph. In this respect, and this way six different scenarios way. Yeah, well this  is highlighting the most likely development reflected to the scenario, so there's a  scenario at the bottom, and then the most likely development that the project assessed according to  the latest information based on all these drivers. This is just an example, and by the way, on the  right, top right, you see that in the legend, that the purple marked drivers are the ones that actually define  the scenario, so hence the naming and the reasoning for all of these. Now  looking at the six, that we identified. Going from the worst one, on the left multi-dimensional  crisis to the best one, …fast recovery on the right-hand side, so recession  towards left, growth towards right. And without going into details, the most likely  scenario that they saw the slow recovery in the middle, stating that the COVID virus would  sort of calm down during next year, however the economic recovery would take another two to  four years to get sort of back to normal. Then, well the stream ends the multi-dimensional crisis  and the fast recovery were not very likely, particularly the one on the right, the fast  recovery seems sort of impossible. But there's a chance that we go left to a sort of stagnation  in Finland, which would mean that we lose our cost competitiveness due to salary increases  without any improvement in productivity leading to labor market crisis perhaps, yet to be seen. Funding  and financing, not competitive compared to other countries, and this creating a sort of a negative  spiral locally and making the country less lucrative for further investments than probably  leading to investments being made elsewhere. Localization is one possible trend where  driven by the protectionism, and thereby trying to localize the supply chains from  global back to back to countries and thereby making life more difficult for countries like  Finland that are extremely export dependent. The best possible direction is to the right, and  the one that we chose as a target was the scenario digital green  acceleration, next to the second from the right,  which would mean that because of the strength that we already have in digitalization,  the strings we have in low-carbon technologies and the climate impact, all this together and COVID  giving a boost to the digitalization as well. This would lead to increasing demand in  the areas where we have our strong bases and that hopefully leading to positive structural  changes and massive investments in these areas. This is a bit complex picture, but just to indicate  how the drivers were combined to then identify each of the scenarios, so you  see some what the defining criterias are, the slow recovery, fast recovery for example, very  much dependent on the global trade and economy like the localization  as well, while some other scenarios are not dependent on what happens  globally, that's maybe the biggest remark to make from this graph. Simplifying  that a little bit. We saw that, the most likely scenario would be the slow recovery, and  there's a big danger that we move to the stagnation direction, but what we  want to do is to go right to the digital green acceleration. Now looking at the  drivers we noticed that there are factors that are global on the horizontal axis going  from global recession to global growth. And there are factors that are much more local  where we have sort of the keys in our own hands, the vertical axis from local recession to  local growth. And hence, we realized that this is the axis that we should focus our  activities on, so making sure that our activities are strengthening the driver development that  would take us upwards in this picture, and at the same time take actions that would prevent us  from going down, and that's basically our the basis of our strategy moving forward. Now, if  we are lucky, we get some help from the global demand and global economy going further  to the right, if we are not lucky, we get some more burden from global, and hence  having the risk of moving further to the left. Looks very scientific, but actually the way we sort of crystallize the end game is quite  helpful, now we know where to focus on. So, what is the combination of the digital and  green then? we looked at as a hopeful scenario here, combining these two strong trends. “Digital” leverages “green” in many ways. So, looking  at the digital, what we mean by that from the sort of tech  industry lenses point of view. It will be more value through digitalizing  the business processes across the value chain, and there's a lot of efficiencies  that we can gain from doing that. On the other hand on the green side, what we want  to accomplish is environmentally and socially sustainable business across the value chain, and  primarily looking at the CO2 footprint and handprint that our industry has. And now that  this trend is getting so strong, we see that there's a global demand for solutions,  that would help mitigating the the trend. In the middle we see  a lot of areas, where digital is a key enabler for the green activities combining the  two, so that would be our sweet spot where the two strong  areas of the Finnish industry would be combined. And here's just a few examples of what would  it mean in practice. This device in the value chains in the industry,  of course has to be develop with automation autonomous systems and so forth, supported with the  AI digital twins and all these technologies. While on the right hand side, we would have renewable  energy efficiency, electrification of everything. The use of electricity is  seriously growing in the next few decades. The electricity consumption that we demand from  tech industries is to double by 2050, so it's not an easy task to do. Circle economy was  mentioned by Antti as well, and this is a key area where we see that, we  have solutions that we can contribute with. And in the middle, I mean you might  argue that everything should be in the middle, but basically all of these solutions  that are on the chart, if you just think about, how to make it more smart like take  circular economy then and circular material use. That  has to go hand in hand with data. You have to understand what materials you have  and how it's moving forward in the circle. And moving from products to  services. More digital business models and digital processes, where the material impact is  much more easy from environmental perspective. So overall, the overlap is much bigger  than shown by this screen, but this is just to illustrate it. So boosting the industrial  digitalization, and now I’m referring back to the graph that I showed, the assumed leading  position that Finland has in terms of digital capabilities in our businesses. We have a  number of smart industry initiatives already. In Technology Industry Finland, we  have initiatives, like the advanced manufacturing network. We have our AI  accelerator helping companies. We have DIMECC’s, the high-tech ecosystem co-creation  platform looking at initiatives, like the industrial data excellence. We have a number of  Business Finland programs, like the sustainable manufacturing program. VTT, Universities,  they all have a lot of initiatives here. A lot of is sort of technological  stuff where the industrial manufacturing will be automated and made much  more smart, using all these technologies that we are happy to play with in the industry. But  also creating new services on top of the products, which is really important trend synchronization.  And purely new business models as well on top of the product manufacturing  business. But what is key to noticed, that because of the structure of the  country, I mean, we have a huge number of very small businesses. Their ecosystem  play is really critical. How do we make research institutions,  like VTT, Universities, work together with big companies, work together with small companies?  We need big driver companies to drive these ecosystems, and then supported  by small and startups and academia. This is really key in when it comes to  boosting our industrial digitalization. Now looking at the green side of things. One:  there's two different views to that. One is minimizing our CO2 footprint  and the other one is maximizing our impact. Yes, here's the graph, and I’m sorry for  the language, it's in Finnish only, but if you look at the graph, the blue area  that goes down most, is metals production, so steel makers. And the majority that would come  from a single project by SSAB, where they changed the way, they replaced the  coking coal in the steel making process and replacing that with the electrical  furnace, which is based on hydrogen use instead of coal. So becoming basically carbon neutral or virtually no carbon footprint  from the overall process, which is a remarkable reduction. That single  event would decrease, the actually represents seven percent of total Finnish CO2 emissions  today, and when that goes to zero by 2035 hopefully or 2040, that would have a  really big impact on the carbon footprint of our industries. What we need to accomplish  this, is a level playing field. And this becomes really complex and political in EU and  globally, because we tend to have much stricter rules and requirements in EU compared to other  areas of the world, and we tend to be far ahead actually in the Nordic countries  compared to the rest of Europe, looking at, you know, how environmentally friendly our  production processes are. So, hence to make sure that the clean solutions are  successful on the market, we should make sure that the other imported solutions are not  subsidized by, you know, with different rules of the game so to say, we have  a level playing field we will succeed. Now maximizing the handprint as I  said, it's much more important than the footprint. The handprint meaning that, with the  technologies that we bring to the global market whereby the other users of our technology  can reduce their footprint. And according to the analysis made in our low carbon  roadmap, it indicates that the handprint of our current export products and technologies  is already about 20 million tons of CO2 per year. Now to put this in perspective,  the total emissions of Finland as a whole is 53 million at the moment. So  the handprint of our technologies today is 20 and it has a potential to grow up to 70, if you  include also the products under development at the moment, like the one that I mentioned with  SSAB. It's a massive technology export opportunity that we need to grab, but we just need  to have a level of playing field, and then make our investments right and ensure the  focus on digital and focus on climate. This is clearly stated in the EU budget and  the EU recovery resilience facility, but we have our fears that, when the money is being spread  across EU, then who knows where it's spent on, what it is actually finally  spent on? We hope that the focus will remain. We would like to have fair access to all these  development programs, because innovates a lot of development with heavy stimulus  packages being done across Europe. If those programs would be available for Finnish  companies as well that would be a big opportunity for us. Just quickly to make this a bit  more concrete, some existing and future handprint technologies on the right. SSAB what I already  mentioned, CO2 neutral steel would be available 2035 in Finland, and that single solution  will reduce the finish CO2 footprint by seven percent from what it is today. But  other, I mean that, there's very well established good old technologies that we had for a  long time already, like the ABB, speed and frequency drives that  optimize electric motors. 60 to 70 percent of electricity  in industrial use is spent on electrical engines. By equipping them with  the ABB type of drives would reduce the electricity consumption as much  as 50 percent per engine. So, if you then think about bringing this to every engine in a global way,  that would have a dramatic impact. The automotive electric cars and batteries and obvious ones,  so I’ll just skip that, but take Cargotec electric cranes for example. There is an estimate that for example, that the Kalmar Cranes built in 2008 to 2018, only that subset of their products has a  CO2 impact equivalent to 3 million tons. Outotec metals processing solutions, the handprint  is 6.6 megatons per year, if I remember correctly. Well, Vahterus is a small,  medium-sized company doing heat exchanges, having a very nice global market for that  patented solution for heat transmitting in a very special way for chemical  processes, energy processes and refrigeration. These our solutions, you know, apart from the  one on the right, these are existing and all having a very remarkable impact  on reducing CO2 emissions wherever they get into use, so this is really critical, that we  get more of this and are able to innovate new solutions on this scale. Finally, what do  we need to succeed? Apart from a bit of luck and money, using the same framework that we already looked at  the tech company in the middle and the surrounding drivers then listed in these four corners.  We need to have, well hopefully COVID will be managed in a way, that we don't get any  health disaster on the renewal front, we need to make sure that our skills and education  are world-class in Finland. We need to have much more fluent immigration of highly educated  people. There's people lining up to Finland, but I just don't get it why the process is so  complex, that it's so difficult to get those in the country. And we have to make sure, that  everybody who graduates from Aalto, stays in Finland, at least is giving the opportunity to  work in the Finnish tech industry companies. Global trade and economy. We need as mentioned  level playing field. We need World Trade Organization, free trade agreements in place,  and WTO also to look after the level playing fields regulation, making sure that we don't  have different rules of the game in China in asia than in Europe. From EU, we need  consistency in the policy and regulation. And EU single market, that's very important  for a small country for us, like ourselves. We absolutely want to avoid any protectionist  activity and keep borders open, and make sure that, export and import within EU is  smooth and will continue and grow. When it comes to the local business environment, we need some flexibility and local agreement on the cost of work issue, because we are more expensive in Finland and than in the relevant  competing countries. We need predictable regulation of course. Level playing  field. - Jaakko, we are a little bit losing your  voice at the moment, we can only partly hear it. - Oh, thanks for saying. Is it better  now, if I just try to keep the mic a bit different. - Yes, now it's better. - Okay, sorry for that. In terms of the bottom right corner, we  absolutely don't want any additional coastal tax on the Finnish companies, so this  is a clear message for the government. But however we need increased  research development and innovation funding, and make sure the EU funds are allocated right, not to support rural areas in  very rural Eastern European locations or whatever, rather spend the money something that  builds the future for EU, and we need electricity, a lot of electricity at the competitive  price. What the tech company has to have in place? They have to have the courage to make  investments and have a growth mindset and understand the ecosystem importance, play with  partners, play with the the academia, and not trying to, you know, win the  world alone. And we need to make also have employee trust, you know, trust in  place locally to make sure that there's a everybody has a feeling,  that we are in the same boat. Finally, this is my last one.  I just include this in most of my presentations, because I just want to  remind people of the very simple formula, presented by Matti Pohjola, where is the  high level of standard of living coming from mathematically GDP per Capita is productivity  times work amount. And if you look at the work amount, like what we do, whether we work  6 hours a day, or 8 hours, or 12 hours. How many people do we have? What is our employment  rate? Well that is very important, but the impact and the growth potential is a couple of  percents. Now theoretically productivity, which is all about knowledge skills  and research innovation and so forth, carries an unlimited growth potential that we  need to grab, and that's where our focus should be looking at the ways we can do that far  better than before. So in conclusion, trying to go to the favorite option of a  digital green future, which is a challenging ride, but that's where we want to place  our bets on make sure that the Finnish, very much technology focused industries is  succeeding in the future as well. Thank you. -Thank you very much Jaakko. We had a little bit  voice problems in the end, but only in the end. But you had very clear slides as well, so  we didn't miss the points, I think. And I think, one of the key points, when I was listening to you,  you had a very strong message, strong message, and I think one of the key points was that,  we listeners started to think is that, how important it is that we are able to create  this kind of circumstances and possibilities for the Technology Industries in Finland in order  to succeed in this global competition. I know that this is a little bit sensitive question  Jaakko, but I still have to ask you about it. Thinking about this issue what you just lectures to all of us, how well our political  decision makers are hearing your messages? - We have a challenge, we have a challenge with  the decision makers at the moment. I must, well between you and me, I mean,  if we agree that this stays in this school. The understanding of our current  politicians and decision makers, the government, our understanding of the importance of the  industry could be better. But on the other hand, we have some very positive signs, like what  we are doing together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs is very positive  there. We have a lot of good initiatives moving up, it's better with  them, so I’m hopeful again. - That's good, that's good. Hey, we are a little bit almost running  out of time, but one more question to you Jaakko. Thank you once again for your very good  lecture. I know, that you are in your position following carefully what is happening globally  also in this technology field, and we can read from the news that this  technology battle, especially between the United States and China is getting harder. Is that good  or bad for our technological companies in finland? - Well competition is always welcome, of course  when it becomes hostile, like it seems to be between U.S. and china, it's not positive  for anyone, but as long as the competition is fair, it's more than welcome.  Europe is lagging behind in many areas as as we discussed, but it's mainly in the B2C  area as I noted. So when it comes to industrial success in the future, I think Europe has a very good chance. I just had a good meeting with our German friends and the  German Chamber of Commerce earlier today, where we discussed the possibility  of combining the very strong industrial capabilities of Germany with the strengths  of Finland, which are pretty much based on the digitalization and the green  technologies that we discussed here. We believe and our German colleagues believe that, that would be a winning combination. So, if we get it done right and are able to cooperate  across borders within Europe in the single market environment, we are quite strongly positioned, I  believe. - Very good. Hey, thank you once again Jaakko for your lecture. Thank you also Antti. I can still  see that you are online and thank you Antti for answering the questions and comments in the  chat- - My pleasure. - We will continue after one week. And next week we will actually be talking  about artificial intelligence. Antti Merilehto will give a lecture about Artificial Intelligence,  and then Meeri Haataja will give a second lecture next week, discussing a lecturing about  the Ethical Aspects of the Artificial Intelligence. Thank you for attending this week  Aalto University's public lecture series, The Future of Technology and Finland. Stay health and  we will see and come back in one week, thank you. 