 Can you all hear me? Is that good enough? Okay, so if you can't yell out . And also I'm happy to be interrupted along the way. So it's a small enough group and it's an intimate space. I like that. So I guess the next description today, I'm, I'm, I'm a wannabe historian and and you will see that in fact, um My name's Bill and I'm not a hoarder, I'm a collector and honest. And over the years in my practice when I and this will be part of what comes out of it's I never planned to be a collector. I never planned to be a hoarder. I really never planned to have half my house in a storage locker full of 1000 artifacts. But those are what, in  design are just called reference objects that you're always prospecting for. Things that influence your thinking and help shape your design and how you test ideas. And, and I want to talk about that. And what turned into a collection unintentionally is now sort of like an albatross around my neck, which I'm trying to curate and give it away as soon as possible so I can have my life back. But but there's a reason here. And so I thought I would do some research and jump on the mission statement of the Center here. And, and, and try and speak specifically to that. And, and it's about education. That's a keyword. Technology-driven society. That's actually interesting if we, depending how we define the word technology and if you think of any organized agreed upon social structure, and I think that is a technology. It's just not things and objects. The formal definition, so that's good. And innovation is the key word here in terms of education, notice it appears twice, Innovation appears twice. I think I just said that twice, and design and I want to fit that in, but I want to start on a part that I think is I feel really strongly about. And it's when we come to this notion of innovation and progress and evolution and invention and so on. These are all terms which we use very loosely and it drives me crazy. I really like trying to use language precisely. So by the way, having said that, I've now put a target on my back. And when I use it imprecisely, please throw a dart at that target. But the key thing here says that innovation does not necessarily imply that does not imply progress. I think right off the bat, it is really important to discuss what we're talking about. That innovation has a definition, has a meaning. Progress is an ethical decision. And it has associated with it some metric or moral compass of good and bad. You're progressing towards something positive or negative. So, so "A" you have to have the north star and now you have to say which direction are we going? And you can evolve and you can innovate in any one of those directions. And right off the bat from the beginning, having some sense is a core to my sense about meaningful innovation and figuring what's the right thing? That the thing it that we're  trained in Computer Science and we're really, really good at problem solving. We know how to do that. What we're not good at is problem setting. And problem setting is far more important in that set. And there's a whole literature on that. And that's not the topic of today, but it lies behind why this slide is here at the beginning. And the second thing I want to say is that whether it's entrepreneurship, innovation, design, they're all team sports, they, they are not - I just want to destroy this myth of that I purposely didn't dress in black to show that I'm a  creative, beautiful designer and a genius and you're not - the hubris of design, And these myths about how these things happen. If we don't understand the process, how can we teach it? And that's the part of the education. We talk, those people, talk about design thinking and everybody who you ask will give you a different definition. There's these things about innovation. There's all these things about what the process is, And all I can say is that the most important thing. It's not an individual activity. And, and, and I'll, I'll put it this way. I'm Canadian. If you took the top NHL goalies and made a team out of it, the very, very best, the best that have ever lived. You will lose every single game. And yet what we tend to do is hire ourselves. Listen, if you're trying to set for innovation and you want to be creative. The person, the last person you should hire is the one you're qualified to hire. And the person you should hire is the one you're least qualified to hire. Because a dirty little secret of highly accomplished people is what they've had to neglect in order to become highly accomplished. And the problems of today are deep. They require huge expertise which precludes being a generalist. And therefore you have to fill in the gaps. And I hate to bifurcate. But there are people who believe that their genius and their expertise, it's shines the full 360. Stay away from them. They want to know where I've concentrated and where the shadows are that you cannot see because you're like the proverbial deer in the headlights blinded by the brilliance. and you can't see there's nothing there behind. But I think I can say anything to everybody all the time and I'm just a genius. And people thrive on that. Get rid of them. No matter how good they are. Don't work with them. Don't don't work for them, don't work with them. Don't let them work for you. The key thing is you have to know you have a specialty, be the best in your group, and make sure you compliment the other's expertise and realized that together you might have a complete scope. So I'm going to talk about that. And so we've often heard about this notion of T-shaped people. It's a bit of a cliche. And, but I want to dive into this a bit deeper and turn a cliche into something that might be a, a, a story you can repeat. The first thing is, is that the width of the T in the bar at the top is the breadth of your knowledge. And, and the, the height of the overall thing is your depth. But the important thing is that the top part is literacy. And one of the first things we have to do in terms of respecting each other specialty and what we bring and don't bring to the equation is understanding the difference between literacy and expertise. And by the way, the thing i've got wrong here's the equities goes from the top of the chart and basically it's the sum of what I've got literacy and expertise there. And so that's got one, but did you notice the breadth. There are very few problems in the world, no matter what your specialty is, that that's enough breadth to deal with the problem because you're going to miss something and you don't wanna miss something. And so, so let's just make it a team sport. And so if this is the experience side of things, so the user interface of the design part, it's not enough. I don't care how great you are. If you don't, if you're not, if you don't have good lawyers, you don't have good accountants, you don't have a good engineers. You don't have good salespeople, you don't have good logistics people. But it will just keep it down to three, business, experience and technology. And, and, and even these recursively divide down into subspecialties just as in medicine or computer science and so on and so forth. But it technology, for example, security versus networking versus whatever. But what happens is when you merge them together. The literacy gives you a common ground. We have shared respect and shared expertise. And you get the combined broad base. And because of the common ground, you can actually cover that base very well. And actually we should be able to wrap this around a 3D so that the, those dangling tails actually cover in the gaps. And of course this is an over-simplification. But, but really what I'm trying to say here is even in the Renaissance, there was no Renaissance man or woman. And I'll say I can give you an existence proof and give you a proof by example. Why did Leonardo, Michelangelo need the Medici, if they were Renaissance men, why couldn't they do their own financing, right? They needed other disciplines to support their activities. Now they carved up the pie in different ways and maybe, and they were brilliant. Obviously. They were extraordinary people. But no matter how extraordinary, they still needed a team. And it was Donatello who played the role of Steve Jobs? Oh, I'm sorry, It was the Medici who played the role of Steve Jobs who's curatorial thing, picked Donatello out of the, the people working in somebody else's studio and said, here's your studio because you already talented just as Steve Jobs did to Jony Ive. You need all of that. And if you look at Apple, I would argue that that Steve and Jony worked better together than either did alone. And that's common in sports, it's common in business, it's common all around. And I'm just trying to say, you need to know who to ask ask to find out who to ask to find out who knows enough to know how to choose who to hire to fill in the gaps because I can't do it. Otherwise, I'm just amplifying my own strengths. But I've already got, I've already got the best one of me. I'm me. So why would I want another one, When that's redundancy, and when I need something else there until it got the whole 360 covered. Now this brings us here. This is me where I'm going to move so you can't shoot me because I purposely added this because I'm close enough to Menlo Park that this is the problem. Here's something. Some guy who's brilliant, absolutely deserves to be famous. But we're setting up children and education about setting is here. It's because you have this culture of hero worship whether it's the Kardashians or Edison. Take your pick remember it's all value judgments. He didn't invent everything he's accredited with. Nobody could have. If he invented everything he's credited with what the hell were the people in his lab doing? And if you read, even here, you know, here's what he did  that was fantastic. He created what was arguably the first corporate research lab. But I'm not gonna say he created the first because I never say this person was first because every time I say that I find out there's somebody before them always. But he did. But he has 100,093 patents. I'm sorry. I don't buy that for a second. I believe that there are patents filed in his name, a 100,000 with him, is that but even if you, and if you take the international patents, it's even more. If you just take this one patent and you read carefully the literature on what happened and who did inventions and sort of what are the features here? He's the sole inventor listed. No, that's nonsense. That the core claims or a carbon filament in a vacuum. And a breakthrough was that they, they came with, with, with some of the treatments here. But Francis Upton and Charles Bachelor, absolutely are the ones who made the breakthrough. And, and Edison was working on other projects at that time. They have the diaries, They know what he was doing. He contributed, of course, he shaped it. But he's the sole person on a patent, which today would cause the patent to be immediately invalidated. Was he? But while he, he, because he, he was brought in because he actually had some scientific training unlike Edison. And that, and, and, and so this was, this. These are the things that are just really important to, to go deeper and say, what is the story? Is it actually true or is it matters a mistake to get little kids going? But realized, how do you try to become Edison if you don't actually look at factually how he did it. And what he didn't do is, is as important as what he did do. And, and so, and even then prior art for pity's sake, Swan had demonstrated a carbon filament in a vacuum tube in 1878. And in fact, that, that there was so much competition because he had a patent in the UK that Edison realized he had it, so they did a merger. But then the, the companies that did an acquisition. And, and one of the things that was led very much to Edison's successes, he had really good lawyers. And, and, and, and so, and there's none of this is it's disparaging. It's just that I don't want some poor kid to try and do something. even Edison couldn't do. Because what's, what's the good in that? And so if you look at technology, it, this is great because it 1867 that you started. This is only four years after Darwin did the, the origin of the species already. The metaphor of evolution was starting to be used to describe the evolution of technology. And it's really interesting. And Marx himself was sort of saying that, and I love this is a critical history of technology would show how little any inventions of the 18th century are the work of a single individual. And I think that data absolutely supports that statement no matter what else you think about Marx. But I, I love doing this and we come back here to go back to John of Salisbury. The bishop was shot in the 1100s. Wrote this thing about Bernard de shark, that if this whole thing by standing on the shoulders of giants for trying to set aspirations here. It's that don't try to be the inventor, try to make a difference. And that one of the best ways to do that is to know who shoulders you should target to stand on. That defines your principles and designs your values, who you choose to stand on. And then if you're successful, be happy and really, really satisfied. If you've become worthy enough to have someone else stand on your shoulders. But to be the first, if you say that nowadays that are hubris, but the fact is, is that there's a very good chance you're gonna be proven wrong. And that feels really bad to be called out, not knowing the literature on your own field. And there's actually, so I'm not saying there's anything wrong with any of this other than there is an emphasis in the popular culture of, of the genius inventor versus a stand on the shoulders. And I just think it has to be balanced. And both there's parts there that are, are important because just like Jobs, he doesn't designer, but a lot of stuff wouldn't have happened without him. He was critical, He was the quarterback, whatever you want to call it, that's all good. And so the thing is, is that I liken the genius designer, the genius inventor, to alchemy. It's a myth. A lot of neat things were discovered in alchemy, but gold wasn't one of them. And, and so it's far nicer and is far more useful in anything to think about mining as the metaphor as opposed to alchemy. And so the alchemist delusion is that you could make gold. But no, the first step is prospecting. And that implies you have the right tools, you have the light training so you can actually go out. And so when I'm carrying a canoe over the Canadian Shield, get eaten by mosquitoes and just swearing because it's raining and miserable that I'm walking over a diamond mine or a gold mine because I don't know anything about geology and I don't have a Geiger counter even if I was looking for uranium. That if you have those skills, that's a whole other experience. How you equip yourself, what are the right tools? What are the right skills to go prospecting? Where do you look? Who do you look with? How do you do that? But even once you've done that, you still have to go through the logistics of how do you mine the stuff that you found? And it doesn't matter, that's an idea or anything. The mining is a critical thing that follows the prospecting. And you might go back and realize it's not there, but that's not even enough. You still have to refine and get it there. And, and, and, and then you have this whole thing of goldsmith in, so that you can really make it worth more than its weight in gold. And that's, that's the beauty in some sense. That's where the design and a lot of things we, we have comes into it and this cycle, it's got far more to do with it so that you really do have something that you, That's just precious. And I haven't even spoken about marketing and financing and legal and ecological impact against gold, especially how do you deal with all of those things? And for everything I described, if you take it literally in terms of gold, there's a parallel in, in every form of research and entrepreneurship. Innovation. It's, it's the real deal. This isn't art college kids. This is, this is design, right? There's no Muse. You're not allowed to have a Muse, you have to deliver. And and so you wake up. You hate your job, you hate your client, you hate that work your bank is about to be foreclosed your kids hate you your wife's about the leave you you still have to go to work and perform like a professional or you're not a professional. You can't wait for the muse. And, and that's the thing about how do you go through this stuff and just do what needs to be done because it's a really hard thing to do and it takes serious commitments. So if you're not having fun, don't do it. You have to be a masochist in some sense too. Because it, because it, because it's, it, it's no pain, no gain. And the key thing is take a, let us, a lesson from Marcel Duchamp and the arts, make it into an art. This notion of creating something out of found objects. Because nearly all new innovations are subsystems that have already existed. You've seen if you transform them in some way in terms of sizes or cost or speed, and you put them together different combinations, you come up with something different. My friend Marilyn here is a fantastic cook, but that's a whole thing. You can break it into sub modules and you make different combinations. You can come up with a completely different recipe and do things differently. The worse is that you can either make paste or you can make bread out of exactly the same ingredients. And, and is better. And so it comes down here to Proust. And this is this notion that the only true voyage of discovery is, isn't to go to new places and make new things, but to see what's already hidden in plain sight right in front of you. That's one of the most important skills that we can start to say. And so in one sense, what I'm trying to do the data say, what does history teach me in terms of how you can have a career? I'm 70 and you can keep on going with the same afresh, unskillfully new things, some of which I just saw for the first time today because of some of the comments that came up in conversations that that actually helped me see the world in a different way. That, that, and, and the act of creativity is the act of making the obvious, obvious before it's obvious. That comes as a consequence of just seeing things differently. It's, this is prizing obviousness is, and a radical evolution that comes as a result is what's much more interesting than this, the incremental, progressive in iterative type of innovation. And so the line on this, you have to start say, Okay, that's enough arm waving. What, how do you, how do you actually think about this in simple is reasonably simple terms. I'll just say I'll practice, what I preach, I just saw the Long Tail, Chris Anderson's book and I sort of said, because it's just like. Again, people know me now, I make really bad puns and they just can't help myself with every time somebody says, hmm, I'm turning it over in my mind this whole time to think about penitential, but no, I'm just trying to make a joke out of it or trying to go. But the point is, I say everything, I see everything I read. That's what you do. You turn over in this case it says hell, if this among those, why isn't through this long tail? Freudian slip If there's a Long Tail why isn't there a long nose. And, and then I think about, OK, what I do know about long noses. Well, I know about Pinocchio and I don't want to be a liar, but I think of Cyrano de Bergerac. Okay, that's great. I want to be a lover so let's have some we can love. This is some data from the National Academy press, but there's a whole series about four volume books which you can, you can get if you just go to the National Academies Press and look for information, information technology. But if you look at this, this basically so shows the key is here that the thin horizontal black lines are academic research, the thick red ones are corporate research and the thick black ones are productization. And this shows how this combinatorics and  sort of things coming together and synthesis is that the top one is the internet, the next one are local area networks. And the bottom one is the worldwide web, which are very distinct things people often called the internet and the web use those terms interchangeably. They're radically different things. One is the platform for the other. And, and so you see how there's these interchanges between academia, industry, products and research. And, and how the things move down across and they start to combine and you get these different things. Now, these types of diagrams exist in biotech, they exist in telecommunications and they exist in terms of information technologies. And, and it's really interesting because they give you a temporal visualization of, of data-based histories of, of, of one taken one representation of how these technologies work. Yes? This is, this would be earlier work and hypertext. Ted Nelson's work, for example, but before it got generalized and if you've met Ted, you'll understand there's a, if there's a gap somewhere in terms of the this here, insert as Amazon and so on and so on. So it started to pick up because hypertext, if you talked Andy Van Dam, who's from Brown University and so on, so forth. They were, he worked with on some of the early hypertext. So the West hypertext, it just hadn't been able to hit the go mainstream and takeoff. Because when we talk about innovation, we're not talking about the academic papers at this point. We're, we're, we're trying to get, get out there. And so even though that is the Academic, there was a cooling down period. And I, I didn't make-- and that's the best. I hadn't asked that question of myself. So thank you for pointing something out that I hadn't even looked at and the data I'm presenting. But that's that's that's my immediate response, which I think is a reasonable one if not correct. And so let's come back to this thing called the long nose. When I talked about the long tail, this is the graphic on the cover of Chris Anderson's book. I flipped it around. And, and so what it basically says is that there's a 20-year period from the inception of the first idea to the point it becomes a billion-dollar industry. So maturity, I'm going to say it's a $1 billion industry. Most of it is this really down low and all of a sudden that spikes up and the typical hockey stick shape, most of it is below the radar. When it says below the radar, it's sitting there for anybody to look down, see it and pick it up. But most people don't even look much less. Know how to look and actually start playing with what, what you might do with things. But that's because they're not prospecting. And so here's the example. In 1984, my group in Toronto, we were doing some stuff around capacitive multi-touch we built. And then in '85, we published a paper. It, this is one of the other lessons that comes out of this particular example is that we were making a drum, making a drum to drive my digital synthesizer. For percussionists, if you know who, Steve Reich, his musician, minimalist sort of pattern music and stuff. One of the guys at his ensemble, Russell Hartenburger, I did a piece for him. He knows nothing about computers, but he's a really spectacular percussionist and he wanted to do a hand drum. so he could drag his hands. That's why it was built and had a pedal like an early ball, a guitar pedal, volume pedal hooked up to the computer to work like a timpani pedal. And so he could actually play this piece that I did for him. That's why that's all we are trying to do. And we were too uneducated  to be stupid. We didn't realize that this was interesting other than just making an instrument. So lesson here. Some of the most influential innovations are the unintended consequences of doing something different. Which is why tightly managed Research at the basic research level is not a good thing. And if you look at any longitudinal studies about that, you'll show that the more that corporations try to manage the research towards a predictable goals, productivity goes down. And that's been done over Fortune 500 companies. And so I'm just saying that because they ignore this unattended consequences and then again, challenge everything I'm saying. Don't take just see. Here's my opinion, here's what I'm saying. And pushback because by that, that's how we learn and and I would far rather be wrong and learn something because you called me out on it than, than be right. But the key thing is over in 2007, he had something called the iPhone came out with capacitive multi-touch, and all of a sudden it broke through the surface or above the radar, took off. But in the meantime, there were in fact three companies that I can identify that I know of that were already commercializing capacitive multi-touch. And furthermore, Bell Labs had done a much better job than us earlier than us. But when I gave the paper in '85 at SIGCHI, Nakatoni who worked at Bell Labs, came up in Murray Hill, came up to me and said Bill, I think you should come down and visit us. And he introduced me, a guy named Bob Boyce who had done so much better than us that we just sort of said, hell, it's a waste of our time. You're so much smarter than us. We, but we're already, he had no applications. We had the applications. He had no He had the hardware. Why wouldn't you do it? And we never, ever, ever because here's the legal part that held that back. And like, nobody knows about Bell Labs. Bell labs would never release it. We went back again with Mark Weiser several years later because we made this huge things at Xerox Park and they were perfect for editing the documents after you'd scan them, before you went off and made these huge document processors, they wouldn't do it because they didn't know what they had. So they were afraid to license it at too low and therefore they got nothing. And there's these types of things which you've just, you've just put up your hands and say, What can you do. But, but I wanted to show that these things, this whole long nose goes beyond, goes wrong, all kinds of everyday things. And so Here's the rollerskates from when I was a kid that I grew up you strap them on your shoes and away you go. Now there were ice skates called Bob skates that did the same thing, but we'll stick with the, with rollerskates for a minute. And so these evolved into something like this. And this is if you think about car hops at drive in restaurants coming out here with your milk shakes in the in the California car movie, whatever. But, but, but if it's just a cliche that the fifties and sixties was with these things and people dancing gone along the on Venice Beach and so on. They're still there. And, and, and, and then the innovation was you do inline states. And you can see the derivation of this. On the one hand, it's from rollerskates, has got its cut four wheels, but they're in line this time. But actually the boot and so on is looking more like ice skates. And so it's a hybrid of the, you can actually draw the genesis of you wrote. I'm just going to stick in the rollerskate part, but you, you know, you could fill in the gaps and get that and say, wow, this is pretty, this is a pretty neat innovation. This completely changed the whole thing about roller skates and so on, so forth. And so this is the most innovative, Right? Well actually no, this is, this is patented in Netherlands in 1819. And it's an inline skate. And so there's a number of things about this that are, and this is the stuff that if you can search these things out, even if it has no engineering perspective and you're a teacher, you're trying to bring kids along. Its just bring these examples because they're so charming, they're so funny that you actually, they will repeat these things. Remember Stephen will tell you that good stories were the original form of viral marketing and our job as researchers, as teachers is to market ideas. And if we can not want to, own our stories, and say Hey, that's my story. No, no, here's your story. Then you could turn into Rome because you have you being all examples do the same thing. Then you can. That's how culturally we change the culture so that we can innovate. And we reward that we make sure we have show-and-tell, keep what you just used to have in kindergarten. This is my show-and-tell I love is. And here's the part. Here's what makes us really turns it from an interesting story to something that's just fascinating. What the hell were they skating on in 1819? Right. Did anybody think about that? Where would they do that down the hall of Versailles? It's just like it's just, it's it's fascinating. And so those are the things that are amazing. But that's, that tells you a really important lesson. That even from this example, there's something really important to take away. It doesn't matter, even if you had made the modern roller blade in 1819, if you didn't have pavement on which to skate, you couldn't use it. And you need this infrastructure and you always need a perfect wave of things. And for example, that's why the mouse took 30 years from 1965 to Windows 95 before everybody had a mouse. By the way, patents only last 20 years. Which is why when Mel and I were at, U of T, If you were in our group, if you try to patent any of our research, the group, you're kicked out of the group because the cost in Canada for one palisade costs $20 thousand to get a patent. In Canada you could hire. In the, in the eighties, you could hire You could pay a graduate student costs for graduate student for a year. And that, what do I want a graduate student or a patent that's going to expire before it ever gets into practice. There's no question about that. And that's why everything we ever do. Because doesn't come with single fun. It's first, it goes, stayed in the public domain because paid for by, we can identify who paid for it anyhow. But when you're looking at these things in the long nose, you can actually go back to data. You can do things other than the playful things I'm doing. And I don't expect you to read these curves. I just want to say this is just a bunch of data that tells you about networks and speeds and so on, so forth. But, but this one, for example, is just showing what was going on with the internet. And, and we get here 1995, all of a sudden just go spikes up like that. Well, what the **** happened there? Well, that is where Mosaic came out and an HTML had been developed. And that's, that's when the, that's when the World Wide Web took off. And there's other things here that show how the number of web servers of bandwidth, all these six men, every single one of these is a trend which has a trajectory. Put it this way. You have a new idea. You say, I've got this great idea. This is going to happen in the future, just and you'd, and you have no history behind it. If I do a sinusoid here and then I stopped here because it's now. And I drew a straight line below it. And I draw, I do as sawtooth and square wave. And I said continuous lines, you can continue any one of those. If I just drew a point on now and say extrapolate from that point. What's the answer? The only answer I can think of  is yes. There's no right answer. How can you extrapolate from a point? Trying to plan the future without knowing the past is like trying to extrapolate from a point. You may not if you follow this other curves where I give you the history of these trajectories. You mean it make, the future may not continue. There's discontinuities and other things. But for pity sakes, it'll get you in the neighborhood and then you can start to do the risk analysis that things might change. This is a simple technique. It's easy. I can take five-year-olds and they will get that. And and they will extrapolate, well, graphically, depending on, on the, on the regularity of the lines I'm drawing. But how we think about it, we have to internalize that and say, What does that mean in terms of how I do my research and how I, how I work. And the other thing is, is that understand that all of those trends are continuous, gradual change that you do not notice. Okay. How many people here are parents? Okay. How many people here have parents? Do your parents or your children look a day older when they wake up in the morning, than they went to bed at night. No. How many people measured their kids or you were measured on your birthday to check your height on the counter. I my family, absolutely. And the reason is because as a society. We discovered, we don't notice, or kids growing up and that, and these changed because we don't notice small, continuous, gradual change. So we take a met, we've taken a mechanism to do a check. Just like your check your pair the the filters in your furnace every year, or you clean your chimney, whatever. But we don't do that in science. We don't do that on all these trends. We don't have a round robin where we're monitoring, hey look it, Let's see, bandwidth is going up, the price is going down. It's, and it's going faster than the improvement in the cost of memory. That says to me cloud computing, right? You know, and if you go back historic, you'll see this. We have this oscillation because these parameters change relative to each other from the graphs that I showed you before. If you're not monitoring, you don't you don't notice the day-to-day year-to-year change. But you realize that, oh my God, there's a trajectory here. And that's why we go for, we've concert from timesharing back to personal computing, back to time-sharing, which we call cloud computing now, but this the same, it's the same kind of thing. And, and we can, we can, we can do this. I want to give you some examples about how some real things that are actually kind of fun. And we're going to talk about, I'm going to talk about portable music players. And here's the start. Okay, so this is the Marine Band harmonica. It's got 20 reeds. It's, it's, this is the most famous one. It's not the first they go way back before I could've picked any number of instruments I did this one just because we all have probably tried to play one. And the, but it was 1896 is when this first came out. The one I have is in the collection is everything now is in my collection. It and I'll tell you, it's not. But the it's a portable musical instrument it's hand held. It makes music. It's portable and so you take it on canoe trips, you take it hiking. And but what about one where you can listen to speaker earbuds as you move around. Okay, so, oh, a radio. So this is the recency tier one transistor radio in 1954, it's the world's commercially, first, commercially available transistor radio. It's a second product ever made with the transistors as designed by Painter, Teague, and  Peterfil. And just to confuse you further, Teague has no relationship to Walter Darwin-Teague or his whole other industrial designer from Chicago who is named Teague, who has no relation. Which is actually pretty funny given how few industrial designers that were in the 1950's. But the thing here is this radio changed everything. The only, and it was largely happened because they needed a killer app to market the transistors. Because after Bell Labs down the road from here, did the first transistor, shocky and the gang. And by the way, history, long nose to that as well. If you want to explore it. But they need to prime. The first product was a hearing aid. Now the problem is that's not a mass. That's not going to be the killer application because it doesn't have the economies of scale that radios to. So that they, they were subsidized by TI at who'd making the transistors. And that's where that radio came from. Designed in Chicago, made in the Midwest. And it we'll come back to that about how cool it is and why it's so important. But you also have to say, well, where was the music well the music was coming from records, where how did it get to the radio they came through. You needed that the FM or AM radius. And you also needed the transistor. So there's technologies of and also places where does this music live? What form, how did it to get there? So it's a wireless streaming device. If you've got one abstraction, we had streaming audio back then that was portable with you all the time and it was free. The cost of the transmission, especially if it was FM, because they didn't know how to monetize it yet. But, but there you have it. Well, what about a music player which you can store your own music instead of just relying upon the streaming. Well, guess what? The cassette was made and Sony made the, the Sony Walkman and this changed everything. This is 1979. And this is a really big deal. Sony was completely unknown. In fact, Sony didn't, wasn't Sony at that time, Sony had a completely different company name. And Sony was the brand of, of the, of the, of the cassette devices, not the company. But because this was such a huge success, they took the name, this, this Sony name overshadowed, and so it became the name of the company. Now it's important to know that because it says that you need to be this flexible, adaptable to changes, and be willing to change your identity and what you are or how you perceive yourself. We're going to see another example that as we go along. But that, that's important to know. But the other part about what about a, a music player that uses random access digital mp3 files rather than analog sequential audio cassettes. Because you have to fast-forward through all the music to get to where you want. Whereas the records you could just jump from track to track. Why can't I do that? Well, this is the world's first, to the best of my knowledge. It commercially available MP3 player, portable MP3, battery-powered, didn't carry round, uses headphones. And that's from 1998. And, and the music started a flash memory accesses as 3264 megabytes Can you imagine that? That's, that's, that's unbelievable. 64 megabytes, no, no. When you saw that you thought you died and gone to heaven. And, and, and it can hold eight, count them eight 4 minute songs. And that's with compression. And, and the problem here is that took, it took solid-state memory, but you had random access to those eight songs. And a, and you needed the compression. So this dependent technologies that were there, that you package this together and you come in and you should people come in too early. Okay, so what if we took that? And just because we get sick of the eight songs, I want to have a radio built into, so yes, so now you have this merge, the hybridization of these two different things. And so these are the IgM J1 hundreds, by the way, if anybody has a red one or the blue one you have, if you see any of these colored ones anywhere, I don't care how much they cost. Call me and tell me and I'll send you the money. Okay. They're really hard to find at that, but I want the full set. And one of the reasons why, and we won't get into it today is because there's two things about these that are really interesting, which we don't have time to go into detail. But I would say first of all. They were ripping off the I, the, the Bonnie Blue iMac by having a semi translucent. They took that from the, the, the iMac that had just been released when Steve Jobs took over after the second coming of Steve Jobs. But this prospecting and shall we say, and mining a hint, hint, riffing off as opposed to ripping off the multi colors and the small things. Guess where you saw that later on was with the iPod mini. It was the first, up until then, iPads at all been white or black. So there's this playing around the industry of each or riffing off of each other, just like rock and roll bands will take I'm each other if they can do it without getting sued. But what if you made one that had a microphone because you can record audio, what can't I use it also for that? Well, of course we had that and that's was a sensory science. So again, a silt, it's Hanukkah 32. It's the same old thing, 3264 megabytes of memory. But at least you could record your voice, which is much, you can compress that way more so you get way more voice. So you could actually cape lectures and stuff like that. And away you go. And that's 1999. So we're moving along here, but what about getting all the cable hassles out of your face so you don't have to plug in with all these adaptors and so on. Get the music from your PC into your MP3 player. This is 1999 and this, and here's, and again, we don't have time to go into it, but here, this is the Creative Labs know Matt, this is June 1999 and you could do that till $250 for 16 songs. And, and but, but at least it had a docking station, so you just put it in and bang it would load. But guess what? Where'd that come from? That came from the PalmPilot. The most important thing about the Palm Pilot was hot sink, you drop it in one button, push in, you get synchronized with whatever it was agnostic to whatever countered programming using whatever do list you're using, and all that came. And that is the reason and not the reason that the books tell you why it was successful. Hot sink was the thing that differentiated the PalmPilot, not that it was small, that it was easy to use, not had limited functionality. I have several think PDAs in my collection that which that does show that other people had all that hot sink. And it was the interface of things working together seamlessly. So when you buy it, you didn't have to hand push every single thing into the thing. And by the way, because it only took one minute, you would keep it to synchronized. And so if you lost it throughout the depreciated costs of a $200 device in your company paper any but how so? Who cares? So what about one source MPI thrives on a miniature harddrive, thereby increasing the amount of musicking, sorry, fine. Even get beyond dates, eight songs and, and this is that the Hangeul personal Jutebox from 2 thousand. And it is actually really cool. This is really rare if you ever see one of these sums to bargain by it, and you can sell it on eBay for probably $2 thousand. But the which is one of the few pieces of technology that's worth more now than it was when it came out of. Although it wasn't cheap when it came out, it was 799. But it had 4.8 gigabytes. So we're up to 1000 songs like that is a major breakthrough. So you sort of say, well, this is pretty neat and this is a long ways, but this is to the best of my knowledge, the first commercially available. It was sold on our different names as well, but it was a Korean company. And and it's really need. Ray Ozzie knew I was looking for this and he actually gave us 2y, which I take him forever. But what you needed was you needed immense your hard drive. Now, what's fascinating here is that this is a hard drive from IBM that actually they were already making miniature hard drives, not quite as miniatures was in there by 1954. That's where that, that hard drive comes from. But so why didn't we have harddrive sooner? Well, the fact is is that as anybody of a certain age, her nose, the tolerances between the head record heads that pull the data off of the disks. Disks are wearing it. Somebody's ridiculous speeds. I mean, it's just a hair distance apart. And so if there's any bumping that head is going to scrape the **** out of the surface and you've just destroyed the whole thing. But as we got to laptops and you wanted to bring up the memory and laptops. They they took something from space craft and missiles like namely what we call today KNIME you but basically this cluster of three-dimensional accelerometer gyro and and encompass magnetometer. And they put them together and they put them into solid state. So all of a sudden they cost almost nothing. And so they went into that hard drive. And so the minute your your your thing started to move or jiggle, it would pull back the heads because it could move that fast and get them out of the way so they didn't tear the heads apart. And you needed that so that it didn't racket. And, and so it's, it's, it's, it's kind of cool that you could, you could do that. But it was what was happening in the end. It was Apple who first put them into the laptops, but that is actually what enabled the stuffed to start to happen and dove and helped drive the prices down and make the stuff available. So there's this ecosystem. People saw the opportunities, so the timing, okay, I can't do it here, but OK. We can get this. I can just take it off of the laptops, put it here. There's a whole different thing. Bam, We've got this and they did it before. Apple did. And, and that's the IMU chips there. So what about one that it integrates the MP3 player with the other portable devices, which I already have with me. Well, that's kind of interesting. I already have a smart phone. Why do I need to carry around an mp3 player? And this is a foreshadowing of what's actually finally happened historically in the mainstream, but this is the first one to do it. So this is a Siemens phone from 2001. Remember the iPhone didn't come out to 2007. And, and you, it had voice recording memo function, but it also had an mp3 player. She could listen to music and with the same headset that you listen to the phone. In fact, the Europeans were at that and this sort of period were further ahead. They had, the United States was sort of a third, not third world, but they were, they were behind in terms of the, that Europe at the time, partially because a tariff structures are different. So they went digital faster and big because then they didn't have to pay for it. It's a longer story, but there's historical reasons. Do you want to understand that the ecosystem, the quick summary about that though is just to say, why is it that nearly all the internet service providers like AOL as one Earth link, our North American. Because in Europe they had exactly the same telephones, exact the same switches, everything's the same. And the reason is here, for $25 a month, you can have unlimited use of your phone. You could be on an all day and not have to pay a cent more and you can get an extra phone for $25 in your house, sig_id dedicated to your computer. Whereas in Europe, it took something like six months to a year to get a phone. And once you've got it, you paid long distance charges even for local call and even it was just next door, you paid per time, per distance. And so the further you are going, the more you pay the caucus ticking all the time and therefore you did not set up. And so the only way when I lived in the Europe working for Xerox and you're dialing in, you call the company and then they it was all set up. So the company called you back, so they had a bulk rate and the fonts and so they paid that phone bills. Nobody home commuted from Europe until the tariff and charges were there. And has nothing to do with technology. It's what jurisdiction, how are things charts, why so thanks so much better in the states and they are in Canada enters a cell phones because, because we have the most expensive cell phones and the idea that you move from New York to Los Angeles and don't change your phone number because you've got a flat rate, unlimited data and phone calls throat North America. It doesn't exist in other jurisdictions. And therefore, if you, if you only live in the states and you make a decision space, it everybody's IQ, you are going to get a big, really big surprise. It's re-import none that stand the stuff. So this brings us the iPod Classic in 2001, came out October 2001. And then there's a second generation here, third generation here, and the fourth generation there. That's really interesting. And we'll come back to this because they don't look the same. They're all white. They all have the same curves, they have the same proportions. The depth changes. But the thing I want to say here is that first of all, took three and three-quarter years and for generations, for the iPods to become an overnight success. And I'm not being facetious here. It is really important, understand? I met Steve Jobs for the first time because I was hired as a consultant to go when the Macintosh first came out. Because the Macintosh, like the iPod, like the iPhone, we're all commercial failures. Despite all the hype and the press that's marketing, that salesmanship and jobs is really good at. They were all failures for at least a year or two. And it wasn't until the laser printer and Apple Talk and that came out with the SE and that, that, that the desktop publishing took the Mackintosh out of the doldrums. It took 3.5 years before the iPod really took off. And the iPhone wasn't a disaster, and we'll talk about that as well. So here's just to give a sense here and why you have to start thinking, taken account the finances and what, what are the impacts here? This is the share price of Apple. And this is when the, the first type of generation one, generation two that they added PC support. Now this is really important. What else is going on that you didn't predict Napster, which was basically this wherever the file sharing to get music for free and all that sort of stuff. They finally got put off, pull off the thing that was, that was like a gift to Apple because they had the mechanism to thing. And so that opened the opportunity, so that they then opened up the Apple Music Store. How could you possibly do this? B, if you didn't, if this was still competing, you can't compete with free. And, and, and the other part is, I want you to think about this ran in the music industry, hated Steve Jobs. They thought he was this jerk who didn't know anything to try to take over and get into the business because into media and stuff like that. And the lawyers are as important in the success of the iPod as, as, as, as, as Jony Ive who did the, and his team who did that, or the engineers who did the engineering, or because they actually managed to convince the music companies to sell them any song, including the whole symphony. That's what they called a song for $0.99. You can do that because they said, these guys don't know they're doing they're pregnant, broke, but we must take the extra revenue. They did not realize they were just kill it, shoot themselves in the foot, the head, and the arms and the chest at the same time. Because they didn't understand, they didn't know, they didn't trust, but they thought they were smarter than Steve. And I'm not saying to Steve understood how big the iPod was going to be. He did not he hoped, but he did not count on it and his business model did not assume that he was going to make those revenues, but he was happy to take them when they came. And he was prepared to be able to expand and turned up to 11 when necessary. The advertising, forget it that they're the ones who on the, the, the advantage here that the if you had an Xbox with recognizing Bill Gates in silhouette, holiday and Xbox and those colors, what are you going to sell? You gotta sell iPods. Those things are so iconic. And there were companies that copied that graphical style and all they were doing his help on Apple. They never complain that omics they knew you see the colors for distance. You just know that that's what you're selling. And so we come along and we come along and like this. And, and finally, Christmas. So forwards was iPod Christmas when you had to have one. And the crate thing was everybody went and got the cuz you're afraid they wouldn't be able to get one. Because it was now on a PC as well as the mac, the music store and everything. And, and of course, nobody didn't get one. They created a pet rock or a cabbage patch doll frenzy intentionally to cover marketing. And made sure that their supply chain can meet the demand no matter how fast it grew. But they didn't overstock, but they had that all figured out. And, and you can see the volumes and the, and the price points here. And then you'd do this other stuff. Those, these add, these aren't ads, but these are worth a fortune. And they come for free by just getting on the cover of Businessweek or Newsweek. And this thing, Genius. The thing that sold more iPods was the white earphones. Everything else was black. It doesn't matter. You'd never see the MP3 player because somebody's going to steal it from you with an early days. But, but you know what kind of mp3 player Lance Armstrong is using. Its got why different people would get the old cheapo things and by white headphones and use them and hide the iPod. So everybody think they had an iPod and be cool because it's easy to be cool. Because if you can hide that stuff, it's all about images. It's not even about audio. And, but the other observation here is that in every generation they changed the most iconic part that the, the, the, the, the, the, the dial wheel here. And, and the observation three is that it was a bad idea from the day one because sequential access is not a very sequential search. If you're a computer scientist, you know this is not a good way to go and that dial is sequential search. And it worked great when you had no music and your first five albums, it was great and he, as you added more. But remember what I said about change blindness. It never got bad in a discontinuous way. And so you find it got worse and worse and worse. But a certain point that you stopped, you had enough music because you start going to the end of the list that there were some other shortcuts they'd used to try and innovations there. But it was a dead end thing from the beginning. Notably. So and so you know, that's not gonna last. And yet, here's the thing on the business side. This is the Apple iMac G5. It came out in 2004. Look at the design language that is iPod, that says iPod, it's the white. It's got the same corners. It's got the whole same shape. That looks like a big iPod. But look what is said here. From the creators of the iPod. The new iMac G5. Is that not the most incredible thing of chutzpah you've ever seen in advertising. This is by mentor in advertising. And if this is the minute I saw that poster I had, I got when I went down, I kept it because I knew that was important. I knew they were going to change the name of the company because they pivoted just like I spoke about earlier and just re-find what they were. There, a consumer electronics company. Now, there's competition as Sony, not computer companies. And, and, and, and that actually happened. And let me come in to the iPhone. This is the G1 2007. So this is really interesting because now you don't even need, because memory is gotten saw, say memories gotten cheap enough because of Moore's Law and the sort of thing that happens. And so now you can get all the music you need on here. And furthermore, you can interact and find the songs because now you can have browsers and so, and so he was xy have rendered the, the, the scroll wheel obsolete except for niche markets like when you're running, you want these little tiny things that you stop in your arm when you're jogging. But the more important thing is, the iPhone was not successful. Steve Jobs believed that it, that the phone was the killer app and he, like apples, whole thing has always been a closed system. I don't want anybody I'll say the money's ours. And they were his staff were fighting with him. And finally after a year when they were losing, they've lost enough money. He finally relented and reluctantly so its head okay. Because he thought the killer app was the phone. How wrong he was the phone as an afterthought now. And, and, and so they built the app store. And so what happened here? Okay, the iPhone was released in 2007. It wasn't a commercial success. It took till July 2008 before the, the apps store came out. And, and then these guys did the Ocarina. How many people have an ocarina? That was one of the first apps that came out. It, it, it, it turgid in this flute. And you can still download, it's still current and so on, so forth. They sold over a million copies in the first six months. And it's still admin at number one, the app start at the beginning, and it's still in the top 20 apps ever in the App Store. And the cool thing about it was it wasn't this, you could play this little green and play yourself and just amuse yourself. But furthermore, you could play concerts. They had hooked up with a social network. These are all bunch of Stanford, the three people who worked for the music program at Stanford, which is one of the top computer music programs. And so you could actually play ensembles and have all the social stuff, just like people are cyclists do today when they can compete with each other. You can have orchestras all over the world and play together with this thing. And it, it, it just that changed everything, then it became profitable. It's not about the phones, but the absolute infrastructure. And, and, and so now you understand why I'm justified and coming back because basically we've got this little wind blown thing you have in your pockets and play music is you walk around just like a mouth organ. So we've see a musician AB, it's an AABA, classical ternary form structure that I just gave you. It's now electrified, sir. So but if we come back to some things, we could talk about streaming is at Park in 1993. I actually think this might have been the first and I'm gonna say it and I was in the room, it had nothing to do with me, but we were working with some stuff called multicasting and Mark Weiser slab. And so we race of system interns from RPI Rensselaer in Rochester. And we, we hooked up and started to have used it for voice. That might have been the first voice-over IP conversation. Later on they actually had a band come in and play across. And that was the first music streaming music thing. And after about two hours or just jacking and about absolutely nothing with these kids over there. And Mark and Roy want and a bunch of us were all there. And and and then somebody the fire and said, we better hang up, this is getting really expensive. And then someone else said, You just don't get it do yet. And they didn't because that because you realize you could stream and Justin matter at that point. And but, so, but that was the long nose of what became in about 278. But, but it's important that 20072008 is when the, the heavy players just landed in terms of a music streaming. That, that brought us this whole thing, which actually is kind of interesting. So you've got Spotify, SoundCloud. All this started right in that period when the iPhone first came out. But I want to say, and this is where I want to sort of winding down. That was sort of saying here, 1907. We had this guy, today's Cahill. He had this thing called the Tel harmonious. Really did have that all that machinery you weighed 2020 tons sitting in the basement of this building in New York City, in Manhattan. And he was, and he had a subscription model. So you would subscribe to his streaming music service. This is before muzak or any things where you could pipe music through the telephone. You pick up your farm that had wasted power it so you could actually make, you should turn your juice enough powered with a booster to You could hear it through speaker. And we'll come back and back to the two players. And of course the music players disappeared. This now imbedded into here funds themselves and the whole MP3 players there and year, but as and so and yet the, uh, come back to restarted. Evolution is a scientific concept and progress as an issue of ethics. And, and we, and so we have this power, we have this history that can help teach us how to be more effective if we know how to use it like any other tool. And one of my heroes, here's a guy named Melvin Kranz Berg, who's a historian of technology and he has seven laws. If you can switch law, if you can't find them, email me and I'll tell you, but this first-last technology is neither good nor bad, nor is it neutral. It will be some combination. I think I said at the beginning, I emphasize it here because he's that important to me, is second lab, by the way, is a lovely play on words, intention as the mother of necessity, you invent somebody, put it in. You're going to get stuff wrong. You own it, you made it, you broke it, you fix it. But don't throw the baby out with the bathwater. But again, there's there's a responsibility there that comes with it. The things we make, the things we design, the things we build our cultural artifacts, which are having as much or more impact on our society and are going to increasingly have so than music, cinema, art, dance, and all the other cultural. So art of disciplines put together that doesn't take anything away from, but it adds a huge weight of responsibility to our shoulders. And you look at the last election and, and what's going on, Brexit silicon these, thanks to Sarah and she has a lot to answer for, because none of us consider those issues. What's the good, the bad, what's the compass? How do we do this? And so this leads us to a question as to what do we do next. And I'd say this, when those of us of a certain age, we're going the question, the miracle was, will this thing work? We were making text editors that crashed every five minutes. You knew you were going to lose your work and so you would save every ten or 15 seconds. That's how we worked when you're writing programs or things like that. And we thought we died and gone to heaven because we weren't punching cards. And we could do it interactively. Those days are gone. You don't win design of words. If your bridge falls down, you don't win design awards. If your editor crashes all the time, it should just work. Works seamlessly. And we can do it now. And with the powers that are coming out now with ML and all these types of things. So the question now is not, what can I do? The question now becomes now that I can do anything, now that we collectively can do pretty much anything that we can imagine. What should we do? And in some sense, I haven't emphasized that part. It's been a sub-theme. But I've given you some of the techniques to know how to do it. So you can spend more time thinking about what to do. And with that, thank you. And if you have time for questions, I'm glad to go for it. Yeah. Really wonders. Apartment. Just amazing. I had this question. So I'll be soft. Zone. Is asking for. For example, Watertown battery life saw worth raising prices. Entity with James's hypo Bolshevism is, is that this cell is why do you continue? There will be some big category that will follow the scenarios or more centrally. So I definitely have an opinion which may be right or maybe wrong, but it's least founded on some experience. So first of all, I'm really glad you're here. And if you could somehow write to me, I don't know very many historians of technology. And so I'd love to have a pen pal and stuff that throw ideas back and also see what you've been doing so I can learn from that. So it's a good question and it's actually as a questions. So I'll put it this way. And I'm not saying that to to blow smoke is because it really is true. I want to get this finished and I need help and advice. So the, the first thing is the most important thing that we could do. I'll put this way. And as I said, my management, we have to we can ask the right questions, critical thinking. So I reject the term Internet of things until you can show me the Internet of Things. Because there's never been anything but a thing attached internet. So let's get rid of jargon that is not constructive. There's, there's something going on there. I know they're describing something, but that label is not a good label than Steinem and did a great job and when he didn't have anything to do with the invention or of, of direct manipulation. But he'd label it and gave it a categorization which was meaningful and better than sort of stuff that we did in the human dominant Draper book that Jim Holland daunted. So labeling is really important to Crito, part of taxonomies and so on, so forth. What are the attributes that give me that, that's clear thinking. The second thing is, we don't need more crap. That doesn't work and doesn't work together. And so Let's say where are the problems and where does it complexity lie? And what we've missed is we have gotten really good since the iPhone that set new standards that we've reduced the complexity of any single gadget application to device or service. And that's wonderful. And we push the price down. But all that's done as we got more and more stuff out there, the simple, wonderful, desirable, addictive and easy and affordable. And what we miss is that the cumulative complexity of a bunch of simple, delightful, affordable things is way beyond the human threshold to deal with. So we've just transferred the problem where the cognitive load is as APO and where the value is. Lower the value and increase the load as opposed to effectively fixed here, we just move that over there. So here's my answer to your question. We back to look at things with different optics. The next big thing that everybody's looking for, even framing it. What is the next big thing already shows you're asking the wrong question. Because the next big thing is not a thing. It's not an application, is not a device, it's not a service. The worst there'll be devices, application services, but the next big thing isn't a thing. It's a change in the social relationship amongst the things that already exist and are going to exist. And when I say social relationship, I mean it in the sense of sociology, are things like kinship, proximity. What's the moral order of place? How do I know the place and what the behavior should adapt and so on, so forth. All the things that people do. And then how do you fit that society of technologies applicant, the technologies being devices, applications, and services together and merge it with just a society of people. And I think you start to think about those social relationships. I'll give you one quick example. When I rent a Ford Escape, I own a Ford Escape. I have an iPhone when I put it in there, I've introduced them as opposed to pair them. I introduce them, your mind, your mind, you guys, you have nice trusted relationship because we're all the same. We're all in the same family now. Okay. So I rent a Ford Escape at Whistler, exact same car model. It is not enough to pair because the geniuses who thought this stuff up or thinking engineering how to connect this device and that device as opposed to realize that there's a completely different level of kinship with a rental car than there is with other. But the constraints on the U by T, the good things of, of place. In a rental car says, I cannot dot a car without having a hands-free and ice-free operation. So I need that to have some pairing stuff going on. But ******, I don't want a single thing of mind going into that card. And I think from that car going into my phone. Because it's a completely different kinship. And because nobody even thinks in sociological terms is broken and I rent cars and I bet everybody here who rents cars regular basis has found somebody else's data in the car. I had no idea. And I blame our industry because we're thinking about the technology and engineering and we're not thinking at all about these other things of usage and what's appropriate in terms of moral order of place. And there's a term called U by T, which I believe that mark wiser use the wrong word when he said ubiquity, which means everything, everywhere all the time. You body means the right thing at the right place, at the right time with the right behavior at the right price. And as soon as we start talking about you, biotin computing as opposed to ubiquitous computing, which is what Mark meant. All along. We will go someplace and just even change of language like that helps us do that. And so now I would frame it this way. When I say here that the provocation, what should we do? Four things. Things should just work. Things should just work seamlessly. Think, sorry, thanks to just work. Things should work together. They should work together seamlessly. And in working together, there should be a killers reduction. Every time I add a new thing, it should reduce the complexity of operating everything else I have in my ecosystem and increase the value and they it, and if you did those four things and set that as the load star that you're shooting for. I cannot think of a single thing that could have more impact. Because it's not about, it's not about the gadgets, it's about the social. And, and this, and this, and, and the funny thing is, when we think about the site of technologies, when you think about social computing, it has nothing to do with a side of computers as computers poorly supported this society of people. But the first thing to do it properly is to get the good society of computers that they actually know who's procs and they have proxemics and all these other things, a lot of AI and when you're trying to do there and ambient intelligence on relates to this, but the language does not lead you there. And change the language who can lead their, will change their behaviors and where we spend our time in research. It is a fool's game to try and make a new gadget, a new service, or new application relative to what impact we could have if we thought about the overall architecture of what we believe about society and how do they ping service as opposed to getting our way and sparse straightest? Because if we do not fix this, we're going to be buried by complexity. And we're gone at a 120 miles an hour down the freeway and there's a bird flies straight to the windshield and, and were gone. The faster we go when the better we get at making simple frivolous things, the more that's going to splatter. And that's I have no strong feelings matter. But there was a really good question. Thanks. Yes. Yes or no. What should I think? Think, well pathway. It's more how masculine? Or, you know, having taken into the spheres. Instead. My question though, is actually figured out to be an entrepreneur. And so I don't want someone asked because so the real questions we're hoping was there to show that as somebody who was asking that question. Seems like the logos. He said Boss Tweed students, which is that, you know? So there are, there's a couple of books on Apple design you can buy if you'll find an Library. But I can just tell you signficant Microsoft, week killed products that we've invested. Very large amounts of money that look the right about the ship and then they get pulled. You don't see the things Apple doesn't ship. There are models, they, but they've gone through, if you look at the prototypes in that there's ideas all the time, you have to know when to bail. But the process is how do you make that decision? And so all I can say is that the one guy and saying and say is this is an axiom. I say this all the time. I think it's probably on my website as a mantra. Everything is best for something and worst or something else. And that there's been a wise person to fool is the criteria they use to decide though, and how well they know the who, what, when, why of what, what is best and what it's worst for. And so you and when I have meetings there were discussing these things. You are not allowed. This is part of design thinking is the most fundamental thing. You must have multiple ideas. If every idea you are not allowed to advocate for the adoption or the rejection of anything. But you are allowed to comment on that's attributes, positive and negative. In an enumeration without prejudice. And when you've gone through that, and you have at least three, but you should have five and ideally seven different things that you're considering. Then you can start to weigh the relative merits. And the biggest mistake we made is we commit to ideas right away because we're always behind schedule and rerun. The whole reason I wrote a book on sketching is to say, How can I afford to explore seven projects instead of one for a fraction of the price. So that when I finally make my decision, that's part of the problem setting side. I can do that. If you're not throwing stuff away. Doesn't design is the most negative thing of the roller says I'll create a solid stuff. No, no, no. 99.9% of ideas get tossed. And most of them are going to be yours or mine. And that's why we get good products. And if you have your first idea and go and run and start a company, you're probably going to lose a bunch of money, a lot of investors money, and you're going to get a really valuable education. But I'm not sure you want to pay the tuition fee. Right? Okay. I think we should one more. One more. Yeah. I've rain and high-school software, so I'll say, hey, somebody comment c os you see always hearing very inspiring and really change the way that I thought about innovation in everything. Especially as I co-founded my own company. So I'm constantly looking for either precursors. Yeah. Yeah. I'm constantly looking for new ways in today. I was just wondering about your take on 5G and apples recently our regression from the front, that area of innovation, I was just wondering like, what is your take about the future 5G, especially for areas that don't usually get the benefits of messages. Predominantly highly rural areas of the United States. Yeah. So it's a good question. I'm not going to say too much. And the asc a because of time and B, I have to know what I don't know. I'll take couple of things I drive across United States, had had and do it both ways back and forth every year I try to drive from the from Toronto to the west coast of back. Simply, it's like I read, travels with Charney in search of American John Steinbeck's book. I just want to relive that just to get a feel for the country and it changes things. I think that the last time I did it, I may estimate is that 67% of the continental US has, does not have data coverage. And so those of us who live in the bubble of Silicon Valley or Route 128 or around Redmond, where you get unlimited data all the time everywhere. That's just a delusion. Now that'll change. But also you forgot when you go to other countries where you can't go in there. So this whole notion of accessibility and equity and so on, so forth. And the, the, the two worlds that technological gap within the country much less with at, around the world is, is, is a real concern. So the concerns there, I I'm not going to talk even if I had new to have the time to go through it. But the but I would look and say, if you believe what I said about work together, should work work together seamlessly and with reduction in complexity. I'm far more concerned about how things can in fact work. And I, I, I, I don't, I, I, there are several things that need really high bandwidth and low latency, which you cannot afford to go to the cloud even if it's really close by. And so no matter how fashion network is, you can't change the laws of physics. And so you have to figure out where are the temporal peer-to-peer. I would like it so that when I walk, here's the definition. If I talk about mobile, mobile computing through my mobile phone, pretend this is my mobile phone, this is not mobile. This is just a handset. My activity is mobile. And since everything we do as a compound task and I'm working through the ecosystem. This is where you bind and that goes, I should be able to continue my task. I do not want it. So that if you've got this intelligent agent and I've got the most perfect AI in the world. And my smart speaker, My house. And when I walk out the door, wrote scrambling pigment briefcases, stuff like that, I'm trying to get out and it's rained umbrella, all of the kids grandchild. And the conversations over the midnight, I walk out the door. What the ****'s with that? That's not ubiquity, that's not your body, that's not service, that's not continuity, that's not flow. And when I get into the car, it should change again because it's a different place. And again, a park the car and run into this building. I'm trying to find the officer a meeting is that there have been here before and I'm trying to get there. I want the sound directions to take me there. At the same time, I want to be able to say who isn't the meaning, what are we talking about? Who was her background? Have I met them before? I want to be able to do all that stuff and I walk up to the white board, I want to be able to say, hey Cortana or Syria, wherever it is, I'm put my talk here and by the way, can I see the graph of this? And it's sort of in this area there. And there's not. And even though Richard bolt showed that stuff in 1978, input that there if you go, please go to the YouTube lookup. Richard bolt put that there and realized that nobody in the industry right now cannot understand addictive gesture, directional gesture to indicate the end of a pronoun by two. For the speech, nobody understands, Hey, what's this? Put this there. What's around here? No speech system out there right now with all the AI, because it's not my job. Because the people working in speech are brilliant linguists who don't understand interaction. And they, and how to integrate that stuff into thing. That's what I mean about things working together. And by the way, the minute I move away from that display, I want the behaviors to change in exactly the same way. Your mobile phone, when you're in the middle of a conversation, you park your car and you're using the hands-free. When you parked car, turn off, pick up the handset. You just had 100% change in interaction language. You had a 90% change in local technology. Manage that call. Because of that, you have a 100% continuity of conversation. Ominous about the conversation. It's not about the interaction modality. And what's right here is wrong there. If you are using speech to give me a private message when you're landing a census to airport, you should lose your job because somebody from Apple sitting behind you and I work for Microsoft, if you're not using speech, we are driving a car, you she'd lose your driver's license. And it doesn't matter how good the AI is. It doesn't matter how good the speech recognition, it doesn't matter how good or bad the idea. Place dictates how the behavior should be. That's what moral error order is all about. And the systems have to adapt the moral order. So consistency comes with, consistent with expectations and place and content. And not about it. It works uniformly everywhere. It should work uniformly well everywhere, uniformly appropriately everywhere. But that means it has to adapt its behavior to the context. And we do not do that well. And that's not part of the front or end of the AI agenda right now. And that's not a slag off on a either working on really hard problems. But if, if I was a graduate student, these are where I think we need to spend time. And historically, I think just gave examples about how everything I just said about going the future as referring back to things that every one of us have already experienced and could have drawn it to help inform our decisions are where we go. And so I just tried by example to show you how I work on that. And that's what the talk was about. Okay. I think we have to stop and go back and talk. Thank you very much. 