 [LISA] Welcome to Stories from the NNI. I'm Lisa Friedersdor, Director of the National Nanotechnology Coordination Office. Today it's my pleasure to welcome Ahmed Busnaina, the William Lincoln Smith Professor and Distinguished University Professor of Mechanical Industrial Engineering at Northeastern University. Ahmed also serves as the Director of the Advanced Nano Manufacturing cluster for smart sensors and materials and the NSF Nanoscale Science and Engineering Center, or NSEC for High-rate Nano Manufacturing. Thank you so much for joining us. To get things started, can you tell us a little bit about yourself and how you first got involved in nanotechnology? [AHMED] I have been involved in manufacturing and fabrication since the 80s when we had a project where I was a different University. A nd I was involved in working with memory chips. At that time it was when Meg was the largest capacity memory chip IBM. And I worked with nanoparticles actually back in the 80s also working on defects and so forth and so that develop a lot of technologies to understand the different deposition technique, different electroplating technique, polishing techniques and so forth. And biggest part of it was scalability. So whatever process we come up with it has to be scalable. At that time, the largest wafer was 8 inch. And so that continued until about 2002, 2003, 2004 when we started working on extreme UV lithography and so forth. But one of the things that came after the government started then National Nanotechnology Initiative, NNI, is that my colleagues and I were talking and we said, how can we use all these nanomaterials that are coming and being developed and they have novel properties? How can we take advantage of that? And we looked at the conventional fabrication which I was very familiar with at the time. And we didn't really see many processes that would actually allow us to integrate the nanomaterials into devices and applications in a scalable way, meaning fast and over large substrates, high-throughput. We can find anything. And so we thought that's what we have to do. That's what we have to explore. And so we wrote a proposal to the National Science Foundation and the proposal got funded in 2004 and that's how we started the Nanoscale Science and Engineering Center for High-rate Nanomanufacturing. [LISA] So can you tell us a little bit about the Center for High-rate Nanomanufacturing? [AHMED] It was basically a center that was led by Northeastern University, but had equal partnership with UMass, Lowell and University of New Hampshire. And the modeling effort was led by Michigan State University. And the focus from the very beginning was to understand the fundamentals of synthesis and control at the nanoscale of nano materials to enable high-rate high-volume bottom-up precise directed assembly of elements, which is the path that we chose to assemble manufacturing nanoelements. That was one of the biggest thrusts in the center. Then we also wanted to translate the nanoscale science into practical applications, into medical, energy, electronics, and other types of applications. But at the same time, we had a significant number of faculty about seven to eight that were focused on responsible manufacturing. That means looking at the potential risk of nanotechnology, understanding it, managing it, mitigating the risk, how do you handle them, how do you look at the lifecycle. for example, what is the health risks? And we develop a lot of technologies. We develop actually processes that were adopted by NIOSH in a booklet that they issued on how to handle nanomaterials in laboratories. And that was back in the mid 2000s. And of course we had a big focus on education. And so basically we had about 37 faculty involved from all four campuses. And we had about 80 graduate students and about 20 postdocs. And that continued for 10 years. After we graduated a lot of the work was funded of course by NSF and other government agencies contracts. But we're still basically continuing along the same path of the main goals that we started with. But we made a lot of progress because, aside from the general articles and publications, but we filed more than 80 patents and 24 of them already are granted, and the others are still pending. We still continue to file patents. One of the things that we did that was sort of unique is working with industry. So we had a very large industrial advisory board that was headed by Brent Segal at the time. And we engaged the industry. And we worked with them very closely. And over the past 10 years we averaged about 1 million dollars from industry, every year. [LISA] Well, there's so much I'd like to follow up on from that comment. I'd like to talk a little bit about the patents and the activities, but I will start with your thoughts on some of the exciting materials or technologies that you saw over the span of this Center that you get really excited about. [AHMED] Yeah I think that actually I get excited about it but I know the students get more excited about these kind of things. But basically our focus was really on the manufacturing processes. So we had stats on synthesis and functionalization because that's very important because when you're dealing with nanomaterials surface forces are very very important and you can modify those using a variety chemistry based approaches. And the synthesis was handled by Professor Glenn Miller who's a chair of chemistry at University of New Hampshire. And he led that. And so we did some of the synthesis, for example of organic semiconductors and so forth. But the bulk was really trying to take the nanomaterials that have been developed or discovered and try to make devices from them. Transistors, sensors for example. Our goal basically is to make sure that we have high yield because I work with industry for a long time. So the yield and the scalability was very important. Because we know unless you have that, you have no application that can be scaled and can be commercialized for example. So we focus on scalability, knowing how to control forces. It turns out that was a huge fundamental problem. It's easy to control forces on a hundred micron by hundred micron. When you want to control forces at the nanoscale over an area of about 12 inch wafer for example, that is not easy. And there's a lot of fundamental studies that go into that to find out how can you apply the forces at the same time everywhere on that surface for example and all these particles. And how can you precisely take nanomaterials, a single nanoparticle or a single nanotube bundled, and put it exactly where you want it within let's say a few microns. And that's what we focused on. We developed about 6 different techniques that utilize either electrostatic force, convective force, interfacial force, fluidic forces, convective forces, and those are basically our focus. And I think we had a lot of smart faculty and students that really made a lot of good contribution to the process and I'm very proud of that and that led to in 2014 actually at the last end is we build our own fully automated printing system that actually allowed us to print on a 4-inch wafer using the processes that we develop at the center [LISA] So you mentioned your patents. Have any companies been developed out of the IP that's been created? [AHMED] There are a few companies actually. One in biosensors, one in nano batteries, and one on an actually printing systems, building the printing systems. And a lot of these, I think close to 40, have been licensed. Spin outs, of course that's a separate story. These are spun out when the center started. We still have other companies spun out by other faculty that were in the center and actually a lot of technology they used was built using center developed technology when they were part of the center. So we still, until today, we still have actually companies spin out. We had one last year on carbon nanotube based sensor and the printing system basically that's a bigger company in the sense that it has to build a fully automated printing system that can do up to eight inch wafers for example I can do multi layers with alignment and nanoscale resolution. That's a lot bigger effort, needs a lot more people and a lot more funding to launch [LISA] So as you see challenges that are facing the US and the world where do you see nanotechnology playing a role in helping to solve those challenges? [AHMED] That's a very good question actually. I think that nanotechnology has a lot of possibilities are actually contributing to the economy large part in terms of energy, electronics, savings, energy for example. The basic concepts of let's say energy harvesting or energy storage is there, is well known, but actually to make it more efficient or to have lower cost, that's where nanotechnology comes in and contributes to that. You can see for example AI. That actually will help nanotechnology, but at the same time you cannot do AI without having a good computing power, using quantum computing, using quantum materials. And also in medicine. I mean I didn't mention that we actually printed drugs, cancer drugs into nano pillars for example, nanorods so that the cells can absorb them much more efficiently, ten times more efficiently than particles for example. So it has a huge impact on the health you know societal impact. Energy storage, energy harvesting, but we have to cross that bridge where you take the science and make useful products that would help the economy and help the country and help the society in genera. But I think the future is bright, the opportunity is there. We just need to take advantage of it in a smart way. [LISA] Well thank you so much for your thoughts and your time today. Do you have any closing thoughts that you'd like to share with our listeners? [AHMED] Well, I think that nanotechnology is a wonderful science and it opened the doors to a lot of new concepts, a lot of new applications and I think that I always read and try to read the latest journals and so forth to find out what the latest product is, but we just scratched the surface. There is a lot more opportunities out there and I think that we tried to include as many young people as many students, undergraduates and high school students in our labs as much as possible. And those guys get more excited than me actually and more excited than the graduate students. And I see the future in them basically and developing. But also in industry. I think the link with industry and academia has to be stronger. And we have to work a partnership. That's how you bridge the gap between science and actually useful applications for the society. And I think we need to do more of that. And I think that that would be the key to success and and other countries are actually following that lead as well, but I think the US is in a very good position to leverage our industrial and/or academic capabilities. Thank you for joining us today for Stories from the NNI. If you would like to learn more about nanotechnology, please visit nano.gov or email us at info@nnco.nano.gov and check back here for more stories. 