 Hello and welcome to this virtual presentation. I've had the opportunity to present at multiple NCPN Conferences and unfortunately i'm getting kind of used to doing virtual conferences too. So this too will pass. Anyway, thank you very much for your time and attention. I'm hoping to share with you some insights, some wisdom, some challenges and some opportunities that we can garner from this crazy pandemic effect. Also, from what I've observed over the last couple years is the overlapping multi-disciplinary nature of what's happening in technology in general both from an industry and an educational standpoint. I'm Deb Newberry and if you've attended previous NCPN Conferences you may have heard me talk about nanotechnology. Almost all of my presentations previously were when i was the principal investigator and the director for Nanolink, A National Science Foundation, Nanotechnology Education Center. In that role i created a two-year nanoscience technician program. I also did most of the teaching. Over 15 years prior to that, i worked in industry as a research scientist and an Executive Director for space systems. We built electronics for satellites. You can read from the rest of this chart, I have multiple backgrounds. I'm a bit of a science nerd. We can talk a little bit about that perhaps later on. I'm very pleased and very happy that you're willing to spend some time with me and hopefully it will be a worthwhile investment. So in the beginning, a long time ago, we had stove-piped education: physics, chemistry, biology, material science, and engineering. We're all pretty much independent disciplines in stove pipe per se in a lot of cases. Within some of the disciplines there were indeed differences like electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, civil engineering All of those were subsystems or sub stovepipes of some of the major stovepipes That's what was happening traditionally. More recently, what is happening, is a melding or an integration of multiple disciplines. Granted, I know the picture kind of overlaps but i wanted you to be able to see all my hand movements. I do as much talking with my hands as I do with my mouth. We have traditional science disciplines. We also have traditional engineering disciplines and then traditional non-technical disciplines like psychology or sociology sometimes quality assurance and manufacturing disciplines will fall into that green circle as shown on this chart. There's always overlapping and even more so nowadays where electrical engineering will interact with physics because both are required for the successful fabrication of semiconductor devices and transistors. Of course there's overlapping between the non-traditional disciplines and perhaps some of the more technical traditional disciplines. What i'm going to do since it's one of my favorite subjects is talk about the convergence of all three of those circles which I'm going to use for this example. Having been involved with nanotechnology for over 30 years I have seen how nanotechnology went from a very defined skill set, a very narrow stove pipe to having its interaction in multiple disciplines. Almost every career can be and is being impacted by nanotechnology. So I want to talk about some of those examples of how nanotechnology is impacting careers and industry and also give some ideas for how we can deal with it as educators, administrators, consultants and counselors for students. First, just to make sure we're all on the same page: What is nanotechnology? Nanotechnology is basically designing, imaging, creating materials and systems at the atomic and molecular scale. As we know everything is made up of atoms. Nano is basically just a prefix. Nano means one billionth. You're probably familiar with a centimeter. That prefix centi- means one hundredth. A centimeter is one hundredth of a meter. A nano is one billionth. So a nanometer would be one billionth of a meter. A nanometer is extremely small in length and because of the prefix we can have a nanosecond, a nanogallon, etc. It can apply to multiple physical entities or distances or structures. We most often apply it to nanometer. A nano length of a hydrogen atom for example is just one nanometer in diameter and so a thought experiment for this is You know how big a nanometer is and how many is a billion. You know we could step outside at night and look at the stars and we can kind of get a sense of the magnitude, the size of the galaxy of stars overhead, of very large distances. But it's hard to think about the very small. Imagine that I had an aspirin tablet in my hand and the diameter of that aspirin tablet was one nanometer. If I took a billion aspirin tablets, one meter long, a billion nanometer sized aspirin tablets represented a nanometer They would be stretching all across the continental United States. So a billion is a very large number and a nanometer is a very, very small distance. Hard to realize you can't see it with a magnifying glass and why is it so important because molecules are made up of atoms. Everything's made up of atoms. They come together to form molecules and the structure of those molecules is going to define the physical, electrical, and biological properties of everything. That's why understanding the world at the nanoscale is so important and is also influencing so many different disciplines. This is really interesting and the challenges that are associated with nanotechnology go far beyond just that narrow stove pipe or thinking about nanotechnology. This multi-disciplinary aspect, this overlapping, this Venn Diagram with all of those traditional and non-traditional disciplines overlapping is causing challenges for educators, for administrators, and for counselors. Career path planners that help students figure out what they're going to do as they go to college and start a career. For educators this multi-disciplinary aspect is a challenge because in many cases the educational degree that you received or the educators received is in one discipline. An education degree is in mathematics, science, or biology. By default, their skill at teaching in some cases is a a more narrow focus than what might be required for that overlapping multi-disciplinary Venn Diagram. The imposition of NGSS those Next Generation Science Standards is also a challenge for a lot of people educators and parents because those NGSS requirements include aspects of overlapping science and math. I've got an example later on to talk about how you can do that and how we can pull those things together. Another aspect as I have had a chance to talk to a lot of industry people, as well as educators. Industry is starting to require or request that new employees or that employees have a library not only of hard skills. What machines can you operate? What equations can you solve? What designs can you create? but also soft skills. How well can you communicate your ideas? How well do you work with others? How do you prosper in a team environment? Can you plan your own activities? What about setting your own priorities? A lot of those kinds of questions fall under the umbrella of softer skills as opposed to harder skills. Those soft skills are things that employers are seeking. Recently, I would say within the last five or six years, I've just seen an increase in those soft skills being defined in job descriptions. Also talking with industry, attributes of employees that they would like to see. So the burden falls on educators to include soft skills as part of the things that they teach. There's also new state requirements that are kind of a challenge. In terms of the maximum number of credits for different levels of degrees, two-year degrees can only have (for Minnesota) a maximum of 60 credits for your degree. It's 120 and so that restricts us in terms of how much content can you put into 60 credits or 120 credits. Another thing, universities are starting to get measured on the number of four-year degree graduates that graduate. How many students do they graduate in four years with a degree is becoming an assessment for universities. Now, administrators are not without their own challenges. Especially a couple of the ones that i mentioned above. Those state requirements are challenging administrators to determine how to modify their programs, courses, and credit calculation. How much are we required to teach students to meet those industry requirements? Administrators are also challenged with financial aspects budgeting.  How much budget do they have to to run their educational institution? How much training or professional development can they offer to their educators? It's a tough balance. Finally, counselors or the folks that do career guidance. There is an aspect of becoming aware of the multiple new careers that are becoming evident in industry. All this new technology and also because of this overlapping of what used to be stovepipe traditional disciplines, multiple career opportunities, and also perhaps, some of the standard tests for career path, interest level, Aptitude tests are no longer valid which means that the counselors and career path people may need to spend more time dedicate more time with students to truly understand what their passion is. What's their area of interest? I know their time is already challenged enough because there's a lot of students that they have to talk. That is a potential requirement and finally having a level of awareness of industry. All of these things coming together can pose just a wall of plethora of things that we have to consider. Things that we need to perhaps worry about or keep in the back of our mind. Regulations or restrictions that we may be required to adhere to. You know one thing that I want to just say in general, I think it is really important that educators and industry get together more and more. When i have the opportunity to talk to industry folks, one thing that I encourage them to do is spend a certain amount of time perhaps monthly. Maybe it's only an hour a month? Talking to the educators in your region. Talk to the educators who are going to be teaching, who are teaching your future employees. Let them know what's important to you. Maybe even volunteer to go speak to a classroom about some careers or what your company is doing. Then educators, you also need to take some incentive to reach out to the industry folks. It kind of reminds me. I'd forgotten about it. Several years ago, on Nanohub (National Science Foundation Center) I made a I did a short webinar where we're recording where i was talking to educators about how to discuss things and in an interface with industry. It's called, "never go in with a blank piece of paper" It's a short little video but it gives you some ideas for an educator, administrator or a counselor how to go in and speak to industry and have it be an effective well-spent time for both parties. One of the things that in finalizing this chart that it can lead to a lot of frustration. When you think about all these challenges, all these requirements that we're faced with, how do i get over and through the frustration? I'm hoping that this bottom line, the desire that all of us have for our students to succeed. We want our students to succeed at every level, in whatever they do and I'm hoping that impetus, that desire for student success is going to give us the strength and the courage to overcome any of these challenges. and new ones that might pop up. So one of the first things that I'd like to do is talk to you, give you some examples of multi-disciplinary aspects and I'm going to talk about this insect here. It's called the glass wing butterfly. You can probably imagine why it's called glass wing because you can see through its wings. The wings are transparent. Yet, they still have the physical properties to remain strong and allow the butterfly to get from one flower to another. Folks have been looking at this butterfly and trying to decide or determine why it's wings are transparent. What are they made of? How does it maintain the physical strength while having that transparency? What researchers have done is taken that aspect and turned it into a nano scale device that can support and help heal glaucoma patients. They have created a structure that can be embedded into the cornea region of the eye (the human eye) and potentially address some of the issues that are associated with the glaucoma disease. Now if we think about it, what happened to go from glasswing butterfly to having something that can aid people to recover their site? Kind of think about it through these very simple charts. You start out with somebody who knows about nanotechnology. Perhaps an entomology person who knows about biology and is looking at this butterfly and thinking, why does it have transparent wings? A nanotechnology person using a scanning electron microscope can look at the structure within the wings of that butterfly and looking at the structure using that scanning electron microscope we can see how the physical structure in the butterfly's wings how that structure is arranged. Then mechanical engineers, manufacturing engineers can start looking at how can I replicate? How can we replicate that structure? How can we build a structure at the nanoscale (the microscale) that represents the structure in the wings that will also be transparent. We also need to worry about the bio-compatibility of it. Especially if the place where it might be applied is in a biological structure like the human eyes. So the last thing is make it bio-compatible. How do we know what's the protocol? How do we test it? How do we verify that it works? Of course, there's all kinds of questions but i wanted to use this very simple example to say it's people that know nanotechnology, people that look at the world around us, that look at nature, and then taking that to people who make things. Material scientists, mechanical engineers, manufacturing experts and say, "Can you replicate this?" and trying to figure out what's the process. "How can i "How can i make this?" and then "How can i make it biologically compatible?" "How do I test it?" "How do I integrate it into the human eye?" "Is it a value?" Kind of a side point, can you think of other places where a transparent structure may be of value? Perhaps in camera lenses, perhaps as communication devices in fiber optic systems. There's probably places where a transparent nano or mechanical device or design or model would work. So not just for treating glaucoma patients. Here's another one of my favorite examples, the sea otter. A lot of us have seen movies or actually seen a sea otter with an abalone shell on its tummy and that the sea otter is cracking at that abalone shell with a rock to get it open to get to good stuff for his dinner. The strange thing is if you do a chemical assay on an abalone shell it's calcium carbonate. It's structure is chalk. Everybody knows chalk is a pretty wimpy material and so for a long time (decades), biology researchers and other people have wondered what provides the strength to the abalone shell. Here's my favorite. Enter nanotechnology. This is a scanning electron microscope image of a cross section of that abalone shell. Here in this image, you can see three different layers. That bottom layer is kind of like a bunch of bricks and in between those bricks is a biological group. Now as a nuclear physicist I can say biological group but what it is is actually a very flexible biological material that serves as the mortar in between those overlapping layers of bricks and in between the bricks. Then above we've got that columnar structure and then on top we've got that flatter planar structure again. Actually researchers, using the tools of nanotechnology have learned that there are seven different architectural features in an abalone shell that result in the unbelievable strength of an abalone shell. So researchers and architects in japan are using this structure to build more earthquake-proof buildings. Researchers that support the military are looking at this structure to try and determine how they can make more lightweight bulletproof vests. So that's where looking at what nature does can be applied to architecture, can be applied to materials, can be applied to multiple applications. Not just the biology aspect. I show you this image just because it's strength, what I'm graphing here is strength on the vertical axis (the y-axis) and density on the x-axis and again, this is overlapping interaction between materials that are made of different composites whether it's glass, whether it's ceramic, whether it's wood, and again even in this graph, we still have multiple disciplines represented. Whether it's manufacturing, whether it's material science in terms of the glass and the composites, whether it's crystallography in terms of some of the poor ceramics and and that type of thing, whether it's in the polymers and all the plastic containers that we have completely different discipline and then we get down to the wood where we've got our biology and our environmental people. So even in a simple graph, you can kind of start to see all these overlapping disciplines. Which if you think about it, can be a little bit overwhelming at least to me sometimes. I have to sit back and prioritize which one I'm going to think about. I want to give you an example of how you can use some traditional standard experiments that probably multiple chemistry, biology, physics instructors especially high school and college have used. I'm calling it The Surface Area Graphing Nano Alka-seltzer Experiment. It's multi-disciplinary and also applicable to many different levels of students.  I've listed what you need to do this experiment. You know five or more alka-seltzer or generic effervescent tablets. You're going to need some containers for water. Well you want to make sure is that you have the same amount of water in each one of the containers. containers doesn't really matter. A stopwatch to measure the seconds. Most of us have a stopwatch on our smartphone so that's not a big deal. Paper or graph paper and a ruler or calipers. Again, depending upon the age and the grade level of your students what you want to do is measure the diameter and the thickness of that tablet and then calculate the total surface area so you've got the top and the bottom circle areas pi r squared. Then you've got that peripheral circumference (the height of the tablet) You want to calculate the total exposed surface area. Now one thing, if you have younger students who may not know how to do that calculation, an educator can create a video showing how to measure, how to do the calculations, to measure that surface area. There are videos. I have one that you can use that can kind of show you how to calculate, measure that surface area, how to measure and calculate that surface area. Then take your other tablets and break them into different pieces. Maybe three pieces...maybe five pieces. Take one of those tablets and grind it into a powder. So you've got your different tablets and then what you want to do is estimate or calculate the surface area for the tablets pieces that you've broken into multiple pieces. So if you've broken one of your tablets into three pieces you want to be sure that you add in that area that you've created as you broke it into the pieces on the side. So you want to estimate or calculate the surface area for each one of those groups of pieces of tablets. Then you take each one of those those pieces or the whole tablet or the powder and put them each into the glass of water and you measure how long it takes to "dissolve" the two pieces the powder, the whole piece how long does it take to "dissolve". You measure that time now. I purposely put "dissolve" in quotes and in parentheses soft skill because I wanted to remember to mention this to you. When i was doing this in my classes of 18 to 20 students, I had six or seven groups of students and twos and threes. Then after they had done this experiment, I'd go up to the white board and I'd start saying for the whole tablet, how long did it take to dissolve? I'd get six different numbers and some of them would be widely varying. One group would say 1 minute and 27 seconds. The next group would go, "No, that's wrong. It was 36 seconds." We just get this unbelievably wide range of times and the same would be true for three pieces. Five pieces of the powder get different varying times to dissolve. What we learned is that none of the groups, we had not defined a common definition for what we meant as "dissolve". For a lot of groups, "dissolve" meant when the very last bubble came to the surface of your container in the water. For other groups "dissolved" meant when they could no longer see the white or see the tablet in their cup. We had a very wide variation in terms of the definition of what dissolve meant. So this is a soft skill that in the corporate world is very important. That when you have groups who may not be speaking the same vocabulary like engineering and management or engineering and manufacturing. You may not have the same vocabulary so it's very important when you're in a team of people that you describe the definition of the phrases or the words or the actions that you're using. Once my group of students came to a common definition of "dissolve" we came up with times that were much more closely related to each other. Then what you want to do is you want to plot surface area versus time to dissolve. and you end up with a graph. Is that nice or what? That's kind of a fun activity. Now there's even more on that graph that you've drawn with all the points. Draw a best fit line, then pick a surface area that you did not use, that you did not have a data point for and calculate or measure predict the time that you think that that surface area a tablet with that surface area would take to dissolve. You make a prediction based on that graph that you have created. Then what you do is try and replicate that surface area break it in You know if you had one, three, five and a powder as the pieces, well then break a piece in two so you only have two pieces. Off of your graph, predict how much time it would take for the two pieces to dissolve. So you have a prediction. Then of course, what you do, you can modify the time of your prediction if you want and then you dissolve that new tablet and measure the time to dissolve. You plot that new point. Now again, when you've got a group of people or you do it multiple times, you're going to come up with different times that it takes and all the time is not going to be exactly same. Not every single group is going to measure or person is going to measure 27 seconds or 32 seconds. You end up with error bars that you can put on your graph. That's an aspect of graphing and data taking that is very important in the corporate world. We acknowledge that not everything is perfect and not everybody is going to come up with the same number and from a scientific standpoint, that's very important because you want your results to be able to be replicated by another group. So you do want to have error bars. I measured 32 seconds with plus or minus plus three seconds and minus two seconds Having data from different groups or different people can also lend to the statistics and the error bars the whole statistics calculation. Now you can modify this experiment to address whatever grade level or math level your students are at. You can give them the surface area. You can show them how to measure and calculate the surface area. For some students, some of the younger students, you may already have that surface area number available for them and all they have to do is measure the time that it takes for a tablet broken into many pieces has the time that it will dissolve how the time it takes to dissolve that that many pieces. You know the powder of course, you can't actually calculate a surface area, but you can determine the amount of time that it takes that powder to dissolve and you'll find out that that surface area might be a very large surface area because of all the particles. So from a note standpoint, you know this process that I've kind of outlined for you does meet the NGSS requirements because it includes the science, the math, the graphing, a prediction from a graph, and some of the statistics that can be required depending upon the grade level. You also want to another variation perhaps you want to consider the structure of that surface. You know the alka-seltzer when you break it up it's kind of grainy. The surface itself is not necessarily a smooth surface. It's a matted surface because you need to hold the tablet needs to be held together but compare that to an aspirin or a sinus tablet or another over-the-counter drug that you may have handy. The surface of those those pills may be different than the alka-seltzer surface. The alka-seltzer is intended to dissolve in water. Then you drink it with that water. But an aspirin, is intended to dissolve in your stomach and so it's going to have (because its requirements are different) it's going to have a much different physical properties. So another thing to have your students think about for this whole multi-disciplinary umbrella is to think about what is the application for this item? What physical properties does it have to have? How do i instill those properties into that item? So again, that can lead your students into a whole lot of different paths, different ways of thinking. From an educator standpoint, this can be a way that you can instill a lot of knowledge into the student without you specifically having to teach that knowledge. In this chart, I want to use a specific example. This is an example of a structure that has been created by a company in Israel. This is actually from April of 2020 so a fairly new structure. I posted some of the article down below the image but this structure is a nano micro scale structure that they are proposing to use for not injection but a surface application of a covalent 19 vaccine. The idea here is that this type of a structure would require a much lower volume of the vaccine to be needed and it might actually provide a better vehicle to get the vaccine into the system as opposed to an injection. Another benefit of this approach is that this type of application of the vaccine may not require a doctor or a nurse. Since it doesn't require an injection it may not require a doctor or a nurse to apply the vaccine. It could even i don't know if this is possible but it might even be possible that you go to your local drug store pick up this network of spikes or little pillars and just unwrap it and put it on your skin and leave it there for two hours. You basically have applied that vaccine yourself. I have no idea, I'm just kind of making that up but that's another thing to consider. So, as you're looking at this, this potential application, what you want to think about is the surface area involved. How much surface area do i have to have exposed to that vaccine? How much do I have to have exposed to my skin to get enough vaccine into the skin? What are the material requirements? What is this made of? What's the manufacturing approach? How do I make these little, tiny, micro scale pillars quality tests and inspections? How are they inspection If I've got an array of a hundred of these little pillars, if 98 of them are perfect and two of them are not, is that enough, is that sufficient, is that okay? A lot of questions that need to be answered. Also storage and efficacy for example. If I store this matrix of little pillars without the vaccine attached, how do i store it? How long can I store it? Once I apply that vaccine to that matrix then how long can i store it? Does it have to be stored in a vaccine or excuse me in a vacuum? Does it have to be stored at a certain temperature? How long can i store it? All of those are questions that need to be answered. So as you're looking at that example, think of all the disciplines that were required to come together and that are going to be required to make that potential approach a viable approach to distributing the covid 19 vaccine worldwide. The disciplines involved are material science, mechanical engineering, (how do i build this thing?) biotechnology, the medicine, manufacturing, quality assurance. I mentioned both of those but also legal and regulatory. Is this material going to be approved along with the vaccine attached to it by the FDA? In the United States, we have lots of administrative agencies that regulate that type of thing. What about worldwide? How does it have to be distributed and maintained and tracked worldwide? You will even need writers because you're going to need people who know how to explain not only the technology and the entity and what it does but you need information for the administrators, the doctors, the drug stores need to be provided information about how to store, how to apply and you're gonna need a little card to give to the patient that says, "Watch out for these side effects. This is what's gonna happen. This is what it does. You've just been inoculated." The same type of thing whenever you go get a shot. You usually get something that a writer has created. So pulling this whole thing together just gets everyone: students, educators, administrators, society. Think about all the different ways, all the different disciplines involved in bringing this type of thing in and one thing I want to encourage as you do distance learning with a little bit of face to face or whatever. we're going to be doing for our schools in the near future in the coming future. Encourage your students. Provide to your students latest and greatest what researchers are doing and have your students start to think about, "Wow! I'm really intrigued by the biotechnology aspect" (how are we going to make this vaccine stick to these little pillars) or "I'm really intrigued about how you make that stuff, what materials it made up." You're going to get your students to start thinking about aspects of this whole process that get them interested in different areas and coming together to share each with each other their interest. Another thing I also encourage is that your students talk to the engineers, talk to the researchers. I know that researchers that are looking at a specific technology maybe it's how to create windows that clean themselves or better fiber optics or better smartphones or faster transistors. Those researchers that are out there are very interested in talking to educators and students. I encourage you to talk to these engineers. This company in Israel would welcome a student contacting them and saying, how did you come up with this idea? What kind of discipline is required? What's it made of? They might be able to share with you some insight. So two things I encourage educators, administrators ,students to look at websites. Look at researchers, look at new state of the art research. It's out there! Look at it and I encourage you to talk to industry and also talk to those researchers. Listen and communicate. It's a big deal! I want to thank you for taking the time to listen to me. There are resources available. I have just recently published a nanotechnology textbook. It's appropriate for high schoolers as well as community college students talking about nanotechnology and how it is impacting traditional sciences and engineering. Might be a good place for somebody to start with a career. Also, i just encourage you to get out there and look at resources that are available. There's online lessons. I have content that is available for you if you are interested in finding out more about content. If you'd like to talk to me a little bit more about talking to industry, if you want to talk to me about anything, I love education! I love industry! I love science and I would be more than happy to talk to you about what it takes for our students to succeed in whatever career path they may take. My email contact information is provided and i thank you very much for taking the time to listen to me and letting me share some of my thoughts. 