 (lively music begins) - Hello and welcome everyone to our very first virtual Saturday Morning Physics event. The James Robert Walker Memorial lecture. I'm Ryan Clark, collegiate professor of Physics at the University of Michigan. And I'll be hosting the first and last of these four SMP online events this semester. Professor Tim Chubb will host the other two. We will be holding a live question and answer session after each presentation. So please email your questions to physics@umesh.edu. And those are pre-presented to the speaker at the end of the talk. This address will scroll for a few times on your screen during the talk. Before I introduce today's speaker, let me take a moment to express our sincere gratitude for the wonderful level of support and enthusiasm that you've all shown for Saturday morning physics over the years. A special shout out to our sponsors, especially for gifts from you, our regular supporters, The lowest Tiffany Endowment, The Headaco, (mumbles) and the Walker Family. And at this point, I'd like to begin with a brief video recorded by Dianna Walker McPhail. as a tribute to her father, for whom this lecture is dedicated. - Good morning everyone. I hope that this finds you doing very well. I'm really excited and quite honored to be here to introduce the first Saturday Morning Physics lecture of the fall of 2020. Our virtual lecture represents resiliency and quite a trying time when it's paramount that we execute our imagination, creativity and curiosity. The James Robert Walker Memorial is a time for our family and you to share in honoring my father's life. James was born of very meager means, but he said his sight was stoked like precision to attend the University of Michigan, which he did. My dad always said that if you have it, you don't need to tell others. He felt that one should stand on their own merit. Therefore he never boasted of his achievements. So I'm going to do it right now. He demonstrated where research and physics can truly take us. In 1940, James worked on radar in the Bell Labs in New York City. He stated with great emotion, "It was a great time. It was a time to be living and doing these new things. I never had such a great time in my whole life." In 1941, he worked with a famous scientist, William Shockley on the Q seven ranging sonar that was used in submarines. Next he focused on the early transistors and their fallibility due to the unreliability of germanium. The importance of silicone transistors in an airplane's navigation system can not be emphasized strongly enough. Don't you agree? Saturday Morning Physics inspires the mind of future scientists. For this reason, it is the desire of the Walker family to help sustain the James Walker Memorial. Education is an investment that is never lost. At 94 my father attended his last lecture. And I asked him, I said, "Saturday Morning Physics?" And he goes, "Yes, Saturday Morning Physics. I wouldn't miss it for a thousand dollars, not a thousand dollars." I hope you enjoyed this lecture. Thank you. - Thank you, Diane. Now it's my great pleasure and honor to introduce Dr. Anne Parsons, who will deliver the James Robert Walker Memorial lecture. Dr. Parsons received her PhD in physics from the University of California, Berkeley. And her undergraduate degree, the department of physics with high honors here at the University of Michigan, and go blue. Her distinguished research career at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center is focused on applying nuclear instrumentation to astrophysics, planetary science and planetary science missions. Beginning with gamma ray burst imaging from the most distant parts of universe, Dr. Parsons then turned her attention, plus it's her home, as the lead scientist on studies of the origin and evolution of the planet in our own solar system. This project use post neutron generators, a project on which fibers privileged to call advise one of our very own applied cause we start students here at the University of Michigan. Today, we're excited indeed, to hear about Dutch (indistinct) explorations using post-neutron beams. NASA Dragonfly mentioned to Titan, the largest moon of Saturn. Our warmest (indistinct) welcome you and welcome home, so to speak. - Well, thank you very much for that introduction. This is going to be a lot of fun. We're going to spend this morning talking about the exploration of Titan, Saturn's largest moon. And we're going to talk about how the Dragonfly mission will be sent to do just that. So I'll get right to our presentation right now, and hopefully this will go well. Okay. So as I said, we'll talk about exploring Titan with Dragonfly. And here's a picture of Titan next to Saturn. You can see the rings and the large size of Saturn and Titan is right by it with dragonfly pointing to our landing spot. As you may know, Saturn has a lot of moons, it has 62 moons, and Titan is the largest. And this image here shows all the moons to scale except for the very little ones. But here is the (mumbles) Saturn. So you can see how big Saturn is with respect to its moons. And this is Titan. So it's pretty large. And what's really interesting about Titan is that it has an atmosphere. It's the only moon in the solar system that has an atmosphere. This is strange. We don't understand why. And even more interesting is that we learned a while ago in 1944, that the atmosphere contains methane. Methane is equivalent of natural gas. This is what we use to heat our homes here on earth. And there's methane in the atmosphere of Titan. Now also interesting is that this atmosphere is very dense. In fact, it's four times denser than Earth's atmosphere. The surface pressure is one and a half times atmosphere on earth. And here I have all of our familiar planets and moons lined up, so you can see how Titan fits in, in terms of size, you know, Venus and earth about the same size then Mars, and Titan fits in just a bit larger than mercury. What is interesting to note is that a Titan day or a T-sol is 16 earth days. So it's a little more than two weeks for a Titan day. And that will prove very helpful in the mission that I'll describe. A Titan year is 30 years. Just 29 and a half earth years. So, it's a different place and the gravity is one seventh of Earth's gravity. So it's a little bit more, a little bit less than the moon, excuse me. And so we'll be talking more about Titan in this talk. Now when the Voyager 2 spacecraft flew by Titan in its trip through the solar system in the 1980s, early eighties, this is what it saw in visible light: a pretty nondescript hazy uninteresting ball. And so we wondered, is there anything on the surface, 'cause with that haze in optical light, we can't see on this to the surface. However, when we looked at near infrared wavelengths, we can see that there are surface features. And here in '95, the Hubble Space Telescope imaged the surface of Titan and made the map on the left. And then six years later in 2004, the Keck two telescope on earth made the image on the right. So these light and dark spots represent different compositions over the surface of Titan. So there's more to see under that haze. And so things got really interesting and there's also a lot of information we wanted to learn about the Saturn system in general. So NASA and ESA, European Space Agency, work together to create and launch the Cassini Huygens exploration. In this picture on the left is the Cassini spacecraft. And you can see that lens-like shape on the side of it right here, that's the Huygens probe. And the Huygens probe is what detached from Cassini and landed on Titan. And we'll talk about that later. But this picture over here shows the Huygens probe as it was being put together. And you can see people and see how large the Titan Cassini probe, Huygens probe is. And so these spacecraft are really large like the size of a big bus taking scientific instruments out to the outer reaches of the solar system. Now Cassini arrived in the Saturn neighborhood in July of 2004, and it released the Huygens probe to descend and land on Titan in January of 2005. And afterwards, in fact 13 years, Cassini spent orbiting Saturn in a variety of different orbits. You can see all of these paths that Cassini took touring around looking at the different moons. And it happened to fly by Titan 126 times. I want to emphasize that Cassini didn't orbit Titan, it flew by and took and used its information, used it scientific information, scientific instruments to get information about Titan as it flew by. And this allowed us to build a fairly interesting and enticing picture of what Titan looks like. Here's an image that Cassini made in the near infrared wavelengths. And you see, this is anything but a blank surface. the light and dark spots on the image represent different compositions over the different areas of the moon. And what we want to do is understand what these different places on Cassini look like. One thing that we learned from Cassini is that Titan is an ocean world. It's got an outer layer, a very thin layer of organic molecules that just a dusting covering what you might call bedrock, but it's not rock, a outer water ice shell. So it's ice, it's water ice, but it covers the whole planet. A whole moon in a shell, underneath that is a planet wide ocean, subsurface ocean covering the whole planet. And below that there's another ice layer covering a silicate core. So we want to understand what makes this planet work. And there's a lot going on here. Just a few more facts about Titan before we get any further. At 5150 kilometers, it is, I said, just a bit bigger than the planet Mercury. It has one seventh earth gravity and one and a half times earth's atmospheric pressure. The atmosphere is mostly nitrogen, 95% nitrogen. But there's 5% of methane and other molecules. That's very interesting. I told you before, we knew that there was methane in the atmosphere and that will lead to some interesting results that I'll describe later. Now the surface temperature is very cold, 94 Kelvin. That's a very chilly negative 290 degrees Fahrenheit. So obviously we couldn't survive at the surface without some heating. (laughs) And, but that's very useful. Now, as Cassini flew by Titan it's many times, it looked on the surface in the near infrared and saw a lot of surface features that are very familiar to those of us living on earth. We see here that there are dunes, organic dune sands. These stripes are like, we see our dunes like we see on the earth, we see impact craters where a meteor has impacted the moon and made these very familiar shapes like you see on our moon. And we see tectonic features. There's also signs of cryovolcanism. Cryovolcanism might not be a familiar term, but imagine a volcano on earth. You've got lava, which is melted rock coming up soon throughout surface and spewing out and cooling down to form a cone that you're used to for a volcano. But this time instead of the rock lava, let's replace that liquid with water, water coming, perhaps from the subsurface ocean, it erupts through the surface of Titan. And as it cools, it becomes ice and forms the familiar volcano shape. This is a way that water from the subsurface can get to the surface materials. And we'll study the chemistry that may be possible when that happens. We also see channels that are very familiar to us on earth. This is Titan, but it looks very much like river deltas on the earth. And what I find really exciting is that in the North, there are seas and lakes and rivers made of methane, liquid methane. It's so cold that instead of a gas, methane is a liquid. In fact my background image right here is an artist's conception of what the lakes and seas on Titan would look like. So there's a lot of interesting things going on, including clouds and methane weather. There is a methane cycle on Titan, very much like Earth's water cycle. What I mean by that is you've got the liquid methane on the surface, evaporating like shown in the picture on the left and forming clouds like these later spots, later areas on the right and the clouds give methane rain that lands on the surface to put liquid methane on the surface again. And the cycle repeats just like rain, water, rain on earth. Now the Huygens probe was released from the Cassini spacecraft in 2005, and it measured the composition and temperature and pressure profiles of the atmosphere as it came down through the atmosphere of Titan. But it landed and also gave us our first look at the surface of Titan. And the picture to the right of this artist illustration shows you a photograph that the Huygens lander took. And notice everything is brown. You've got a hazy, hazy tan colored sky and a brown surface. These are all the organic molecules that have rain down on the surface. And I'll explain about that later. One other thing to note is that these features are rounded as if there was some liquid in the past that eroded the edges. And this is a further sign that liquid has been at work on the surface of Titan. So what is especially interesting is that Titan has very complex organic chemistry going on. And what I mean by organic chemistry is molecules that have carbon in it. They can be very simple like methane or very complicated like amino acids. And some of these organic compounds are important for the origin and presence of life. We don't exactly know how life originated on earth but we have an idea that we had a lot of organic materials like this and an energy source and liquid, so that life originated in that way on earth. But, you know, we can't go back and test it. What we have with Titan is a laboratory for studying those chemical processes that went from Chemistry to Biology, so what we call prebiotic chemistry. And so this slide shows you how these organic molecules are created. You have ultraviolet light coming from the sun and energetic particles coming from Saturn, and they're interacting in the top of the Titan atmosphere and they're interacting with the nitrogen and the methane that's there and forming first all in simple organic molecules and other molecules, and these interact with each other, getting larger and more complex. And eventually they settle down and precipitate or land on the surface of the planet of the moon. So it's very convenient if we land a spacecraft there, we can look to see what chemical processes have happened. How that surface has composed. And what's also interesting also, is that there's the likelihood that these materials interacted with water. And so the building blocks of life could be present on Titan. We just have to go there and find out. So, as I indicated, the key ingredients necessary for life are first an energy source. Now you've got the UV light from the sun and energetic particles coming from Saturn and elsewhere. And they're interacting with the methane and the nitrogen in the atmosphere. So you've got energy coming from the chemical reactions and the ultraviolet light from the sun. And then you have that organic material with all that carbon and that's made in the upper atmosphere and falls down to the surface. And it's a very complicated, it's very complex molecules that are similar to the building blocks of life or could be. And that's what we're trying to find out. Then we have liquid, we have water that could be from Titan's early history, or maybe there is connection to the subsurface ocean through that ice or come from impacts of meteors onto the surface. So there's definitely water there to interact with those organic materials, but we don't just have one liquid, we have two. There's that methane, that at the cold temperature on Titan is a liquid. And like I said, there's methane weather. So you're having a possibility. They clear happenstance of liquid methane interacting with the organic material on the surface, and that could support the development of life we're not familiar with. So on Titan, we've got an environment that looks a lot like earth and has a lot of the geology. I mean the topography and environmental conditions on earth. And we can study whether the chemistry has progressed into something we recognize as the precursors to biochemistry. So Titan offers the next step to answering some fundamental questions. What makes a planet or moon habitable? What chemical processes led to the development of life? And has life developed elsewhere in our solar system? Well Cassini told us where to look on Titan for these answers. It showed us that we have a diverse set of surface materials and environments showing here in these Cassini images of Titan in the infrared. But the challenge is to get scientific instruments on the surface of Titan to measure what these different areas are composed of. And we don't want to just land in one spot. It would be like, somebody sending a probe to earth and landing in a parking lot. They want to know what the Sierra Nevada looked like. It would be... It's not good enough. What we need is a way to get from one place to the other so we can study Titan in its variety of surface environments, but we're lucky because heavier than air mobility is highly efficient on Titan. It's possible instead of roving from one place to the other, which is slow, we can fly. The fact that the atmospheric density is four times higher than earth means that you don't need as large wing or rotor area so you can get sufficient lift. The fact that the gravity is one seventh of Earth's gravity means you don't need as much power to fly. So what NASA is going to do is send the Dragonfly Lander to the surface of Titan, so it can fly around to different locations measuring the chemistry on the surface, as well as the characteristics of the atmosphere. So here is the Dragonfly new frontiers mission. The principal investigator, the main scientist is Dr. Elizabeth Zibi Turtle. And she works at the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory in Maryland. We have many partners, and this whole long list isn't complete, but at the top you see NASA Goddard Space Flight Center where I work, which is only about 30 minutes away by driving from applied physics laboratory. But also I've highlighted the fact that the University of Michigan is also participating in the Dragonfly mission by supplying some of the electronics for the Dragonfly mass spectrometer. So go blue. Our mission timeline is now for a launch in 2027. And our arrival is expected to be around 2034. The arrival time really depends on which launch vehicle NASA selects we could get. If we have a heavy launch vehicle, we could get there a little earlier. If we have a medium lift launch vehicle, it would be a little later, but the point is it takes a long time to get to the Saturn neighborhood. So we're going to be waiting a while. We're going to be entering the atmosphere directly. There will be no orbiting beforehand. And I want to note that we will be arriving at Titan about coming almost exactly one year, one Saturn year, that is, from when the Huygens probe landed. Now, this was to be a little video that shows Titan flying on Saturn, on Titan. Excuse me. It shows Dragonfly detaching from the parachute and flying over Titan. It is not working, unfortunately but it can be accessed on the Dragonfly website. I'll give you the link later on. But the point I want to make is that it'll come down on a parachute and then detach from this back shell. And immediately the rotors will start spinning, so that Dragonfly flies, it starts to fly immediately and can fly to the designated landing site and come to rest on the surface without any business of sky cranes or rough landings with balloons or anything. It's a very soft landing, very exciting that way. The Dragonfly Lander has what the science instruments need to support the scientific work we're going to do. Here's a picture of the Dragonfly Lander. You can see these four sets of two rotor blades at the four corners. And we have the high gain antenna here with the panoramic cameras mounted on top. And back in the tail is our power source. This is a nuclear power source, or they call an MMRTG or multi-mission radio thermal electric generator. That's Alexa it's acronyms. But in this case, it's a lot easier to say MMRTG. So the way this works is it gets energy from the decay of Plutonium 238. And that energy is used to charge the battery in Dragonfly that will be used for the flight and the science activities. And a nice side benefit is that the waste heat from this process is used to keep the scientific instruments warm inside. We'll be communicating directly to earth. There's no relay satellite around Titan. So we have to swivel this high gain antenna to point at earth and send the data there. One thing to note is that takes a... it takes two and a half hours, about, to send us a message to earth and have it come back. So there's a difference in what we're used to. Also because Dragonfly will be so far away from the earth, it will take a long time to get images and information down. We don't have very high bandwidth. In fact, you can imagine more like the early dial up modems when you think of the downlink capability for the data getting back to earth. But Dragonfly inside has, excuse me, scientific information or scientific instruments that will measure both the composition and profiles of the atmosphere and the surface composition. But most of the time will be spent with Dragonfly on the surface of Titan. Now here's that map of Titan's surface, that Cassini that I showed, that Cassini made. And this green rectangle encloses the self crater. That's where we want to go. And here's a close up view that shows the ellipse where we're planning on landing Dragonfly. And you notice it's close to silk, but there's a lot of interesting materials in between, so the plan is to traverse our way, make our way to the silk crater flying about six kilometers at a time. And we'll explore the materials in between dunes. We'll be able to see the dune sands. And then when we get closer to the crater, we'll see the materials that have been injected when we have the first impact. And we'll make it to the center of the crater and measure possibly all of the things, all of these materials. It'll be very exciting. We're expecting to have at least 24 unique landing sites. The mission will take about three years of exploration. So that's more, that's about... It's more than 70 T-sols or Titan days of science operation. The total distance getting from here to the crater is about 180 kilometers. And depending of course, on where we land in this ellipse. Now, what's also interesting about Dragonfly is that there's nobody on the earth controlling it with the controller or a joystick like a rover or a drone that's familiar with using on earth. You got two and a half hours delay from earth to Titan and back. You can't have a real time operation of this device. So what we have is an autonomous program for the operation of Dragonfly on Titan. There are pre-programmed operations like flying, taking off, landing. And all we do is we send commands to the Lander telling it, okay, take off according to these requirements. And Dragonfly does its job, shows and tells us how it went. One other thing to note is that we will be using a leapfrog exploration strategy to scout further landing sites. We'll have a landing site in mind when we take off, but instead of immediately landing there, we'll go a little further and scout out the terrain and materials a little bit different, a different location. We'll take a lot of aerial photographs and make measurements of importance to determine where we might want to go. And then we'll double back and land at our intended landing site and do our science operations. The nominal schedule is to fly once per two T-sols or about once every earth month. And what's great is that because a Titan day is 16 earth days, we have the time we need to look at the data that we get from our surveillance missions. We'll go looking at the candidate landing sites. We'll be able to determine where we want to go next. And after we're done making our surface measurements on our landing site, then we'll take off again. And instead of landing immediately at our candidates site, we'll go off and look for the next place that we want to land. So, I do want to emphasize that most of the time Titan Dragonfly will be on the surface of Titan making the scientific measurements. Dragonfly allows for multidisciplinary science measurements. We'll study the prebiotic chemistry. This is the analysis of chemical components and processes at work that could produce compounds that are biologically relevant. We'll be studying the habitable environments by measuring atmospheric conditions and identifying the methane reservoirs as well as constraining the process that would mix the organics with past surface liquid water that could have come from the subsurface ocean among other possibilities. And finally, we'll be searching for bio signatures. These are chemical evidence of water or hydrocarbon-based life. Here's a picture of Dragonfly on the surface of Titan. Of course, it's an artist illustration because we haven't gotten there yet. Anyway, you see the high gain antenna fully deployed and we're ready to make our science measurements. Here, we have the Dragonfly spacecraft in gray and the instruments color-coded. So it's easy to see all of the, the entire instrument suite. In yellow we've got DraGMet, the geophysics and metrology package that has many different measurements, I mean, instruments spread over the Dragonfly Lander. And one thing to note is that Dragonfly will be placing a seismometer on the surface of Titan so we can look for Titan quakes. Dragonfly has a Dragonfly mass spectrometer or DraMS we have here in peach. And we'll talk a lot about that in a little bit, but I note that in red, we have the DrACO in specimen acquisition system. There are two drills, one on each of the legs, and they'll drill into the surface a few centimeters and take a sample. And then to a pneumatic tubes, deliver it to the mass spectrometer instrument. In blue, there are multiple cameras, the dragon cam and navigational cam suite. These are the panoramic cameras that I pointed out before, but we've got forward and down facing cameras. And finally there is the Dragon's gamma-ray neutron spectrometer. This is the instrument that I work on and that Roy talked about. This can measure the composition of the subsurface without having to take a sample, and I'll show you how that works later as well. Now, coming up, we had... Yes, it doesn't work. We have a movie that discussed how the DraMS instrument works, as unfortunate that it doesn't play. But again, this is available on the Dragonfly website. So you can go look at it afterwards. But the point is that the DrACO drills drill into the surface, transfer the material into some sample cups that are sent into the DraMS mass spectrometer for detailed chemical analysis. And I have slides to show you what that chemical analysis is. Now, one thing that's very important, is we've got to make sure that the Titan surface materials don't clog up DrACO. It's no good if you get a sticky surface and it blocks the pneumatic tubes. We've got to make sure that just never happens. And so the first thing that will happen is that the DrACO drills will just dig up some of the tailings on the surface and we'll look at it with our cameras to determine whether it's sticky. In fact on earth, we've done a lot of tests with different kinds of particulate materials, like coal dust, walnut shells, beach sand, silica sand, glass beads and paraffin, and mix the sand with oil at various amounts. So we can study what happens when you have different levels of stickiness. And what we'll be able to do is determine before we take a sample, whether the material is going to be anything that would be dangerous or that would clog up the system. So we'll be selective. But once we've determined that it's a safe sample to take, there'll be well, the drill will go and the material will be sucked up with a vacuum pneumatic tube, pneumatic system. And the particles will land in these collection cups. The excess material will exhausted and the collection cups will be presented to the mass spectrometer. So I'm moving to the next slide. There we go. The DraMS instrument will provide a comprehensive study of the chemical complexity and diversity of Titan solid surface. And what this instrument can do is measure the molecular structure of the materials and determine what's there, what chemical components are there and what processes have occurred to produce possibly biologically relevant compounds. This image. I mean, this graph here is a graph of entropy of vaporization. That's not as important, but horizontal scale is molecular weight, basically the number of neutrons or protons that a molecule contains. And so the simplest molecules have molecular weights that are low, but once you get to more complicated things like, I mean I'll ask that as possibly, you have a large number of atoms in your molecule and DraMS can measure this wide variety through it's complimentary sample analysis modes. Now, laser resorption, mass spectrometry, gas chromatography, mass spectrometry, they are, the techniques are beyond the scope of this talk, but they offer us a amazing capabilities in understanding the chemistry of the surface of Titan. Then there's the Dragonfly gamma-ray neutron spectrometer that I work on. Without taking a sample, dragons can measure the composition of the surface and subsurface materials beneath the Dragonfly Lander. So it doesn't need to touch anything. It can measure the bulk elemental composition even down below the surface, down to like 30 centimeters below the surface. And it does that by sending high energy neutrons out to make gamma rays in the material and detecting the gamma rays and high energy neutrons can go through tens of centimeters, of, actually almost a meter, of material. And then you get the gamma rays that also can penetrate and get back to the gamma-ray spectrometer. So the point is just that you can use these techniques to determine the elements that are underneath and around the Dragonfly Lander. And some of these elements are especially important like carbon hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus and sulfur, especially interesting for the origin of life but also we'll be able to measure some minor elements. We also have the ability to measure the stratigraphy, that is we can know what the layering and how deep beneath the carbon organic materials that ice bedrock is. The DraGMet instrument has meteorological and seismological monitoring of this ocean world. During flight, DraGMet can monitor the atmospheric conditions and on the ground as well, identifying methane reservoirs and measuring the transport rates. We'll take temperature and pressure, wind speed and direction atmospheric profiles. And on the surface will measure physical properties of the materials like its porosity. And then we can also look for Titan quakes and other physical processes that involve the mix of organics with past surface water or a subsurface ocean. And by having a seismometer on the surface, we have the potential to determine how thick that ice shell is. Here's the cutaway of Titan again, and you see there's, we know there's this thin shell of water ice bedrock over that subsurface ocean. Well, if you measure the seismic activity on the surface of Titan, you can determine whether perhaps the ice crust is just under 40 kilometers or maybe it's 120 some kilometers. And that will be very interesting. We'll also have many cameras looking in all directions. We have the panoramic cameras that I talked about before, giving us a view of the environment near the Dragonfly lander. We'll have forward cameras, downward cameras. And we even have a microscopic camera that's aimed at the area where we will be drilling. And this will let us see the consistency of the things, of the material that comes up from the initial drill. So we can determine whether it is sticky or not. But in addition to that, we have a way of illuminating that area with LEDs, and we can get a microscopic view of the material, and we can look at mixtures of water ice, and Titan organic compounds and study that. So Titan has many advantages for study by the Dragonfly mission. It's dense atmosphere enables the aerial mobility that lets it fly from one place to the other. It's also the thick atmosphere allows for a very relaxed entry, descent and landing. Instead of the seven minutes of terror you had for Mars, the entry in descent will take 110 minutes to get down to the surface of Titan. So we'll have an easy time of it. And the motorized flight will also make the landing much more gentle. The 16 day T-sol, Titan day, is very helpful for surface operations. So we can have a relaxed schedule and think about what we're doing instead of having to react and work very quickly. And the dense atmosphere and the length of the day produce calm conditions. The seasonal temperature variations aren't very large and only like 1 Kelvin out of 94. And what's also important is that Dragonfly will arrive one Saturn year after the Huygens probe made its first measurements. Now there are a lot of people that go into making the Dragonfly mission successful. You certainly need to have all these people, all the scientists working on the Cassini data to analyze what it tells us so we can use that information to build upon for the Dragonfly mission. We have lab work where people are making organic materials that we expect are similar to what we'll find on Titan. And we'll be doing experiments in the lab on those materials. Then of course you have the team of people that are working on making Dragonfly fly. That means you have to have wind tunnel and flight testing. You have to design those rotors, and model the fluid dynamics to make sure that we can fly Dragonfly. And there've been some earth tests of scaled down versions of Dragonfly and have shown how easily we can get from one place to the other. Let's see, this probably won't work. No, it doesn't. Okay, well here's an example where we have a virtual reality Dragonfly floating in space and we have had people look around, and it is really an interesting tool that we might use for operations and planning, and in future design. There are many opportunities for engagement. Now, for the scientists, we have the NASA participating scientists program. But complimentary to that, we have the Dragonfly Student and Early Career Investigator Program. And that will allow younger scientists to get in the game, get educated and contribute to the Dragonfly mission during that long cruise. It's going to take 10 years 9 or 10 years after launch to get to Titan. And we've got to make sure that we have an army of scientists that are ready to do the work once we're there. There will also be community workshops and meetings at science conferences to give access to the general public. Sorry, wrong way. And here's a picture of the Dragonfly team, just a small part of the Dragonfly team, that attended one of our meetings at Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Lab. And Zippy Turtle, the PI, is right here, and there I am. So we've had a lot of fun, but it's been a lot of hard work. But in summary, I'll say that the Dragonfly mission will allow the exploration and discovery on an ocean world to determine how far chemistry has progressed in environments providing the key ingredients for life. And this image shows the descent and landing, flying of Dragonfly, sitting on the surface, making its science measurements, then flying off to its next location. So I'll conclude my talk with this slide, showing the URL for the Dragonfly website. And I encourage you to go to HTTP::dragonfly.JHUapl.edu. There's a lot of information and videos and images and plenty to see to catch the excitement of the Dragonfly mission. So with that, I'll end, and we can proceed with questions. Okay. - Well, thank you. Thank you for that incredible lecture, that's an adventure that we'd never had on the Saturday morning before. There are many, many questions. I'm not sure we're going to be able to get to them all, but we have your email address. People are asking these interesting questions, and I'm sure Anne would be happy to respond to the ones that we can get to. - Sure. - There are a number of questions relating to the nature of Titan itself and also to the operation of Dragonfly. So I'd like to focus on, I'd like to just relay a question to Anne about a parent who asked, she has a high school student who's very interested in astrophysics and astrochemistry. What advice would you give her, how she can get involved, some experience and knowledge about this field? - Well, there are many internship opportunities through NASA and through Johns Hopkins where you can spend a summer working with scientists at different laboratories. We also have a program that we're developing for working with students. I can give more information about that if asked by email, but the point is that there's a wealth of intern opportunities and it really lets the student get involved and understand what kind of work is done and whether they like it, whether they like the science research which is very important to find out before you dedicate years of education to it. - Well, thank you. The questions about the nature of the ocean subsurface of Titan sparks a number of questions now. I'll kind of ask them together as a group. So the first part was how do scientists know that the subsurface ocean is made out of water and not methane? And then how was it detected? And is there a kind of "hot" 32 degrees Fahrenheit liquid-like nature of water in Titan? Could you answer those together? So how do scientists know that it's actually water? - So we can measure spectroscopically what that bedrock is made of. What we find in the infrared is that there are lines and absorption lines that are related to the rotation and vibration of water molecules. So we can be sure that there's water on the surface. And we know that there's a crust of water ice because it's very cold there. But as you get towards the center, you have the heat from the center of the moon that will melt that ice and give you a global ocean. This is not my best area. So what I can do for those who are interested is search out and get back to people on more precise and accurate information about this. But what we know about... Titan comes from Cassini doing flybys and the infrared spectrometers give us a lot of clues. - Hmm. And there's a lot of experience from the (audio glitches) over many years. - Interesting is that you can tell a lot about a body by its gravitational perturbation of the planet and spacecraft flying by it. So you can use gravity as a tool for understanding the interior of the planet or a moon. (audio glitches) - The undersurface volcanoes, what is the precious (mumbles)? What drives those volcanic activity? Be it water or methane, and kind of be a flash flood. I thought that was a really interesting question. - That's an interesting question. Well you've got the weight of the ice shell on top of that ocean. So just like on earth, you've got the weight of the crust putting pressure on the liquid rock underneath. You have the same thing happening on Titan. It's just that it's water, ice and an ocean. That would be my best answer. - So I guess there could be (audio glitches). - Unlikely. - Then another question was, is there wind in the atmosphere, and could that endanger the operation of Dragonfly? - The winds are rather calm, and that's because the day is long and the pressure is high, the air density is high. So the winds are much less than on earth. And the Dragonfly intermission has that lander designed to handle the winds that we would expect. - Another question relates to atmospheric conditions, is there lightening on Titan? And is it necessary for like, or if you're looking for a biological activity, does lightning play any role? - I haven't seen any lightening. In all the time Cassini, for those 13 some years that Cassini was flying around making those 126 flybys of Titan, never saw any lightning. - I guess that's a little surprising because you mentioned that you put out a cloud (indistinct) atmosphere We know that (mumbles) that goes along with lightening in the Earth's atmosphere. Erm, is that being studied some more? - Excuse me. Is what? I that being studied some more? - Oh, the electrical (indistinct). - We'll have the ability to study the atmosphere conditions and, but we don't expect to encounter lightening. - So I guess there's a lot, that's learned a lot more than they learned about the nature of the area. Really interesting. As we go forward. Another question that I see is someone asked. As a sailor, I'm curious about how you characterize winds, rain droplets for example, are they characterized with existence of dunes and (indistinct) high winds? You said earlier, probably weren't very high winds. So it may be point in time in the past, what tools we going use to forecast what you are going to encounter on Titan? - Very interesting question. Yes, the way those dunes were made does imply that you've got some wind, but I would just say that you have had a lot of time. And one of the things that Dragonfly will measure is what they call saltation. How easily and quickly the materials on the surface move. We'll be spinning the rotors a little bit to kick up a little bit of air and watch to see how those particles move and how fast they move. So we can study how those dunes were created. - I had a question which is to methane, we know (audio glitches) the potent greenhouse gas. Can this contribute to somehow warming or very chilly 90 Kelvin ground temperature? Would that temperature be lower, if there was a very high concentration of methane? - Well, what's important is... That's a question that I would have to defer. We have so many experts on the team that could answer that better than I. But also there are characteristics of the atmosphere including the temperature profiles that determine how much of like the methane is retained and gives us reason why there aren't large oceans of methane like there are on earth. So sometimes it's really a complicated set of environmental factors that determine how the greenhouse gas would interact in the atmosphere. And I'll have to think about that. If anyone's interested, I'll get back. I'll talk to our experts here and get back to them. - And again, I think we don't really know enough about our own planet's atmosphere (audio glitches). So it's like a different set up (audio glitches) but it's going to be a really interesting. Your question I want to get here, about the operation of the Dragonfly. And one question was how does the Dragonfly maintain its upright (audio glitches) or does it have compensating ability in case one of the rotors fails? And I guess that question must to come from somebody who was doing some work with (audio glitches). And how far is it expected to travel from a landing place? And finally, (audio glitches) avoid surface liquid. - Let me unpack that. Many questions. How does it stay upright? Well, it's a lot of work by the mechanical engineers to make sure that the center of mass is over the base of course, but we've also done a lot of simulations about what the largest slope is where Dragonfly could land safely without rolling over. And the nice thing is that from the air, we can determine the slope of the terrain and then we can identify good landing sites. So we have requirements on the landing sites where we will attempt, on the terrain we will attempt a landing, and to make sure we don't roll over. There's a lot of margin. There's a tremendous amount of design margin in this. So another thing that's really important is that if dragonfly runs into trouble, often there will be the opportunity to just lift back off. I don't know how easy it would be if we get into real trouble. But the point is if a landing site is problematic, we can relocate a bit. But what's great is that our landing system is sophisticated enough to very carefully identify the locations where landing is safe. Now there were other questions. I forgot the last. Could you remind me? - Yeah, basically avoiding surface hazards, including liquid (indistinct) in the background, which look rather formidable. - Well, we only have (indistinct) We've seen them in the North pole of Titan. There aren't any seas in the equatorial regions where Dragonfly will be landing. So there's no methane seas where we're going. And in fact, the polar region is so far away that we not likely to get there. Yeah, it would take 20 years to fly to the poles but, so we don't have much in terms of methane seas. And we have, as I was saying, a very sophisticated system for determining the nature of the potential landing sites. So we can identify locations that don't have any rocks larger or features larger than a certain size. And provide the scientists on the ground information about a prioritized list of safe landing sites as a candidate location. - Yeah, I think it sounds like you're facing similar challenges to what rovers faced and upset about how the speed of the flying (indistinct) the speed of which this information has the correct channels and, real time or much higher frequency, much less time required to respond to changing conditions. For example, it's possible to do (audio glitches) because they're not moving toward the goal. (audio glitches) - Yes, but the nice thing is that there aren't any obstacles while you're flying. You're not going to run into... We'll make sure we don't run into a hill or something. - Yeah, interesting. So another question is to do with the sol on Titan. Is it measured with respect to the sun or Saturn? Or it's another way? - It's the day, night cycle on Titan, and that means it's orbit around Saturn. So that of course when it's behind Saturn, you don't see the sun, so it's nighttime. - Remind us again, how long the orbit will (indistinct). - The Titan orbit around Saturn is what gives us our 16 day. I mean, 16 earth day, Titan day. And the orbit of Saturn around the sun is 29 and a half years. - Good. One of the question that someone asked an interesting question, I thought about myself while I was thinking about your, what you were saying during the lecture. Can cosmic rays be used as a source as a form? So you use neutron in dragonfly (audio glitches)? Or are they just background noise? - Well, that's a very interesting and important question because that thick atmosphere of Titan just absorbs all the cosmic rays. Nothing gets to the ground. So while on orbiting experiments with gamma ray neutron instrumentation, you can use cosmic rays to stimulate the materials and just measure the gamma rays that naturally shine off, that shine from the planet or moon. However, on Titan, the atmosphere is so thick that the cosmic rays don't get there, they'll get to the surface. So we have to bring our own source of neutrons. And we have a post neutron generator that we bring as part of the Dragon's instrument that where you have deuterium and tritium accelerated together to make 14 mega electron volt neutrons. - And even how about neurons? Can they also be produce by cosmic rays in the upper atmosphere? (audio glitches) Can they reach the surface? - You wouldn't get too many neurons, and they wouldn't do the job that you need them need them to do, excite the gammas. 'Cause these are nuclear interactions. You've got neutrons hitting the nucleus. So the energies are higher than atomic. - For a chemical sort of chemical analysis. (audio glitches) Good, so we're approaching the end of our question and answer session. There are a few extra questions that the audience has asked that are really interesting. One is: is there evidence os amino acids and larger alkanes? - That is precisely the reason we want to send Dragonfly to Titan 'cause we don't know. And that's precisely the type of things that the DraMS, Dragonfly Mass Spectrometer Instrument, will determine. We're looking for these building blocks of life. Now we find amino acids and meteorites, so we know they're in the solar system. We don't know what's on Titan yet. - One question is at least the one question that I was thinking about. That a good planet or (indistinct) we live on one of them. Imagine good moons are even harder to find. I mean, good meaning interesting or worth (indistinct). Could you say something about the process you went through in screening candidates for this kind of exploration? - Well, like any scientific exploration, you have some information that leads to more questions. You find ways to answer those questions. And that leads to more questions. We've been studying the solar system for a long time using the equipment we have. And as I was leading through the discussion, we started off with optical. We started off with the infrared measurements we can make from the Hubble space telescope. And we know we're searching for a lot of different things or a lot of different disciplines in astronomy, of course. And, but you have the folks who are interested in understanding the Saturnian system, and there are many moons that are of interest, and those who are interested in Titan have worked on building better instruments and better missions to go and do that exploration. - So this yeah, this is a really interesting question. Is Titan the 16 day earth day (indistinct) So there with liquid on your surface, you must have some kind of tidal interactions and lead locking through locking of its rotation through its orbital period. - There are, it is totally locked, I believe. And there are diurnal stresses. And, I'm not expert in that to give further information. - And like I said earlier, their website with the frequently asked questions I imagine more detailed that interested (indistinct) can go to and learn more about the details that we're talking about here. Very very interesting. And one question which I see the picture behind you I see a star is kind... Can also be seen from Titan. - Oh, yes. The sign illuminates, the Titan, illuminates Titan. But with that haze. It's like twilight, like earth twilight. You can certainly see the sun so far way. And then you've got the haze of Titan. So it's much dimmer than what we experienced on earth. - The presence of oxygen and methane (indistinct) here on earth (audio glitches) - There's no oxygen there. - So it's just not an issue (indistinct). - That's right. - Somebody was asking me (audio glitches) Okay. The questions were they (indistinct). It's really great though. We're asking a lot of detailed questions to do with the making ready of this operation and this mission. The (indistinct) kinda seems remarkably small for the (audio glitches) What is this technology phase, the ray, but is the transmitter power and what kind of warm station is required or is it orbital? Could you just make something about that? - It's not an orbital station, it's direct to earth, the ground down on earth. And I can't comment on the antenna and its capabilities, but it's designed to be sufficient to get the data to earth in a timely manner without taking up too much mass, and without being too large, you know, you have to fit Dragonfly into the nose cone or the fairing of a rocket. You know, it can't be huge. And it also can't be heavy because you're flying from one place to the other. So there are constraints of course on the size of the antenna, but they're just trade studies, what will fit, what will work. And you end up with the design that we have. - Thank you. Question to do again with Titan's surface. Is it well enough understood that Dragonfly wouldn't have trouble now seeing the local area thinking or the Lake surface being so (indistinct) getting back to terra firma, Titan terra firma is a challenge. And I guess you were indicating that you were going to avoid a lot of those problems. But are there any additional difficulties there? - No. No, we don't anticipate any difficulties because that layer of organic material is rather thin. It's tens of centimeters thick, and then you're on top of water ice. So when we land, we'll be measuring the force profile to see how much give there is in the material. But there's no reason to think that we'd sink in. - And it does have the capability to detect small of pools of methane? Is it programmed to consider the shores of these pools? Interesting, so something that's (indistinct). Being on of the most interesting interfaces. That's great question. - What we're wondering about is what's inside the center of silk crater and we'll be looking at the ejector from the impact. And we presume that at one time there was liquid water because that impact would have hated the ice and melted it. And one of the important things we want to understand is how long that water was there and that will affect how, what kind of chemistry could have happened. So we'll see what we find. - Yeah. Alright, well, we're toward the end of our question and answer (indistinct). I want to thank Anne for a wonderful lecture and giving us a lot to think about. Not only how these missions are planned, but how teams of people have to get together for long periods, essentially their whole career to make something like this successful. And thanks again, Anne. - Was fun. - A I want to invite everyone to tune in to Saturday Morning Physics next week when we'll have another exciting lecture from our very own Fred Alan. And technological reviews. So thanks again, Anne. - Great. - Take care. - Bye. - Bye-bye. 