 Whitney Espich: Hi, I'm Whitney Espich, the CEO of the MIT Alumni Association and I hope you enjoy this digital production created for alumni and friends like you. Aviva Hope Rutkin: Welcome everybody to the MIT Faculty Forum Online. My name is Aviva Rutkin. I am a News Automation Engineer at Bloomberg and I'll be your moderator for today's broadcast. Today's broadcast is sponsored in part by the MIT Federal Credit Union, MIT Professional Education, and MIT Sloan Executive Education. So before we get started, As a reminder, we welcome your questions during the chat. If you're joining us via Zoom, you can use the Q&A feature on your toolbar toolbar and we'll do our best to get to as many questions as we can today. So today, we are talking with Robert Metcalfe, class of ’68, the co-founder of 3Com, and inventor of the Ethernet. Metcalfe is Professor of Innovation and Murchison Fellow of Free Enterprise at the University of Texas at Austin and we'll put a link to his full bio there in the chat. So everyone, please welcome Professor Metcalfe and he'll begin by giving us an overview of his thoughts on connectivity and technology in the year of Covid-19. I think you're on mute, professor. Professor Metcalfe: Can you hear me? Aviva Hope Rutkin: Yeah. There we go. Take it away. Professor Metcalfe: Sorry about that. We're still debugging this connectivity thing. I want to take 15 minutes to convince you all that the most important new fact about the human condition is that we are now suddenly connected. I'm going to try to convince you that connectivity is a thing worthy of study and I'm going to enjoy the fact that the Internet was here just in time for the arrival of Covid-19. Professor Metcalfe: So you probably don't know the old Chinese saying, but it's worth repeating that if you want to get rich. The first thing you do is build a road. That is you get connected. Here's a picture of the Roman Empire all roads lead to Rome and notice its elaborate road system. My ancestors were instrumental in building the early roads for the Industrial Revolution. Of course the thanks they got is that their name was misspelled. So this guy Jack Metcalfe was building roads and those roads really did underlie the growth of the Industrial Revolution. But I was born in 1946 and that's a picture of me and you'll notice prophetically, I'm holding a telephone. And I was very lucky to be born in ’46 because ’47 was a big year. The wireless wireless TV began its commercial ramp. The microwave oven was invented. But most importantly, in 1947 a transistor was invented, and with the invention of the transistor, the emphasis on connectivity shifted. It shifted from physical connectivity--that is the transport of atoms--slowly started shifting toward the transmission of bits, the digital-transistor-based forms of connectivity and it was my good fortune to be born right then. At MIT in 1969 I had a class project. It was to build a memory for a computer and I built an acoustic delay line memory where we store the bits at the speed of sound around a very long cable and in the building of this class project, I became an expert at using early digital electronics to send one bit at a time down a very long wire. And that was very good timing, because around that same year, the internet was born October 29, 1969 and the first picture here is the first four-node internet UCSB, SRI, Utah, and UCLA. And MIT wanted to be on this internet thing. And so they looked for somebody who was good at sending bits, one at a time, down a long wire. That was me. So I got the job of building this beautiful device which put MIT on the internet in 1970. I built two of them actually. I built one for MIT. And that's in the upper right here. And then I built. I went to Xerox research and I built another one of those for Xerox. So I put MIT and Xerox on the internet and this is the internet in 1973 and we, I like to call this the kilobit internet in that even the massive transcontinental trunks of the internet, we're running at 50 kilobits per second. That's a prefix that's not used much anymore. So in 1972, having put MIT and Xerox in the internet, what next? And here's my office in 1972. And I'd like to point out here on the right is a Texas Instruments Silent 700 state-of-the-art computer terminal. Ran at 300 bits per second. 300 bits per...300 bits per second. By the way, up here is a box of 35 millimeter slides. We didn't have PowerPoint. I was on the board later I was on the board of the company that developed PowerPoint. We sold it to Microsoft in 1987. This is 1972 so we were connecting ourselves using 35 millimeter slides. Let's see here. Here is an actual Rolodex. Here is the tape dispenser that I use to tape business cards onto my Rolodex cards. This thing with the cables here is called a telephone. Here are what we refer to as pencils here. And missing from the picture, but I've added it over here in the lower right is an IBM Selectric typewriter. So in that technological context, I typed a memo using the orator ball inventing Ethernet to connect the personal computers at Xerox research together. And this is a drawing from that memo. This is a mile-long, half inch coaxial cable into which various PCs--they were called altos--would tap into the shared cable and ethernet would allow them to exchange data packets and here you see the connection of two sites using a telephone network called it the telephone ether. And on the far right here, you'll see anticipating a radio. A Radio ether. Or what later became known as wifi. So this is a slide in which I claim to have invented wifi also just just to annoy the wifi inventors. So we built this personal computers. Altos. One on every desk. Of course, you can't see the network here because it's out it goes out the back up into the ceiling. And then building that network, I began my lifelong association with connectivity. And one of the key features of the internet when it had an architecture for connectivity. It wasn't just building stuff. And so we had this seven-level model of how the network should be architected and the way it was built, the way it was designed, I could work on building Ethernet. Only involving the physical layer and the data link layer here and all that other stuff could go on with other people and other places at its own rate and together we all built the internet. So this is a beginning connectivity architecture for the Internet. Now Ethernet. Thought of in the old way used Manchester encoding to send bits down the coax At 2.4 megabits per second and used a Gerald vampire tap to puncture the shared cable to get connection to the copper center conductor. Or the use of ALOHAnet randomized transmissions for taking turns sending packets on the shared cable. All three of those technologies were in the original Ethernet, but are long gone. What really got invented by ethernet was none of those. Ethernet brought the new internet architecture to the desktop a packet architecture as opposed to the character architecture. So we went from characters to packets. We also greatly increased the bandwidth. In fact, we increase it by a factor of 10,000--not 100 times, not 1000 times--10,000 times speedup from that 300 bits per second terminal I showed you, to a 2.94 megabit per second coax. And the third quote invention of Ethernet was Ethernet join TCP IP as open industry standards for connecting computers together. I then in ’79 started a company to start selling Ethernet and the associated Internet protocols and I had a hard time because our company was aimed at networking personal computers, but of course in 1979 there were no personal computers to speak of. Few Apple 2s kicking around. So we had trouble selling our network. So we sold a lot of three-node networks and our customers said, "The network does exactly what you said, but it's just not useful." So as a head of marketing at my little startup, I came up with this 35 millimeter slide that basically said--and this is a connectivity theory slide--and basically it said, the reason your little networks are not useful is that there are too small. And what's the remedy for that? Buying more of my company's products. So this was a sales tool that subsequently became known as Metcalfe's Law. That is, the value of the network grows as the square of the number of connected devices. The number of potential connections, whereas the cost of the network only grows as the linear. So here's a law bearing on the topic of connectivity that, of course, there was a much more important law floating around called Moore's Law dated 1965. Here's one of my favorite pictures of Gordon Moore explaining to me that even though our laws both began with M, his was a a better law than mine. And then of course there was Marty Cooper's law, a lesser-known law, but a definite law of connectivity. And Marty noted that Marconi who had won the Nobel Prize for radio in the early...in 1905, I think it was...he won the prize for having radio going further and further and further ultimately across the Atlantic, but Martin's law pointed out that ever since then, all progress in a radio telephone have been getting the radios to go shorter and shorter distances, as the cells get shorter and shorter. We make better use of the available bandwidth and that was predicted by Marty being the inventor of the mobile telephone here. His law has been true since 1905. That is, the number of communications, you can get it per unit area double frequently. So anyway, the internet is now, as of October 29 of last year, 50 years old. And it's my contention that the most important new fact about the human condition is that we are now suddenly connected. The internet--this is a rough plot of the internet surging from 1990 at the left there all the way to 2019--and so by the way, the World Wide Web turned 320 the same year the internet turned 50. So we're already networking over 4 billion human beings and it's growing rapidly 9% per year as of last year. So already 57% of us--7.7 billion humans are more--are now on the internet and there are things on the internet now suddenly and there are already more things on the internet, than there are human beings. So my claim is that 50 years is a sudden growth of connectivity that that it hasn't taken very long for us to go from zero to 57%. Now another argument that can be made is that this is a chart of human population with a green...the green is the number of people who are not extremely poor and the red is the number of people who are extremely poor and you'll see the gradual growth of growth of both since 1820 but then something happened, something happened and the first this first blue line. Right here is the arrival of the internet in ’69 and then this second blue line is the arrival of the World Wide Web circa 1995 or so. And you’ll notice an interesting thing, when those two things happen the growth of the number of extremely poor people started a rapid decline. I’m aware of causality and causation but I will argue that the growth of connectivity -- connectivity contributed greatly to the growth of freedom and prosperity. W this connectivity comes disruptions. U.S. mail, publishing, commerce, advertising, all telecommunications, convergence of voice, video, and data industries. All these are being -- normally this would be held -- now it’s being he will using the transport of our bits rather than the transport of atoms. Connectivity has our pathologies. In the early days of the Internet the big worry was that it would be used to transport important. -- porn. That was quickly handled. Instead, advertising came along in the mid 1990’s as a monetization technique which basically funded from the mid 1990’s onward the growth of the Internet, companies like Google and facebook, for example. Advertising led to spam and other pathologies. Polarization of communities, radicalization of terrorists, addiction, privacy -- threats to privacy and security. Little joke here, I put millenials as a pathology but that’s just a joke. Hate speech and fake news. These are the pathologies of sudden connectivity. Connectivity has come upon us so quickly we’re still learning how to deal with it. Then there are the dimensions of connectivity. We’re halfway done, half of the human race is connected, we just have to wait another 50 years, but that’s not the case. The number of people on the Internet is only one aspect of connectivity. There’s also the reach and the speed. How quickly are we reaching them and reaching each other. What’s the connectivity, latency. These are dimensions of connectivity. There’s lots of rooms in this space for progress on the advancement of connectivity. There’s room for improvement. Transitions are much better than neurons -- transistors are better than injure Rons as network nodes, they’re much faster but neurons make more intelligent networks because neurons know how to be connect and we’re still learning how to connect transistors. This is evidence that there’s room for improvement in the connectivity. COVID-19 arrived last year, when the Internet turned 50. It is almost as if the Internet was built for COVID. The Internet is carrying traffic it never did before. We are learning how to telecommute to work and now it’s mandatory. We were learning at MIT about Internet learning as opposed to brick and mortar education. Suddenly, suddenly it is mandatory. All the classes at the university of Texas and at MIT are online now. Suddenly, despite all the Oklahomas from the people who said we really can’t do that but you really can do that. Even the researchers working to cure COVID are connected by the Internet, they’re collaborating and sharing data thanks to the Internet. We should worry about the pathologies of the Internet and I do. Here we are, overwhelmed with the connectivity in the first 50 years in the growth of the Internet but the next generation Internet is already upon us. I call it the augmented video mobile gigabit Internet. We went from kilobit to mega bit to gigabit Internet. Here comes the next wave of connectivity. With that, I rest my case. Aviva Hope Rutkin: All right. We have questions coming in. If you have one, there’s still time. If you want to ask a question, use your q&a feature of zoom. You can use that feature to upload other people’s questions and let me know which ones you want me to ask first. You took us up to 2019, aisle going to jump to this question from Henry who said thanks for your talk. We’re now in the Internet age. Do you think it took us a long time to arrive here? Are you happy with the way things have developed? Where do you see things going in the future? Professor Metcalfe: While we were growing the Internet I thought it was a slow thing. Networks from telephone companies who slowed down the accelerating Internet. On the other hand, I’m impressed how quickly we’ve reached more than half of the human race in only 50 years. So frustratingly slow but amazingly fast has been the Internet. Aviva Hope Rutkin: We have a question from Dave Lopez, who wants to know what the implications of the digital divide are for minorities in the U.S. for people who still aren’t able to connect. Professor Metcalfe: I think the Internet is spreading rapidly. I think I mentioned 93k9 a-- 9% additional people joined last year. I believe the way the digital divide gets solved is by continued proliferation, cost reduction of the technologies that underlie the Internet. I also think that the digital divide is somewhat exaggerated because people are resourceful. They know how good the Internet. Is they find a way -- they find ways onto the Internet which are not counted in the surveys of the digital divide. Anyway we should all be on the Internet, I believe most of us are already, and more and more every day. That wasn’t a great answer to the question. Aviva Hope Rutkin: We have another question, this is a top question right now, also about the digital divide from John Duncanson, class of 196 . He said please Kent about how much effort to bridge the digital divide is focused on getting people physically connected to the Internet and very little on the last two felt from the screen to the mind of the user. Interfaces are poorly defined, people are not trained in usability my 80-something friend knows how to use email to receive photos of grandkids and little else. Professor Metcalfe: I think that question requires perspective. When I first got into the computing business, the user interface was punching cards on a punch card reader and having error messages printed out the next day on the line printer. To me the iPhone is an amazing user interface that’s better than anything I’ve ever seen. So I guess I don’t subscribe to how terrible the user interface is. I think it’s gotten better. Maybe you just joined recently so you don’t see how much better it was than before they invented MacIntosh and iPhone and windows. That’s all I can think of to say. Aviva Hope Rutkin: Since you mentioned the invention of all these different products I want to jump to this question from Steve Webster. He wants to know in your view from your perspective, why did the xerox alto not emerge as a personal computer platform? Professor Metcalfe: it did. The Xerox alto became the MacIntosh which became windows which became the iPhone. So the -- it is true that Xerox didn’t sell a bunch of Alto P.C.’s but books have been written about why Xerox didn’t successfully sell a lot of them but keep in mind they were quite expensive. It took Steve jobs to repackage, as it were, the Alto into the MacIntosh which was a tenth of the price from $16,000 to $1,600. It took Steve’s focus on cost reduction and what was adequate, so for example Steve took ether net, 10 mega bits per second, and produced apple talk which was 250 kilobits per second because he felt that was adequate. That greatly reduced the cost of the MacIntosh. So the Alto was too expensive. Then it was also in the hands of a company that didn’t know how to compete. Xerox was a monopoly and didn’t really know how to compete. Then we tried to get into the computer business and got -- got our computers handed to us. Read "fumbling the future," a book about this topic. Aviva Hope Rutkin: Broadwalker wants to know if you have examples of what you see us being able to do in three to five years that we can’t do today? Professor Metcalfe: we’ll be able to have a zoom conference without me talking about user interfaces, bumbling through the various features of zoom to get to the correct answer. I guess we’ll have corrected by that let me focus on Zoom, for example. Zoom and the similar products have saved our bacon. I mean, COVID-19 has had a terrible impact but it would have been much worse had we not had the Internet to continue social exchange and employment with many people. So then people -- then the argument is resumed about whether you can -- can you really do business and socialize electronically? Do you really need to press the flesh the old fashioned way? I think the answer is that the -- in the next three to Phi years we’re going online even more so than ever. We’re not going to use Zoom as it exists today. Zoom was already -- is already, itself, undergoing rapid evolution. But the competitors are coming in. This whole landscape of how we do network communication is going to change. It’s going to improve. I guess my principal answer to the three to five year question is we’ll be using -- if you think this is a lot of use of video, we’ll be using a lot more video conferencing. It’s hard to imagine why we will have any more conferences where people actually fly to an auditorium when with improved tools we’ll be able to hold conferences online, I think. Aviva Hope Rutkin: So we’ll have conferences online, we’ll be meeting like this online. You Menged schools as well. I’m going to jump to Allen’s question who says that, you said that Internet learning is obsolete in brick and mortar. Study after study show that at-home learner fall significantly behind their in-person educated peers and wants to know what you think about that. Proftsor Metcalfe: I don’t believe any polls like that. When the Internet first came along there were all sorts of polls about why you wouldn’t need, all sorts of polls about this and that. My hunch is -- although I have no evidence to support this, is that the people learning online will learn a lot more. Just think of the economics. Right now we have a k-12, bachelor’s, masters, Ph.D. education system which is increasing cost and decreasing effectiveness. Dramatically. We have -- now when we go to video, the economics of video courses is orders of magnitude better than having everybody stand up and give a lecture. And the tools that we’re going to assemble are improving all the time at a rate faster than brick and mortar education. So I don’t accept that poll that says that online learners are slower than -- slower learners than in person learners. I don’t accept that. And the economics, even if it were true they are economics are terrible. You really just need one really good, super good physics professor to teach physics and then a bunch of assistants who could be students. Why do you need an ace physics professor or several of them in every university. You know. You see the point I’m making? The economics of, when you go online, production values need to be higher. The talent can be Leif Rajed over much larger audience. And the education doesn’t have to be limited to k-12, bachelor’s, masters, Ph.D. It can be lifelong learning. If you talk about the digital divide think about the educational divide and how the online learning can bridge the educational divide and bring education to many places where it would not be otherwise available. Aviva Hope Rutkin: Thanks for that let me see the top question right now. We have John lee wants to know your thoughts on net neutrality. Professor Metcalfe: net neutrality was a bad idea and thank God it’s gone. The reason it’s a bad idea, the way it’s packaged is regulation of the Internet by the F.C.C. or United States government. I remember when the U.S. government regulated what was then the Internet. Regulated AT&T as a monopoly. Regulated I.B.M. as a monopoly. We had to break those two monopolies. The thought of bringing the F.C.C. back in to regulate the Internet is abhorrent. A horrible idea. Thank God it was -- you know, the Internet lived a long, happy life without net neutrality, almost 50 years, then it was in for a couple of years and then people started thinking the Internet had always been subject to net neutrality which is not true. So the Internet is doing fine without net neutrality, that’s my thought. Aviva Hope Rutkin: You mentioned the different pathologies that have plagued our connectivity. We have a question here about, you mentioned fake news on that slide. Someone wants to know if you see a serious threat to democracy from fake information that people see on social network platforms. Professor Metcalfe: yes. It’s a very complicated time, you have bad outcomes on both sides that you have to be careful of. But I think we’ve made a mistake. I think we’ve asked Google and Facebook and Twitter to protect us from fake news by filtering it out. And then they made a mistake by agreeing to do it. They’re not the proper bodies to be filtering fake news. Unfortunately we haven’t thought of an alternative. We don’t want -- we don’t want Google and facebook and twitter deciding what is news and what is fake. They just can’t be trusted with that. So I’m looking forward to some sort of evolution that brings us to some happy news but I do not have the answer now. It’s a serious problem and a threat to civilization. Aviva Hope Rutkin: So not in the hands of these big Internet giants but maybe like government effort or do you have a sense of -- we have a question from Dave as well who asks, should we be putting more effort into dealing with these pathologies that are popping up? Professor Metcalfe: the government filtering fake news is even worse than having the big tech giants do it. Please don’t give it a cute name like net neutrality and try to ram that through. My picture first draft would be a tool that we could all use to assemble our own filters. Sort of a composeable filter system where you could, if you want -- you have news with brand names. "New York Times" would probably be one of the first ones. If you wanted to include "The New York Times" filtering in your news feed you’d click and move it in. And then if you want to delete everything coming from Twitter put a minus sign in front of it. And compose a fitter that had nothing in Twitter and everything from "The New York Times." It would be up to you to choose. And compose your filters. And it would be up to the fitters to compete for your attention by being good purveyors of news. Anyway that’s a first cut of what I should be working on but I’m busy doing other stuff. Somebody else should invent that tool. Something like that might be the solution to this problem. A composeable, editable, personal filter system for news rather than relying on the government or tech companies to do the filtering for you. Aviva Hope Rutkin: There you go. Free idea for people tuning in. What about Chris Craven 1984 said how do you see A.I. contributing to the growth of the Internet? Professor Metcalfe: it’s the other way around. A.I. -- either waying, my undergraduate thesis advisor at MIT was Marvin mitsky. I wrote a paper on neuron modeling. Fortunately all copies of that thesis have been lost. But A.I. has been around at least 50 years, coming and going. Every once in a while it rears up as the next big thing, for some reason it goes away. This is the fourth or fifth time that A.I. has risen. I just think of A.I. as smart, better app. If they compete with human intelligence we call them A.I. I don’t think A.I. will help the Internet. It’ll be the other way around. That is, the reason A.I. has crashed in the past is from lack of data. The intelligence needs data to process it. In previous substantiations of the bubble they ran out of data. Now we have the Internet now A.I. ma Sean -- machines have data. My feeling is this period of A.I. will be much more impactful than previous attempts at A.I. and the reason will be because we now have connectivity. Through that connectivity we can feed our A.I.’s and give them the data they need to make their sensible decisions. Aviva Hope Rutkin: I’m going to keep the focus on future for a second. Last question here from Bruce Roberts, curious to know, he asks is Internet well structured to handle Internet of things devices and the explosion we’ve seen there and he wants to know if you have any Internet of things devices in your home. Professor Metcalfe: I do. My house is full of the nth generation system. Every time -- I’ve been around a while, had a lot of houses, had a lot of home systems put in, now tchailed Internet of things. They always promise you they’ll be easy to use. They’re not easy to use. They’re a real pain in the neck. But they’re going to get better. So is the Internet set up to carry the Internet of things? I think the answer is yes. But remember the Internet is evolving. And the Internet of things is evolving. That’s a co-evolution question. We used to ask, can the Internet carry video? I mean I used to mock those little postage stamp sized videos that were jerky things in -- and the question was, the Internet was never designed to carry video. The inter-- I can verify that, the Internet was not designed to carry video. In the 1990’s people said can it carry video? And others said no. And then they said of course it can. The same question arises in Internet of things. The Internet was not designed for the Internet of things but it’s evolving. It’s co-evolve wourg technology. So I think -- I think the Internet will not be the limiting factor in the proliferation of the Internet of things. I think it’ll have more to do with finding valuable uses for things and getting those things tied together with the Internet which people are working on furiously. That’s why I think the next wave -- there are already more things on the Internet than there are people. That disparity is going to grow. It will eventually be the Internet of things. Like today the Internet is the Internet of video and a few other things. Most Internet traffic is video. Now. Even though people doubted it for a long time that the Internet could carry it. Aviva Hope Rutkin: We have a few more minutes here. We have 68 questions. So I don’t think we’ll get to all of them. There are a few different people who have asked about privacy. I’ll take Lisa’s question as an example. She said it seems that privacy is set and we spend too many resources protecting it, there should be a way for a user to protect the things that matter to them. For example, transfer of health care information can get complicated. I would be interested to hear your thoughts on that. Professor Metcalfe: I’m not an expert on that. But I have noticed that every conference I’ve ever attended people ask 50 or -- for the last 50 or 60 years has had a section on privacy. Private is -- privacy and protecting it is a recurring issue. It’s not going to go away. It’s -- if the past is any guide. One of the problems is, we want our privacy but we want transparency. I want my privacy but I want you to be transparent. You turn that around and you realize that privacy is a matter of degree. And controlling what’s yours is an important part of that. But to just make a jump, there’s a thing called hippaa. That’s supposed to protect our health information. I’m not a doctor, I’m not an expert on medical health care but having gone a gazillion presentations on advances in health care, HIPAA is slowing things down. HIPAA was an overreaction to the privacy on medical things. As a result, we would like to revolutionize whk the Internet, information technology in general but HIPAA is, from where I sit, is an obstacle that needs to be calmed down. It overdoes -- how many times, it’s form over substance. I’m always signing forms giving information away. It’s like agreeing to the terms of use of Amazon. Nobody ever reads those things. So it’s a toned down HIPAA would be my advice. Aviva Hope Rutkin: We have time for one more. I’m going to go with Jack, because it’s a nice way to end. He wants to know what you’re working on right now. Professor Metcalfe: something completely different my new enthusiasm starting about six months ago, I’ve been working on geothermal energy. The idea is to solve energy once and for all. And to provide ubiquitous -- ubiquitous, cheap, clean energy by harvesting the heat of the earth. The earth is pretty hot. 6,000 degrees centigrade near the core. So we shouldn’t be create manager heat. We should just use the heat we already have. Now to do that, we have to drill for it. We to go down an get it. It’s five to 10, 15 kilometers down, depending. And so the project I’m working on is, since I’m in Austin, Texas, which is in Texas, couple of hours from Houston, which is the energy capital of the world, our theory is we need to take the technology -- the 200-year-old technologies of the oil and gas industry, many of which are idle right now thanks to the -- what do you call it? The oil crunch, to take many of those resources and turn them to solving the problems of deep geothermal energy. Baseload electricity from the heat of the either. That’s my new project. I’m principal investigator of a project at university of Texas on getting startups to solve the technological problems of harvesting the earth’s heat economically and safely. Aviva Hope Rutkin: That’s not the answer a lot of us were expecting. Thank you, Jack, for thinking of this question. That takes us right to the end of our time today. Professor, I want to thank you so much for your time. I don’t know if there’s anything you want to add before I do the last little bits here to lead us out. Professor Metcalfe: no, I’m delighted you invited me to express my opinion. I’m sorry if I offended anyone. Stay healthy. Wear a mask. I’m not wearing a mask -- this is one of the few times I done wear a mask because I’m sitting in my own office with the doors closed and the dogs aren’t in here. So be careful. Wear a mask. And thanks to this opportunity to opine. Aviva Hope Rutkin: Good advice. I got mine right next to me over here and for everyone who joined in today we have more than 300 people, I think, but on behalf of the alumni association, I want to thank everyone who tuned in to this faculty forum online. We’ll be sure to forward all the questions that got asked that we didn’t get to today to professor Metcalfe and I think alumni office staff will keep the chat window open for networking for another 15 minutes. This broadcast will also be available on the MIT alumni association youtube channel within a week of today. Thanks, everyone. Stay safe. Wear the mask. Whitney Espich: Thanks for joining us and for more information on how to connect with the MIT Alumni Association please visit our website. 