 The Beginners guide to reading graphs. This might be for beginner's, but everybody makes mistakes like the ones in this guide. The four parts of every graph. Part 1. The horizontal axis title. Part 2. The vertical axis title. Part 3. Data Part 4. The Graph Title If the graph is missing any of the four parts.... There is a serious problem! An axis title is made up of the name of the construct and the units in which it is measured. The data can be presented in a number of ways. The graph title should contain a description of the relationship of the constructs on the axes as demonstrated by the data. Construct is an intimidating word! A construct can be defined as something "constructed" from the mind such as an idea or a concept. It is intangible. You can't touch it, taste it, smell it, see it, or hear it. So what is a construct? Happiness Student Love Intelligence Perception Grief Friendship Thought Color Bias Time Boredom Loneliness In science, we must define our constructs in a manner that would allow others to measure them the same way. We call this an "operational definition". The axis title should contain the operational definition and its units of measurement. We should know who or what was measured to obtain the data We should know basic information about the data. Such as...is it individual data points, averages, or correlations? Let's do an example. Let's say our construct is anxiety. We can define it as excessive worry about the future and past combined with an inability to focus and difficulty sleeping. We could measure it alot of different ways. For this example, let's use a self-report score on an Anxiety Scale. This is our operational definition. Trait Anxiety Scale with a range of 0, very low anxiety, to 60, very high anxiety. On the vertical axis we will use a count of people who scored within 4 point bins on the Trait Anxiety Scale. Each red line is a bin. 50 people scored around 15 points on the Trait anxiety scale. Here 15 people, reported a score of 45 on the Trait Anxiety Scale. More Participants reported Low-to-Moderate Anxiety than high Anxiety In conclusion, remember these four steps! Step 1: Is there an axis title? Does it have a name construct? Is it presented along with units of measurements? Step 2 is just like step 1, but for the vertical axis. Step 3. The Data, how was it obtained? What was measured? What is being represented? Step 4: Is there a graph Title? Does it use the data to explain the relationship between the axes? 