 All right second graders, today I'm going to teach  you how to collect data, create a data table,   and create a bar graph. And use that bar graph to  analyze data. So let's go ahead and take a look at   how we're going to do that. So we're going to do  a winter roll and graph. Now we don't have dice   but we do have a winter shape generator. So we are  going to use this to generate some shapes and see   how many we get and of each of these shapes. And  how you do that is, you're going to press play   and then press pause at any time. okay now  the first shape I got was a little penguin.   So I am going to take my marker and I am going to  color in one block for the little penguin. Okay   now, let's do it again. I'm going to press  play. Pause. This time I got a snowflake. So I'm going to color that  in there. Let's do it again! Coffee mug. Now I will keep doing this until  I reach the top. That means I have rolled or   generated 7 of one shape. Okay so I'll keep  doing that and then that's when I stop after   one of the shapes reaches the top. And then that's  that is when we will complete our data table.   All right now I've rolled all of them and the  little penguin reached it to the top. So I stopped   and now I'm going to fill out my data table. I'm  going to do this by counting the number of rolls   it took for each shape. So the snowman got 1, 2,  3. So what I'll do is I will, you can type right   3 and put it right there. And let's see the panda  I got 1 2 3 4 5. So I will put a 5 for the panda. On my data table I will continue doing this   until I have all the numbers in for all of  these. If I didn't roll any I can put a zero okay I have my data table all filled out with  all my numbers for the amount of rolls i got for   each shape. Now I can use the data table and  the graph to answer some of these questions.   And analyze this data. So my first question  is which shape had the most blocks covered.   So I'm going to look back here and I know that  was my penguin so i am going to write penguin. all right next which shape has the least let's  take a look back at the bar graph oh snowflake   only had one so i can go ahead and type snowflake  i could even put a snowflake emoji if i wanted to how many roles did you make at all to figure that  out i need to add up all of these blocks i colored   in or i can add all these numbers together so  i can go 3 plus 5 which is 8 9 10 plus 7 is 17   18 19 20 21 22 so i took 22 rolls in all 22 now the last question is asking me how many  times did i roll a panda and a penguin   watch me how i show you how to figure this out  okay you are going to see how many you rolled   for the panda which is five and for the penguin  which is seven so if i can either count each   one of these to know how many rolls for each of  those or i can add them together five plus seven so 5 plus oops plus 7 equals 13. so i did 13 rolls so today you learned how to collect data use  that data to make a data table and a graph and   analyze that data by answering questions  about the graph this is important because   you're going to see a lot of graphs in your  school and in your reading so today when   you are on sisa you're going to practice  collecting data with the shape generator   making the table and graph and answering questions  i can't wait to see all your great hard work 