 (upbeat music) - I'm going to talk about a topic that is near and dear to my heart, and that you've all heard a lot about, which of course is, AI, and specifically, of course, how graphs relate to machine learning. And this is a field that we've been paying close attention to, last year, I was on stage and I showed this graphic, which I thought was a useful taxonomy of various parts of the IA landscape, but of course, what stuck out to me, was the way that they visually describe all these different sub-fields, well, that's graphs. What graphs provide for AI and machine learning is what it does for your normal software applications, which is the power of context and the power of connections. - So how are graphs starting to be looked at in this space? Explainable data is an easy one for us. We have 20 of the top 25 financial institutions using us in some way, data lineage is a pretty common way. Right, the ability to understand how data was changed, where it was used, why it was used, who used it, is something that we can do really well. - What we want to go to is a new architecture, where instead of just having a function, what we want that machine learning process to update what we call learned explainable models. - At EY, we have a massive analytics practice. We are 100% behind graphs, we think this is a totally transformative technology, we believe that the entire next generation of analytics is all going to be based on machine reasoning derived from graphs. - This demographics information, when we made the call on where to put it, as I said, couldn't be more tailor-made to a graph structure. It will represent at a physical structure all of the business logic, business rules that one might want to ask all the way down to the physical structure. - While a lot of the cool stuff happens in start-ups, it is people who work in businesses that have operated for some time who generally have collected a large amount of data as a side-effect as operating those businesses who are also creative and ready to embrace these new metaphors for development, who have the biggest opportunities. You're the right person to be here, you're the right person to be thinking about this. You have these big opportunities. (upbeat music) 