 You know, I'm glad you're here, Andy. 'Cause let's face it, this is a very strange time. Very much so, yeah. It's such a very strange time, and it's a confusing time. Because during COVID, we're being bombarded with information. You know, you turn on any TV, you go on your computer, and they're gonna show you graphs. Now some of these graphs are important. But here's what I'm noticing. A lot of the graphs that are coming out lately don't seem that necessary. Have you noticed that? Absolutely, yeah. A lot of silly stuff. Yeah, you know? For example, I mean, some of these charts are, I don't know, they just seem questionable. Here's a chart that came out today. There's apparently been a huge increase in second naps. Okay. Look at this, there's been a 400% increase in day drinking. [Andy] I'm drunk now! I know, I could tell. Yeah. That's a good reason to sit far away from me, is the smell. Yeah. Yeah. I got a little closer to you earlier, and I just smelled bathtub gin. Yep, yep. Check this graph out. There's been a steady increase of watching another God damn show on Netflix. I guess. Look at this one, this is not a surprising chart. But I don't know that we needed to see this one. Check it out. Here's the national rate of masturbation. Okay, is that a chart we needed to see? I dunno, I'm kinda getting off on it. (chuckles) I'm kinda getting off on it. Okay, take it easy. Yeah, yeah. 'Cause you know, the graph is going whoop. All right, all right. Probably add a little bit of a slide whistle sound. Whoop! That's, oh, yeah. Glad you're here! It's Randy? It can be, I don't care! Okay. Of course, a sharp rise in dads shouting, "I used to be a very powerful man!" here's the latest graph on time. Didn't really help me much to see that. They've also been tracking divorces by spouses married to COVID graph makers. Little meta, but-- Oh boy, that's a sad one. Yeah, here's an interesting one. What we talk about with our walls. There's what's it like being a wall? How was your day? And wall, you're my only friend. I say that a lot. Here's a graph I actually find kinda fascinating. Sharp increase of frat brothers in Alabama, saying "Oh man, did you hear about Tre?" (Andy laughs) Tre made a mistake. Poor Tre. And finally, given all the other data that's out there, here's our last graph. It's one showing hope. Always fun to end a comedy bit on a happy note! Yeah! All right, go out on a bummer! Yeah, hey Andy, do me a favor. Do what our audience back in Burbank would usually do. Oh, all right. It's my birthday! (Conan laughs) I want a hug! (Conan laughs) (Andy laughs) Do the string dance! Yeah, yeah, the T-shirt cannon broke my teeth! (Conan laughs) Yep, we do miss our crowds, though. We do. They're some of the best people in Burbank. (Conan chuckles) 