 This is a video to investigate limits  and continuity by looking at a graph.   The question states: use the graph to determine  where the limit is undefined and where the   function is not continuous. So I'm going to  start by looking at the graph a little bit larger   and let's start with where we have an undefined  limit. I'm going to move from left to right   and investigate where I don't have a limit.  So if I start out here, I go along the curve   and I'm just fine. As long as it's smoothly moving  along the curve you're okay. Then as I get towards   x equals negative 2, I see I have a vertical  asymptote. We're going off to negative infinity   and then we're jumping up to positive infinity  so my first point where I have an undefined limit   is that x equals negative 2. Okay, now I'm  going to continue on from left to right,   and I move. I'm smooth. I'm doing fine, then I get  to the point x equals 1 and I notice that I jump   at x equals 1 from way down here to jumping up to  here at y equals 3. If we have a jump like that,   that's going to be an undefined limit so  that's our next number. x equals positive 1   is a point at which we have an undivided limit.  So now let's continue on from left to right.   And I move here and have a hole. Well, it turns  out because I have a hole does not mean I don't   have a limit, because if I move from left to right  or right to left towards that point you'll notice   that my y value is approaching that same number.  In particular y equals 2. So this does have a   limit at x equals three. I don't have to place  that under my list of undefined limit numbers.   So let's continue on. And I move along until I  get to x equals 4. Then I can see I have another   jump. In fact, it goes from here, x equals 4, and  then I have an asymptote on the right hand side.   So there's no limit. The left and right do not  meet, so that's my next number at which I have an   undefined limit: x equals 4. So now continuing on  you'll notice for the rest of the graphs it just   smoothly goes along the curve. No problem.  So now let's look at continuity. One thing   with continuity is if the limit doesn't exist  the function is not continuous. So right away   the limit doesn't exist at negative two, one  or four so all three of those numbers have   points of discontinuity. x equals negative two  x equals one and then notice that when we get to   that hole when we do have a hole we say that the  function is not continuous. If we move along the   curve, we have to lift our pen up to get to the  other side and that means it's not continuous. So   we could say that the function's not continuous  at x equals three so there's x equals three   and then we also had x equals 4. We didn't  have a limit so it's not continuous.   And then we continue on the rest of the way.  It is nice and smooth, so it's continuous the   rest of the way. And I'm done with the  problem. My list of undefined limits. So the list of undefined limits is x  equals negative 2, 1, and 4, and the list   of discontinuities is that x equals negative  2, 1, 3. and 4. And I'm done with the problem. 