 Welcome to the second video of Unit 1: One-dimensional motion In this video, we're gonna discuss how to find the distance and displacement by looking at a position time graph. You may have seen position time graphs in your physics or math class but if you're new to this a position time graph tells you an object's position at a specific moment in time. Position time graph help us solve problems regarding an object's distance traveled and displacement. And I don't think I cover this in the previous video but we denote position with X and we usually measure our time in seconds. Now let's get into an example. So here we have a position time graph of a sheep and we are asked "What is the sheep's distance traveled in ten seconds?" and "What is the sheep's displacement in ten seconds?" Let us solve for a distance first. Remember in their previous video we defined distance as a total length an object has traveled. So we see here that from zero to two seconds our sheep changes position from zero to eight. That's a total of eight meters our sheep has traveled. From two to six seconds, our sheep remained at its position of eight, so the total distance our sheep traveled is zero meters. From six to eight seconds, our sheep changes position from eight to four. So, the total distance our sheep traveled is four meters. Lastly, from eight to ten seconds, our sheep remain at the position of four. So, our total distance our sheep traveled is zero meters. So, now, let's add all these values together. We have eight meters plus zero meters plus four meters plus zero meters. This will give us a total of twelve meters for our distance. Now let's solve our displacement. Remember, displacement is defined as a change in position of an object. We take into account the magnitude as well as the direction. So. from zero to two seconds, our sheep traveled from zero to eight. So, that's a positive eight meters for our displacement. From two to six seconds, our sheep remained at the position of eight. So our displacement is zero meters From six to eight seconds, our sheep changes position from eight to four. And since we're taking to account the direction that sheep traveled, our displacement is 4 meters. Lastly from 8 to 10 seconds, our sheep remain at the position of 4. So, our sheep's displacement is 0 meters. Now let's add all these values together. So you have positive 8 meters plus 0 meters minus 4 meters plus 0 meters giving us a total of 4 meters for our displacement. Now another way we can solve is using the formula Delta X equals our final position minus our initial position so we know that our final position is here at 4 and we know that our initial position is here at 0. So let's plug these values in and this will give us a total of 4 meters. So either method works Ok, this problem may looks similar to last but take caution because this time I'm asking you what's the sheep's distance traveled in 6 seconds and what's the sheep's displacement in 6 seconds. So, like we did last time, let's solve for our distance first. So, from 0 to 2 seconds, our sheep travels from the position of 0 to 8. So that's a total distance of 8 meters. From 2 to 6 seconds, our sheep remain at a position of 8. So our total distance traveled is 0 meters. Now let's add these two values together. So we have 8 meters, plus 0 meters giving us a total of 8 meters for our distance traveled in 6 seconds. Now let's solve for our displacement. So, from zero to two second, our sheep traveled zero to eight. So that's a positive eight meters for our displacement. From two to six seconds, our sheep remained at eight. So the total displacement is zero meters. Now let's add those two values together. So you have positive eight meters plus zero meters giving us a total of eight meters for a displacement in six seconds. Now we can also use the formula to solve Delta X equals our final position minus our initial position. So, we know that our final position is here at eight, and we know our initial position is here at zero. So we just plug in these two values into our formula to get our displacement. So we have eight meters minus zero meters giving us a total of eight meters for displacement. Okay let's look at one last example. This time we're asked what's the sheep's distance traveled in 8 seconds and what's the sheep's displacement in eight seconds. So from zero to one second our sheep traveled four meters because remember we only take to account the magnitude of which an object travels. From one to three second, our sheep traveled two meters. From three to five seconds, our sheep traveled zero meters because it remained at negative 2. From five to eight seconds, our sheep traveled 12 meters because we went from negative 2 to 0 - that's 2 meters - and then zero to 10 - which is 10 meters- so 2 plus 10 is 12 meters So now let's add our values together. So that's 4 meters plus 2 meters plus 0 meters plus 12 meters. This will give us a total of 18 meters for a distance travel than 8 seconds. Okay, let's solve for our displacement. From zero to one second, our sheep was displaced negative four meters because remember when we're dealing with displacement we have to take into account the direction our object has traveled. From one to three seconds our sheep was displaced positive two meters. From three to five seconds our sheep was displaced zero meters, because it remained at negative two. And from five to eight seconds, our sheep was displaced positive twelve meters. So now let's add all those values together. So we have negative four meters plus two meters plus zero meters plus twelve meters. This will give us a total of 10 meters for our displacement. And yes, we can use the formula. So we have Delta x equals our final position minus our initial position. So our final position was here at 10 meters and our initial position was here at zero. So let's plug in these values to have 10 meters minus zero meters giving us our displacement of 10 meters. So in recap position time graphs help us solve for an object's distance and displacement. Thank you for watching the video and hope you to see you next time! 