 CAE Healthcare is the global training partner of choice to improve patient safety, and we do that by providing the most innovative training solutions based on simulation. Our customers are universities, colleges, governments, medical device companies, hospitals. For centuries, people were relying on textbooks, and dissection and plastic models of the heart. In a span of 20 years, we've seen Augmented Reality on a 2D screen, and now what HoloLens has added is another layer. You're not looking at the Augmented Reality on a 2D screen. It's there, standing in mid-air. And, now you can see these finite details - - the relationship with many structures, and you can see them with all the range of what's normal, but also with pathologies. So, that's been a revolution. "What we see in this generation of learners is that they come to the classroom with a different set of skills: Eager to interact with technology, eager to be immersed in their learning environment." As a healthcare provider, we are the most dangerous when we are into that learning curve. But now, this has completely changed. We can practice on plastic and pixels, and try things and make mistakes, and see also all the different cases, and the different challenges you can have. And then, when you're ready, you really can go at the bedside and do these procedures on real patients. "Within a space of two, three weeks, we were up and running. We were displaying physiology into the HoloLens world. It was spectacular. And, the HoloLens, because of its optical characteristics, the doctor is viewing the internal tissues and organ at the working distance between eyes and hands. You need extreme accuracy for that. HoloLens offers that." The educational framework that we can add in this virtual environment is limitless. Now you're going to have the best teaching, or learning experience ever, and you can do that remotely so everybody is in the same virtual environment with the exact same world-renown instructor, for example. "It's been proven in other fields that simulation actually leads to safer environments. We're bringing this technology to our students so that they're going to be better healthcare providers". Contact CAE Healthcare for more information. 