BusinessOur Company Leidos Holdings, Inc. ("Leidos") is a holding company whose direct 100%-owned subsidiaries and principal operating companies are Leidos, Inc. and Leidos Innovations Corporation ("Leidos Innovations"). Leidos was formed in 1969 by a small group of scientists led by physicist Dr. Robert Beyster. Since our founding 48 years ago, we have applied our expertise in science, research and engineering in rapidly evolving technologies and markets to solve complex problems of national concern. On August 16, 2016, Leidos acquired Lockheed Martin’s Information Systems & Global Solutions business (the "IS&GS Business") in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction (see "Our Business Segments" for a description of the transaction and the IS&GS business).Leidos is a global science and technology company that provides technology and engineering services and solutions in the defense, intelligence, civil and health markets. We bring domain-specific capability and cross-market innovations to customers in each of these markets by leveraging seven core capabilities: command, control, computing, communications and intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance ("C4ISR"); cybersecurity; systems engineering; large-scale agile software development; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; and operations and sustainment. Applying our technically advanced solutions to help solve our customers' most difficult problems has enabled us to build strong relationships with our key customers. Our domestic customers include agencies of the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), the U.S. Intelligence Community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security ("DHS"), the Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA"), the Department of Health and Human Services, other U.S. Government civil agencies and state and local government agencies. Our international customers include foreign governments and their agencies, primarily located in the United Kingdom, the Middle East and Australia. With a focus on delivering mission-critical solutions, Leidos generated 81% of our total revenues from U.S. Government contracts for fiscal 2016. Building on our foundation in offering innovative services and solutions to U.S. Government customers, Leidos is expanding into international government and broader commercial markets. By leveraging expertise in multiple disciplines, tailoring our services and solutions to the particular needs of our targeted markets and using advanced analytics, we work to securely deliver services and solutions that not only meet customers’ current goals, but also support their future endeavors. For additional discussion and analysis related to recent business developments, see “Business Environment and Trends” in "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.We use the terms “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” to refer collectively to Leidos Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. On March 20, 2015, the Board of Directors approved the amendment and restatement of the bylaws of Leidos to change Leidos' year end from the Friday nearest the end of January to the Friday nearest the end of December. As a result of this change, the Company filed a Transition Report on Form 10-K for the 11-month period which began on January 31, 2015, and ended on January 1, 2016. This change did not impact the Company's prior reported fiscal years (each covering a 12-month period), each of which ended on the Friday closest to January 31. For example, fiscal 2015 began on February 1, 2014, and ended on January 30, 2015.This Annual Report on Form 10-K is for fiscal 2016, which covers a 12-month period that began on January 2, 2016, and ended on December 30, 2016.Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 1Table of ContentsPART IOur Business SegmentsAt December 30, 2016, our business is aligned into four reportable segments: National Security Solutions ("NSS"), Information Systems & Global Solutions ("IS&GS"), Health and Infrastructure ("HIS") and Corporate and Other. While each reportable segment is organized around the markets served and the nature of the products and services provided to customers in those markets, the IS&GS reportable segment comprises the IS&GS business acquired on August 16, 2016. We provide a wide array of scientific, engineering and technical services and solutions across these reportable segments. The majority of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States.National Security Solutions National Security Solutions is focused on rapidly deploying agile, cost-effective solutions to meet the ever-changing missions of our customers in the areas of intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance, integrated systems and cybersecurity and global services. We provide a diverse portfolio of national security solutions and systems for air, land, sea, space and cyberspace for the U.S. Intelligence Community, the DoD, military services, DHS, government agencies of U.S. allies abroad and other federal, civilian and commercial customers in the national security industry. Our solutions deliver innovative technology, large-scale intelligence systems, command and control, data analytics, logistics and cybersecurity solutions, as well as intelligence analysis and operations support to critical missions around the world. National Security Solutions represented 51%, 68% and 71% of total revenues for fiscal 2016, the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, and fiscal 2015, respectively.Our national security business offers broad technology, development and integration capabilities and is responsible for leading our efforts in surveillance and reconnaissance, integrated systems solutions and global services for the U.S. Intelligence Community, military commands and other government and commercial customers.•Surveillance and Reconnaissance - We offer a wide range of technologies in multiple domains that address the nation’s most critical threats and deliver solutions to the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD and military services. A primary focus is on the DoD’s technology organizations, which include the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, Army Research Lab, Air Force Research Lab and Navy Research Lab. Our market concentration is on airborne, maritime and command and control. We provide multi-spectral, airborne, ground and maritime intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance ("ISR") collection and processing systems, advanced sensor design, command and control solutions and training systems.•Integrated Systems - We offer extensive software development capabilities for intelligence and information systems and deliver solutions to the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD, military services, DHS and the U.K. Ministry of Defense ("U.K. MoD"). Our markets include cybersecurity, data analytics and logistics. Our cybersecurity solutions detect and manage the most sophisticated cyber threats. We are highly skilled in data analytics, and we design, develop, deploy and support information-centric software systems for complex, data-driven national security challenges. Our logistics offerings include enterprise platforms that speed the supply chain of highly complex systems.•Global Services - We provide high-end services to the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD and federal civilian agencies. Operating around the world daily, we provide intelligence analysis, operational support, security, linguistics and training. In addition, we deliver tailored IT services and solutions to our customers across the globe.Information Systems & Global SolutionsOn January 26, 2016, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement (as amended, the "Merger Agreement") with Lockheed Martin Corporation ("Lockheed Martin"); Abacus Innovations Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Lockheed Martin ("Splitco"); and Lion Merger Co., a Delaware corporation and, at the time of announcement, a wholly owned subsidiary of Leidos ("Merger Sub"), pursuant to which we would combine with Lockheed Martin’s realigned Information Systems & Global Solutions business (the "IS&GS Business") in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction. In connection with the Merger Agreement, Lockheed Martin and Splitco entered into a Separation Agreement dated January 26, 2016 (as amended, the "Separation Agreement"), pursuant to which Lockheed Martin would separate the IS&GS Business from Lockheed Martin and transfer the IS&GS Business to Splitco. The transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement and the Separation Agreement are referred to herein as the “Transactions.” On August 16, 2016, the acquisition date, the Company completed the Transactions.Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 2Table of ContentsPART IOur IS&GS business focuses on being a leading provider of information technology ("IT"), management and engineering services to civil, defense and intelligence agencies of the U.S. Government. IS&GS's major customers include the DHS, the Department of the Treasury, DoD and the branches of the U.S. military. IS&GS also has certain international customers who are primarily located in the United Kingdom, the Middle East and Australia. Since being acquired on August 16, 2016, IS&GS represented 28% of total revenues for fiscal 2016. Our IS&GS business also provides data analytics, systems engineering, large-scale agile software development, network-enabled situational awareness solutions, communications and command and control capability and global systems integration, to help customers gather, analyze and securely distribute intelligence data to address complex and pressing challenges, such as combating global terrorism, cybersecurity, air traffic management, energy demand management and transforming the healthcare system. Our business is also responsible for various classified systems and services in support of vital national security systems. •Enterprise IT Services - We deliver enterprise operations; network services and communications; application management and optimization; data center operations, migration and consolidation; and data storage. We apply these solutions to physical, virtualized cloud, and hybrid form networks and provide the services and oversight clients require for IT infrastructure transformation, implementation and operations.•Software Development and Integrated Systems - We offer extensive software development capabilities for intelligence and information systems and deliver solutions to the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD, military services, DHS and the U.K. MoD. Software and integrated systems offerings include development of small and large scale information technology applications, embedded systems, and mobile applications. We deliver expertise across an extensive list of programming languages applicable to traditional, cloud, mobile and embedded applications and employ additional and agile development methods depending on the application.•Cybersecurity - We provide cybersecurity solutions with deep technical, analytic, and cyber mission experience that help clients anticipate threats to their networks and their data, ensure their cyber approach is executed with established best practices and enable them to respond to cyber events. Our cybersecurity solutions detect and manage the most sophisticated cyber threats. We design, develop, deploy and support information-centric software systems for complex, data-driven national security challenges and have a significant cybersecurity business based on its military and intelligence work with the federal government.•Data Analytics - Our data analytics services provide clients with the resources to make informed decisions to maximize performance by leveraging a wide range of problem-solving techniques including simulation, mathematical optimization, queuing theory, and machine learning to improve decision-making and efficiency.•Air Traffic Management - We deliver air traffic management systems and expertise and deploy some of the world’s most advanced and cost-effective systems to provide air traffic management solutions to U.S. and international customers. Solutions include the En Route Automation Modernization system for the Federal Aviation Administration’s Next Generation Air Transportation System; air traffic optimization, including Time Based Flow Management, enabling air traffic controllers to manage aircraft in congested airspace more efficiently; and Flight Services supporting pre-flight, inflight, operational and special services, en route communications, search and rescue services and aeronautical and meteorological information analytics. •Health Management Services - We manage critical data and infrastructure for some of the largest federal agencies in the U.S. healthcare system. We provide customers with the ability to integrate technology, people and processes into efficient, secure and scalable operations to secure patient information and support better healthcare outcomes through data management; security; interoperability capabilities for next generation data centers; health IT system modernization; and big data analytics.•Energy Management and Operations - We provide environmental services and solutions to the U.S. Government and commercial customers both directly and through joint ventures that perform management and operations (“M&O”) services at U.S. Government sites. These services and solutions include M&O services at the U.S. Government’s former nuclear fuel production site in Hanford, Washington and M&O services at the Y-12 national security site in Oak Ridge, Tennessee and the Pantex site in Amarillo, Texas; critical infrastructure for nuclear operations and national nuclear materials tracking, engineering systems; and national environmental emergency response.Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 3Table of ContentsPART I•Acquisition, Program Management and Logistics - Our acquisition, program management, and logistics capabilities help clients design, implement and deliver a wide range of operational programs, including those related to acquisition and contracts, supplier and budget management. Services delivered include strategy development, policy support, logistics management, staff development and deployment, modeling and simulation, testing and validation, information assurance and data management. Solutions include mission critical 24x7 M&O services, development and engineering support, complex logistics and infrastructure support in some of the harshest environments in the world; and human capital and training solutions.Health and InfrastructureOur Health and Infrastructure businesses capitalize on our knowledge and experience in technology and innovation. Major customers of Health and Infrastructure primarily include the U.S. federal government, state and local governmental agencies, foreign governments, healthcare providers and commercial enterprises in various industries. Health and Infrastructure represented 21%, 32% and 29% of total revenues for fiscal 2016, the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, and fiscal 2015, respectively.Our Health business provides services and solutions to commercial hospitals, the DoD and other U.S. Government agencies focused on information technology and behavioral health and life sciences offerings. Our healthcare business is focused on the overall availability and quality of electronic health data, clinical care optimization and life sciences research and development that ultimately improves the quality of care while lowering cost for our customers. •Federal Health - We developed, fielded and currently maintain a full end-to-end Electronic Health Record ("EHR") system for the DoD. We are currently working on developing the next generation EHR system that will be deployed to DoD hospitals and other sites worldwide. We provide information technology solutions, scientific support and behavioral health services to the Veterans Administration, National Institutes of Health, DoD and other government customers. Within the DoD, we serve the Defense Health Agency, which provides healthcare to active duty and retired military personnel and their dependents. We strive to improve the availability, quality and cost effectiveness of healthcare for our military service members and their families.•Commercial Health - We implement and optimize EHR systems at commercial hospitals. In addition, we provide consulting services and operational support focused on addressing health care legislation for Meaningful Use and ICD-10 transition, IT strategy, revenue cycle management, accountable care transformation, risk management, technology infrastructure and project management. Our teams are staffed with clinical subject matter experts who draw upon their deep experience and knowledge of healthcare and IT systems.Life Sciences - We provide life science research and development support to the National Institutes of Health, Center for Disease Control, Army Medical Research community, commercial biotech companies and the Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research, where we employ about 2,100 scientists, technicians, administrators and support staff. Our professionals operate a wide range of leading-edge research and development laboratories in the areas of genetics and genomics, proteins and proteomics, advanced biomedical computing and information technology, biopharmaceutical development and manufacturing, nanotechnology characterization and clinical trials management. Our Infrastructure business is focused on seamlessly integrating and protecting physical, digital and data domains. By applying leading science, effective technologies and business acumen, our forward thinkers are helping customers maximize their performance and take on the connected world with data-driven insights, improved efficiencies and technological advantages. We carry out our engineering business in four key areas of expertise: Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 4Table of ContentsPART I•Security Products - We provide security products, services and solutions that leverage our design, integration and process engineering technologies to build small footprint, minimally-intrusive secure commerce systems for our customers. Our Vehicle and Cargo Inspection System ("VACIS") systems enable the rapid scanning of vehicles and cargo using patented technology that produces a high-quality image using a low radiation dose while using less space and processing higher volumes of cars and trucks than other scanning systems. Our Reveal line of explosive detection systems for checked airline baggage pioneered the “reduced size” segment of this market with small, flexible systems that can be installed at airport check-in counters. We also have a line of radiation detection systems, which are used today at ports, border crossings and industrial facilities around the world - including most ports and border crossings in the United States. •Power Grid Engineering - We provide power grid engineering services and solutions to a broad customer set and have unique offerings including a Smart Grid as a Service ("SGS") solution. We are working with energy companies to develop analytical products that fully exploit the data enabled by smart grid technology. We provide engineering and consulting to electric utilities and transmission companies. Our focus is on engineering design of the grid from distribution through transmission and significant substation design and upgrade work. We provide physical and cybersecurity for our utility customers as part of our substantive offerings. We also administer energy efficiency programs for states and utilities and provide an array of consulting services for utilities.•Federal Environmental and Engineering - We provide environmental consulting and engineering services, primarily for the DoD. We support the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act ("NEPA") as well as other supporting activities. We also have specialty consulting services associated with specific environmental issues, such as underwater environmental issues, radiologic clean up, risk assessment training ranges and other specific needs. We support site cleanup and remediation efforts.•Transaction and Valuation Consulting - We provide transaction and asset valuation services for the power industry. Our primary customers are the large lending institutions that require a comprehensive assessment of proposed projects for financing. Our analysts study technologies, designs, operational plans, fuel needs and financial trends in power markets to evaluate the viability of projects. We also provide oversight work at project sites on behalf of lenders or owners.Corporate and OtherThe Corporate and Other business segment includes the operations of various corporate activities, certain expense items that are not reimbursed by our U.S. Government customers and certain other revenue and expense items excluded from a reportable segment’s performance. Corporate and Other represented an immaterial percentage of revenue for fiscal 2016, the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, and fiscal 2015. Acquisitions and DivestituresOn August 16, 2016, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Leidos Holdings, Inc. merged with the Information Systems & Global Solutions business (the "IS&GS Business") of Lockheed Martin Corporation in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction. The acquired IS&GS Business was renamed Leidos Innovations Corporation. See "