BusinessOur CompanyLeidos Holdings, Inc. (Leidos), formerly known as SAIC, Inc., is a holding company.  Its principal operating company, Leidos, Inc. (formerly known as Science Applications International Corporation) was formed in 1969 by a small group of scientists led by physicist Dr. Robert Beyster. Since our founding 45 years ago, we have applied our expertise in science, research and engineering in rapidly evolving technologies and markets to solve complex problems of national concern.Leidos is an applied technology company delivering solutions and services that leverage the power of data analytics, systems integration, and cybersecurity across three markets: national security, health, and engineering.  Our services are provided to agencies of the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the intelligence community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and other U.S. Government civil agencies, state and local government agencies, foreign governments and customers across a variety of commercial markets. By leveraging our expertise in multiple disciplines and using advanced analytics, we work to securely deliver solutions that not only meet our customers’ current goals, but to support their future endeavors. With a focus on delivering mission-critical solutions, we generate over 78% of our total revenues from U.S. government contracts.  A majority of that work supports the U.S. intelligence community.On September 27, 2013, Leidos completed the spin-off of our technical services and enterprise information technology services business into an independent, publicly traded company.  As part of the spin-off, we changed our name to Leidos, and the spin-off company assumed the name Science Applications International Corporation (referred to herein as “New SAIC”). The spin-off was designed to allow us to expand the addressable market for our offerings that were previously constrained by regulations governing organizational conflicts of interest, which generally prohibit companies from selling products to the U.S. Government under a particular program if the company also provides certain services under the same program. In addition, the discrete services business that is now part of New SAIC had different financial and operational requirements than our other business, and the spin-off allows us to better focus management’s attention on our core businesses. As a result of the spin-off, the assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows of New SAIC have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. References to financial data are our continuing operations, unless otherwise noted. Immediately following the spin-off, Leidos effectuated a one-for-four reverse stock split of its shares of common stock. Each reference to the number of shares outstanding or per share amounts has been adjusted to reflect the reverse stock split for all periods presented.For additional discussion and analysis related to recent business developments, see “Business Environment and Trends” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.We use the terms “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” to refer collectively to Leidos Holdings, Inc., Leidos, Inc., and its consolidated subsidiaries. Unless otherwise noted, references to years are for fiscal years ended January 31. For example, we refer to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2013 as “fiscal 2013”. Our Business SegmentsOur business is aligned into three reportable segments: Health and Engineering (HES); National Security Solutions (NSS); and Corporate and Other. While each reportable segment is organized around the markets served and the nature of the products and services provided to customers in those markets, we provide a wide array of scientific, engineering, and technical services and solutions across these reportable segments.Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report 1PART I   Health and EngineeringOur Health and Engineering businesses are using our knowledge and experience in technology and innovation.  Major customers of Health and Engineering primarily include the U.S. federal government, state and local governmental agencies, foreign governments and commercial enterprises in various industries. Health and Engineering represented 30%, 28% and 28% of total revenues for fiscal 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.Our Health business provides services and solutions to commercial hospitals and the Department of Defense as well as conducting research and development for U.S. Government and Commercial enterprises in the life sciences field. Our healthcare business is focused on improving the overall availability and quality of data and services that ultimately improves the quality of care while lowering cost for our customers.  •Commercial Health - We implement and optimize Electronic Health Record (EHR) systems at commercial hospitals. In addition, we provide consulting services and operational support focused on high-level initiatives including health care legislation for Meaningful Use and ICD-10 transition, IT strategy, revenue cycle management, accountable care transformation, risk management, technology infrastructure, and project management. Our teams are staffed with clinical subject matter experts who draw upon their deep experienced and knowledge of healthcare and IT systems. In this rapidly changing environment, our teams provide adaptable solutions in healthcare IT to help our customers improve the effectiveness and efficiency of health care.•Federal Health - We developed, fielded and currently maintain a full end-to-end EHR system and numerous behavior health services - healthcare beyond the clinic - for the Department of Defense. Within the DoD, we serve the Defense Health Agency, which provides healthcare to active duty and retired military personnel and their dependents. We strive to improve the availability, quality, and cost effectiveness of healthcare for our military service members and their families.•Life Sciences - We provide Life Science research and development support to the National Institute of Health, Army Medical Research community, commercial biotech companies and the Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research where we employ about 1,800 scientists, technicians, administrators, and support staff. Our professionals operate a wide range of leading-edge research and development laboratories in the areas of genetics and genomics, proteins and proteomics, advanced biomedical computing and information technology, biopharmaceutical development and manufacturing, nanotechnology characterization, and clinical trials management. Our Engineering business leverages technology and skills in process engineering, engineering design and systems integration to create innovative and cost effective solutions for our customers. We carry out our engineering business in five key areas of expertise: •Process Industries Engineering - We provide process industries engineering services and solutions to a large US market for capital improvement programs for key clients across a number of industries, including mid-tier refineries and large industrial companies. We exploit use of Building Information Modeling as a design tool and to manage the complexities of the systems we design and build. Our leadership in the use of these tools allows us to manage and design complex process systems as efficiently as possible.•Security Products - We provide security products, services and solutions that leverage our design, integration and process engineering technologies to build small footprint, minimally-intrusive secure commerce systems for our customers. Our VACIS systems enable the rapid scanning of vehicles and cargo using patented technology that produces a high-quality image using a low radiation dose while using less space and processing higher volumes of cars and trucks than other scanning systems. Our Reveal line of explosive detection systems for checked airline baggage pioneered the “reduced size” segment of this market, with small, flexible systems that can be installed at airport check-in counters. We also have a line of Exploranium radiation detection systems, which are used today at ports, border crossings, and industrial facilities around the world - including most ports and border crossings in the United States. •Power Grid Engineering - We provide power grid engineering services and solutions to a broad customer set and have unique offerings including a smart grid as a service solution. We are working with energy companies to develop analytical products that fully exploit the data enabled by smart grid technology.  We provide engineering and consulting to electric utilities and transmission companies. Our focus is on Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report 2PART I   engineering design of the grid from distribution through transmission, and significant substation design and upgrade work. We also administer energy efficiency programs for states and utilities and provide an array of consulting services for utilities.•Federal Environmental and Engineering - We provide consulting and engineering, primarily for the Department of Defense (DoD). We support the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) as well as other permitting activities. We also have specialty consulting associated with specific environmental issues, such as underwater environmental issues, radiologic clean up, risk assessment training ranges and other specific needs. We support site cleanup and remediation efforts. The other portion of this business is engineering design and build, where we design high-content facilities such as unique testing facilities and training centers.•Transaction and Valuation Consulting - We provide transaction and asset valuation services for the power industry. Our primary customers are the large lending institutions that require a comprehensive assessment of proposed projects for financing. Our analysts study technologies, designs, operational plans, fuel needs and financial trends in power markets to evaluate the viability of projects. We also provide oversight work at projects site on behalf of lenders or owners.  National Security SolutionsNational Security Solutions provides solutions and systems for air, land, sea, space and cyberspace for the U.S. intelligence community, the DoD, the military services, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and government agencies of U.S. allies abroad. Our solutions deliver technology, large scale intelligence systems, command and control, data analytics, cyber solutions, and intelligence analysis and operations support to critical missions around the world. Major customers of National Security Solutions include national and military intelligence agencies, and other federal, civilian and commercial customers in the national security complex. National Security Solutions represented 70%, 72% and 79% of total revenues for fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.We are redeploying our investments in business development to broaden our national security customer base in areas that were previously constrained by organizational conflict of interest regulations and which are now available to us as a result of the spin-off of New SAIC. While this investment will take time to develop, we are committed to moving a larger portion of our business to the longer term procurement accounts in the defense budget. Our national security business is focused on rapidly providing agile, cost effective solutions to the ever changing missions of our customers in the areas of technology, intelligence and cybersecurity.  •Technology - We have a history of successfully delivering a wide range of technology capabilities rapidly to the field. We provide solutions for the arms control and the intelligence agencies and the DoD service arms, including the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). This group focuses largely on distributed autonomous capabilities and systems, tying software and data capabilities together. We were an early developer of the first full spectrum ISR capability and placed it in theater during recent conflicts.•Intelligence - We offer intelligence services and solutions and are deeply embedded in our customer's most important missions. We provide systems development and operations support around the globe. We have over a decade of experience dealing with large data ingest, structured and unstructured data, modern cloud processing tools and agile development. We are supporting the army's migration of intelligence applications and infrastructure into the cloud and provide cloud computing architectures to the intelligence and the defense communities.•Cybersecurity - We offer high-end cybersecurity solutions that detect and manage the most sophisticated cyber threats. Our solutions include key management systems to protect transmitted data, development tools to exploit cyber intelligence, and programs to build comprehensive situational awareness on our nation's military and intelligence networks.Corporate and OtherThe Corporate and Other business segment includes the operations of various corporate activities, certain expense items that are not reimbursed by our U.S. Government customers and certain other revenue and expense items excluded from a reportable segment’s performance. Corporate and Other represented an immaterial percentage of revenue for fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013. The Corporate and Other segment in fiscal 2012 represented a negative Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report 3PART I   percentage of revenue of 7% primarily due to a revenue adjustment related to $540 million loss provision recorded in connection with the resolution of the CityTime matter.For additional information regarding our reportable segments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II and Note 16 of the combined notes to consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Acquisitions During the last five fiscal years, we have completed 13 acquisitions, most notably:•In fiscal 2014, we gained 100% control of a special purpose limited liability company, Plainfield Renewable Energy LLC (Plainfield), formed to create a renewable energy project. The Plainfield Renewable Energy Project involves the design, construction, and financing of a 37.5 megawatt biomass-fueled power plant in Plainfield, Connecticut. The acquisition was effected by a consensual foreclosure agreement pursuant to which the project owners agreed to transfer to us all of their equity interest in Plainfield in full satisfaction of certain secured obligations owed by the project owner to us. The foreclosure agreement constituted a change in control and was accounted for as a business combination. •In fiscal 2013, we acquired maxIT Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (maxIT), a provider of clinical, business and information technology services primarily to commercial hospital groups and other medical delivery organizations. This acquisition by our Health and Engineering segment expanded our commercial consulting practice in Electronic Health Record (EHR) implementation and optimization and strengthened our capabilities to provide these services to our federal healthcare customers as those customers migrate to commercial off-the-shelf EHR applications.•In fiscal 2012, we acquired Vitalize Consulting Solutions, Inc. (Vitalize), a provider of clinical, business and information technology services for healthcare enterprises. This acquisition by our Health and Engineering segment expanded our capabilities in both federal and commercial markets to help customers address EHR implementation and optimization demand.•In fiscal 2011, we acquired Cloudshield Technologies, Inc. (Cloudshield) a provider of cybersecurity and management services solutions. This acquisition by our National Security Solutions segment was intended to enhance our cybersecurity offerings and positions to bring to market deep packet inspection solutions for high speed networks, enabling us to better meet emerging customer requirements. We also acquired Reveal Imaging Technologies, Inc. (Reveal), a provider of threat detection products and services. This acquisition by our Health and Engineering segment enhanced our homeland security solutions portfolio by adding U.S. Transportation Security Administration certified explosive detection systems for checked baggage screening to our passenger and cargo inspections systems product offerings.•In fiscal 2010, we acquired R.W. Beck Group, Inc., a provider of business, engineering, energy and infrastructure consulting services. This acquisition by our Health and Engineering segment both enhanced our existing capabilities and offerings in the areas of energy and infrastructure consulting services and provided new capabilities and offerings in disaster preparedness and recovery services. We also acquired Science, Engineering and Technology Associates Corporation, a provider of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance information technologies.  This acquisition by our National Security Solutions segment enhanced our service offerings and capabilities by adding technologies used to detect if an individual is concealing explosive devices or other hidden weapons.DispositionsFrom time to time, we divest or management may commit to plans to divest of non-strategic components of our business. During the last five fiscal years, our most notable dispositions included:•In fiscal 2014, we committed to plans to dispose of Cloudshield, which was historically included in our National Security Solutions segment, primarily focused on producing a suite of cybersecurity hardware and associated software and services.Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report 4PART I   •In fiscal 2013, we completed the sale of certain components of our business, which were historically included in our Health and Engineering segment, primarily focused on providing operational test and evaluation services to U.S. Government customers.•In fiscal 2012, we completed the sale of certain components of our business which were historically included in our Health and Engineering segment, primarily focused on providing information technology services to international oil and gas companies.Key CustomersSubstantially all of our revenues are generated in the United States. Our total revenues are largely attributable to prime contracts or to subcontracts with other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. Government, with remaining being customers across a variety of commercial markets.  Within the U.S. Government, our revenues are diversified across many agencies, including various intelligence agencies, the U.S. Army, Navy and Air Force, research agencies like the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), the Department of Homeland Security, NASA and others.The percentage of total revenues for the U.S. Government its agencies and other customers comprising more than 10% of total revenues for each of the three years ended January 31, 2014 were as follows: Year Ended January 31 2014 2013 2012U.S. Government78% 81% 83%U.S. DoD68% 69% 72%U.S. Army19% 23% 25%These customers have a number of subsidiary agencies which have separate budgets and procurement functions. Our contracts may be with the highest level of these agencies or with the subsidiary agencies of these customers.Employees and ConsultantsAs of January 31, 2014, we employed approximately 22,000 full and part-time employees. We also utilize consultants to provide specialized technical and other services on specific projects. The experience and expertise of our employees makes Leidos capable of solving the most daunting problems facing our customers. More than 40% of our employees have greater than five years of service with our company and more than 10,400 Leidos employees possess DoD, TS/SCI, SAP/SAR, and DoE security clearances. The highly technical and complex services and products that we provide are dependent upon the availability of professional, administrative and technical personnel having high levels of training and skills and, in many cases, security clearances. Due to the increased competition for qualified personnel, we have experienced and may continue to face difficulties in attracting and retaining employees. We intend to continue to devote significant resources to recruit, develop and retain qualified employees.Leidos has a framework of values, beliefs, and expectations that guide the company’s employees. The company has three tenants that define the actions and behaviors of its employees:•Employees are inspired to make a difference. We solve the world’s toughest problems; connect cross-enterprise knowledge and technology; and unlock creativity and innovation by embracing differences.•Employees are passionate about customer success. We make customer needs our own; create market-leading solutions; and deliver superior results.•Employees are united as a team. We behave with ethics and integrity; trust one another; collaborate and share ideas; and create value for our employees, shareholders and communities.Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report 5PART I   Research and DevelopmentWe conduct research and development activities under customer-funded contracts and with company-funded internal research and development (IR&D) funds. IR&D efforts consist of projects involving basic research, applied research, development, and systems and other concept formulation studies. IR&D expenses are included in selling, general and administrative expenses and are generally allocated to U.S. Government contracts. In fiscal 2014, 2013, and 2012, our company-funded IR&D expense was $45 million, $47 million, and $74 million, respectively. We charge expenses for research and development activities performed under customer contracts directly to cost of revenues for those contracts.Patents and Proprietary InformationOur technical services and products are not generally dependent upon patent protection, although we do selectively seek patent protection. We claim a proprietary interest in certain of our products, software programs, methodologies and know-how. This proprietary information is protected by copyrights, trade secrets, licenses, contracts and other means. We selectively pursue opportunities to license or transfer our technologies to third parties.In connection with the performance of services, the U.S. Government has certain rights to inventions, data, software codes and related material that we develop under U.S. Government-funded contracts and subcontracts. Generally, the U.S. Government may disclose or license such information to third parties, including, in some instances, our competitors. In the case of some subcontracts that we perform, the prime contractor may also have certain rights to the programs and products that we develop under the subcontract.CompetitionCompetition for contracts is intense, and we often compete against a large number of established multinational corporations that may have greater name and brand recognition, financial resources, and larger technical staffs. We also compete against smaller, more specialized companies that concentrate their resources on particular areas, as well as the U.S. Government’s own capabilities and federal non-profit contract research centers. As a result of the diverse requirements of the U.S. Government and our commercial customers, we frequently collaborate with other companies to compete for large contracts, and bid against these same companies in other situations. We believe that our principal competitors currently include the following companies:•the engineering and technical services divisions of large defense contractors that provide U.S. Government IT services in addition to other hardware systems and products, including companies such as The Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, BAE Systems plc, L-3 Communications Corporation and Raytheon Company;•contractors focused principally on technical services, including U.S. Government IT services, such as  Booz Allen Hamilton Inc., Engility Holdings, Inc., CACI International Inc, ManTech International Corporation, Serco Group plc, SRA International, Inc. and MITRE Corporation;•diversified commercial and U.S. Government IT providers, such as Accenture plc, Computer Sciences Corporation, HP Enterprise Services, International Business Machines Corporation and Unisys Corporation;•contractors that provide engineering, consulting, design and construction services, such as Jacobs Engineering Group, URS Corporation, KBR, Inc. and CH2M Hill Companies Ltd.;•contractors focused on supplying homeland security product solutions, including American Science and Engineering, Inc., OSI Systems, Inc., L-3 Communications Corporation, General Electric Company and Smiths Group plc; and •contractors providing supply chain management and other logistics services, including Agility Logistics Corp.We compete on various factors, including our technical expertise and qualified professional and/or security-cleared personnel; our ability to deliver innovative cost-effective solutions in a timely manner; successful program execution; our reputation and standing with customers, pricing, and the size and geographic presence of our company.Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report 6PART I   The U.S. Government has indicated that it intends to increase competition for future procurement of products and services, which has led to fewer sole source awards and more emphasis on cost-competitiveness and affordability. In addition, procurement initiatives to improve efficiency, refocus priorities, and enhance best practices could result in fewer new opportunities for our industry as a whole, which would intensify competition within the industry as companies compete for a more limited set of new programs.Contract ProcurementOur business is heavily regulated and we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government and other contracts. The U.S. Government procurement environment has evolved due to statutory and regulatory procurement reform initiatives. Today, U.S. Government customers employ several contracting methods to purchase services and products. Budgetary pressures and reforms in the procurement process have caused many U.S. Government customers to increasingly purchase services and products using contracting methods that give them the ability to select multiple contract winners or pre-qualify certain contractors to provide services or products on established general terms and conditions rather than through single award contracts. The predominant contracting methods through which U.S. Government agencies procure services and products include the following:•Single Award Contracts. U.S. Government agencies may procure services and products through single award contracts which specify the scope of services or products purchased and identify the contractor that will provide the specified services or products. When an agency has a requirement, the agency will issue a solicitation or request for proposal to which interested contractors can submit a proposal. The process of issuing solicitations or request for proposals and evaluating contractor bids requires the agency to maintain a large, professional procurement staff and the bidding and selection process can take a year or more to complete. For the contractor, this method of contracting may provide greater certainty of the timing and amounts to be received at the time of contract award because it generally results in the customer contracting for a specific scope of services or products from the single successful awardee.•Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) Contracts. The U.S. Government uses IDIQ contracts to obtain commitments from contractors to provide certain services or products on pre-established terms and conditions. The U.S. Government then issues task orders under the IDIQ contracts to purchase the specific services or products it needs. IDIQ contracts are awarded to one or more contractors following a competitive procurement process. Under a single-award IDIQ contract, all task orders under that contract are awarded to one pre-selected contractor. Under a multiple-award IDIQ contract, task orders can be awarded to any of the pre-selected contractors, which can result in further limited competition for the award of task orders. Multiple-award IDIQ contracts that are open for any government agency to use for procurement are commonly referred to as “government-wide acquisition contracts”. IDIQ contracts often have multi-year terms and unfunded ceiling amounts, therefore enabling, but not committing, the U.S. Government to purchase substantial amounts of services or products from one or more contractors. At the time an IDIQ contract is awarded (prior to the award of any task orders), a contractor may have limited or no visibility as to the ultimate amount of services or products that the U.S. Government will purchase under the contract, and in the case of a multiple-award IDIQ, the contractor from which such purchases may be made.•U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) Schedule Contracts. The GSA maintains listings of approved suppliers of services and products with agreed-upon prices for use throughout the U.S. Government. In order for a company to provide services under a GSA Schedule contract, a company must be pre-qualified and awarded a contract by the GSA. When an agency uses a GSA Schedule contract to meet its requirements, the agency, or the GSA on behalf of the agency, conducts the procurement. The user agency, or the GSA on its behalf, evaluates the user agency’s requirements and initiates a competition limited to GSA Schedule qualified contractors. GSA Schedule contracts are designed to provide the user agency with reduced procurement time and lower procurement costs. Similar to IDIQ contracts, at the time a GSA Schedule contract is awarded, a contractor may have limited or no visibility as to the ultimate amount of services or products that the U.S. Government will purchase under the contract.We often team with other parties, including our competitors, to submit bids for large U.S. Government procurements or other opportunities where we believe that the combination of services and products that we can provide as a team will help us win and perform the contract. Our relationships with our teammates, including whether we serve as the prime contractor or as a subcontractor, vary with each contract opportunity and typically depend on the Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report 7PART I   program, contract or customer requirements, as well as the relative size, qualifications, capabilities, customer relationships and experience of our company and our teammates.Contracting with the U.S. Government also subjects us to substantial regulation and unique risks, including the U.S. Government’s ability to cancel any contract at any time through a termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government. Most of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees for work performed where the U.S. Government issues a termination for convenience. These regulations and risks are described in more detail below under “Business–Regulation” and “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Contract TypesGenerally, the type of contract for our services and products is determined by or negotiated with the U.S. Government and may depend on certain factors, including the type and complexity of the work to be performed, degree and timing of the responsibility to be assumed by the contractor for the costs of performance, the extent of price competition and the amount and nature of the profit incentive offered to the contractor for achieving or exceeding specified standards or goals. We generate revenues under several types of contracts, including the following:•Cost-reimbursement contracts provide for reimbursement of our direct contract costs and allocable indirect costs, plus a fee. This type of contract is generally used when uncertainties involved in contract performance do not permit costs to be estimated with sufficient accuracy to use a fixed-price contract. Cost-reimbursement contracts generally subject us to lower risk, but generally require us to use our best efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within a specified time and amount of costs.•Time-and-materials (T&M) cont