 As we approach a world where cars drive themselves, free time is spent in AR, and even your houseplants are connected to the internet, we’re going to need a whole lot more internet. Let me ask you a question. Do you like buffering? Of course you don’t. No one does. Which is why thousands of engineers are working nonstop in windowless buildings right now to make “5G.” Imagine having the reliability of an ethernet cord everywhere you go, in the car, on a hike, or downtown… except, without the cord. On top of that we’re talking WAY more capacity and WAY more speed. How much you ask? You’ll get: 10 times the devices 10 times the available spectrum 10 times the download speed And a fraction of the latency Heck, we’ll even throw in a pinecone scented air freshener One thing to note about 5G is that it’s not a “single” new technology at all 5G is actually comprised of a number of awesome improvements to existing 4G technologies. Think of it like a scooter modded out with rocket engines, giant wings, and sweet lasers. (pew pew pew pew) While the industry is still not sure what 5G’s final form will be, we’re pretty sure it will make use of a few key technologies. Like millimeter waves - Tiny waves that carry a not so tiny amount of information. Seriously, it’s huge. BUT they can’t penetrate walls... or tiny bits of foliage Which is where small cells come in - A bunch of tiny towers to help send the tiny waves. Together they form a sort of “relay team” to maneuver around objects that would normally block millimeter waves - keeping you at “full bars” all the time. Speaking of antennas we should also mention Massive MIMO -  A fancy word for lots of antennas at once. Seriously, that’s it, cell towers will have more antennas, like 10x more. And with great antennas comes great responsibility. And by responsibility we mean you gotta limit interference. That’s, why you need Beamforming -  basically Star Trek for data streams Seriously it’s crazy cool. With beamforming, antennas will be able to form a hyper directed, ‘beam-me-up-scotty’ style data stream that’s super fast and super reliable. By their powers combined these technologies will form the bedrock for 5G. And with it, loads of life-changing applications will be brought into the world. Whether that’s free-range virtual reality, remote-controlled surgery, or sidewalks talking to lampposts, talking to turn signals to save that little cat. OH MY GOD look at it’s cute little face. Basically that sweet connection you have in your smart home, will be brought out everywhere you go. From smart home, to smart world. Pretty cool right? But to get there, we’re going to need all of these technologies working together. Luckily, Qorvo’s spent the last 30 years developing similarly awesome tech for the defense industry, giving us the edge to make 5G a reality. Thanks engineers! Alright you can come out now. 