 Hi--my name is Randy. I'm an application engineer at Keysight. Remember when wideband cdma was considered wide, which had a channel bandwidth of 5 MHz. Today's modern communication systems are using bandwidth in excess of a gigahertz. Take, for example, 802.11ad, which has a channel bandwidth of 2 GHz. In the future, 802.11ay will have even wider bandwidth through the use of channel bonding. Even 5G is using wider modulation bandwidths. Everybody wants to have higher data rates to the end user, and one of the ways this is being done is through the use of wider modulation bandwidth at the microwave and millimeter wave frequencies. Today I'm going to show you a demo using our AWG and UXA to generate and analyze ultra-wide bandwidth signals. Let’s take a look at the demo setup. We’ll start with the M8195A arbitrary waveform generator. This has a sample rate up to 65 gigasamples per second. This enables us to generate signals that have a bandwidth in excess of 10 GHz. In this demo we're going to generate an IF directly centered at 5 GHz, with a bandwidth of nearly 10 GHz. This will be the input to our up-converter. We're also using a MXG signal generator as the LO. This gets mixed with the IF to produce an output at a frequency of 83.5 GHz. The output of our up-converter goes through an amplifier to increase the signal level and then the output of the amplifier--we go from a waveguide to coax transition and then we go to our UXA signal analyzer, the N9041B, which has a frequency range from DC all the way 110 GHz. The UXA has an internal digitizer that can digitize signals up to a GHz in bandwidth. Because we have a signal that is nearly 10 GHz wide, we're going to take the IF output of 5 GHz and use that to drive one of our wide bandwidth oscilloscopes. Where we have the VSA software running which will do the demodulation for our demonstration. So let me show you how we generated the signal for this demo. We’re using our IQ Tools application, which comes with the M8195 AWG to generate our wide bandwidth signal. First we're going to set the symbol rate to 7.1 GHz. We’ll set the modulation type to 16 QAM. We’ll set the filter to a Root Raised cosine filter with an alpha of .35, and then we'll set the carrier offset to 5 GHz. So this will give us a 16 QAM signal with a bandwidth of nearly 10 GHz centered at an IF of 5 GHz. Once you're satisfied with the settings, we press the download button, and it gets downloaded into the AWG and begins generating the signal. Now that we've generated the signal, let's take a look at the spectrum on the signal analyzer. We're making a swept tuned measurement of our spectrum coming out of the upconverter. On the screen you can see the upper and lower mixing products of the LO and the IF. The signal that we’re actually demodulating is centered at 83.5 GHz. The UXA has several band breaks over its frequency range and because of this, the specified bandwidth of the analyzer is 5 GHz. However, in many other frequencies of bandwidth it’s much wider. In fact, you can see today we're generating and analyzing a signal that's 10 GHz wide at 83.5 GHz, which is in the lightly licensed e-band region. Now we're going to demodulate the signal and look at the demodulation metrics. To do that, we're going to use our VSA software. In the upper left screen, you see the constellation diagram, which shows the 16 QAM signal. In the lower left screen, you see the spectrum which shows nearly a 10 GHz bandwidth. And then, if we look in the lower middle screen, we can see the EVM, which shows an incredible result considering the very wide modulation bandwidth that we’re using. Then in the upper right part of the screen, we see the overall channel response from the equalizer and in the lower right we see the CCDF curve. The flexibility of the VSA software enables a large number of other traces and metrics to be displayed, depending upon your specific requirements and device under test. If you're an R&D engineer working on ultra-wide bandwidth communication systems, consider Keysight’s off-the-shelf solutions with capability up to 110 GHz. For more information, visit us on the web. Thanks for watching. 