 5G and Narrowband IoT: In the future, companies will rely on  these two radio technology standards when implementing digital solutions. 5G allows for data transfer with minimal delay. Narrowband IoT penetrates walls and is ideal  for the many applications of the Internet of Things. 5G technologies are broadband technologies,  which are needed for transferring large amounts of data. In contrast, Narrowband IoT – a radio technology  using low bandwidth – transfers only small amounts of information, ... ... thereby consuming extremely low amounts of energy. 5G, the mobile communication standard which experts also refer to as  a super mobile communication standard, will enable data transmission rates ... ... of more than one gigabit per second.  With this it will be ten times faster than LTE. Why do we need 5G, ... ... when we can watch jitter-free movies on our smartphone already today? It is about more than that. Unlike in the past, we do not focus only on the  data transmission rates of 5G. Instead, the focus is on new applications, ... ... which have to meet challenging demands. The primary focus is on latency,  which is the time of delay between the retrieval and the arrival of data. 5G technology should reduce this time to a millisecond. Today, we observe  latencies of ten to 20 milliseconds even in the best networks. A millisecond would be a lot faster than the blink of the human eye, which takes about a 100 milliseconds. And faster than the flap of a honey bee’s wing,  which still takes five milliseconds. But who needs such speed? An ideal application for 5G will be automated  and connected driving in road traffic. For this, we need real-time capability and guaranteed reliability.  Because this is about safety-critical applications. But does Germany play an international role  when it comes to autonomous driving? Germany should not be underestimated when it comes to autonomous driving. We are among the leaders in 5G technology, ... ... because key applications of 5G will be in our classical industries:  the automotive, energy or logistics industry. The logistics sector and other industries already  benefit from Narrowband IoT today. Connected devices, such as smart meters, can transmit signals out  of every building. Another practical example: People who take an elevator ... ... or drive into an underground garage will most likely encounter a dead spot.  This is not a problem for Narrowband IoT. All industries that transfer and need relatively small amounts of  information will benefit from NB IoT. We are, however, mostly talking about industrial applications.  The connection of in-house and external processes is a ... ... very decisive factor for connecting the different networks  for production, trade and logistics with each other. Radio communication with low bandwidth has many additional advantages.  And these will be crucial in the Internet of Things. In the year 2020, ... ... more than 20 billion devices will be connected. And all these devices  will somehow be connected to a router and be sending data. High scalability is an obvious strength of NB IoT. We are talking about  factor 100 compared to classical GSM mobile communication applications. This is ideal in the logistics sector because in future we will be  connecting a lot of containers using NB IoT technology. And when will there be applications for Narrowband IoT? There are already vast amounts of applications  that can be realized with Narrowband IoT. Yet, I would not recommend missing this business opportunity. 