  Good morning. Today I've got some big news about everybody's favorite buzzword-- 5G. But to do that, I need to explain a little bit about what's going on in the industry right now. A couple of weeks ago, we changed the wireless landscape in this country forever when we secured a ton of 600-megahertz spectrum nationwide. This is huge for us and for our customers. Then, last week, we demolished Verizon and AT&T again by taking more than 1,000% of the industry growth in the first quarter-- no real surprises there. We've been doing it every year for three years now. And it's not just their wireless businesses that are suffering. Their networks are clogging up, ever since they copied us and launched unlimited LTE. AT&T speeds have dropped 4%, and Verizon's dropped a staggering 14%. Ouch. Verizon and AT&T's networks are losing speed. They're losing customers. Their backs are against the wall. So what do they do next? They pretend to launch 5G. AT&T announced eight 5G evolution cities that will get, at some point this year, what are basically LTE technologies that we launched in 2016. Media called it, and I quote, "bullshit and fake and ruining 5G." For once, I didn't have to say it. And I agree wholeheartedly, especially with the bullshit part. Meanwhile, Verizon keeps talking about fixed 5G to replace broadband to your house. And last Friday, they published some blog about their network, saying that they don't need 600 megahertz spectrum. It feels a little defensive to me. The duopoly really hopes that fixed 5G will allow them to compete with big cable for your home broadband. Of course, that should be really fun to watch, because if there's anyone consumers hate more than the duopoly, it's probably big cable. For things like fixed 5G, they have to use spectrum that can't travel very far, just about a city block, at the most. The duopoly's 5G strategy is basically a series of hotspots. That's no solution for mobile 5G coverage or coverage anywhere outside a small area downtown. And this brings me to our important news about 5G. I'm announcing that T-Mobile is committing to build a real nationwide mobile 5G network, using the new spectrum we acquired. You heard that right. First, part of our new 600-megahertz spectrum is going to LTE. Then part will be dedicated to a fantastic nationwide 5G network. This means that T-Mobile is the first company to commit to building a nationwide 5G network, no bullshit. And I'm also announcing today that T-Mobile will deploy mobile 5G on our other spectrum bands, including our 28 and 39 mid band and others. Look, 5G will ultimately use all of the spectrum bands. There is no such thing as 5G spectrum. It's just spectrum, and 5G will work on all of it. And T-Mobile is in an ideal position to deliver on the promises of 5G, so your 5G phone will work nationwide on T-Mobile. Make no mistake about it. This is huge. Yes, because we're committing to making something nationwide-- not hotspots, not fixed broadband, but something real and substantial across the whole country. Just imagine-- applications will be faster and better. In fact, a whole new class of applications will emerge, like immersive, augmented reality; sensors that enable us to LoJack everything and never lose our stuff again; earpieces that translate in real time and literally erase language barriers; and so, so much more. We can't even imagine all the cool stuff that's coming. Now, unlike the other guys, I'm not claiming that this is right around the corner this year or next. 5G standards are still being defined, and there's a lot of work to do. But it will be here in the next two to three years, and it will be incredible, and T-Mobile will be at the forefront of unlocking the 5G future for everyone. It's going to be amazing, because we simply won't stop. 