BUSINESSServiceNow is a leading provider of enterprise cloud computing solutions that define, structure, manage and automate services for global enterprises. Our mission is to help our customers improve service levels and reduce costs while scaling and automating their businesses.We offer a comprehensive set of cloud-based services that automate workflow within and between departments in an enterprise. Historically, our focus was on solving challenges found in enterprise information technology (IT) departments, and we pioneered the use of the cloud to deliver IT service management applications. We now provide workflow solutions that go beyond the scope of the IT department and have extended our focus to service management for customer support, human resources, security operations and other enterprise departments where a patchwork of semi-automated and manual processes had been used in the past. Using our cloud services, users can easily request business services from these departments, service levels from these departments improve and overall the business runs more efficiently. All of our cloud services are built on our proprietary platform which features one code base and one data model. The platform also enables customers to easily create, by themselves or with our partners, their own service-oriented business applications across the enterprise. We deliver our software via the Internet as a service, through an easy-to-use, consumer product-like interface, which means it can be easily configured and rapidly deployed.We market our services to enterprises in a wide variety of industries, including financial services, consumer products, IT services, health care, government, education and technology. We sell our subscription services primarily through direct sales and, to a lesser extent, through indirect channel sales. We also provide a portfolio of comprehensive professional services to customers through our professional services experts and a network of partners. As of December 31, 2016, we had approximately 3,600 enterprise customers, including more than 30% of the world’s 2,000 largest companies, as defined by an annual ranking by Forbes magazine.We were incorporated as Glidesoft, Inc. in California in June 2004 and changed our name to Service-now.com in February 2006. In May 2012, we reincorporated into Delaware as ServiceNow, Inc.Key Customer BenefitsKey customer benefits of our services include:Security, Scalability and Performance. Our cloud-based architecture, customer-dedicated software and network resources, and high-availability infrastructure deliver security, scalability and performance to our customers' operations.Automation. Our platform enables the implementation of standardized, automated workflows that reduce inefficiencies and the costs incurred by our customers in deploying enterprise-wide service management solutions.Cloud delivery.  The ease of implementing, configuring and upgrading our cloud-based applications enable the rapid delivery of solutions to service management requirements across the enterprise.1Single system of record. Consolidating service management applications across the enterprise onto one platform improves the manageability of IT systems, enhances compliance and reporting and reduces costs.User satisfaction. We deliver a consumer product-like experience that improves user satisfaction and increases adoption.Expertise. We offer customers an extensive network of experts, in addition to community-based and self-help support, so that customers have the resources to design, implement and manage enterprise-wide solutions.Our StrategyOur goal is to be the recognized leader of cloud-based services that automate service management requirements across the enterprise. We believe the market for our solutions is significant and growing, and we intend to continue to make significant investments to expand our operational capacity and global market adoption. Key elements of our growth strategy include:Drive service management transformation. We will continue to inspire and lead global enterprises to transform service management by standardizing, consolidating and automating services across their businesses on our applications and platform.Invest in technology leadership. We will continue to make significant investments in research and development to enhance our existing applications and deliver new applications, as well as develop new automation and machine intelligence technologies. We typically deliver ongoing innovation to our customers in two upgrades per year. We will also look to acquire technology and talent through acquisitions and partnerships.Expand our customer base. We will continue to expand our customer base through additional investments in our direct sales force, strategic reseller and influencer partnerships, and our cloud infrastructure and data centers. We will make these investments in new and existing geographies in which we compete.Extend our relationships with existing customers. We will continue to expand adoption of our services within our existing customer base by marketing, selling and further enhancing our applications and platform capabilities that deliver business benefits to our customers.Develop our partner ecosystem. Our partners provide us and our customers with an important extension of product, solution and geographic reach. We intend to further strengthen and expand our relationships with strategic resellers, system integrators, managed service providers, global service providers and independent software vendors.Strengthen our customer community. Customer success is our most critical objective, and we will continue to invest in resources that our customers value. Our annual user conference Knowledge, vertical market and other user groups, online community sharing and educational programs are among the ways we collaborate with and deliver ongoing value to our customers.Our Cloud Services ServiceNow PlatformThe ServiceNow platform is the foundation of our cloud-based services and all of our applications are built on this one cloud platform. It provides a single data model, common services and delivers a single system of record with the ability to orchestrate actions to get work done across the enterprise. Common services provided by the platform include workflow, configuration management database, service catalog, service portal, knowledge management, reporting and analytics, data benchmarking, visual task boards, built-in and optional encryption capabilities and collaboration and developer tools. The platform also enables developers in IT and other departments across the enterprise to create, test and deploy their own applications within an integrated development environment while leveraging the single data model and common services of the platform.2Information Technology (IT)We have three product suites focused on meeting the challenges of enterprise IT management and operations. Our IT Service Management (ITSM) product suite defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates IT services that are offered to an enterprise’s employees, customers and partners.  Among its capabilities, our ITSM product suite records incidents, remediates problems and oversees the management of IT resources. Our second product suite, IT Operations Management (ITOM), connects a customer's physical and cloud-based IT infrastructure with our applications and platform. It identifies a customer's IT infrastructure components (e.g., servers) and associated business services (e.g., email) which are dependent upon that infrastructure. It also maintains a single data record for all IT configurable items, which allows our customers to exercise control over their on-premise or cloud-based infrastructures and orchestrate key processes and tasks. Finally, our IT Business Management (ITBM) product suite enables customers to manage their IT priorities, including the scope and cost of IT projects, the development of software related to those projects and the overall management of the customer's IT project portfolio.Customer ServiceOur customer service management product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates customer service cases and requests. It allows common customer requests such as password resets to be automated with out-of-the-box self-service, and for other cases it routes work from the customer service agent to field service, engineering, operations, finance, or legal personnel to resolve the underlying issues. Our field service management application allows field service agents to be effectively assigned, deployed and managed on the same underlying customer service management platform that created and managed the customer incident.Human Resources (HR)Our HR service management product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates human resources services related to employee requests. HR service management capabilities include HR case management, employee self-service, knowledge management and management of employee lifecycle events such as onboarding, transfers and off-boarding.Security OperationsOur security operations management product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates security operations management requirements of third-party and other sources of security alerts from a customer's infrastructure. Security operations management capabilities include security incident management, threat enrichment intelligence, vulnerability response management and security incident intelligence sharing. Our governance, risk and compliance management product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates cross-functional governance, risk and compliance workflows such as compliance controls and risk mitigation.  Comprehensive Professional Services We offer a portfolio of comprehensive services that help ensure customer success. Professional Services. Through ServiceNow professional services and partner professional services, we provide implementation and configuration services to drive value realization of the ServiceNow solutions.Education Services. We offer training services and certification programs for different levels of ServiceNow expertise. Our training portfolio is customized for various skill levels and individual schedules.Customer Support. As part of their subscription, customers receive support 24 hours a day, seven days a week around the globe, from technical resources located in Orlando, San Diego and Santa Clara in the United States, as well as internationally in Amsterdam, London, and Sydney. We also offer self-service technical support through our support portal, which provides access to documentation, knowledge base, online support forums and online incident filing.  3 Our Technology and OperationsWe designed our cloud computing service to support global enterprises. We operate a multi-instance architecture that provides each customer with its own dedicated application and database. This architecture is designed to deliver high-availability, scalability, performance, security and ease of upgrading. Our data centers process billions of record-producing transactions per month and manage multiple petabytes of data across our customer base. We have a standardized Java-based development environment, with the majority of our software written in industry standard software programming languages. Our infrastructure primarily consists of industry standard servers and network components. Our operating system and database are Linux and MySQL, respectively.Our data centers operate in a paired configuration to enable replication for high-availability and redundancy. We operate data centers in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Hong Kong, the Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States.We employ technologies, policies and procedures designed to protect customer data. Our services have received SSAE 16 (SOC 1 Type 1 and Type 2), SOC 2, ISO 27001 and ISO 27018 third-party attestations. Our U.S. federal services have also received a FedRAMP Provisional Authority to Operate that can be used by our U.S. federal customer base in addition to a Department of Defense Provisional Authority to Operate at Impact Level 2. Additionally, our data center providers have received an ISO 27001 or SSAE 16 attestation or equivalent.We offer customers the option to be deployed on dedicated hardware in our data centers. Our architecture also gives us the added flexibility to deploy our service on-premises at a customer data center in order to support regulatory or security requirements, and a minority of our customers have elected to do so. We generally provide remote installation services and customer support to customers who have installed our services on-premises at their data center similar to the way we support customer instances deployed in our own managed data centers.Sales and Marketing We sell our services primarily through our global direct sales organization. We also sell our services indirectly through third-party channels by partnering with systems integrators, managed services providers and resale partners, particularly in less developed markets.Our marketing efforts and lead generation activities consist primarily of customer referrals, Internet advertising, trade shows, industry events and press releases. We also host our annual Knowledge global user conference, webinars and other customer forums where customers and partners both participate in and present on a variety of programs designed to help accelerate marketing success with our services and platform. We are investing in new geographies, including investment in direct and indirect sales channels, professional services capabilities, customer support resources and implementation partners. In addition to adding new geographies, we also plan to increase our investment in our existing locations in order to achieve scale efficiencies in our sales and marketing efforts.Customers We primarily sell our services to large enterprise customers. We host and support large enterprise-wide deployments for our customers. As of December 31, 2016, we had approximately 3,600 enterprise customers, including more than 30% of the Global 2000, an annual ranking of the top 2,000 public companies in the world by Forbes magazine. Our customers operate in a wide variety of industries, including financial services, consumer products, IT services, health care, technology and government. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues for any of the periods presented.  BacklogBacklog represents future unearned revenue amounts to be invoiced under our existing agreements and is not included in the deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, we had backlog of approximately $1.9 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively. We expect backlog will change from period to period for several reasons, including the timing and duration of customer subscription and professional services agreements, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements, and the timing of customer renewals.4Financial Information about Segments and Geographic AreasWe manage our operations and allocate resources as a single organizational entity, and therefore we manage, monitor and report our financials as a single reporting segment. For information regarding our revenue, revenue by geographic area and long-lived assets by geographic area, please refer to Note 2 and Note 17 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For financial information about our segment, please refer to the section entitled “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of Part II and to our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding risks associated with our international operations, please refer to the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development, testing and certification of our software solutions. We focus on developing new services and core technologies and further enhancing the functionality, reliability and performance of existing solutions. We focus our efforts on anticipating customer demand and then bringing new services and new versions of existing services to market quickly in order to remain competitive in the marketplace. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to strengthen our existing applications, expand the number of applications on our platform and develop additional automation and machine intelligence technologies. Total research and development expense was $285.2 million, $217.4 million and $148.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.Competition The markets for our solutions and enterprise cloud services generally are fragmented, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for service management matures, we expect competition to intensify. We compete primarily with large, well-established, enterprise application software vendors, in-house solutions, large integrated systems vendors and established and emerging cloud vendors. Many prospective customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate their current enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate away from their current solution to an enterprise cloud solution. Accordingly, we compete with both enterprise application software vendors that provide on-premise software and with vendors providing cloud based services.Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. Our primary competitors include BMC Software, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation, SAP and Salesforce.com. Further, other potential competitors not currently offering competitive products may expand their services to compete with our services. As we continue to expand the breadth of our services to include offerings for service domains outside of IT, we expect increasing competition from platform vendors and from application development vendors focused on these other markets.Various factors influence purchase decisions in our industry, including total cost of ownership, level of customer satisfaction, breadth and depth of product functionality, security and adherence to industry standards, brand awareness, flexibility and performance. We believe that we compete favorably with our competitors on each of these factors. However, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources and may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. An existing competitor or new entrant could introduce new technology that reduces demand for our services. In addition, some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Some of our larger competitors also have the operating flexibility to bundle competing products and services with other software offerings, including offering them at a lower price as part of a larger sale. As competition intensifies, we expect pricing competition to continue or increase.Intellectual Property We rely upon a combination of copyright, trade secret, patent and trademark laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality and license agreements, to establish, protect and grow our intellectual property (IP) rights. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, partners, vendors, consultants and other third parties and control access to our IP and other proprietary information. We also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products or services.5We continue to grow our patent portfolio and IP rights around the world that relate to our products, services, research and development and other activities, and our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and IP. We file patent applications to protect our IP and believe that the duration of our issued patents is sufficient when considering the expected lives of our products. However, we cannot be certain that any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent or whether the examination process will result in patents of value or applicability. In addition, any patents that may be issued may be contested, circumvented, found unenforceable or invalidated, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing them.Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop products and services that provide features and functionality that are similar to our solutions. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. The laws of the countries in which we market our services may offer little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Our competitors could also independently develop services equivalent to ours, and our intellectual property rights may not be broad enough for us to prevent competitors from doing so. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business.Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against us, our channel partners or our customers. In addition, based on our greater visibility and market exposure as a public company, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims from third parties. For example, in 2016 we settled two patent-related litigation matters and recorded a one-time charge of $270.0 million related to aggregate legal settlements. See “Risk Factors-Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology or other rights could harm our business” and “Legal Proceedings” below for additional information.Employees As of December 31, 2016, we had 4,801 full-time employees worldwide, including 1,225 in cloud operations, professional services, training and customer support, 1,875 in sales and marketing, 1,054 in research and development and 647 in general and administrative roles. None of our U.S. employees is represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment. Employees in certain European countries are represented by workers' councils and also have the benefits of collective bargaining arrangements at the national level. We consider our relations with our employees to be very good and have not experienced interruptions of operations or work stoppages due to labor disagreements.Available InformationYou can obtain copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our website at www.servicenow.com as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we have filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing and our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.6