RISK FACTORSInvesting in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making an investment decision. We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment.Risks Related to Our Business and IndustryThe markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively our business and operating results will be adversely affected.The markets for our enterprise cloud solutions are rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for service management matures and new technologies and competitors enter the market, we expect competition to intensify. Our current competitors include:•large, well-established, enterprise application software vendors; •solutions developed in-house by our potential customers or using integrations with other tools;•large integrated systems vendors;•infrastructure-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service providers;•established and emerging cloud vendors; and •vendors of products and services for development operations. Many prospective customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate their current enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate away from their current solution to our enterprise cloud solutions. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more established customer relationships, larger marketing budgets and greater resources than we do. Further, other potential competitors not currently offering competitive products may expand their services to compete with our services. Acquisitions, integrations and consolidation by and among other companies in our industry may allow potential competitors to offer integrated or bundled products, enhanced functionality, or other advantages, which may impact our competitive position. We have expanded the breadth of our services to include offerings in the markets for IT operations management, customer service management, security operations management, HR service delivery and use of our platform by developers of custom applications. As a result, we expect increasing competition from platform vendors and from application development vendors focused on these other markets. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, customer requirements and buying practices. In addition, some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Larger competitors with more diverse product and service offerings may reduce the price of products or subscriptions that compete with ours or may bundle them with other products and subscriptions. We expect that smaller competitors and new entrants may accelerate pricing pressures, including in the IT service management market, which is our more mature offering and from which we derive the substantial majority of our revenues. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully, and competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our solutions to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which could harm our business.8Table of ContentsIf we do not accurately predict, prepare for, and respond promptly to rapidly evolving technological, market and customer developments, our competitive position and business prospects may be harmed. The markets in which we compete continue to evolve rapidly, and the pace of innovation will continue to accelerate, as public and private cloud solutions and infrastructure, massively scalable databases, mobile, workflow, consumer product-like user experiences, social, collaboration, machine learning, artificial intelligence, internet connected devices, robotic automation, security, cryptography, development tools, and other digital technologies increasingly become the basis for customer purchases. At the same time, our customers and prospective customers are either facing their own competitive imperatives to adopt digital technologies, or have been built on fully digital, modern IT technologies, resulting in the ongoing disruption of almost every sector of the global economy. Acquisitions, integrations and consolidation by and among companies in our industry may further accelerate changes in the markets in which we participate. Accordingly, to compete effectively in our rapidly changing markets, we must: identify and innovate in the right emerging technologies among the many in which we could make investments knowing that we cannot make substantial investments in all of them; accurately predict our customers’ changing business needs and priorities, including their technology infrastructures and buying practices; successfully deliver new platform and database technologies and products that scale to meet these needs and priorities; efficiently integrate with other technologies within our customers’ digital environments; profitably market and sell products to companies in markets where our sales and marketing teams have less experience, including to fully digital companies built on modern IT technologies that have historically not been strong buyers of ITSM and ITOM products like ours; and effectively deliver, either directly or through our ecosystem of partners, the business process planning, IT systems architecture planning, and product implementation services that our customers require to be successful. If we fail to meet any of these requirements, our competitive position and business prospects may be harmed.9Table of ContentsGlobal economic conditions may harm our industry, business and results of operations.We operate globally and as a result our business and revenues are impacted by global macroeconomic conditions. Global financial developments seemingly unrelated to us or the software industry may harm us. From time to time, the United States and other key international economies have been impacted by geopolitical and economic instability, high levels of credit defaults globally, international trade disputes, falling demand for a variety of goods and services, high levels of persistent unemployment and wage and income stagnation in some geographic markets, restricted credit, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies, international trade agreements, trade restrictions and overall uncertainty with respect to the economy. These conditions can arise suddenly and affect the rate of information technology spending and could adversely affect our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase our services, delay prospective customers’ purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscriptions, or affect renewal rates, all of which could harm our operating results. In 2019, for example, the growth rate in the economy of the EU, China, or the US, trade relations between the US and China, political uncertainty in the Middle East and other geopolitical events could directly or indirectly affect our business. Additionally, in connection with the June 2016 referendum by British voters to exit the EU (Brexit), the United Kingdom (the UK) and the EU announced in March 2018 an agreement in principle to transitional provisions under which E.U. law would remain in force in the UK until the end of December 2020, but this remains subject to the successful conclusion of a final withdrawal agreement between the parties. In the absence of such an agreement, there would be no transitional provisions and a “hard” exit of Britain from the European Union (hard Brexit) would occur on March 29, 2019. Although the terms of the UK’s future relationship with the EU are still unknown, it is possible that there will be a serious disruption of the E.U. financial services leading to global economic consequences and increased regulatory and legal complexities, including potentially divergent national laws and regulations between the UK and the EU. The UK’s exit from the EU may also cause disruption or create uncertainty surrounding our business, including affecting our relationship with our existing and future customers, suppliers and employees and resulting in increased costs or operational challenges.In addition, the effects, if any, of global financial conditions on our business can be difficult to distinguish from the effects on our business from product, pricing, and other developments in the markets specific to our products and our relative competitive strength. If we make incorrect judgments about our business for this reason our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.If we or our third-party service providers suffer a cyber-security event, we may lose customers and incur significant liabilities, any of which would harm our business and operating results.Our operations involve the storage, transmission and processing of our customers’ confidential, proprietary and sensitive data, including personally identifiable information, protected health information, financial information and, in some cases, government information. While we have security measures in place designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss, these measures may be breached as a result of employee error or third-party actions, including unintentional events or deliberate attacks by cyber criminals, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers’ data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information. In addition, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, contractors, or users to disclose information to gain access to our data or our customers’ data, and we may be the target of email scams that attempt to acquire personal information or company assets. Additionally, because we do not control our third-party service providers, or the processing of data by our third-party service providers, we cannot ensure the integrity or security of measures they take to protect customer information and prevent data loss. Moreover, computer malware, viruses and hacking, phishing and denial of service attacks by third parties have become more prevalent in our industry, and have occurred on our and our third-party service providers’ systems in the past and may occur on these systems in the future. Because techniques used to sabotage or obtain unauthorized access to systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until successfully launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We devote significant financial and personnel resources to implement and maintain security measures; however, as cyber-security threats develop, evolve, and grow more complex over time, it may be necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and infrastructure. A security breach suffered by us or our third-party service providers, an attack against our service availability or unauthorized access or loss of data could result in a disruption to our service, litigation, the triggering of service availability, indemnification and other contractual obligations, regulatory investigations, government fines and penalties, reputational damage, loss of sales and customers, mitigation and remediation expenses and other significant costs and liabilities. In addition, we may incur significant costs and operational consequences of investigating, remediating, eliminating and putting in place additional tools and devices designed to prevent actual or perceived security incidents, as well as the costs to comply with any notification obligations resulting from any security incidents. We also cannot be certain that our existing insurance coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover the potentially significant losses that may result from a security incident or breach or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim.10Table of ContentsFurther, in most instances, our customers administer access to the data held in their particular instance for their own employees and service providers. We offer tools and support for what we believe are best practices to maintain security utilizing our services, but customers are not required to utilize those tools or follow our suggested practices. As a result, or for other reasons, a customer may suffer a cyber-security event on its own systems, unrelated to our own, and as a result of that event, a malicious actor could obtain access to the customer’s information held on our platform. Even if such a breach is unrelated to our own security programs or practices, that breach could result in our incurring significant economic and operational costs in investigating, remediating, eliminating and putting in place additional tools and devices to further protect our customers from their own vulnerabilities, and could also result in reputational harm to us. As our business grows, we expect our revenue growth rate to continue to decline. We have experienced significant revenue growth in prior periods; however, our longer-term, revenue growth rate is declining, and we expect that it will continue to decline into the foreseeable future. We also expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to invest in our capacity to support anticipated growth. These investments may not result in increased revenues or growth in our business. You should not rely on our revenue for any prior quarterly or annual periods as any indication of our future revenue growth. If we are unable to maintain consistent revenue or revenue growth, our stock price could be volatile.We may continue to incur losses in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) during future periods.Although we have recent reported quarterly results that were profitable on a GAAP basis, we have incurred net losses in all fiscal years since our inception. Even if our revenues continue to increase, we may incur losses in accordance with GAAP during future periods due to increased costs such as non-cash charges associated with equity awards, business combinations and other expenses. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unforeseen or unpredictable factors that may result in increased costs. Furthermore, it is difficult to predict the size and growth rate of our market, customer demand for our products, customer adoption and renewal rates, and the entry of competitive products or the success of existing competitive products. As a result of these and other factors, we may not maintain profitability in the future, our gross margins and ability to generate cash flow from operations may be negatively impacted. If we fail to increase our revenues sufficiently to keep pace with our growing investments and other expenses, our business, operating results and growth prospects will be adversely affected.Delays in the release of, or actual or perceived defects in, new or updated products may slow the adoption of our most recent technologies, reduce our ability to efficiently provide our services, decrease customer satisfaction, increase our vulnerability to cyber attacks, and adversely impact sales of additional products to our customers.We must successfully continue to release new products and updates to existing products. The success of any release depends on a number of factors, including our ability to manage the risks associated with quality or other defects or deficiencies, delays in the timing of releases or the adoption of releases by customers, and other complications that may arise during the early stages of introduction. If releases are delayed or if customers perceive that our releases contain bugs or other defects or are otherwise difficult to implement, customer adoption of our new products or updates may be adversely impacted, customer satisfaction may decrease, our ability to efficiently provide our services may be reduced, and our growth prospects may be harmed. Various factors, including our customers’ business, integration, migration and security requirements, or errors by us, our partners, or our customers, may cause implementations of our products to be delayed, inefficient or otherwise unsuccessful.Our business depends upon the successful implementation of our products by our customers. Increasingly, we, as well as our customers, rely on our network of partners to deliver implementation services, and there may not be enough qualified implementation partners available to meet customer demand. Further, various factors, including our customers’ business, integration, migration and security requirements, or errors by us, our partners, or our customers, may cause implementations to be delayed, inefficient or otherwise unsuccessful. For example, changes in the functional requirements of our customers, delays in timeline, or deviation from recommended best practices may occur during the course of an implementation project. As a result of these and other risks, we or our customers may incur significant implementation costs in connection with the purchase, implementation and enablement of our products. Some customer implementations may take longer than planned or fail to meet our customers’ expectations, which may delay our ability to sell additional products or result in customers canceling or failing to renew their subscriptions before our products have been fully implemented. Unsuccessful, lengthy, or costly customer implementation and integration projects could result in claims from customers, harm to our reputation, and opportunities for competitors to displace our products, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. 11Table of ContentsDisruptions or defects in our services could damage our customers’ businesses, subject us to substantial liability and harm our reputation and financial results.From time to time, we experience defects in our services, and new defects may be detected in the future. For example, we provide regular updates to our services, which frequently contain undetected defects when first introduced or released. Defects may also be introduced by our use of third-party software, including open source software. Disruptions may result from errors we make in delivering, configuring or hosting our services, or designing, installing, expanding or maintaining our cloud infrastructure. Disruptions in service can also result from incidents that are outside of our control, including denial of service attacks. We currently serve our customers primarily using equipment managed by us and co-located in third-party data center facilities operated by several different providers located around the world. These centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct, equipment failure and adverse events caused by operator error or negligence. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services and the loss of customer data. In addition, our customers may use our services in ways that cause disruptions in service for other customers. Our customers use our services to manage important aspects of their own businesses, and our reputation and business will be adversely affected if our customers and potential customers believe our services are unreliable. Disruptions or defects in our services may reduce our revenues, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, subject us to claims and litigation, cause our customers to delay payment or terminate or fail to renew their subscriptions, and adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. The occurrence of payment delays, or service credit, warranty, termination for material breach or other claims against us, could result in an increase in our bad debt expense, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, an increase to our service level credit accruals or other increased expenses or risks of litigation. We may not have insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that may result from claims arising from disruptions in our services.Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and if we fail to meet the financial performance expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially.Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period as a result of various factors, some of which are beyond our control. For any quarterly or annual period, there is a risk that our financial performance will not meet the financial guidance we have previously given for that period, or that we may otherwise fail to meet the financial performance expectations of the securities analysts who issue reports on our company and our common stock price, or of investors in our common stock. There is also a risk that we may issue forward-looking financial guidance for a quarterly or annual period that fails to meet the expectations of such securities analysts or investors. If any of the foregoing occurs, for any reason either within or outside of our control, the price of our common stock could decline substantially and investors in our common stock could incur substantial losses. Some of the important factors that may cause our revenues, operating results and cash flows to vary widely, or cause our forward-looking financial guidance to fall below the expectations of such securities analysts or investors, include:•our ability to attract new customers, retain and increase sales to existing customers, and satisfy our customers’ requirements;•changes in our mix of products and services, including changes in our mix of cloud and self-hosted offerings;•changes in foreign currency exchange rates and our ability to effectively hedge our foreign currency exposure;•the rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force;•the number of new employees added;•the cost, timing and management effort for our development of new products and services;•general economic conditions that may adversely affect either our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase additional subscriptions, delay a prospective customer’s purchasing decision, reduce the value of new subscription contracts or adversely affect renewal rates;•the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operation and expansion of our business;•seasonality in terms of when we enter into customer agreements for our services;•the length of the sales cycle for our services;•changes to our management team;•changes in our pricing policies, whether initiated by us or as a result of competition;•significant security breaches, technical difficulties or interruptions of our services;•new solutions, products or changes in pricing policies introduced by our competitors;•changes in effective tax rates;•changes in the average contract term of our customer agreements, changes in timing of renewals and changes in billings duration;•changes in our renewal rates and expansion within our existing customers;•the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers;•extraordinary expenses such as litigation costs or damages, including settlement payments;12Table of Contents•the costs associated with acquiring new businesses and technologies and the follow-on costs of integration, including the tax effects of acquisitions;•the impact of new accounting pronouncements;•changes in laws or regulations impacting the delivery of our services;•our ability to comply with privacy laws and regulations, including the General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR) and the California Consumer Privacy Act (the CCPA);•significant litigation or regulatory actions relating to claims of intellectual property infringement, violation of privacy laws, employment matters or any other significant matter;•the amount and timing of equity awards and the related financial statement expenses; and•our ability to accurately estimate the total addressable market for our products and services.Changes in our effective tax rate could impact our financial results.We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We believe that our provision for income taxes is reasonable, but the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods in which such outcome is determined. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and the effects of acquisitions. Increases in our effective tax rate would reduce our profitability or in some cases increase our losses.Additionally, our future effective tax rate could be impacted by changes in accounting principles or changes in U.S. federal, state or international tax laws or tax rulings. The U.S. enacted significant tax reform under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act). The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law, which could affect our results of operations in the period issued. Many countries and organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development are actively considering changes to existing tax laws or have proposed or enacted new laws that could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business or cause us to change the way we operate our business. Recent global tax developments applicable to multinational businesses and increased scrutiny under tax examinations could have a material impact on our business and negatively affect our financial results. Any changes in federal, state or international tax laws or tax rulings may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations.In addition, we may be subject to income tax audits by tax jurisdictions throughout the world, many of which have not established clear guidance on the tax treatment of cloud computing companies. Although we believe our income tax liabilities are reasonably estimated and accounted for in accordance with applicable laws and principles, an adverse resolution of one or more uncertain tax positions in any period could have a material impact on our results of operations for that period.Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles applicable to us.We prepare our financial statements in accordance with GAAP, which are subject to interpretation or changes by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC and other bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. New accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting principles have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future, which may have a significant effect on our financial results. For example, in May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606),” which became effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2018. Refer to Note 2 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on Topic 606 and its impact on us. If modifications to our accounting systems and internal controls implemented for the adoption of new accounting principles such as Topic 606 are insufficient, our financial position and operating results could be adversely affected.13Table of ContentsForeign currency exchange rate fluctuations could harm our financial results.We conduct significant transactions, including revenue transactions and intercompany transactions, in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar or the functional operating currency of the transactional entities. In addition, our international subsidiaries maintain significant net assets that are denominated in currencies other than the functional operating currencies of these entities. Accordingly, changes in the value of currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar may impact our consolidated revenues and operating results due to transactional and translational remeasurement that is reflected in our earnings. It is particularly difficult to forecast any impact from exchange rate movements, so there is risk that unanticipated currency fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results or cause our results to differ from investor expectations or our own guidance in any future periods. In addition, the announcement of Brexit adversely impacted global markets, including currencies, and resulted in a decline in the value of the British pound, as compared to the U.S. Dollar and other currencies. Volatility in exchange rates and global financial markets is expected to continue due to a number of factors, including uncertainty surrounding Brexit and the recent political and economic uncertainty globally.In 2018, we began using derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forwards, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These hedging contracts may reduce, but cannot entirely eliminate, the impact of adverse currency exchange rate movements. Further, unanticipated changes in currency exchange rates may result in poorer overall financial performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. Moreover, for a number of reasons, including our limited experience with these hedging contracts, we may not seek or be able to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the exposures being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge, and could and expose us to a greater overall risk of loss than had we not undertaken the hedging strategy.Lawsuits against us by third-parties that allege we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and operating results.There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Many companies in our industry, including our competitors and other third parties, as well as non-practicing entities, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, which they may use to assert claims of patent infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property rights against us. Moreover, the patent portfolios of most of our competitors are larger than ours. This disparity may increase the risk that our competitors may sue us for patent infringement and may limit our ability to counterclaim for patent infringement or settle through patent cross-licenses. From time to time, our competitors or other third parties, including patent holding companies seeking to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained, may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. For example, we recorded charges for aggregate legal settlements of $270.0 million in our consolidated statement of comprehensive loss during the year ended December 31, 2016. The charge covers the fulfillment by us of all financial obligations under settlement agreements with BMC and HPE, with no remaining financial obligations to BMC or HPE under either settlement.In any intellectual property litigation, regardless of the scope or merits of the claims at issue, we may incur substantial attorney’s fees and other litigation expenses and, if the claims are successfully asserted against us and we are found to be infringing upon the intellectual p