BUSINESSOverviewServiceNow is a leading provider of cloud-based solutions that define, structure, manage and automate services across the global enterprise. By applying a service-oriented lens to the activities, tasks and processes that comprise day-to-day work life, we help the modern enterprise operate faster and be more scalable than ever before.Services are any of the varied and frequent transactions across an enterprise between a requester and a provider, such as: a request for a new cell phone; asking about employer benefits; a request to on-board a new employee; reporting a facilities or information technology (IT) problem; or provisioning a new server or application. These transactions can be internal to the enterprise or with outside parties such as customers, suppliers or partners.Typically, many of these interactions are through email, phone or voicemail and are not systematically tracked or are tracked in spreadsheets or other disparate databases. This lack of a single, structured and persistent system to manage all enterprise services reduces efficiencies and limits scalability. For example, when services are delivered through email, providers generally have no systematic view into what causes requests and how to reduce or eliminate them. In addition, the enterprise often gains little insight into team workloads, service quality or how departments are faring against service level agreements. Further, the lack of a single system to manage services within the enterprise can create a fragmentation of tools and databases that is difficult and expensive to manage, leads to poor communication between departments, and hinders or prevents compliance with reporting and other regulatory obligations.To address these issues, the IT industry has developed a standard framework to define and automate IT services. Among its attributes, this model helps enterprises define and structure services and workflows, provide an intuitive user experience and knowledge base, implement service delivery, establish service level agreements and provide analytics. This service model improves IT service quality, efficiency and scalability and is a best practice that can be applied to other departments throughout the enterprise. In 2004, ServiceNow pioneered the cloud-based delivery of this IT service management model. Today, we provide cloud-based service management solutions that address the needs of many departments within an organization including IT, human resources (HR), facilities, field service, marketing, legal and finance.  Our service management solutions are built on our proprietary service automation platform that also allows customers to easily create, by themselves or with our partners, their own service-oriented applications for use in departments across the enterprise. Our solutions, and the custom solutions built by customers and partners, are empowering enterprises to change the way people work. We also provide business management and IT operations management solutions that facilitate the delivery of services across the enterprise by increasing visibility, simplifying compliance, improving end-to-end supplier accountability, managing costs and integrating automated workflows. Our software applications are delivered via the Internet, or "cloud", through an easy-to-use, consumer-like interface, which means they can be rapidly deployed and easily configured.1We market our services to enterprises in a wide variety of industries, including financial services, consumer products, IT services, health care and technology. We sell our solutions primarily through direct sales and to a lesser extent through indirect channel sales. We also provide a portfolio of comprehensive professional services to customers through our professional services experts and a network of partners.We were incorporated as Glidesoft, Inc. in California in June 2004 and changed our name to Service-now.com in February 2006. In May 2012, we reincorporated into Delaware as ServiceNow, Inc.Key Business BenefitsKey customer benefits of our services include:•Automation. Implementing work through standardized and automated workflows can improve the speed and accuracy of service delivery within the enterprise and increase the amount of work completed.•Extensibility and scalability. A common data model and ease of customization and development enable customers to leverage their existing ServiceNow implementations to expand into additional service management applications and functionality across the enterprise.•Speed and ease of implementation. A comprehensive set of feature-rich service management applications delivered via the cloud enable rapid and cost-effective implementation of solutions.•Governance and compliance. The consolidation of previously disparate applications enables integrated auditing, governance, transparency and reporting. Powerful reporting features deliver visibility into key costs and service performance, including access to key performance indicators (KPIs), benchmarking and executive dashboards.•User satisfaction. A mobile-enabled, consumerized storefront, with personalized dashboards and reporting, embedded user self-help and collaboration features, increases user satisfaction and use of service management applications.•Reduced infrastructure requirements. We provide and support an infrastructure designed for high-availability and security and which enables us to simplify the installation and management of software updates.•Expertise. We provide access to highly skilled professional services, training, technical support, and dedicated peer support engagement programs, including annual user conferences, local user groups, special interest groups, online forums and blogs, collaboration and knowledge sharing for end users, partners and application developers.Our Strategy ServiceNow is changing the way people work by removing dependencies on inefficient manual processes to manage the flow of work within the corporate environment. Our goal is to be the recognized leader of cloud-based solutions to automate service management across the enterprise. Key elements of our growth strategy include:Expand our customer base. We believe the global market for next-generation service management is underserved, and we will continue to make investments to capture market share. To expand our customer base, we will invest in our direct sales force and strategic resellers as well as our infrastructure and capacity, including our data center footprint. Further penetrate our existing customer base. We intend to increase the number of subscription licenses purchased by our current customers as they expand their use of the ServiceNow solution and deploy additional purchased and custom-built applications to manage more services across the enterprise.Expand internationally. We have eight paired data centers on five continents. We are investing in new geographies, including investment in direct and indirect sales channels, data centers, professional services, customer support and implementation partners. We also plan to increase investment in our existing international locations in order to achieve scale efficiencies in our sales and marketing efforts.Continue to innovate and enhance our service offerings. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to strengthen our existing applications, expand the number of applications on our platform and develop additional automation technologies. We typically offer multiple upgrades each year that allow our customers to benefit from ongoing innovation. 2Strengthen our customer community. Our customer community contributes to our success through their willingness to share their ServiceNow experiences with other potential customers. To support our customer community and encourage collaboration, we host our annual user conference, Knowledge. Also, our ServiceNow Community and Share websites provide an online forum for customers, partners and ServiceNow employees to interact and collaborate, as well as share custom applications and other ServiceNow platform content. We will continue to leverage our customer community to expose our existing customers to new use cases and increase awareness of our service management solutions.Develop our partner ecosystem. We intend to further develop our existing partner ecosystem by establishing agreements with strategic resellers, system integrators, global service providers and independent software vendors to provide broader customer coverage, access to senior executives and solution delivery capabilities, as well as extending the breadth of application coverage through complementary partner offerings. Further promote our extensible platform. Our platform is currently being used by customers to address the needs of various departments within an organization, including IT, HR, facilities, field service, marketing, legal and finance organizations. We plan to continue to enhance our platform to enable the creation of business applications. Our Cloud SolutionsService Management Our service management solutions help enterprises define services, provide an intuitive service experience, deliver services to requesters, assure service availability and analyze critical service metrics. Although, we provide applications specific to IT, HR, facilities and field services, our service management solutions are also utilized by marketing, legal and finance departments looking to manage services in the contemporary workplace. Each of these solutions includes the foundational capabilities of Incident Management, Problem Management, Change Management, Request Management and Cost Management. Service Catalog and Knowledge Base are other capabilities included within our service management solutions that allow organizations to offer easy-to-use solutions that offer a user experience more consistent with that of consumer-oriented applications outside of the enterprise. Employees can now use a single system of engagement to request services such as benefit information from HR, collateral from marketing, contract reviews from legal or purchase orders from finance.IT Service Management solutions give IT managers and administrators end-to-end visibility into processes and infrastructure through a single system of record for IT. This enables IT to consolidate and automate service management processes, increase efficiency, lower costs and devote more time to creating and delivering the consumer-like experiences that users expect.HR Service Management solutions help HR professionals focus their resources on strategic priorities.  Using ServiceNow, HR can create a system of engagement for the enterprise that complements existing HR applications.Facilities Service Management solutions help facilities teams reduce the burden of reactive, day-to-day operations and increase productivity, optimize resource utilization, reduce costs and align services with company priorities.Field Service Management solutions ensure that work orders are assigned to the right person, with the right inventory and tools, at the right time. Companies can replace spreadsheets, email and homegrown management tools with a single system of engagement that delivers efficient, fast and effective services.IT Operations ManagementOur IT Operations Management solutions consolidate resource data, including virtualized and cloud infrastructure environment data, into a single system of record. This enables IT to see how resources are performing at all times, automate key processes and take a business-centric approach to service mapping, delivery and assurance.Service Mapping solutions, including ServiceWatch and Discovery, inspect and discover services in operation and map their relationships and dependencies across the technology infrastructure to ensure that IT has visibility into impact that changes in the infrastructure could have on those services.Service Delivery solutions, including Orchestration, Configuration Automation, Configuration Management, and Cloud Provisioning, speed up and automate the delivery of infrastructure and services for the business.3Service Assurance solutions, including Event Management, combine the capabilities of event management with analytics to assure business service performance and availability.Business ManagementOur Business Management solutions help enterprises manage costs, projects, compliance and vendors. Our solutions consolidate business data into a single system of record, enabling enterprises to more effectively align investments, utilize resources, automate management of projects, ensure regulatory compliance and manage business relationships.Financial Management provides a way for IT to gain insight into spending by mapping actual costs to consumption or usage across business services, applications, projects and infrastructure. It allows chief information officers (CIOs) to ensure IT costs are correctly aligned to business goals.Project Portfolio Suite provides the capabilities to plan, organize and manage projects, including associated tasks and resources. Demand Management centralizes strategic requests from the business and streamlines the investment decision process for new products and services. Software Development Lifecycle provides the capabilities to manage the software development and maintenance process, from product inception to deployment.Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) provides clarity into compliance and audit initiatives, helps companies mitigate compliance exposure, and automates the work of organizations rising to the challenge of complex regulatory environments.Vendor Performance Management helps customers manage, evaluate and compare vendors based on predefined criteria.Performance Analytics helps improve services and processes across the enterprise by providing actionable insights on a daily basis. Application DevelopmentServiceNow's CreateNow Development Suite reduces the complexities and inefficiencies of developing applications for service management. Using our pre-built templates optimized for service management applications, departments across the enterprise, such as legal, marketing, HR and finance, can quickly build, test and publish customer-specific service management applications such as request processing, events management and rebate processing. Comprehensive Services We offer a portfolio of comprehensive services that help ensure customer success. These offerings include Professional Services, Education Services and Customer Support. Professional Services. Through an ecosystem of ServiceNow and partner resources, we provide professional services that advise and assist customers with implementation and drive value realization of the ServiceNow platform. Education Services. We offer extensive training services and a certification program for different levels of ServiceNow expertise. Our training portfolio is customized for various skill levels and individual schedules. Customer Support. Customers receive free support 24 hours a day, seven days a week, from technical resources located in Orlando, San Diego and Santa Clara in the United States, as well as internationally in Amsterdam, London, and Sydney. We also offer self-service technical support through our support portal, which provides access to documentation, knowledge base, online support forums and online incident filing.   Our TechnologyWe designed our cloud-based service to support global enterprises. The architecture, design, deployment and management of our services are focused on: Scalability. Our services are designed to support concurrent user sessions within a global enterprise. We process billions of record-producing transactions per month and manage multiple petabytes of data across our customer base while optimizing transaction processing time. 4Availability. Our customers are highly dependent on our services for the day-to-day operations of their IT infrastructure. Our services are designed as an “always on” solution. Security and Compliance.  We employ a number of technologies, policies and procedures designed to protect customer data. We offer services that have received SSAE 16 (SOC 1 Type 1 and Type 2), SOC 2 and ISO 27001 third-party attestation. Our U.S. federal services have received a FISMA Moderate Authorization (ATO) attestation that can be used by our U.S. federal customer base. Additionally, our data center providers have received an ISO27001 or SSAE 16 attestation or equivalent.We have a standardized Java-based development environment with the majority of our software written in industry standard software programming languages. We also use Web2.0 technologies like HTTPS and XML that give users an intuitive and familiar experience. Our infrastructure primarily consists of industry standard servers and network components. Our standard operating system and database are Linux and MySQL, respectively. The system is also highly portable and has been deployed across multiple environments including Microsoft Windows and Oracle databases.Unlike many cloud vendors where most customers run on shared infrastructure servers and databases, we operate a unique architecture that provides each customer with their own dedicated application and database processes. This reduces the risk associated with infrastructure outages, improves system scalability and security, and allows for flexibility in deployment location and version upgrading. We are also investing in enhancements to our cloud infrastructure, which are designed to provide all our customers with increased data reliability and availability. For an increased subscription fee, we offer our customers the option to be deployed on dedicated hardware in our data centers. In limited circumstances, we grant certain customers the right to deploy our subscription service on the customers' own servers. Our architecture gives us the added flexibility to deploy our service on-premises at a customer data center in order to support regulatory or security requirements. When our software is installed on-premises, we define the hardware requirements that the customers must install and manage. We then work with the customers to remotely install the service and provide ongoing customer support similar to the way we support customer instances deployed in our own managed data centers.Sales and Marketing We sell our services primarily through our global direct sales organization. We also sell our services indirectly through third- party channels by partnering with systems integrators, managed services providers and resale partners, particularly in less developed markets. In the past year, we made significant investments in direct sales in many markets outside of the United States, and we intend to continue to invest in our direct sales force globally. Our marketing efforts and lead generation activities consist primarily of customer referrals, Internet advertising, trade shows, industry events and press releases. We also host our annual Knowledge global user conference, and webinars where customers and partners both participate in and present a variety of programs designed to help accelerate marketing success with our services and platform.We are investing in new geographies, including investment in direct and indirect sales channels, professional services capabilities, customer support resources and implementation partners. In addition to adding new geographies, we also plan to increase our investment in our existing locations in order to achieve scale efficiencies in our sales and marketing efforts.Customers We primarily market our services to large enterprise customers. We have proven scalability supporting large enterprise-wide deployments.  As of December 31, 2014, we had 2,725 customers, including more than 25% of the Global 2000, an annual ranking of the top 2000 public companies in the world by Forbes magazine. Our customers operate in a wide variety of industries, including financial services, consumer products, IT services, health care and technology. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for any of the periods presented. BacklogBacklog represents future amounts to be invoiced under our existing agreements and is not included in deferred revenue.  As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, we had backlog of approximately $956 million and $608 million, respectively. We expect backlog will change from period to period for several reasons, including the timing and duration of customer subscription and professional services agreements, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements, and the timing of customer renewals.5Financial Information about Segments and Geographic AreasWe manage our operations and allocate resources as a single reporting segment. For information regarding our revenue, revenue by geographic area and long-lived assets by geographic area, please refer to Note 2 and Note 19 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For financial information about our segment, please refer to the section entitled “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of Part II and to our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding risks associated with our international operations, please refer to the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Data Center Operations We currently run our services from data centers located in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Hong Kong, the Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Our data centers operate in a mirrored configuration to provide high availability. We plan to add data centers, or expand our existing data center operations, as required to meet regulatory requirements and accommodate growth. Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development, testing and certification of our software solutions. We focus on developing new services and core technologies and further enhancing the functionality, reliability, performance and flexibility of existing solutions. We focus our efforts on anticipating customer demand and then bringing new services and new versions of existing services to market quickly in order to remain competitive in the marketplace.  We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to strengthen our existing applications, expand the number of applications on our platform and develop additional automation technologies. Total research and development expense was $148.3 million, $78.7 million, and $39.3 million for the years ended in December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.Competition The markets in which we compete to manage service across the enterprise are fragmented, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for service management matures, we expect competition to intensify. We face competition from in-house solutions, large integrated systems vendors, and established and emerging cloud and software vendors. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered.  Our primary competitors include BMC Software, Inc., CA, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company and International Business Machines Corporation. Further, other potential competitors not currently offering competitive products may expand their services to compete with our services.  Moreover, as we expand the breadth of our services to include offerings for service domains outside of IT, and offerings for small and medium sized businesses, we face and will face additional competition from platform vendors including Salesforce.com and from application development vendors focused on these other markets.The principal competitive factors in our industry include total cost of ownership, product functionality, breadth of offerings, flexibility and performance. We believe that we compete favorably with our competitors on each of these factors. However, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements.  An existing competitor or new entrant could introduce new technology that reduces demand for our services.  In addition, some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures.  Some of our larger competitors have the operating flexibility to bundle competing products and services with other software offerings, including offering them at a lower price as part of a larger sale.Intellectual Property We rely upon a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality and license agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights.  In addition, we are seeking patent protection for our technology. We pursue the registration of our domain names and trademarks and service marks in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. 6Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop products and services that provide features and functionality that are similar to our service offerings. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. The laws of the countries in which we market our services may offer little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Our competitors could also independently develop services equivalent to ours, and our intellectual property rights may not be broad enough for us to prevent competitors from doing so. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business.Companies in our industry own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property or other rights. We currently face, and we expect we will face in the future, allegations that we have infringed the trademarks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights of third parties, including our competitors and non-practicing entities. As we face increasing competition and as our business grows, we will likely face more claims of infringement. For example, on February 6, 2014, Hewlett-Packard Company filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California that alleges that some of our services infringe the claims of eight of Hewlett-Packard's patents. Hewlett-Packard is seeking unspecified damages and an injunction. On September 23, 2014, BMC Software, Inc. filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas that alleges that some of our services willfully infringe the claims of seven of BMC’s patents. BMC is seeking unspecified damages and an injunction. For additional information, see the sections entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A and "Legal Proceedings" in Item 3 of Part I in this Annual Report.  Employees As of December 31, 2014, we had 2,826 full-time employees worldwide, including 894 in operations, professional services, training and customer support, 1,011 in sales and marketing, 585 in research and development and 336 in general and administrative roles. None of our U.S. employees is represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment. Employees in certain European countries have the benefits of collective bargaining arrangements at the national level. We have not experienced any work stoppages and we believe our relations with our employees to be good.Available InformationYou can obtain copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our website at www.servicenow.com as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we have filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing and our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.7