BUSINESS Overview ServiceNow is a leading provider of cloud-based services to automate enterprise IT operations.  Our service includes a suite of applications built on our proprietary platform that automates workflow and integrates related business processes.  We focus on transforming enterprise IT by automating and standardizing business processes and consolidating IT across the global enterprise.  Organizations deploy our service to create a single system of record for enterprise IT, lower operational costs and enhance efficiency.  Additionally, our customers use our extensible platform to build custom applications for automating activities unique to their business requirements.   We help transform IT organizations from reactive, manual and task-oriented, to pro-active, automated and service-oriented organizations. Our on-demand service enables organizations to define their IT service strategy, design the systems and infrastructure that will support that strategy, and implement, manage and automate that infrastructure throughout its lifecycle. We provide a broad set of integrated applications that are highly configurable and can be efficiently implemented and upgraded. Further, our multi-instance architecture has proven scalability for global enterprises, as well as advantages in security, reliability and deployment location. We offer our service under a Software-as-a-Service, or SaaS, business model. Customers can rapidly deploy our service in a modular fashion, allowing them to solve immediate business needs and access, configure and build new applications as their requirements evolve. Our service, which is accessed through an intuitive web-based interface, can be easily configured to adapt to customer workflow and processes. Upgrades to our service are designed to be efficient and compatible with configuration changes and applied with minimal disruption to ongoing operations.We were incorporated as Glidesoft, Inc. in California in June 2004 and changed our name to Service-now.com in February 2006. In May 2012, we reincorporated into Delaware as ServiceNow, Inc.In February 2012, we changed our fiscal year-end from June 30 to December 31. Throughout this filing, references to “fiscal 2009,” “fiscal 2010” and “fiscal 2011” are to the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2010 and 2011, while references to 2011, 2012 and 2013 refer to the year ending on December 31, respectively. Our Service We help transform IT organizations from reactive, manual and task-oriented, to pro-active, automated and service-oriented organizations. Our on-demand service includes a suite of applications that runs on a common extensible platform designed to automate IT service delivery, specifically management and processes.  Our customers can also use our service automation platform to build custom applications designed to automate processes unique to their businesses. All of these applications run on our platform and are provided as a hosted service under a SaaS business model.  Our cloud-based service includes the following key elements. 1Key Elements Broad set of integrated functionality. Our suite of applications was developed to address core Information Technology Infrastructure Library, or ITIL, processes as well as additional, non-ITIL, business processes.  Our suite runs on a single extensible platform that includes workflow automation, notification, assignment and escalation, third-party integration capabilities, reporting and business intelligence, social, collaboration and administration capabilities. Our cloud-based service is designed to be deployed in a modular fashion, allowing customers to solve immediate business needs and access new application functionality as needs evolve. Automation of IT operations. Our service automates the documentation, categorization, prioritization, assignment, notification and escalation of IT and other business processes. Additionally, our service automates routine and repeatable data center operations such as rebooting a server, cloning a database or deploying a virtualized environment. These elements of automation result in more consistent, reliable and secure execution, allowing the reallocation of expensive IT staff to more complex issues. Highly configurable and extensible to meet business needs. Our configuration features are designed to give customers the ability to easily alter the appearance and operation of the user interface, change and develop business rules to meet specific requirements, and extend the database schema to support the tracking and capturing of necessary data. As a result, our service enables management of IT operations without requiring changes to existing business processes. In addition, our customers and partners can use our platform to build applications to automate processes that are unique to their businesses. Efficient implementations and integration. Our cloud-based model allows customers to quickly access and deploy our service without the need to install and maintain costly infrastructure hardware and software necessary for on-premise deployments. We believe the average time that a customer requires to deploy our service is significantly shorter than for traditional, legacy software products for managing IT operations. We also offer consulting and training services and have a network of third party service providers to assist customers in rapidly deploying and optimizing their use of our service. Our service is developed on an architecture that enables efficient integration to third-party architectures and other data sources. Efficient upgrades. We design our upgrades to be compatible with customer configuration changes and applied rapidly with minimal disruption to ongoing operations, enabling customers to be on the most up-to-date version. Upgrades are included as part of the subscription service and do not require professional services to implement. Scalable, secure and reliable multi-instance architecture. Our customers require scalability, security and reliability for their large, global businesses. Our multi-instance architecture is designed to meet these requirements. By providing customers with dedicated applications and databases we ensure that customer data is not comingled. In addition, this architecture reduces risk associated with infrastructure outages, improves system scalability and security, and allows for flexibility in deployment location. We believe this architecture is the best solution for the large global enterprises that rely on us for critical applications. Business Benefits Single system of record for IT. We provide a single system of record for IT executives to track assets, activities and resources across the multiple systems and infrastructures currently in use in large enterprises. This provides executives with the ability to execute their IT strategy by quickly assessing how well their IT infrastructure is supporting business processes, analyzing business needs real-time and developing business solutions as needs evolve. Lower total cost of ownership. We assume complete responsibility for our service, including application set, hosting infrastructure, maintenance, monitoring, storage, security, customer support and upgrades, all of which free customer resources. Our service only requires a browser and an Internet connection to function. Additionally, we manage, monitor and handle upgrades and patch deployments remotely, which can result in lower total cost of ownership to our customers compared to legacy IT management products. Easy to use and widely accessible. Our suite of intuitive and easy-to-use applications provides users with a familiar experience based on business-to-consumer concepts. In addition, users with knowledge of basic software applications are able to create custom applications on our platform to solve specific business issues. Users can access our service through a web-based interface anywhere an Internet connection is available, including through mobile devices. We believe this ease of use and accessibility result in increased user adoption and system utilization. This enables businesses to earn higher return on investment and makes it more likely that users perform tasks based on standard defined processes, reducing system failure.2Our Applications Our service includes the following applications: Management Applications •Project Management tracks and manages projects planned or being worked on by the IT staff.•IT Cost Management tracks and monitors staff work time, project-related expenses and labor costs.•IT Governance, Risk and Compliance details applications, databases, servers, network equipment and personnel for a regulatory or compliance audit.Operational Applications •Incident Management manages the process of restoring a failed service to an operational state.•Problem Management manages the process of resolving the root cause of recurring service outages or issues affecting multiple users.•Change Management manages the proposal and approval process for changes to be made to the IT infrastructure.•Release Management assigns, manages and monitors the various tasks comprising the actual implementation or execution of a proposed change.•Service Catalog and Request Management presents a "virtual storefront" of business services offered to the enterprise.•Software Development Lifecycle Management tracks and manages new features and functions to be developed in upgrades or new software applications.Infrastructure Applications•Configuration Management creates and manages the inventory repository of all hardware, software and network equipment comprising the IT infrastructure.•Discovery finds computers and other devices connected to an enterprise network, most commonly for the purpose of configuration management.•Asset Management tracks the physical, contractual and financial elements of IT infrastructure.•Orchestration automates defined, repeatable tasks that require execution across multiple systemsOur Service Automation Platform and Custom ApplicationsOur proprietary platform serves as the development environment for our suite of applications and custom applications, built by or for our customers and partners. Applications can leverage shared platform resources for automation, process integration, interface usability and data consistency. Platform resources include social IT, reporting, survey management, content management, knowledge management, service level management, graphical workflow, mobile access and application templates for HR, SFA, facilities and field service management.Our customers and partners can purchase the use of our platform to build custom applications designed to automate processes that are unique to their businesses. Some examples include human resources, facilities and quality control management applications.  We plan to grow investments in our platform to better enable the creation of custom applications to address specific business issues. We believe our platform provides substantial application development capabilities and we intend to further promote the potential of our platform. 3Professional Services Customers configure their implementation of our service to accommodate their unique organizational structures and workflows as well as to integrate our service with other technologies in their environments. We provide implementation services to customers through our professional services consultants and through a network of partners. Customers may also implement our service independently or use a third party. Our professional services include customer guidance on implementation, as well as comprehensive integration and implementation projects, and can include the development of custom applications. Customers typically implement applications in phases and each phase is governed by a separate statement of work. Typical professional service engagements vary in length from a few weeks to several months depending on the scope and size of the customer initiative. Training and CertificationWe offer training and certification solutions designed to match customer requirements, skill level, learning style and schedule.SupportWe offer technical support through web, phone, online documentation and an online forum. The technical support team is located in our support centers in San Diego, London and Amsterdam.Our TechnologyWe designed our cloud-based service to support large global enterprises. The architecture, design, deployment and management of our service are focused on: Scalability. Our service is designed to support concurrent user sessions within a global enterprise, processing thousands of record-producing transactions and managing multiple terabytes of data while continuing to deliver best-in-class transaction processing time. Availability. Our customers are highly dependent on our service for the day-to-day operations of their IT infrastructure. Our service is designed as an “always on” solution. Security. Our service hosts and manages a large quantity of highly sensitive customer data. We employ a number of technologies, policies and procedures to protect customer data. We offer data centers that have SSAE 16 or ISO 27001 attestations or equivalent attestations. We have a standardized Java-based development environment with the majority of our software written in industry standard software programming languages. We also use Web 2.0 technologies like AJAX and HTML which give users an intuitive and familiar experience. Our hardware primarily consists of industry standard servers and network components. Our standard operating system and database are Linux and MySQL, respectively, and the system is highly portable across multiple platforms including Microsoft Windows, Microsoft SQL Server and Oracle databases.Unlike many SaaS vendors, we operate a multi-instance architecture that provides all customers with dedicated applications and databases. Most customers run on shared infrastructure servers while larger customers may run on dedicated servers. This architecture reduces risk associated with infrastructure outages, improves system scalability and security, and allows for flexibility in deployment location. We are also investing in enhancements to our cloud architecture, which are designed to provide all our customers with increased data reliability and availability. For an increased subscription fee, we offer our customers the option to be deployed on dedicated hardware in our data centers. In limited circumstances, we grant certain customers the right to deploy our subscription service on the customers' own servers without significant penalty. Our multi-instance architecture gives us the added flexibility to deploy our applications on-premises at a customer data center in order to support regulatory or security requirements. When our software is installed at the customer site, we define the hardware requirements that the customer must install and manage. We then work with the customers to remotely install the applications and provide ongoing customer support in a similar way to how we support customer instances deployed in our own managed data centers. A small percentage of our customers run an on-premises solution.  4Sales and Marketing We sell our product and services through direct field sales and indirect channel sales. Our primary sales channel in North America is direct sales, and we also partner with strategic resellers and system integrators. For international markets outside of the United Kingdom and Germany we have historically partnered with strategic resellers. In the past year we have made significant investments in direct sales in many markets, and we intend to continue to invest in our direct sales force and strategic resellers globally. Our marketing efforts and lead generation activities consist primarily of customer referrals, Internet advertising, trade shows and industry events and press releases. We also host an annual user conference, Knowledge, and webinars where customers both participate in and present a variety of programs designed to help accelerate marketing success with our service and platform.We are investing in new geographies, including investment in direct and indirect sales channels, professional services capability, customer support resource and implementation partners. We plan to increase our investment in our existing international locations in order to achieve scale efficiencies in our sales and marketing efforts, in addition to adding new geographies. Customers We primarily market our service to large enterprises, which we define as companies with over $750 million in revenues and a minimum of 200 IT employees, and public sector organizations. We have proven scalability supporting large enterprise-wide deployments.  As of December 31, 2012, we had 1,512 customers that operate in a wide variety of industries, including financial services, consumer products, IT services, health care and technology. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for any of the periods presented. BacklogBacklog represents future amounts to be invoiced under our agreements and is not included in deferred revenue.  As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had backlog of approximately $379 million and $210 million, respectively. We expect backlog will change from period to period for several reasons, including the timing and duration of customer subscription and professional services agreements, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements, and the timing of customer renewals.Financial Information About Segments and Geographic AreasWe manage our operations and allocate resources as a single reporting segment. For information regarding our revenue, revenue by geographic area and long-lived assets by geographic area, please refer to Note 2 and Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For financial information about our segment, please refer to the section entitled “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of Part II and to our consolidated financial statements and the related notes in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding risks associated with our international operations, please refer to the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Data Center Operations We currently run our service from data centers located in eleven locations in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Australia.  Our data centers operate in a mirrored configuration to provide high availability. For our U.S. federal government customers we are in the process of becoming compliant with the Federal Information Security Management Act. We will add data centers, or expand our existing data center operations, as required to meet regulatory requirements and accommodate growth. Research and Development Our ability to compete depends in large part on our continuous commitment to research and development and our ability to timely introduce new products, technologies, features and functionality. Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development, testing and certification of our products and services. Our efforts are focused on developing new products and core technologies and further enhancing the functionality, reliability, performance and flexibility of existing solutions. We focus our efforts on anticipating customer demand and then bringing new products and new versions of existing products to market quickly in order to remain competitive in the marketplace.  We have made, and 5will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to strengthen our existing applications, expand the number of applications on our platform and develop additional automation technologies.Competition The market for enterprise IT management solutions is fragmented, rapidly evolving and highly competitive. We face competition from in-house solutions, large integrated systems vendors and smaller companies with point solutions. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. Our primary competitors include BMC Software, Inc., CA, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company and International Business Machines Corporation, all of which can bundle competing products and services with other software offerings, or offer them at a low price as part of a larger sale. With the introduction of new technologies, evolution of our product offerings and new market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. The principal competitive factors in our industry include total cost of ownership, product functionality, breadth of offerings, flexibility and performance. We believe that we compete favorably with our competitors on each of these factors. However, many of our primary competitors have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more established customer relationships, larger marketing budgets and significantly greater resources than we do. Intellectual Property We rely upon a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We have only recently begun to develop a strategy to seek patent protections for our technology. We pursue the registration of our domain names and trademarks and service marks in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop products and services that provide features and functionality that are similar to our service offerings. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. The laws of the countries in which we market our service may offer little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Our competitors could also independently develop services equivalent to ours, and our intellectual property rights may not be broad enough for us to prevent competitors from doing so. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business.We expect that we and others in our industry may be subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors grows and the functionality of products and services overlaps. Our competitors could decide to make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our service and underlying technology, whether or not actually merited. Third parties may currently have, or may eventually be issued, patents upon which our current solution or future technology infringe. Any of these third parties might make a claim of infringement against us at any time. Employees As of December 31, 2012, we had 1,077 full-time employees worldwide, including 350 in sales and marketing, 401 in operations, professional services, training and customer support, 200 in research and development and 126 in general and administrative roles. None of our U.S. employees is represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment. Employees in certain European countries have the benefits of collective bargaining arrangements at the national level. We have not experienced any work stoppages.Available InformationYou can obtain copies of our Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our website at www.servicenow.com as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we have filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 6