RISK FACTORSInvesting in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making an investment decision. We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. Our stock price could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment.Risks Related to Our Ability to Grow Our BusinessWe participate in intensely competitive markets, and if we do not compete effectively, our business and operating results will be harmed.The markets for our enterprise cloud solutions are rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for digital workflow products matures and new technologies and competitors enter the market, we expect competition to intensify. Our current competitors include:•large, well-established, enterprise application software vendors and large integrated systems vendors;•new entrants to the market developing technologies to solve similar problems in different ways;•solutions developed in-house by our potential customers or using integrations with other tools;•vendors of infrastructure-as-a-service, platform-as-a-service and development operations; and•established and emerging cloud vendors.Many prospective customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate their current enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate away from their current solution to ours. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more established customer relationships (including at the executive level of large enterprises where decision-making authority is held), larger marketing budgets and greater resources than we do. While we believe that our platform and products can largely be complementary to large and established systems that traditionally operate as “systems of record,” competitors may try to enter our space. They may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, customer requirements and buying practices. They may utilize acquisitions, integrations or consolidations to offer integrated or bundled products, enhanced functionality or other advantages. They may reduce the price of products or subscriptions that compete with ours or may bundle them with other products and subscriptions, causing our products to appear relatively more expensive. They may also invest in industry-specific solutions that purport to provide a unique solution for that industry. Other potential competitors not currently offering competitive products may expand their services to compete with our services, or we may shift our products and services to compete with current and future competitors in adjacent markets. We have in the past expanded, and we expect to continue to expand the breadth of our services to include offerings in new markets and the use of our platform by developers of custom applications. As a result, we expect increasing competition from platform vendors and application development vendors focused on these other markets. Smaller competitors and new entrants may accelerate pricing pressures, including in the ITSM market, which is our more mature offering and from which we derive a large portion of our revenues. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully, and competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which could harm our business.Privacy laws and concerns, evolving regulation of cloud computing, cross-border data transfer restrictions, other foreign and domestic regulations and standards related to data and the Internet may adversely affect our business.National and local governments or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws and regulations affecting data privacy, the use of the Internet as a commercial medium, the use of data in contexts referred to as artificial intelligence and machine learning, and data sovereignty requirements concerning the location of data centers that store and process data. As a cloud based service provider, we optimize performance of our products and services by utilizing data centers that may be located in different political jurisdictions. In addition, we utilize data concerning the use of our products and services to continually improve our offering. Changing laws, regulations and standards applying to the collection, transfer, processing, storage or use of data, including personal data, could affect our ability to develop our products and services to maximize their utility, as well as our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially restricting our ability to store, process and share data with our customers in connection with providing our services. In some cases, this could impact our ability to offer our services in certain locations or our customers’ ability to deploy our services globally. Examples of recent changes include: 10Table of Contents•In 2016, the European Union (the EU) adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR), which took effect in May 2018 and established new requirements applicable to the handling of personal data. The particular obligations imposed by GDPR are subject to interpretation, and different regulators may interpret requirements inconsistently. Further, laws such as the EU’s proposed e-Privacy Regulation are increasingly aimed at the use of personal information , the tracking of individuals’ online activities and the “right to be forgotten,” requiring a company to delete certain information about individuals upon their request in certain circumstances. •In January 2020, Britain exited the EU (Brexit). Although we do not believe Brexit will require us to alter our operations in any material way to comply with privacy regulations in the EU and the United Kingdom (the UK), Brexit has and may continue to cause uncertainty for our customers. •In early 2020, the European Court of Justice is expected to give its ruling on a case regarding the validity of the Privacy Shield framework and the Standard Contractual Clauses (the SCCs), which are lawful transfer mechanisms for transferring personal data from the EU to the US (under the Privacy Shield framework) and other third countries deemed to have inadequate protection by the European Commission (under the SCCs). While we do not believe there will be any material impact to our business if the Privacy Shield is invalidated, there may be an impact to our ability to process personal data in certain jurisdictions where we operate if the SCCs are invalidated by the European Court of Justice. •In January 2020,the California Consumer Privacy Act (the CCPA) in the US took effect and broadly defines personal information and provides California consumers increased privacy rights and protections. The CCPA, among other things, affords California consumers new abilities to opt out of certain sales of personal information. Legislators have amended the CCPA since it passed in 2018 and implementing regulations are yet to be finalized by the California Attorney General. In addition, other nations and U.S. states and the federal government have discussed, are passing or may pass, future legislation similar to the GDPR and/or the CCPA, or with other data localization or sovereignty requirements. •Both US and non-US governments are considering the use of artificial intelligence and machine learning in both consumer and business contexts and whether there is any need for regulation in these areas.The costs of compliance with, and other obligations imposed by, the GDPR, the e-Privacy Regulation, the CCPA and other privacy, data residency and data transfer laws, regulations and standards may cause us to incur substantial operational costs or require us to modify our data handling practices and/or policies, may limit the development, use and adoption of our services and reduce overall demand for our services. In addition, non-compliance could result in proceedings or investigations against us by regulatory authorities or others, lead to significant fines or reputational harm and may otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. For example, the GDPR imposes significant new obligations and compliance with these obligations depends in part on how particular regulators interpret and apply them. If we fail to comply with the GDPR or if regulators assert that we have failed to comply with the GDPR, we may be subject to fines of up to 4% of our worldwide annual revenue. Changes in our developed or acquired products and how such products utilize data could alter or increase our compliance requirements. As a result, the cost of compliance with and other obligations imposed by privacy regulations could increase and our innovation and business drivers in developing or acquiring new and emerging technologies and the demand for our products could be impacted.In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and other technology and industry groups have established or may establish various new or different self-regulatory standards that may place additional obligations on us. Our customers may expect us to meet voluntary certifications or adhere to other standards established by third parties. If we are unable to maintain these certifications or meet these standards, it could reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our business. 11Table of ContentsIf we do not accurately predict, prepare for, and respond promptly to rapidly evolving technological, market and customer developments, our competitive position and business prospects may be harmed.We compete in markets that continue to evolve rapidly. The pace of innovation will continue to accelerate as customers increasingly base their purchases on digital technologies and capabilities, including public and private cloud solutions and infrastructure, massively scalable databases, mobile, consumer product-like user experiences, social, collaboration, machine learning, artificial intelligence, Internet-connected devices, high-velocity robotic automation, security, cryptography, internal software development operations, and application and service awareness. Our customers and prospective customers must choose among competing imperatives to adopt digital technologies, or have been built on fully-digital, modern, dynamic IT technologies. Accordingly, to compete effectively, we must: identify and innovate in the right emerging technologies, knowing that we cannot make substantial investments in all of them; accurately predict our customers’ changing business needs, priorities and adoption practices, including their technology infrastructures and buying and budgetary practices; invest in and continually optimize our own technology platform so that it continues to meet the very high performance expectations of our customers; successfully deliver new, scalable platform and database technologies and products to meet these needs and priorities; efficiently integrate with other technologies within our customers’ digital environments; expand our offerings into industries and to buyers who are not familiar with our offerings; profitably market and sell products to companies and buyers in markets where our sales and marketing teams have less experience, including to companies built on fully-digital, modern, dynamic IT technologies that have not been strong buyers of ITSM and ITOM products; and effectively deliver, either directly or through our partner ecosystem, the business process planning, IT systems architecture planning, and product implementation services that our customers require to be successful. If we fail to meet any of these requirements, our competitive position, strategic relevance and business prospects may be harmed.Delays in the release of, or actual or perceived defects in, new or updated products may slow the adoption of our most recent technologies, reduce our ability to efficiently provide our services, decrease customer satisfaction, and adversely impact sales of additional products to our customers.We must successfully continue to release new products and updates to existing products. The success of any release depends on a number of factors, including our ability to manage the risks associated with quality or other defects or deficiencies, delays in the timing of releases or the adoption of releases by customers, and other complications that may arise during the early stages of introduction. If releases are delayed or if customers perceive that our releases contain bugs or other defects or are difficult to implement, customer adoption of our new products or updates may be adversely impacted, customer satisfaction may decrease, our ability to efficiently provide our services may be reduced, and our growth prospects may be harmed.We do business with federal, state and local governments and agencies, and heavily-regulated U.S. and foreign organizations; as a result, we face risks related to the procurement process, budget decisions driven by statutory and regulatory determinations, termination of contracts, and compliance with government contracting requirements.We provide products and services to the U.S. government, state and local governments and heavily-regulated organizations directly and through our partners. We have made, and may continue to make, significant investments to support future sales opportunities in the federal, state and local government sectors. This includes obtaining additional cloud security certification requirements for the ServiceNow GovCommunityCloud, such as the U.S. Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) High Impact Provisional Authority to Operate (P-ATO) from the Joint Authorization Board, and the U.S. Department of Defense Impact Level 4 P-ATO in the Security Requirements Guide for cloud computing by the Defense Information Systems Agency. However, government certification requirements may change, or we may be unable to achieve or sustain one or more government certifications, including those mentioned above. As a result, our ability to sell into the government sector could be restricted until we obtain such certifications. A substantial majority of our sales to date to government entities have been made indirectly through our distribution and reseller partners. Doing business with government entities presents a variety of risks. The procurement process for governments and their agencies is highly competitive, time-consuming and may, in certain circumstances, be subject to political influence. We incur significant up-front time and expense, such as through engaging lobbyists, which subjects us to additional compliance risks and costs, without any assurance that we (or a third-party distributor or reseller) will win a contract. Beyond this, demand for our products and services may be adversely impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding availability that in any given fiscal cycle may be reduced or delayed, including in connection with an extended federal government shutdown. Further, if we are or our partner is successful in receiving a bid award, that award could be challenged by one or more competitive bidders. Bid protests may result in an increase in expenses related to obtaining contract awards or an unfavorable modification or loss of an award. In the event a bid protest is unsuccessful, the resulting delay in the startup and funding of the work under these contracts may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. 12Table of ContentsIn addition, public sector customers may have contractual, statutory or regulatory rights to terminate current contracts with us or our third-party distributors or resellers for convenience or due to a default, though such risk may be assumed by such third-party distributor or reseller. If a contract is terminated for convenience, we may only be able to collect fees for products or services delivered prior to termination and settlement expenses. If a contract is terminated due to a default, we may be liable for excess costs incurred by the customer for procuring alternative products or services or be precluded from doing further business with government entities. Further, entities providing services to governments are required to comply with a variety of complex laws, regulations, and contractual provisions relating to the formation, administration, or performance of government contracts that give public sector customers substantial rights and remedies, many of which are not typically found in commercial contracts. These may include rights with respect to price protection, the accuracy of information provided to the government, contractor compliance with supplier diversity policies, and other terms that are particular to government contracts, such as termination rights. These rules may apply to us and/or third-party resellers or distributors whose practices we may not control. Such parties’ non-compliance could impose repercussions with respect to contractual and customer satisfaction issues. In addition, federal, state, and local governments routinely investigate and audit contractors for compliance with these requirements. If, as a result of an audit, it is determined that we have failed to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, cost associated with the triggering of price reduction clauses, fines, and suspensions or debarment from future government business, and we may suffer reputational harm.Further, we are increasingly doing business in heavily regulated industries, such as the financial services and health care industries. Current and prospective customers, such as those in these industries, may be required to comply with more stringent regulations in connection with subscribing to and implementing our services or particular regulations regarding third-party vendors that may be interpreted differently by different customers. In addition, regulatory agencies may impose requirements toward third-party vendors generally, or our company in particular, that we may not be able to, or may not choose to, meet. In addition, customers in these heavily-regulated areas often have a right to conduct audits of our systems, products and practices. In the event that one or more customers determines that some aspect of our business does not meet regulatory requirements, we may be limited in our ability to continue or expand our business.Our customers also include a number of non-U.S. governments, to which similar procurement, budgetary, contract, and audit risks of U.S. government contracting also apply, particularly in certain emerging markets where our customer base is less established. In addition, compliance with complex regulations and contracting provisions in a variety of jurisdictions can be expensive and consume significant management resources. In certain jurisdictions, our ability to win business may be constrained by political and other factors unrelated to our competitive position in the market. Each of these difficulties could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.We rely on our network of partners for an increasing portion of our revenues, and if these partners fail to perform, our ability to sell and distribute our products may be limited, and our operating results and growth rate may be harmed.An increasing portion of our revenues is generated by sales through our network of partners, including managed service providers and resellers. In addition, we increasingly rely on our partners to provide professional services, including customer implementations. While we provide our partners with training and programs, including accreditations and certifications, these programs may not be effective or utilized consistently. In addition, new partners may require extensive training and may require significant time and resources to achieve productivity. Our partners may subject us to lawsuits, potential liability, and reputational harm if, for example, any of our partners misrepresent the functionality of our platform or products to customers, fail to perform services to our customers’ expectations, or violate laws or our corporate policies. In addition, our partners may utilize our platform to develop products and services that could potentially compete with products and services that we offer currently or in the future. Concerns over competitive matters or intellectual property ownership could constrain these partnerships. If we fail to effectively manage and grow our network of partners, or properly monitor the quality and efficacy of their service delivery, our ability to sell our products and efficiently provide our services may be impacted, and our operating results and growth rate may be harmed.13Table of ContentsIf we are unsuccessful in increasing our penetration of international markets or managing the risks associated with foreign markets, our business and operating results will be adversely affected.Sales outside of North America represented approximately 34% of our total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018. Our business and future prospects depend on increasing our international sales as a percentage of our total revenues. The failure to grow internationally will harm our business. Additionally, operating in international markets requires significant investment and management attention and subjects us to different regulatory, political and economic risks from those in the United States (the US). We have made, and will continue to make, substantial investments in data centers, cloud computing infrastructure, sales, marketing, personnel and facilities as we enter and expand in new geographic markets. When we make these investments, it is typically unclear whether, and when, sales in the new market will justify our investments. We may significantly underestimate the level of investment and time required to be successful, or whether we will be successful. Our rate of acquisition of new large enterprise customers, a factor affecting our growth, has generally been lower in Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, South America and other markets in which we are less established and where there may be increased or changing regulations and operational and intellectual property risks, as compared to North America, Australia and Western Europe. An increasing proportion of the large enterprises that are not yet our customers are located in emerging markets where we are less established. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulties in some of our investments in geographic expansion, including hiring qualified sales management personnel, penetrating the target market, anticipating and ensuring compliance with regulatory developments, and managing foreign operations in such locales.Risks inherent with making our products and services available in international markets include without limitation:•compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, competition, requirements to have local partner(s), local entity ownership limitations, technology transfer or sharing requirements, data residency and transfer laws and regulations, privacy and data protection laws and regulations, including the GDPR;•compliance by us and our business partners with international bribery and anti-corruption laws, including the UK Bribery Act and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the FCPA);•the risk that illegal or unethical activities of our local employees or business partners will be attributed to or result in liability to us or damage to our reputation;•longer and potentially more complex sales and accounts receivable payment cycles and other collection difficulties;•tax treatment of revenues from international sources and changes to tax codes, including being subject to foreign tax laws and being liable for paying withholding, income or other taxes in foreign jurisdictions;•different pricing and distribution environments;•foreign currency fluctuations, which may cause transactional and translational remeasurement losses;•potential changes in international trade policies, tariffs, agreements and practices, including the adoption and expansion of formal or informal trade restrictions or regulatory frameworks favoring local competitors;•potential threatening state-sponsored actions, including cybersecurity threats directed at local data centers, customers or end-users;•local business practices and cultural norms that may favor local competitors; and •localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses.If we are unable to manage these risks, if our required investments in these international markets are greater than anticipated, or if we are unsuccessful in increasing sales in emerging markets, our revenue growth rate, business and operating results will be adversely affected.14Table of ContentsAs we acquire or invest in companies and technologies, we may not realize the expected business or financial benefits and the acquisitions and investments may divert our management’s attention and result in additional dilution to our stockholders.We have acquired or invested in companies and technologies in the past as part of our business strategy and may continue to evaluate and execute potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of or investments in businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets in the future. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our service offerings, functionality or our ability to provide services in international locations, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in other companies. Although we conduct reasonably extensive due diligence with each of the entities we engage for a strategic transaction, our due diligence efforts may not reveal every material concern that may exist either with respect to the target entity or our assumptions surrounding the resulting combination. These strategic transactions involve numerous risks, including:•assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies; •failing to achieve the expected benefits of the acquisition or investment;•potential loss of key employees of the acquired company;•inability to maintain relationships with customers and partners of the acquired business;•potential adverse tax consequences;•disruption to our business and diversion of management attention and other resources;•potential financial and credit risks associated with acquired customers;•dependence on acquired technologies or licenses for which alternatives may not be available to us without significant cost or complexity; •in the case of foreign acquisitions, the challenges associated with integrating operations across different cultures and languages and any currency and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; •increased data privacy or security compliance requirements resulting from integrating the acquired technology or company with ours; and •potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses.In addition, we may have to pay cash, incur debt, or issue equity or equity-linked securities to pay for any future acquisitions, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition or our stock price. Furthermore, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity, convertible or other debt securities or loans, our existing stockholders may be diluted, or we could face constraints related to the terms of and repayment obligation related to the incurrence of indebtedness that could affect our stock price. The occurrence of any of these risks could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.15Table of ContentsRisks Related to the Operation of Our Business If we or our third-party service providers suffer a cyber-security event, we may lose customers and incur significant liabilities, any of which would harm our business and operating results.Our operations involve the storage, transmission and processing of our customers’ confidential, proprietary and sensitive data, including personally identifiable information, protected health information, financial information and, in some cases, government information. While we have security measures in place designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss, these measures may be breached because of employee error or third-party actions, including unintentional events or deliberate attacks by cyber criminals, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers’ data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information. In addition, third parties have attempted and may continue to attempt to fraudulently induce employees, contractors, or users to disclose information to gain access to our data or our customers’ data, and we may be the target of email scams that attempt to acquire personal information or company assets. Additionally, because we do not control our third-party service providers or their processing of data, we cannot ensure the integrity or security of measures they take to protect customer information and prevent data loss. Computer malware, viruses, hacking, phishing and denial of service attacks by third parties have become more prevalent in our industry, and they have occurred on our and our third-party service providers’ systems in the past and may occur again on these systems in the future. Because techniques used to sabotage or obtain unauthorized access to systems change frequently and generally are not detected until successfully launched against a target, we have been and may continue to be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We devote significant financial and personnel resources to implement and maintain security measures; however, as cyber-security threats develop and grow more complex over time, it may be necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and infrastructure. A security breach suffered by us or our third-party service providers, an attack against our service availability or unauthorized access or loss of data could result in a disruption to our service, litigation, the triggering of service availability, indemnification and other contractual obligations, regulatory investigations, government fines and penalties, reputational damage, loss of sales and customers, mitigation and remediation expenses and other significant costs and liabilities. In addition, we may incur significant costs and operational consequences of investigating, remediating, eliminating, complying with notice obligations and implementing additional measures designed to prevent actual or perceived security incidents. We also cannot be certain that our existing insurance coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover the potentially significant losses that may result from a security incident or breach or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim.Further, in most instances, our customers administer access to the data held in their particular instance for their employees and service providers. We offer tools and support for what we believe are best practices to maintain security utilizing our services, but customers are not required to utilize those tools or follow our suggested practices. As a result, or for other reasons, a customer may suffer a cyber-security event on its own systems, unrelated to our own, and allow a malicious actor to obtain access to the customer’s information held on our platform. Even if such a breach is unrelated to our security programs or practices, such breach could result in our incurring signifi