BUSINESSServiceNow, the company that makes work, work better for people, is a leading provider of enterprise cloud computing services that define, structure, manage and automate digital workflows for global enterprises. We deliver digital workflows that help our customers create great experiences and unlock productivity. Our Now Platform enables enterprise-wide experiences and productivity by simplifying and streamlining processes across systems, functions and departments. Our product portfolio focuses on delivering better information technology (IT), employee and customer workflows, and enabling our customers to build any workflow application that makes sense for their business.Historically, our focus was on solving challenges found in enterprise IT departments, and we pioneered the use of the cloud to deliver IT service management applications. The digital workflow platform we built to solve these challenges has applications throughout the enterprise. In addition to our IT service management applications, we now provide digital workflow products for customer service, human resources, security operations, integrated risk management (including compliance, risk, and audit) and other enterprise departments where a patchwork of semi-automated and manual processes had been used in the past. Using our cloud services, users can easily request business services from these departments, actions and responses can be automated within the enterprise, the quality of service provided by these departments improves, and overall the business runs more efficiently. All of our cloud services are built on our proprietary platform, the Now Platform®, which features one code base and one data model. It enables customers to easily create, by themselves or with our partners, their own service-oriented business applications across the enterprise. We primarily deliver our software via the Internet as a service, through an easy-to-use, consumer product-like interface, which means it can be easily configured and rapidly deployed.We market our services to enterprises in a wide variety of industries, including consumer products, education, financial services, government, health care, IT services and technology. We sell our subscription services primarily through direct sales and, to a lesser extent, through indirect channel sales. We also offer a portfolio of professional and other services, both directly and through our network of partners. We were incorporated as Glidesoft, Inc. in California in June 2004 and changed our name to Service-now.com in February 2006. In May 2012, we reincorporated in Delaware as ServiceNow, Inc.1Table of ContentsOur Products Our portfolio of products supports critical aspects of our customers’ digital transformation process. These products, when implemented alone or together, deliver value to our customers across three workflows: IT, Employee, and Customer. As shown below, certain products that are applicable throughout the enterprise may be purchased by customers to support multiple workflows.The Now PlatformAll of our products are built on a single platform, which is the foundation for all of our cloud-based services. Our platform allows our customers to create a single system of record for their systems and workflows, and it is the foundation of our ability to deliver specific enterprise applications and services. Our single system of record also allows customers to complement their other vertical applications and achieve various business objectives such as better data integrity, faster updates and better responsiveness to user needs. Among the most popular services that our platform supports are workflow automation, electronic service catalogs and portals, configuration management systems, data benchmarking, performance analytics, mobile experience, encryption and collaboration and development tools. Our Now Platform App Engine also enables developers across the enterprise to create, test and deploy their own applications within an integrated development environment while leveraging the single data model and common services of our platform.2Table of ContentsInformation Technology (IT) Service ManagementOur IT Service Management (ITSM) product suite defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates IT services that are offered to an enterprise’s employees, customers and partners. Among its capabilities, our ITSM product suite records incidents, remediates problems and automates routine tasks. For example, we enable our customers to provide service portals where their employees can request IT services, order software and hardware, and submit IT incidents.IT Operations ManagementOur IT Operations Management (ITOM) product suite connects a customer’s physical and cloud-based IT infrastructure with our applications and platform. It identifies a customer’s IT infrastructure components (e.g., servers) and associated business services (e.g., email) which are dependent upon that infrastructure. It also maintains a single data record for all IT configurable items, which allows our customers to exercise control over their on-premises or cloud-based infrastructures and orchestrate key processes and tasks. IT Business ManagementOur IT Business Management (ITBM) product suite enables customers to manage their IT priorities, including the scope and cost of IT projects, the development of software related to those projects and the overall management of the customer’s IT project portfolio.IT Asset ManagementOur IT Asset Management (ITAM) product automates customers’ IT asset lifecycles with workflows, tracking the financial, contractual and inventory details of IT and non-IT assets throughout their lifecycles.Enterprise Development OperationsOur enterprise development operations product provides solutions across a developers’ toolchain and integrates with the leading solutions to provide a single dashboard of planning, development, testing, deployment and operations. Security OperationsOur security operations product connects with third-party and other sources of security alerts from a customer’s infrastructure to prioritize and respond to incidents and vulnerabilities according to their potential impact on a customer’s business. Security operations management capabilities include security incident management, threat enrichment intelligence, vulnerability response management and security incident intelligence sharing. Governance, Risk and ComplianceOur governance, risk and compliance product creates a common set of policies and controls to help our customers meet the requirements of an ever-expanding regulatory environment, and allows our customers to monitor risk and compliance events in real time to take action to remediate and mitigate risks.HR Service DeliveryOur human resources (HR) service delivery product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates HR services related to employee requests. HR service delivery capabilities include HR case management, employee self-service, knowledge management and management of employee lifecycle events across multiple departments such as onboarding, transfers and off-boarding. For example, tasks that start in HR but require action from other departments, such as new hire equipment selection and fulfillment, can be easily automated and orchestrated.3Table of ContentsCustomer Service ManagementOur customer service management product defines, structures, consolidates, manages and automates customer service cases and requests. It allows common customer requests such as password resets to be automated with out-of-the-box self-service, and for other cases it routes work from the customer service agent to field service, engineering, operations, finance or legal personnel to resolve the underlying issues. Field Service ManagementOur field service management application allows field service agents to be effectively assigned, deployed and managed on the same underlying customer service management platform that created and managed the customer incident.Professional Services Our professional services help drive our customers’ business objectives and derive value from their ServiceNow investment. Our professional services include customer success management, which provides advisory services to our customers for a fee, and also include process design, implementation,configuration, and optimization services. We also offer strategic services to customers embarking on significant business transformations to reimagine their service management strategy and roadmap – from first insight to final implementation. Our network of partners also provides professional services and training to our customers. We provide an expansive portfolio of training and certification programs across IT, HR, customer service, and other departments. Flexible training options, plus topic- and role-based content, help engage our customers’ employees, optimize business processes and enhance efficiency to increase the value customers derive from their use of our services.Customer SupportAs part of their subscription, customers receive support 24 hours a day, seven days a week around the globe, from technical resources located in the United States and internationally. We also offer self-service technical support through our support portal, which provides access to documentation, knowledge base articles, online training, online support forums and online incident filing.  Our Technology and OperationsWe designed our cloud-based services to support global enterprises. We operate a multi-instance architecture that provides each customer with its own dedicated application logic and database. This architecture is designed to deliver high-availability, scalability, performance, security and ease of upgrading. We have a standardized Java-based development environment, with the majority of our software written in industry-standard software programming languages. Our cloud infrastructure primarily consists of industry-standard servers, networks and storage components. Our operating system and databases are Linux, and MySQL and MariaDB.Our data centers operate in paired configurations to enable replication for high-availability and redundancy. We currently operate data centers in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Hong Kong, the Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States, and continuously evaluate our data center operations and capacity in existing and new geographies.We offer customers the option to deploy our services on dedicated hardware in our data centers. Our architecture also gives us the added flexibility to allow customers the option of deploying our services internally or under contract with a third party to host the software in order to support unique regulatory or security requirements, and, while there are some limitations on agility and flexibility as compared to our cloud offering, a minority of our customers have elected this alternative. The customer support we provide for self-hosted customers is similar to the support we provide to customers deployed in our own managed data centers.Sales and Marketing We sell our services primarily through our global direct sales organization. Additionally, we sell such services indirectly through resale partners, particularly in less developed markets.Our marketing efforts and lead generation activities consist primarily of customer referrals, Internet advertising (including via our website), trade shows, industry events and press releases. We also host our annual Knowledge user conference, webinars and other user forums where customers and partners both participate in and present on a variety of programs designed to help accelerate their success with our services. 4Table of ContentsWe are continuing to expand our sales capabilities in new geographies, including through investments in direct and indirect sales channels, professional services capabilities, customer support resources and implementation partners. In addition to adding new geographies, we also plan to increase our investment in our existing locations in order to achieve scale efficiencies in our sales and marketing efforts.Customers We primarily sell our services to large enterprise customers. We host and support large enterprise-wide deployments for our customers. As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately 5,400 enterprise customers. Our customers operate in a wide variety of industries, including consumer products, education. financial services, government, health care, IT services and technology. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues for any of the periods presented.  BacklogTotal backlog consists of unbilled backlog, deferred revenue and customer deposits. Unbilled backlog is an operational measure representing future unearned revenue amounts believed to be firm that are to be invoiced under our existing agreements and are not included in the deferred revenue or customer deposits on our consolidated balance sheets. For information regarding our total backlog, please refer to the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Key Business Metrics–Total backlog” in Item 7 of Part II in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development, testing and certification of our solutions. We focus on developing new services and core technologies and further enhancing the functionality, reliability and performance of our existing solutions. We focus our efforts on anticipating customer demand and then bringing new services and new versions of existing services to market quickly in order to remain competitive in the marketplace. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in research and development to strengthen our existing applications, expand the number of applications on our platform, enhance our user experience, and develop additional mobile, automation and machine intelligence technologies.Acquisitions and Investments In addition to continuing to invest in our own research and development efforts, we have made acquisitions and investments in the past and will continue to assess opportunities for strategic acquisitions and investments to complement our technology and skill sets and expand our product reach. We are focused on building out our platform and products through both acquisitions and investments that will satisfy growing customer needs.Competition The markets for our solutions generally are rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the markets in which we operate continue to mature and new technologies and competitors enter such markets, we expect competition to intensify. Our current competitors include:•large, well-established, enterprise application software vendors;•solutions developed in-house by our potential customers or using integrations with other tools;•large integrated systems vendors;•infrastructure-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service providers;•established and emerging cloud vendors; and •vendors of products and services for development operations. Many prospective customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate their current enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate away from their current solution to an enterprise cloud solution. Accordingly, we compete with both cloud-based and traditional enterprise application software vendors. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. As we continue to expand the breadth of our services to include offerings for service domains outside of IT, we expect increasing competition from platform and application development vendors focused on these other markets.5Table of ContentsVarious factors influence purchase decisions in our industry, including total cost of ownership, level of customer satisfaction, breadth and depth of product functionality, security, adherence to industry standards, brand awareness, flexibility and performance. We believe that we compete favorably with our competitors on each of these factors. However, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources and may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, customer requirements and buying practices. An existing competitor or new entrant could introduce new technology that reduces demand for our services. Acquisitions, integrations and consolidation by and among other companies in our industry may allow potential competitors to offer integrated or bundled products, enhanced functionality, or other advantages, which may impact our competitive position. In addition, some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Some of our larger competitors also have the operating flexibility to bundle competing products and services with other software offerings, which may enable them to offer such products and services at a lower price as part of a larger sale. As competition intensifies, we expect pricing competition to continue or increase.Intellectual Property We rely upon a combination of copyright, trade secret, patent and trademark laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality and license agreements, to establish, protect and grow our intellectual property (IP) rights. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, partners, vendors, consultants and other third parties and control access to our IP and other proprietary information. We also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products or services.We continue to grow our patent portfolio and IP rights around the world that relate to our platform, applications, services, research and development and other activities, and our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and IP. We have over 600 U.S. and foreign patents, including patents acquired from third parties, and over 500 pending patent applications. We do not believe that our proprietary technology is dependent on any single patent or other IP right or groups of related patents or IP rights. We file patent applications to protect our IP and have in the past and may in the future acquire additional patents, patent portfolios, or patent applications. However, we cannot be certain that any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent or whether the examination process will result in patents of value or applicability. In addition, any patents that have been or may be issued or acquired may be contested, circumvented, found unenforceable or invalidated, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing them.Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use our technology to develop products and services that provide features and functionality that are similar to our solutions. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult. The laws of the countries in which we market our services may offer little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Our competitors could also independently develop services equivalent to ours, and our intellectual property rights may not be broad enough for us to prevent competitors from utilizing their developments to compete with us. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business.Our industry is characterized by frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against us, our channel partners or our customers. In addition, based on our greater visibility, expanding solutions footprint, and market exposure as a public company, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims from third parties. For example, in 2016 we settled two patent-related litigation matters and recorded a one-time charge of $270.0 million related to aggregate legal settlements. See “Risk Factors–Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology or other rights could harm our business” for additional information.Employees As of December 31, 2018, we had 8,154 full-time employees worldwide, including 1,835 in cloud operations, professional services, training and customer support, 3,061 in sales and marketing, 2,080 in research and development and 1,178 in general and administrative roles. None of our U.S. employees is represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment. Employees in certain European countries are represented by workers’ councils and also have the benefits of collective bargaining arrangements at the national level. We consider our relations with our employees to be very good and have not experienced interruptions of operations or work stoppages due to labor disagreements.6Table of ContentsAvailable InformationYou can obtain copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our website at www.servicenow.com/company/investor-relations/sec-filings.html as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing and our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.7Table of Contents