RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes report, before making an investment decision. We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our business could be adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and IndustryWe expect our revenue growth rate to continue to decline, and we expect to continue to incur losses in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP.From the year ended June 30, 2009 to the year ended December 31, 2015, our revenues grew from $19.3 million to $1.0 billion. Although we experienced revenue growth in prior periods, our revenue growth rate is declining and we expect that it will continue to decline into the foreseeable future. We also expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to invest in our capacity to support anticipated growth. These investments may not result in increased revenues or growth in our business. Even if our revenues continue to increase, we expect to continue to incur a loss in accordance with GAAP during future periods due to increased costs such as non-cash charges associated with equity awards, business combinations and other expenses. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unforeseen or unpredictable factors that may result in increased costs. Furthermore, it is difficult to predict the size and growth rate of our market, customer demand for our products, customer adoption and renewal rates, and the entry of competitive products or the success of existing competitive products.  As a result, we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future, our gross margins may be negatively impacted, and our ability to generate cash flow from operations may be negatively impacted. If we fail to grow our revenues sufficiently to keep pace with our growing investments and other expenses, our business operations, operating results and growth prospects will be adversely affected.We have recently introduced products in new markets that are important to our growth prospects and for which we do not have an operating history. If we are unsuccessful in competing in these new markets, our revenue growth rate, business and operating results will be adversely affected. We have recently introduced products in the markets for IT operations management, customer service, security incident management and use of our platform for service management outside of enterprise IT. Our successful entry into these and other new markets is important to our revenue growth prospects. We do not have a substantial operating history with these products, which limits our ability to forecast operating results, and the success of our efforts to address these markets depends on many factors, including: the degree of differentiation of our products and services from those offered by more established competitors in these markets; whether our product and services offer compelling benefits and value to customers; the time-frame and quality of our research and development efforts; the rigor and effectiveness of our quality testing and controls; and our ability to successfully market and sell into new markets with which our marketing and sales personnel are less experienced. We may not have the necessary resources, including employees with the required product management, engineering, marketing and sales expertise, to compete effectively in these markets. Any new service that we develop may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may not be priced appropriately, may not offer compelling customer benefits compared to competing products and services, and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. If we are not able to successfully develop, market and sell these and other newly introduced products and services to our existing customers and prospective new customers our revenue growth rate, business and operating results will be adversely affected.9If we are unsuccessful in increasing our rate of growth in new geographic markets, our revenue growth rate, business and operating results will be adversely affected.Sales outside of North America represented approximately 30% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015. Our business and future prospects depend on increasing our international sales as a percentage of our total revenues, and the failure to grow internationally will harm our business. Additionally, operating in international markets requires significant investment and management attention and will subject us to regulatory and economic risks that are different from those in the United States. We have made, and will continue to make, substantial investments in data centers and cloud computing infrastructure, sales, marketing, personnel and facilities as we enter and expand in new geographic markets, such as Brazil and various countries within Asia. When we make these investments it is typically unclear whether, and when, sales in the new market will justify our investments, and we may significantly underestimate the level of investment and time required to be successful, or whether we will be successful. For example, our rate of acquisition of new Global 2000 customers, a key factor effecting our growth, has generally been greater in North America, Australia and in areas within Europe than it has been in Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, South America and other markets in which we are less established. Accordingly, if we continue to further penetrate the Global 2000 at a higher rate in our established markets than in our emerging markets, over time an increasing percentage of the overall Global 2000 enterprises that are not yet our customers are in markets in which we have generally had a lower rate of customer acquisition or in which we are not yet competing. Additionally, currency fluctuations in certain countries and regions may negatively impact actual prices that partners and customers are willing to pay in those countries and regions, or the effective prices we realize in our reporting currency. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulties in some of our investments in geographic expansion, including in hiring qualified sales management personnel. If we are unsuccessful in making these investments, or if our required investments are greater than anticipated, our revenue growth rate, business and operating results will be adversely affected.We expect competition to cause the sales prices of our products to decline, which may harm our financial results.The sales prices for our products, subscriptions and services may decline for a variety of reasons, including competitive pricing pressures, discounts, a change in our mix of products and subscriptions, anticipation of the introduction of new products or subscriptions, or promotional programs. Competition continues to increase in the market segments in which we participate, and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. Larger competitors with more diverse product and service offerings may reduce the price of products or subscriptions that compete with ours or may bundle them with other products and subscriptions. In addition, we expect that smaller competitors and new entrants may accelerate the decline of prices in the IT service management market, which is our more mature offering from which we derive the substantial majority of our revenues and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, we anticipate that the sales prices and gross profits for our products will decrease over product life cycles. We may not be successful in developing and introducing new offerings on a timely basis, and any new product and subscription offerings, if introduced, may not enable us to maintain our prices and gross profits at levels that will allow us to maintain positive gross margins.If we fail to meet the financial performance expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially.For any quarterly or annual period there is a risk that our financial performance will not meet the financial guidance we have previously given for that period, or that we may otherwise fail to meet the financial performance expectations of the securities analysts who issue reports on our company and our common stock price, or of investors in our common stock. There is also a risk that we may issue forward-looking financial guidance for a quarterly or annual period that fails to meet the expectations of such securities analysts or investors. If any of the foregoing occurs, for any reason either within or outside of our control, the price of our common stock could decline substantially and investors in our common stock could incur substantial losses. Some of the important factors that may cause our revenues, operating results and cash flows, or our forward-looking financial guidance, to fall below the expectations of such securities analysts or investors include:•our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers’ requirements;•changes in foreign currency exchange rates;•the rate of expansion and productivity of our sales force;•the number of new employees added;•the cost, timing and management effort for our development of new services;•general economic conditions that may adversely affect either our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase additional subscriptions, delay a prospective customer’s purchasing decision, reduce the value of new subscription contracts or affect renewal rates;•the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operation and expansion of our business;•seasonality in terms of when we enter into customer agreements for our services;10•the length of the sales cycle for our services;•changes in our pricing policies, whether initiated by us or as a result of competition;•significant security breaches, technical difficulties or interruptions of our services;•new solutions, products or changes in pricing policies introduced by our competitors;•changes in effective tax rates;•changes in the average duration of our customer agreements and changes in billing cycle;•changes in our renewal and upsell rates;•the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers;•extraordinary expenses such as litigation costs or damages, including settlement payments;•the impact of new accounting pronouncements;•changes in laws or regulations impacting the delivery of our services;•the amount and timing of stock awards and the related financial statement expenses; and•our ability to accurately estimate the total addressable market for our products and services.Lawsuits against us by third-parties that allege we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business and operating results.There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends in part on not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. We may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology or services.  From time to time, our competitors or other third parties, including patent holding companies seeking to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained, may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights.    For example, on February 6, 2014, Hewlett-Packard Company (“Hewlett-Packard”) filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California that alleges that some of our services infringe the claims of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,331,229 (the “’229 patent”), 7,027,411 (the “’411 patent”), 7,392,300 (the “’300 patent”), 7,610,512 (the “’512 patent”), 7,890,802 (the “’802 patent”), 7,925,981 (the “’981 patent”), 7,945,860 (the “’860 patent”) and 8,224,683 (the “’683 patent”).  Hewlett-Packard is seeking unspecified damages and an injunction. We filed an answer to the complaint on March 28, 2014 denying the allegations and asserting various affirmative defenses. The parties are currently conducting discovery. Hewlett-Packard served infringement contentions on July 3, 2014 and November 18, 2014. We served invalidity contentions on January 9, 2015. On March 10, 2015, the court granted our motion for summary judgment, finding that the asserted claims of four of the eight asserted Hewlett-Packard patents are invalid for failing to claim patentable subject matter. On October 13, 2015, the court granted in part our renewed motion for a stay of litigation, staying all proceedings as to two of the four remaining asserted patents pending final decisions from the United States Patent and Trademark Office on our petitions for inter partes review. A claim construction hearing for the two asserted patents not subject to the court’s stay is scheduled for April 29, 2016. The trial is currently scheduled to begin on May 22, 2017. We filed petitions for inter partes review with the United States Patent Trial and Appeal Board (“PTAB”) seeking to invalidate all eight Hewlett Packard patents.  The PTAB granted our petitions for inter partes review of the ‘229, ‘411, ‘300 and ‘683 patents and denied our petitions of the remaining four patents. We also filed petitions for covered business method (“CBM”) review with the PTAB seeking to invalidate the ‘981 and ‘860 patents. The PTAB denied our petitions for CBM review of the ‘981 and ‘860 patents.On or about November 1, 2015, Hewlett-Packard separated into two independently publicly traded companies: (i) Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“HPE”); and (ii) HP, Inc. As part of this separation, Hewlett-Packard assigned to HPE all right, title, and interest in the eight Hewlett-Packard patents in suit. On or about November 4, 2015, Hewlett-Packard filed a stipulated request to substitute HPE for Hewlett-Packard and the Court granted the stipulated request, substituting HPE for Hewlett-Packard as plaintiff in the litigation.11On September 23, 2014, BMC Software, Inc. (“BMC”) filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that some of our services willfully infringe the claims of U.S. Patent Nos. 5,978,594 (the “‘594 patent”), 6,816,898 (the “‘898 patent”), 6,895,586 (the “‘586 patent”), 7,062,683 (the “‘683 patent”), 7,617,073 (the “‘073 patent”), 8,646,093 (the “‘093 patent”) and 8,674,992 (the “‘992 patent”). BMC is seeking damages and an injunction. BMC served infringement contentions on January 6, 2015. We served invalidity contentions on March 3, 2015. We filed an answer to the complaint on June 1, 2015 denying the allegations and asserting various affirmative defenses. A claim construction hearing occurred on July 10, 2015, followed by the court's claim construction order on August 13, 2015. On January 25, 2016, the court issued an order dismissing all of BMC’s claims related to the ‘594 and ‘093 patents without prejudice. On February 23, 2016, BMC voluntarily withdrew all claims related to the ‘073 patent. The trial is currently scheduled to begin on March 11, 2016. We filed petitions for inter partes review with the PTAB seeking to invalidate the ‘594, ‘073, ‘898, ‘586, ‘093 and ‘992 patents. The PTAB granted our petitions for inter partes review of the ‘594, ‘073 and ‘992 patents and denied our petitions of the ‘586, ‘093 and ‘898 patents. We also filed petitions for CBM review with the PTAB seeking to invalidate the ‘683 and ‘093 patents. The PTAB granted our petition for CBM review of the ‘093 patent and denied our petition for CBM review of the ‘683 patent.On February 12, 2016, BMC filed an additional lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that some of our services willfully infringe the claims of U.S. Patent Nos. 7,877,783 (the “‘783 patent”), 7,966,398 (the “‘398 patent”), 8,554,750 (the “‘750 patent”), the ‘586 patent and the ‘898 patent.  BMC is seeking damages and an injunction.  The court has not yet set a schedule for this lawsuit.We intend to vigorously defend against HPE’s and BMC's lawsuits. The final outcome with respect to the claims in the lawsuits, including our liability, if any, is uncertain. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that any claims by HPE or BMC would be resolved in our favor. For example, an adverse litigation ruling could result in a significant damages award against us, could result in injunctive relief, could result in a requirement that we make substantial royalty payments, and could require that we modify our products to the extent that we are found to infringe any valid claims asserted against us. Moreover, to the extent we are found to infringe on any valid claims asserted against us, our attempt to modify our products so that they are no longer infringing may be unsuccessful, could cause us to incur substantial expense, could be a distraction to management, and any such modified products may not be well received in the market. To the extent that we reach a negotiated settlement, the settlement could require that we pay substantial royalties and could require that we make modifications to our products that may not be well received in the market.At this stage in these litigation matters, any possible monetary loss or range of monetary loss cannot be estimated. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain. If one or more of these legal matters were resolved against us in a reporting period, or settled on unfavorable terms, our consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected.In any intellectual property litigation, regardless of the scope or merits of the claims at issue, we may incur substantial attorney’s fees and other litigation expenses and, if the claims are successfully asserted against us, we could be required to: pay substantial damages and make substantial ongoing royalty payments; cease offering our products and services; modify our products and services; comply with other unfavorable terms, including settlement terms; and indemnify our customers and business partners and obtain costly licenses on their behalf and refund fees or other payments previously paid to us. Moreover, the mere existence of any lawsuit, or any interim or final outcomes, and the course of its conduct and the public statements related to it (or absence of such statements) by the courts, press, analysts and litigants, could be unsettling to our customers and prospective customers and could cause an adverse impact to our customer satisfaction and related renewal rates and cause us to lose potential sales, and could also be unsettling to investors or prospective investors in our common stock and could cause a substantial decline in the price of our common stock.. Accordingly, any claim or litigation against us could be costly, time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations and harm our financial condition and operating results. If we suffer a cyber-security event we may lose customers, lose future sales, experience business interruption and injury to our competitive position, and incur significant liabilities, any of which would harm our business and operating results.Our operations involve the storage, transmission and processing of our customers’ confidential, proprietary and sensitive information, including in some cases personally identifiable information, protected health information, proprietary information and credit card and other sensitive financial information.  While we have security measures in place designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss, they may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers’ data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information. A security breach or unauthorized access could result in the loss or exposure of this data, litigation, indemnity and other contractual obligations, government fines and penalties, mitigation expenses and other liabilities. Additionally, the cost and operational consequences of responding to breaches and implementing remediation measures could be significant. 12Computer malware, viruses and hacking and phishing attacks by third parties have become more prevalent in our industry, have occurred on our systems in the past and may occur on our systems in the future. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until successfully launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. As cyber-security threats develop and grow, it may be necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and infrastructure. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, we could suffer severe reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, we could lose potential sales and existing customers, our ability to deliver our services or operate our business may be impaired, we may be subject to litigation or regulatory investigations or orders, and we may incur significant liabilities. We do not have insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that may result from security breaches.Disruptions in our services could damage our customers’ businesses, subject us to substantial liability and harm our reputation and financial results.Our customers use our services to manage important aspects of their businesses, and any disruptions in our services could damage our customers' businesses, subject us to substantial liability, and harm our reputation and financial results.  From time to time, we experience defects in our services, and new defects may be detected in the future. We provide regular updates to our services, which frequently contain undetected defects when first introduced or released. Defects may also be introduced by our use of third-party software, including open source software. Disruptions may also result from errors we make in delivering, configuring, or hosting our services, or designing, installing, expanding or maintaining our cloud infrastructure. Disruptions in service can also result from incidents that are outside of our control. We currently serve our customers primarily using equipment managed by us and co-located in third-party data center facilities operated by several different providers located around the world. These centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct, equipment failure and adverse events caused by operator error. We cannot rapidly switch to new data centers or move customers from one data center to another in the event of any such adverse event. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services and the loss of customer data.  In addition, our customers may use our services in ways that cause disruptions in service for other customers. Our reputation and business will be adversely affected if our customers and potential customers believe our services are unreliable. Disruptions in our services may reduce our revenues, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, subject us to claims and litigation, cause our customers to delay payment or terminate or fail to renew their subscriptions, and adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. The occurrence of payment delays, or service credit, warranty, termination for material breach or other claims against us, could result in an increase in our bad debt expense, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, an increase to our warranty provisions or service level credit accruals or other increased expenses or risks of litigation. We do not have insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses that may result from claims arising from disruptions in our services.If we are unable to continuously enhance our products and services to deliver consumer product-like experiences, mobility, messaging and ease of use, they could become less competitive or obsolete and our business and operating results will be adversely affected.We believe that enterprises are increasingly focused on delivering a consumer-like technology experience to users within the enterprise, such as employees, and to individuals interacting with the enterprise, such as customers, partners and suppliers. Accordingly, our ability to attract new customers and to renew and increase revenues from existing customers depends on our ability to continuously enhance our products and services and provide them in ways that are broadly accepted. In particular, we need to continuously modify and improve our products and services to keep pace with changes in user expectations, including intuitive and attractive user interfaces, use and mobility features, messaging, social networking, and communication, database, hardware and security technologies. If we are unable to consistently and timely meet these requirements, our products and services may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete and our business and operating results will be adversely affected.13The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively our business and operating results will be adversely affected.The markets in which we compete to manage services across the enterprise are fragmented, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry. As the market for service management matures, we expect competition to intensify. We face competition from in-house solutions, large integrated systems vendors, and established and emerging cloud and software vendors. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more established customer relationships, larger marketing budgets and greater resources than we do. Furthermore, third parties with greater available resources and the ability to initiate or withstand substantial price competition may acquire our current or potential competitors. Our primary competitors include BMC Software, Inc., CA, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, International Business Machines Corporation and Salesforce.com. Further, other potential competitors not currently offering competitive products may expand their services to compete with our services. As we expand the breadth of our services to include offerings in the markets for IT operations management, customer service, security incident management and use of our platform for service management outside of enterprise IT, we expect increasing competition from platform vendors and from application development vendors focused on these other markets. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. An existing competitor or new entrant could introduce new technology that reduces demand for our services. In addition to product and technology competition, we face pricing competition. Some of our competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Some of our larger competitors have the operating flexibility to bundle competing products and services with other software offerings, including offering them at a lower price as part of a larger sale. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully and competition could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our services to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which could harm our business.If we lose key employees or are unable to attract and retain the employees we need, our business and operating results will be adversely affected.Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our management team and many key individual contributors. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of employees, which could disrupt our business. Our employees are generally employed on an at-will basis, which means that our employees could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more members of our management team or other key employees could have a serious impact on our business. In the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for engineers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software and Internet-related solutions, as well as competition for sales executives and operations personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time experienced, and we may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. In particular, competition for experienced software and cloud computing infrastructure engineers in the San Francisco Bay area, San Diego, Seattle, London and Amsterdam, our primary operating locations, is intense. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be adversely affected.Our revenue growth rate, business and operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities.Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our services will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to effectively expand our sales and marketing operations and activities. We are substantially dependent on our direct sales force to obtain new customers. During the year ended December 31, 2015, our sales and marketing organization increased from 1,011 to 1,416 employees. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force both domestically and internationally. There is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining a sufficient number of direct sales personnel and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals. Newly hired employees require significant training and time before they achieve full productivity, particularly in new sales territories, and our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as quickly as we plan, or at all. Further, in our less established markets such as in Brazil and various countries within Asia, we do not have significant experience as an organization developing and implementing sales and marketing campaigns, and such campaigns may be expensive and difficult to implement, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to conduct such campaigns. Our business will be adversely affected if our sales and marketing expansion efforts do not generate a significant increase in revenues.14Our business depends substantially on our existing customers purchasing additional subscriptions from us and renewing their subscriptions upon expiration of their subscription term. Any decline in customer additional purchases or renewals would harm our business and operating results.In order for us to maintain or improve our operating results, it is important that our existing cust