 - [Severin] Good morning. I'm sure if we wait five more minutes then the other 500 people will (laughs) come in to join us, but in the interest of staying on schedule, actually there's no one in here after us, I believe, so we won't be terribly rigorous about this schedule this morning, but thank you those of you who came to our session this morning. I'm the first speaker this morning. I'll be offering an introduction to the session, and then I'm very grateful to all of our participants who've come to join us. I'll be introducing them individually. So, this paper, now entitled "American Indian Metaphysics: An Introduction." In thinking about how to introduce this morning's session convened into consider the writings of Vine Deloria, I found myself in a bit of a dilemma. I could, of course, begin with some sort of opening statements about Deloria himself, about his vital role as a Native American activist and savvy critic of anthropology, about the way his critiques shaped, reshaped the discipline at the close of the 1960s, about how he effectively brought to an end the classic period of American Indian ethnography. A historicizing of Deloria and his effects, this would have been the responsible way to begin. On the other hand, I might have begun with a set of personal reflections. Many of us who study Native American history have an intimate relationship with Deloria's critiques. We've defined ourselves in response to his now classic parodies of the anthro and to his principled unwillingness to hand over epistemological privilege to Western science. Deloria is personal for Native Americanists in the same way that Said is personal for Orientalists. The difference, of course, is that while Said is required reading in anthropology Ph. D. programs, Deloria is not. His brief essay entitled "Anthropologists and Other Friends" occasionally appears on syllabi, but this just perpetuates the false image of Deloria as little more than a polemicist, a product of the 1960's culture of protest, and, in this sense, easily set to the side. Now for someone like me who continues to wring his hands over Deloria's deeper critiques of the Western intellectual tradition, this marginalization of his work does indeed get personal. I no longer keep a count of the number of times I've been seated next to colleagues who are taking a deep, and as often as not, very very loud, moral stance on crises halfway across the world, but who's moral engagement with distant places seems to be paired with a complete disengagment from ongoing forms of coloniality here in North America. A Freudian would diagnose such colleagues as suffering from a clear case of repression and projection. Personally, I just find the situation a bit maddening. Reading Deloria alongside Said in anthropology core courses might not be a solution, but it would be something at least. Lucky for you, I opted not to introduce the session this morning with a list of my disciplinary frustrations, but having eliminated both the responsible option of the historical introduction as well as the irresponsible option of a personal tirade, I was left to confront my third option, which was to situate Deloria's work in relation to the conversations over ontology that have been sweeping anthropology as of late. Prestige discourses, by design and by nature, function like contagions, and it's been difficult to attend the AAA meetings recently without catching a nasty case of the ontological turn. You say you want to better understand the world views of another group of people. Well, not so fast. "Don't you realize," some savvy colleague will inevitably retort, "that the study of other world views implicitly asserts that there's one single world? A single world that's uniquely defined by Western science and, therefore, is complicit in the ongoing erosion of the sovereignty of non-Western peoples?" Or perhaps your goal is to better understand the deeply-held beliefs of some community that stands apart from you in time and space. "Beliefs," the colleague will utter seemingly in disbelief. "Mere beliefs, that's no better than the study of world views." God forbid that your claim to be interested in understanding another culture, your colleague will throw his hands in the air and say, "Well now you're just reifying the false division between culture and its implied opposite in nature. "This is just purification," they'll say. This is how theoretical contagions spread. By invoking the ontology debates at the start of this session, I recognize the risk of falling into its trap. But my goal is to make a different sort of move. My goal is to reclaim the ontology debate as fundamentally Delorian, and I'll return to this issue shortly. For the moment, I'd like to briefly review what these debates entail. Most of you, I assume, are familiar with the writings of Descola, Viveiros de Castro, Latour, and their followers. As such, you're no doubt well aware that the dominant anthropological conversation about ontology traces its origins back to Levi-Strauss and, in particular, to his identification of the nature/culture binary as a central intellectual conundrum for comparative studies. In what is now a classic contribution to the anthropological turn, for instance, Viveiros de Castro nicely articulates the desire to begin again with Levi-Strauss using his structuralist project as a point of departure rather than as an object of critique. "The flourishing industry of criticisms of the Westernizing character of all dualisms has called for the abandonment of our conceptually dichotomous heritage," Viveiros de Castro writes with a kind of tinge of regret here, "but to date the alternatives have not gone beyond the stage of wishful unthinking." His aim, in contrast, is not to unthink the West's nature/culture opposition, so much as to provincialize it, embedding it within what Levi-Strauss referred to as a wider order of orders. This leads Viveiros de Castro to focus on the so-called Amerindian perspectivists, whose ontology he regards as a kind of inversion of the West. "I would prefer," he continues, "to gain a perspective on our own contrasts, contrasting them with the distinctions actually operating in Amerindian perspectivist cosmologies." If Western naturalism understands the order of things as not positioned between a universal nature and the singular, and a contingent set of particular cultures in the plural, then Amerindian perspectivists show us, or meant to show us, how a world can be constituted precisely in the reverse. We may view nature as universal, which is to say as a fixed and transcendent matter of fact, but they, argues Viveiros de Castro, see culture as occupying this universal position. Human and non-humans share an overarching spiritual unity and participate in the same social institutions. The difference in the Amerindian scheme is supposedly a matter of bodily natures in the plural, natures that are worn like masks or ornamentation over top of a common cultural substrate. The supporting ethnographic argument is as elegant as it is widely read, so I won't spend time on it here. Suffice it to say that each ontology comes with its own set of concerns. Westerns naturalists confront the problem of multi-culturalism, while Amerindian perspectivists confront the problem of multi-naturalism. The overall inquiry remains preoccupied with the nature of culture opposition, in other words, even as it seeks to overcome it. Most of the participants in the ontological turn are similarly preoccupied with the nature/culure binary. Latour's classic opposition between modern and non-modern ontologies, which also needs no introduction, may differ from Viveiros de Castro's, but it still builds from the same old Levi-Straussian foundation. Again, ontology becomes a grand exercise in reckoning the relationships between nature and culture. So, what does Vine Deloria have to do with all this? And what did I mean a moment ago when I said my goal was to reclaim the ontology debates as fundamentally Delorian? Well, on one hand, it's worth emphasizing that Deloria was already undertaking a comparative metaphysics in the early 1970s. He wrote as an indigenous translator of, an advocate for Amerindian, as it were, metaphysics. He wrote as a critical analyst of the ontological commitments of the modern West, and he wrote as someone seeking to reimagine our basic existential categories in response to an environmental crisis that, in the 1970s, was just coming into the conciousness of white America but that had been strongly felt by Native Americans ever since their confrontation with the expanding industrialism of the American economy, as well as the U.S. government's systematic extermination of the buffalo in the 19th century. Three of Deloria's texts stand out in this regard. "God is Red," published in 1973; "The Metaphysics of Modern Existence," published in 1979; and the 1999 reader entitled "Spirit and Reason," which brought together many of his earlier philosophical essays. It was, to be sure, an ontological anthropology that Deloria was after. Of course, Deloria was Native American, and, as he was quick to observe, anthropologists have always granted greater reality to white claims about Indians than to Indians' claims about themselves. This is only underscored by recent calls for anthropology to work towards, quote, "the ontological self-determination of the world's peoples." That provocative phrase of Viveiros de Castro. This sounds very good, of course, but thus far, the calls for ontological self-determination have been somewhat hypocritical insofar as they've been followed by analyses that lump non-Westerners into classicatory types who are these Amerindians anyway. Just as they systematically ignore all those indigenous intellectuals who've already worked to articulate their own self-determined ontological commitments, reading Deloria alongside Descola in anthropology core courses might not be any more of a solution than reading Deloria alongside Said. But here, too, it would at least be something. What would it accomplish? Let's quickly consider some of Deloria's core observations. The difference between Native American and Western metaphysics, he argued, cannot be understood in terms of opposing models of nature and culture as the Levi-Straussian tradition would have it. The more revealing contrast, he proposed, was between Native American particularism and Western universalism, and Deloria's foundational question, very much in the spirit of a reverse anthropology, was how this strange tribe we call the West could have come to override the self-evident plurality of sovereign places, installing in its stead a single existential order that transcends all human experience. This wasn't just an academic question, it marked Deloria's effort to gain critical perspective on the roots of European colonialism. In "God is Red," Deloria argued that the answer lies deeply buried in the West's Abrahamic heritage, particularly in the ontological priority placed on history within the Christian tradition. God reveals himself in history, in the unfolding of a transcendent historical process that has universal reach. Christ's passion may have occurred in the Holy Land, but the entire point of Christianity is that this key historical event can and must be exported throughout the world. Here's the iconic image, of course. The European arrives in a new place, and before even getting to know that place, he plants the cross. He transplants, in other words, history. Deloria encourages us to read this scene not just politically, but also ontologically, as a contest between time and space, between history and place. The European is strangely asserting that time travels, that history has the power to remake distant places. What Columbus's men are participating in, then, is the assertion of an odd way of understanding the world as a progression of transcendent events. Deloria nicely captures this difference between Abrahamic and Native American philosophies by presenting it as a question of what happened when versus what happened where. He was struck in particular by the fact that Christian theologians have been little concerned with where creation happened, the location of Eden being effectively unknown. But Christians have repeatedly worked very hard to specify precisely when creation happened. James Ussher's famous 17th century conclusion that God created the world at nightfall preceding October 23rd, 4004 B.C. was, as you can see, just one of many Christian efforts to rigorously and very specifically reckon the when of creation. Time is clearly privileged to a degree that's foreign to most Native American traditions, which instead place a priority on determining precisely where creation happened. Deloria looks to the Navajo to build his argument here. "The Navajo," he writes, "have sacred mountains where they believe they rose from the underworld." There is no doubt in any Navajo's mind that these particular mountains are the exact mountains where it all took place. There's no beating around the bush on that. "No one can say when the creation story of the Navajo happened, but everyone is fairly certain where the emergence took place." Deloria, then, offers us an alternative to the old Levi-Straussian fixation on the nature/culture binary. Here, the basic opposition is between history and place and the relative priority placed on each. For Westerners, being invested in a universal history, one is necessarily of one's time, and the core ontological worry is with people and things that anachronistically occupy the wrong time. This is the classic problem of the primitive within modern anthropology. For most Native Americans, being is invested in particular places. One is necessarily of one's place, and the core ontological problem therefore becomes with people and things that are in the wrong place. We might say Europeans in North America or with those who have somehow come to reject their own indigeneity. This is the problem of anatopism, a problem that the Western world barely even has a word for. In an important recent paper, Ben Alberti and Yvonne Marshall encourage us to treat, as they put it, "native thought...as philosophically challenging, a potential equivalent to Western philosophical doctrines." I completely agree here, but I would add that surely this project should begin with an engagement with the work of those individuals, native individuals, who have already been building their own comparative metaphysics. In place of the classic question of what natives think then, we have gathered this morning to discuss the more important, I think, question of what native intellectuals argue and what productive impact their arguments might have on anthropological theory. Thank you very much. (applause) Ok, our second paper this morning is by Christopher Watts. It's entitled "Relational Ontologies and Deloria's 'First Philosophy.'" - [Christopher] Thanks very much, Sev. As part of a broader ontological turn in archaeology and anthropology, much has been made of late regarding the importance of relational ways of being. While myriad perspectives, applications, and interpretations of relational thought pervade the literature, most scholars would agree, I think, that a positional, non-anthropomorphic account of life, one which is imminent in the ever-unfolding relationships that constitute an environment lie at the heart of any definition. Tim Ingold's eloquent work, which forefronts a thoroughly embodied appreciation of what it means to inhabit, move through, and make sense of the world, comes to mind as notable in this regard, as does Bruno Latour's conceptualizations of agency as variously distributed and possessed across an array of network entities or actants. Karen Barad and Jane Bennett have also made significant contributions to post-humanist relational thought, as have numerous others. Yet, as Zoe Todd points out, many key figures associated with the ontological turn have advanced their positions on the backs of indigenous thinkers. As she notes, the ones we credit for insights into human-animal kinship, topological rather than Cartesian spatial imaginations, and epistemologies that are resolutely partial and imbued with humility are not, quote, "the people who built and maintained the knowledge systems that North American anthropologists and philosophers have been studying for well over 100 years," end quote. Rather, they are largely settler society academics whose epiphanal moments, born of such epistemes, would seem self-evident to many indigenous thinkers. Todd writes that, despite efforts to decolonize and recast the field as part of the reflexive turn beginning in the 1970s, indigenous thought is essentially regarded as not credible or, at best, something to be cherry-picked quote, "without engaging directly or unambiguously acknowledging the political situation, agency, and relationality of both indigenous peoples and scholars," end quote. Though she does not call out authorities on Amazonian or Amerindian cosmology as illustrative of such a condition, Orin Starn certainly does and emphasizes, among other things, a tendency in such scholarship to conflate numerous tribes into one category, to treat these groups as a laboratory of sorts for decoding distinctive logics and to ignore any reference to temporality in favor of leveling the ethnographic present. Finally, and importantly, Todd's paper ends with the following appeal: Quote, "for every time you want to cite a great thinker who is on the public speaking circuit these days, consider digging around for others who are discussing the same topics in other ways. Decolonizing the academy, both in Europe and North America, means that we must consider our own prejudices, or own biases," unquote. Todd, of course, is absolutely right, and were she to look at aspects of my work to date, she would no doubt come to a similar conclusion. In fact, I've been struggling with this for some time now. How best to forefront germane indigenous scholarship given my poor track record. And so when Sev invited me to take part in this session, I saw it as an opportunity to accept Todd's challenge and engage with Deloria in ways I had not done before. I was familiar with Deloria as the uppity Indian who'd written "Custer Died," but not the Deloria of "God is Red," "The Metaphysics of Modern Existence," "Power and Place," and numerous ontologically and epistemologically-driven articles. In the remainder of this paper, I want to draw on these sources in an attempt to distill and comment upon some of Deloria's contributions to ontological thought as I understand them, particularly those aspects which clearly speak to notions of relationality and how the groups with which Deloria was familiar, in his opinion, relate to a world made up of living entities. In advancing a trenching critique of Euro-American normative values, an approach of which he was fond, a recurrent theme in much of Deloria's writing on ontological and epistemological matters revolves around the hollow and arrogant imperatives of Western scientific materialism. Preeminent and all-important concerns with the truth, ostensibly arising from a place of neutrality and detached observation, assume that the world is atomistic and can be clearly perceived and understood via deductive reasoning. Such an attitude, Deloria notes, is not only misplaced, but counterproductive. Indeed, far from an episteme involving abstract propositions about a foreign and passive world, it is an immersive and engaged understanding of phenomena, oftentimes partial and personal, but thoroughly relational, that permits comprehension. In such a view, knowledge is not rarely applied, but generated in the course of lived experience through a series of encounters. This much is clear when, writing against the rationalism of modernist thought, Deloria submits that, quote, "the Indian world can be said to consist of two basic experiential dimensions that, taken together, provide a sufficient means of making sense of the world. These two concepts are power and place. The latter perhaps better defined as spiritual power or life force, familiarity with the personality of objects and entities of the natural world enables Indians to discern immediately where each living being has its proper place and what kinds of experiences that place allows encourages and suggests. And knowing places enables people to relate to the living entities inhabiting it." Making sense of the world through power and place, from what I gather, is accomplished in part through what Deloria calls the principle of correlation, or correspondence. Tribally specific, this knowledge practice issues cause and effect in favor of teasing apart particular local connections between entities. It is a situated and disclosive epistemology. In other words, it is wholly contextual, but also inherently pragmatic in that it provides a practical means of discerning and predicting relationships. As Deloria writes, for American Indians, it was not necessary to postulate the existence of an ideal world of perfect forms untouched by space and time. Reality for tribal peoples was the experience of the moment, coupled with an interpretive scheme that had been woven together over the generations. But, much more than this, power and place to Deloria turns on the recognition that the world is alive. Typically, Western scholars have interpreted such beliefs as animistic, or what some regard as the fallacious notion that life or spirit can be assigned to things that are effectively inert. Deloria's writings, however, point to the mistake and inimical nature of such thought. The old Indians, he notes, quote "had no problem with this concept because they experienced life in everything, and there was no reason to suppose that the continuum of life was not universal," unquote. And he goes on to state that in demonstrating this, quote "the practical criterion is the easily observable fact that the earth nurtures smaller forms of life, people, plants, birds, animals, rivers, valleys, and continents. For Indians, both speculation and analogy end at this point," unquote. An animistic view that bifurcates the earth and its inhabitants and drives a wedge between the mutually exclusive categories of animate and inanimate is fundamentally at odds with this notion that there is life in everything, that life is imminent in a world given by such relations. Scott Pratt refers to Deloria's position on this as an indigenous version of vitalism, or the idea that life emerges from an immaterial property distinguished from purely physical and chemical compounds, but I don't see this as quite capturing the idea that being unfolds relationally by virtue of one's position along what Deloria refers to as a continuum. I tend to think of Deloria's metaphysical conviction as more in keeping with what Tim Ingold has described as a poetics of dwelling, or the perspective that treats the immersion of the person, human or non-human, in an environment or life world as an inescapable condition of existence. As Ingold writes, quote, "from this perspective, the world continually comes into being around the inhabitant, and its manifold consituents take on significance through their incorporation into a regular pattern of life activity," unquote. That Deloria ties his ontology to place is crucial, however, for it allows him to make relevant a particular topological, as opposed to Euclidean, sensibility in the Sioux universe. Topological mathematics, as noted by John Law, stress quote, "the possibilities and properties of different forms of continuous transformation and the different spaces which express or allow these," unquote. Beyond the fixed spaces or dimensions onto which grids and other forms of logical order are superimposed in Euclidean geometry. It is less concerned, therefore, with order, finitude, and certitude, than on incompleteness, fergility, and tenuous fluid relationships. According to Deloria, there are three major space-time taxonomic expressions among the Sioux. The ceremonial directions, the sacred places, and particular places. The ceremonial directions appear as the most reverential, but also the most abstract in as much its offerings to the four directions, for example, by way of the pipe, as well as the earth and sky, are intended to gather together all of the powerful elements of the cosmos. Quote, "distance is not regarded as a meaningful obstacle," he writes, "when spiritual powers are invoked," unquote. If I'm reading Deloria correctly, ceremonies or places of ritual action, the here and now, create topological, not to mention, relative and relational space at the scale. Sacred and particular places, on the other hand, while occupying fixed locales, are no less meaningful, with the former, quote, "places where revelations had been given to the people, or they had experienced a spiritual presence," unquote. And the latter, more intimate niches for particular human and non-human peoples and their life ways to coalesce and thrive. Despite differences in scale within such a tripartite framework, what seems clear is that the world is not comprised of spaces with pure extension of linear directions, measurable and calculable, but rather, an intensely personal and pragmatic system of engagements. In many ways, Deloria's place-based ontology evokes a Heideggerian sense of practical understanding or concern vis a vis designs being in the world, not to mention the embodied and non-objectivist spatiality of Merleau-Ponty. Yet, Deloria's metaphysics offer something more profound in its ethical considerations. If life is ubiquitous and nurtured along relational pathways, then all activities, events, and entities are intertwined, and the responsibility to maintain such a state of affairs is likewise distributed among both humans and non-humans. As Deloria notes, the old Indians were not terribly interested in discovering the abstract structures of the world, but rather, quote, "the proper road along which, for the duration of a person's life, individuals were supposed to walk. There is," Deloria notes, "a proper way to live in the universe. There is a content to every action, behavior, and belief. There is a direction to the universe, empirically exemplified in the physical growth cycles of childhood, youth, and old age, with the corresponding responsibility of every entity to enjoy life, fulfill itself, and increase in wisdom and the spiritual development of personality." In this way, insofar as the earth provides a low sign for personal growth and development, so, too, is it morally vital for one to take up their position, commit to the relationships this entails, and flourish. In the moral universe, Deloria writes, "all activities, events, and entities are related, and consequently, it does not matter what kind of existence an entity enjoys, for the responsibility is always there for it to participate in the continuing creation of reality. Importantly, as part of caring for the land and maintaining in good order the relational ways of life it nurtures, it is also necessary for the Indian to enter into covenants with other forms of life. For the Sioux and other peoples, Deloria observes, dispatching an animal, catching a fish, or obtaining an eagle feather for ceremonial purposes, must be done in such a way so as to not, quote, "disrupt the balance that the whole fabric of life requires." Covenants, the result of early interspecies communications, placed moral obligations on both parties. For humans, this involves adhering to what is often termed sustainability in economic activities, or the avoidance of practices that violate the principles of growth. Indeed, the themes of growth and development are also freighted with a particular weight in Delorian metaphysics when it comes to defining time, and this is what Sev was talking about. Those familiar with "God is Red" will know that while Deloria does not critique Christianity for having an incorrect conception of history, he regards as problematic its time-centered religious sensibility in its promotion from a religion tied to Palestine, including its people and places. Christianity, he notes, became a totalizing and entirely temporal accounting of history, a doctrine that sought to explain the universe rather than experience it. Western European peoples, Deloria writes, quote, "have never learned to consider the nature of the world discerned from a spatial point of view," unquote. This kind of consideration is crucial, he points out, as duration and development unfold within specific relational contexts, a practical place-based engagement. Growth is measured incrementally within tribal societies. For example, when seasons change or adults become elders, and not as an inexorable and unilinear march toward finality. When it comes to charting growth, quote, "time cannot be our primary consideration," he argues, "as we never seem to arrive at the reality of our existence and are always directed to experiential interpretations rather than the experiences themselves," unquote. To sum up, Deloria's metaphysics offer a unique approach to apprehending the world, one which, at its heart, draws out the myriad and simultaneous relationships that exist between beings and place. Unencumbered by modern Western ontologies, which, among other things, emphasize an insular and disengaged subject set over against the objective and inert matter of nature, Deloria invites us to consider an approach to being which emphsizes nurture as duty-bound by virtue of one's relational postioning within an animated, anagential world, but also a sense of understanding that comes not from an abstract and mathematical search for the truth, underlying the reality of nature, but rather an embedded and embodied appreciation of inhabiting places. That this is necessarily partial and mysterious to all but the most enlightened comes through in Deloria's notions of power and place, as well as his topological sensibilities, where in a history of careful observation of phenomena in situ, provides epistemic awareness of the whole through its parts, perceptions which are typically glossed by Westerners as a quaint subjectivity smeared over the surface of a timeless, abstract reality. As Deloria's metaphysics make clear, however, indigenous knowledge practices need not be elevated to the realm of abstract general principles and concepts about the world because they are always and already there, free of formula, hand wringing, and gambits. Thank you. (applause) - [Severin] Ok, thank you very much, Chris. Our next speaker this morning is Omur Harmansah. He will be speaking on "Critical Ecologies of Place and Belonging: An East Mediterranean Reading of Deloria's 'God is Red.'" - [Omur] Thank you. Thank you, Sev. I'd like to thank Sev Fowles for introducing me to the exceptional work of Vine Deloria, Jr. and for inviting me to this really excellent collaboration. His invitation actually corresponded beautifully with my new interest in the field of political ecology and the defense of place, ecological activism, and indigenous ontologies. At my new academic home at the University of Illinois at Chicago, where social justice, environmental humanities, and engaged scholarship happen to be high priorities, and this makes me really happy. So in this paper, what I hope to do is to engage with Vine Deloria's "God is Red" in the light of my work on the politics of place and place-based practice in the ancient Near East, and I must say that this also gave me an opportunity to engage with Sev's own monograph archaeology of doings secularism and the study of Pueblo religion. My own work concentrates on the aged landscapes of Mesopotamia, Anatolia, and the Eastern Mediterranean, where perhaps the history of colonial violence is much deeper than the New World, but those geographical contexts faced similar challenges due to the rift between Western epistemologies, global capitalism, and local heritage. I read Deloria's work on the indigenous place-based knowledge systems among Native American communities as a powerful and insightful work of political ecology, which not only chronicles place-based struggles in contexts of colonial violence and the vibrant politics of place, but also discusses the possibility of radically different ontologies as alternatives to Western enlightenment-based forms of knowledge and dwelling in the world. Having become familiar with Sev's notions of doings as, quote, "practices characterized by a heightened awareness of interconnectedness and relation between things," end of quote. Deloria's description of the Native American ways of dwelling in landscapes is a place-by-place, thing-by-thing viewing of the world, which then emerges as what Tim Ingold calls a taskscape, a technological overcoat draped over land and made meaningful through the act of remembering and reiteration of those doings, which are by their nature site-specific and performative. So, I'm interested in the active building of a landscape of labor and a body of local knowledge attached to it, and the main things of culturally meaningful landscapes as sacred through creative acts of storytelling, building, and image making. As Sev points out, these doings are predominantly concerned with material interconnections between people, animals, rivers, mountains, corn, architecture, stones, and so on, but I want to ask, what are those material practices that sustain places to continue to exist from large-scale image-making practices making and marking through monumentalization all the way to the residues and traces of everyday acts. So, in this paper, I'd like to dwell on these important intersections between Deloria's characterization of Native American places and landscapes and my own insistence on developing a critical archaeology of place that removes the stigmas on places as romantic, unchanging, and backward, and replaces them with the idea that places are open, fluid, always politically challenged, and always unfinished. And I'm showing you here an Iron Age spring site in south central Turkey that I've been working on, a place that was monumentalized by multiple state-sponsored rock carving acts and inscriptions, but then also, a series of alters and steelies and other cultic installations, but then transformed into a site of healing in early modernity and associated with Prophet Mohammed. These kind of afterlife questions sort of put aside the kind of Western narratives of progress and the interested origin of the image making, so I put more emphasis on what happens next as well. So Vine Deloria suggests that Western European peoples have never learned to consider the nature of the world discerned from a spatial point of view, I'd like to question this statement for a moment. Spatial thinking in the European world comes to us, on the one hand, from a pictorial understanding of a landscape as a background to the unfolding of the human drama, especially driving from the Weltlandschaft paintings of the early Netherlandish art recalling, reaching all the way to these Neoclassical Romantic landscapes with jewel-like classical ruins embedded in them, and a precisely, in this painting, this is a precisely identified historical event, is enacted in a romantic landscape, this French history painting, where a specific landscape is reduced to a pictorial set design, a skenographia, I'd like to call, that in front of which, the drama of human history, the drama of mankind, unfolds. The devotement of perspective, also, as a convention of spatial representation and a way of engaging with the world, accompanies this process. Perspective required the author to situate himself or herself outside the landscape in order to objectify and represent that very space, and taking out the presence of the body from the landscape and inserting a God-like gaze onto the world, and I'd like to emphasize, I'd like to come back to this idea of the gaze, which is really important, sort of like, I think of "Alice in Wonderland," there's the Cheshire Cat with just a grin. I think I understand the gaze as that kind of immaterial thing. And so, and I think this is also secondly, and more significantly, developed from a set of academic debates among the 19th century German scholars of aesthetics, like Gottfried Semper or Adolf Hildebrand, establishing the foundations of the modernist conception of space as a void, as a quantifiable, Cartesian void that can be designed before it was lived in, so that's a fundamentally modern concept that you would design a space before you actually live in it, and that debate is fundamental to our understanding of our current reliance of geographical information systems, remote sensing, remotely sensing, and what is referred to these days as spatial archaeology, opening the possibility of studying the landscapes from a distance, remotely sensing them rather than being materially engaged with them. And, finally, we can add to this genealogy, the concept of nature as a resource for mining and extraction, one that needs to be gradually governed and controlled more and more by the human race. Modernity has violently undermined the concept of place and replaced it with an external, observing, mining, and totalizing gaze that universalized an appropriated place, which was categorized quickly under the rubric of vernacular and/or traditional. So, following Deloria's suggestion that the denial of sacred landscapes of Native Americans in the U.S. system emerges from the colonial modernity's long-held suspicion and hostility towards places of cultural significance and a global disenchantment of the world. An excellent example of this replacement is what we see in the construction of the rock-cut monuments of Mount Rushmore. Again, I'm engaged with Mount Rushmore because I work on rock monuments in the Near East, and I love this case, which presents us an act of monumentalization, a configuration of an immense rock-art crop and, at the same time, disfiguration of a sacred mountain, a landscape that was laden with an intricate bed of Native American place-based practices of pilgrimmage, of doings, of storytelling. And Mount Rushmore, gigantic faces of four U.S. presidents are carved into massive rock face at Paha Sapa, or Black Hills, of South Dakota. Black Hills is, was, still is a complex sacred landscape and a constellation of places of pilgrimage and healing involving sacred rock art crops, sacred lakes, like Bear Butte, caves, sinkholes, and hot springs venerated and visited by the indigenous peoples of the region, most recently by the Lakota, Sioux, but also many other communities since the 17th century, if not earlier. The animated landscape of Black Hills are imbued with accounts of ancestral events, embedded in the shared memory of local communites. For example, the Inyan Kara, the stone-gathering mountain in Black Hills, constituted the place of creation of the world for the Lakotas. Rock art crops known as Six Grandfathers among the Lakotas were personified as indexical representations of ancestors and played a major role in the pilgrimage of the Black Elk, a famous Lakota leader and healer. It is on to this particular mountain, Six Grandfathers, the relief images of George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt, and Abraham Lincoln were carved between the years of 1927 and 1941. Black Hills presents us a useful case study of a culturally significant and powerful place being taken over by a colonial and nationalist monument, carving the living rock inherently. So my argument is that carving the living inherently without saying a word, without its content, claims already a gesture of embedding a political image into the terra nullius, the blank canvas of nature, and claims that there was nothing there before. However, I argue that the selection of the site cannot be accidental, but it both incorporates the sociosymbolic significance of a powerful place of ancestors into its own state ideology of conquest and colonial takeover while also destroying it. And I like to mention here, my colleague Nick Shepherd's metaphor, eating metaphor, so the colonial power both sort of eats it in the sense that it both destroys it, what we eat, we destroy, but it also is nourished by it, and so, I love that metaphor. So it's striking to note that American forefathers have replaced six grandfathers, an iconic image of local ancestors embedded in the place, and the transformation from the nonrepresentational ancestral landscape to a highly representational monument was brought about by a moment of state intervention and national ideology. Unlike the power of the mountain as a place of memory, Mount Rushmore monument draws awe as a technological feat over untouched nature. It is believed that each of these American politicians have directed their gaze toward specific territories of the colonial expansion and locally looming over the western landscape, to the Louisiana Purchase or something. So apparently they're all calculated, so I'm saying that this relationship between the individual and the landscape is established through this gaze, again, the Cheshire Cat relationship. So this political takeover of significant locales where specific geologies are played into the human practice and direct bodily engagement is an issue that's dear to my heart, and I perceive this phenomenon in discussing the springs in Near Eastern antiquity. Springs are sites of miraculous and eventful geologies where ice cold waters come out of the subterranean world. Having drawn many human communities to their vicinity for obvious reasons, springs became sacred places through their imagination as animate and powerful, and they are safeguarded by communities through practices that link those communities to ancestors of the underworld and miraculous apparition of deities and related apotropaic image-making practices. Likewise, when Deloria writes that sacred places inform us of the particularity of revelation, that is not a universal message to be placed in secular or immature hands for distribution. So, sites of miraculous apparitions are fascinating in exploring this relationship between events and site-specific geologies and the long-term biography of places. I've been interested very much in sites of miraculous apparitions that have been transformed with spontaneous creation of springs with curative powers into long-term sites of pilgrimage and healing. So, two well-known examples I want to mention very briefly is the Mary apparition site of Lourdes in France and the Sufi healing pilgrimage site of Husain Tekri in Madhya Pradesh in India. At both of these sites, miraculous apparition of holy figures, Virgin Mary in the first, and Husain in the second, result in the engagement with place such that a healing spring erupts with their initiation, and both sites turn into healing pilgrimage sites during the 19th century, and the way that they developed contemporary to each other is really curious. They're both still continuously visited by thousands of pilgrims each year. Following Deloria's criticism of universalization of religious practice and erasure of sacred places, such sites are left out of Western narrative, so they're both left out of Western narratives. For example, the Catholic Church wanted to shut it down immediately in the early years of its existence by fencing the site and keeping the initiates out. And likewise, the hybrid nature of the religiously sanctioned healing places at the Sufi Dargah of Husain Tekri, with its overwhelmingly Hindu and Muslim visitors, has left it outside the dominant narratives of religion, civilization, scientific medicine, and nationhood in India. These sites are considered to be embarrassments to modernity and modern science although massive groups of people visit them and benefit from their experience. In conclusion, I'd like to suggest that Vine Deloria's "God is Red" can be read as a powerful work of political ecology and a critique of colonial modernity's erasure of place and landscape. His place-based and historically nuanced account of Native American religion is extremely mind opening for archaeologists and anthropologists of other landscapes. He also contributes fundamentally to the question of what Arturo Escobar has intuitively asked in his work, "Territories of Difference," if novel approaches in social theory can provide better accounts of the world we live in, if they are based not only on more inclusive epistemologies, but on more diverse ontologies, and how this might require us actually for a reorientation of our theory. Thank you. (applause) - [Severin] Thanks very much, Omur. I should actually thank in particular Omur and Lars, who were the two non-Americanists who I invited to participate in this session. In part, the logic of this session was to force a broader engagement with Deloria that wouldn't ghettoize his work within Americanist scholarship, so it was a special challenge for you, I realize, and it's wonderful to see you rise to it so effectively, so thank you. Our next paper this morning is by Benjamin Alberti. It's entitled "Traveling Metaphysics: Equivocating Between the Amazon and the U.S. Southwest." - [Benjamin] Thank you, Sev, and thank you for the invitation to speak today. I work with old ceramics and rock art from Northwest Argentina and Northern New Mexico. In conversation with Virgina Rusher, a colleague and friend, she remarked that, in the work of her favorite artists, she'd like to see the marks of spatula and brush and paint and materials, traces of their conversations with the material, as she put it. These struggles with materials is what archaeologists see, trace, and try to understand. Sev Fowles has asked us to explore the impact of the work of Vine Deloria on archaeology. I am an extremely novice scholar of Deloria's work. Others, such as Sev himself and Kim TallBear, have written about his impact on the large-scale stages of archaeology and the biosciences. I'm going to talk much more modestly about a single encounter between theories and materials. My work is increasingly oriented towards one particular goal. This goal is based on a sense and intuition that at the heart of many archaeological things lies difference or alterity. Laurent Olivier, his description of encountering gallish bronze dragons expresses this sense. He wrote, "with their lips curled up under their impressive snouts, they look out at us through their half-open eyes but don't see us. Words emerge from their scowling maws, but we can't understand them because we can't hear them, but they are calling to us." I am convinced that the things archaeologists work on contain the marks of ways of being quite different from what we currently know or suspect. My goal is to find that difference and have its effects felt. My premise is that current ways of working and thinking, including Olivier's, rarely allow us too close to this alterity. Olivier's account is steeped in a European tradition of worrying about memory and objects. I think that indigenous theories and metaphysics are crucial to this project. In fact, indigenous archaeology is an established, if minor, part of the discipline, but, as Gonzalez-Ruibal has recently noted, while strong on collaboration between indigenous communities and archaeologists, indigenous archaeology, as a field, does not deal well with alterity. And that, I would argue, is because indigenous peoples as metaphysicians are not taken seriously, a point Deloria frequently made. The question that prompts today's paper is whether indigenous metaphysics can travel as theory. What kind of insights into archaeological materials would result? To this end, I bring pots from Argentina into conversation with rock art from Northern New Mexico via Vine Deloria's work on American Indian metaphysics. I struggled to know where to start with this question that I set myself. So I've used a device. I work from an ontological premise, an ontonorm, as Annemarie Mol has put it. My ontonorm, or base assumption, is conversations with materials precisely. This is the idea, inspired by Virginia, that working with materials ought to leave traces of tools and struggles. There are thus five actors in this paper: Deloria, Viverios de Castro, a strong influence, pots, rock art, and myself. In a sense, my ontonorm is a surrogate me. It is my means of assembling these disparate elements into a productive apparatus aimed at the archaeological materials, the rock art and pots. So, ontonorm in hand, I set out from what I know, anthropomorphic pots from Northwest Argentina. First encountering these pots in 2005, I wanted to know what kinds of bodies these were. What I learned from several years struggling with them is that leaving marks on bodies, any body, is an ontological act that creates equivalencies across materials. Reading Amazonian ethnographies about working on human bodies in order to secure their status as precisely human bodies, I decided the pots could be doing the same thing. Or rather, the shape and, especially, marks on the pots, incisions, moldings, were there to fix these bodies as bodies. Makers worked on the clay as they worked on flesh. The motivation and desired outcome the same, ontological security. The act of marking, inscribing, cutting, painting, set up equivalencies across materials, made flesh and clay the same. The marks, in other words, had ontological effects. The concept of a body pot captures this equivalence. My ontonorm is at work here, clearly, as marks leave clues to the tools used that cross between bodies, but also, marks are meant to transform by their presence, by what they do, not by what they might represent. So the question is, can the body pots travel? The writings of Amazonian Eduardo Viveiros de Castro, who Sev has already talked about, has been central to how I think about this material. What I bring from Viveiros de Castro today is a model of encounter, the method of controlled equivocation. He draws this idea from the thinking of indigenous Amazonians. Equivocation is not the same as an error, he tells us, it is the gap between mutually incommensurable understandings. Equivocation is both a failure to understand and a failure to understand that understandings are not necessarily the same. Translation is driven by the existence of the equivocation. In his words, controlled equivocation "is to communicate by differences, instead of silencing the Other by presuming the essential similarity between what the Other and we are saying." In here, my ontonorm may be useful. Makers left traces on their conversations as marks of tools, changes in materials. Comparison as equivocation leaves the initial terms present in a concrete way in the outcome. Something new is produced, but the difference between the terms remain. They are not resolved. Controlled equivocation allows the generative role to be played, not only by different theories, but also the materials. And particularly by the strange things that flummox us, The anomalies, as Deloria insists, including the unsettling difference Olivier senses in the bronzes. And body pots can remain just that. Rather than disappear into a general comparative framework, the materials can force their own translation. Traveling to meet Deloria, led by body pots and Viveiros, that begs the question of how much common ground the actors share. Both authors are attuned to the degradation of non-Western ontologies. Deloria has written forcefully against the intellectual history of the category religion in a way that so-called primitive religions are cast as superstitious beliefs. Viveiros has argued for the conceptual self-determination of the world's peoples, as we've heard. All ontologies, he claims, should be treated as such and not as inadequate versions of the scientific view of nature. A key tenant, then, is that the indigenous ontologies or metaphysics must be given the same theoretical weight as Western theories. Further common ground includes an emphasis on the strong claim that materials and concepts are inseparable. It is this shared emphasis on the concrete nature of concepts that resonates with the Argentinian pots. This emphasis in Deloria's work is seen when he repeatedly stresses that perception or recognition is prior to conceptualization. Amazonian practices stress the literalness of signs, whether dreams, words, or marks on bodies. Bringing this common metaphysics to bear on my ontonorm, conversations with materials, shifts its meaning. If the marks on body pots are the traces of the ontological efficacy of practices, then they are not simply material, they are material conceptual. Materials can be understood as fully theoretical, completely commensurate with the actions and concepts that work on and through them. But how do we draw from each theory and the material, recognizing their similarities, as I've just done, without collapsing the differences and without privileging one over the other? The answer must come from the metaphysical assumptions built into the theories themselves, as well as the theory inherent in the materials. Clearly there can be no external model of encounter that is simply applied to them. In his critique of Western concepts, Deloria argues that rigid categories, such as those of conventional science, lead to a certain kind of insanity. A Native American concept would be linked intimately to its own content and history, but also the open, spiraling out as it came to contact with new content and ideas. To quote Deloria, "no concepts could stand above in the same way that time and matter once did." This metaconcept has its roots in a metaphysics that stresses relatedness of all entities as paramount. In Northern New Mexico, I have been following the footsteps of my colleagues, Severin Fowles, and some far older inhabitants, trying to find a way to understand the engraved patterns on rocks' surfaces. This ancient encounter leaves its traces. What struggles did this entail, and with whom? Full intellectual symmetry demands that the materials be theoretically and conceptually charged. Working on pots in the Amazon, I had learned, is the same as working on bodies. Can the body pot, as loose concept, as the theory of an equivocation, that is, parts our bodies, travel from Argentina to Northern New Mexico? The marks on the rock faces of Northern New Mexico are the results of struggles with stone by a maker. But that is not all. They are mixed with lichen, patterns of weathering, the buildup of the deep black and red surfaces known as desert varnish, all entwined with the geometric lines and footprints typical of the so-called archaic rock art. All is skilled intentional action, whether human, spiritual, or microbial. With a world fixing or shifting purpose in mind, the metaphysics of Deloria and Viveiros imply a very broad social constituency to the world. The world contains a background condition of subjectivity. To know anyone or anything is not to reduce it to an object devoid of personality, but to maximize is subjectivity. Intentional action, therefore, is aimed at an audience far larger than one imagines. What stands out about the rock art is both its intimacy with the landscape and, more specifically, this intimacy with the life forms of which it is a part. Rock art suggests lichen stains. Footprints in stone mirror those in mud. The site clearly recalls Deloria's writings on space and place. Space is not empty, it is made up of relationships, he tells us, full of them. Time follows along as journeys traveled through space into stories, histories, and knowledge layered onto places. Following Deloria, we can explore a possibility prompted by the ontological equivalents implied in the concept of body pot. Marks incised in body pots make them bodies. The paths and patterns engraved in the rock make them into places with histories quite literally. These struggles with materials do not so much occur in time or space, but are productive of them. They draw from histories already many millennia old. If time exists here, it does so as the cumulative marks. Rock, art, lichen, heat, rain, left in increasing densities by a whole compost of agencies. There is one further move to be made. To return with the rock art to Northwest Argentina. If lines etched into rock are the histories that places generate, the movement out of which time is made, then what of the pots with their ensized lines? Scale is irrelevant here. Marking wet clay brings stories, meanings, and, ultimately, local time into that space. The body pots understood this way are themselves sites where place is made. The ontological equivalents and practices on clay and practices on flesh can be understood themselves as ways of making place and of narrating local time onto these ceramic bodies. Viveiros teaches us to control our equivocations, to hold onto difference. Deloria, to develop conceptual localness, his deep particularism, as Sev pointed out, and the ontonorm which guided this paper, I see now as a call to be guided by our materials, tacking back and forth between the Amazon and New Mexico is generative. This movement across theories, metaphysics, and materials produces encounters that puts things in relation in ontologically novel ways. Just as artists leave the traces of the brush or knife, the texture and nature of the material as it reveals itself in the conversation, so one should be able to see and feel the contours of thought in working through theories in archaeology, and here, perhaps, lie dragons. Thank you. (applause) - [Severin] Thanks very much, Ben. I'm very pleased to introduce the next speaker, Scott Ortman, who will be speaking to us with a different title this morning, "Leaving the Lake: Discourses of Reflection in Tewa Origins." - [Scott] Thank you, Sev. Good morning. Thank you for being here. I'd like to dedicate my presentation today to the memory of Rena Swentzell, a remarkable Santa Clara woman who passed away last month and who, in my opinion, was the most eloquent interpreter of traditional Tewa philosophy who has ever lived. I'll never forget the day I first read her 1990 essay, "Pueblo Space Form and Mythology," in a volume edited by Nick Markovich and others. At the time, I'd been working on the history of Mesa Verde pottery painting and struggling to understand its long-term development. When I saw this image of the Tewa world in Rena's essay, I finally had an idea. The Mesa Verde style developed as it did because pottery painting was the mirror image of weaving. And, as they say, the rest is history. When my book on Tewa origins came out a few years ago, Rena thanked me for writing it, and I had a chance to share this story with her as a way of repaying the compliment, and I share it with you today in the hope of conveying in some small way the treasure that I think we lost when Rena returned to the lake last month. Please come back to visit, Rena. This is also an appropriate paper to dedicate to Rena because the argument I wish to make is one that I think she would be excited about. Specifically, I want to propose a solution to a problem that has puzzled archaeologists in the U.S. Southwest for a long time. And the basic problem is this: For many decades, archaeologists have known that the population of the Four Corners, and especially the Mesa Verde region, declined to zero just as the population of the Northern Rio Grande region grew substantially. In my recent work, I've shown that a wide range of evidence, including demographic patterns, biological evidence, Kiowa-Tanoan linguistic data, oral traditions, place-names and place-lore, even etymological patterns in the Tewa language, all support the conclusion that the Tewa language, and most of the ancestral Tewa population, originated in the Mesa Verde region. But it is equally clear that the material culture of ancestral Tewa society does not represent the continued development of Mesa Verde traditions. The last villages in the Mesa Verde region, in the upper left, were conglomerations of Unipueblo residences, each with a small kiva and associated living and storage rooms. The first villages in the Rio Grande, in contrast, were apartment-style dwellings focused around shared plazas with very few kivas. The last pottery made in the Mesa Verde region, in the lower left, was decorated with an elaborate geometric style that included rim decoration, complex framing patterns, and designs painted with multiple brushes. In contrast, subsequent pottery in the Rio Grande lacked all these embellishments and actually exhibits more continuity with earlier Rio Grande pottery than with Mesa Verde pottery. Finally, the last kivas in Mesa Verde settlements faced south, had masonry roof supports, a bench, and cribbed roofs, whereas ancestral Tewa kivas continued the architectural traditions of the Rio Grande, and thus faced east, had no pilasters or bench, and had flat roofs. In short of this, it is fair to say that material culture continuitives are not merely absent, but conspicuously absent. Indeed, if one were to tell the people who lived in the Mesa Verde region at 1200 to move wherever they wanted and do whatever they wanted when they got there, we would see far more evidence of Mesa Verde migrants in the archaeological record than we actually do. In fact, some archaeologists argue the discontinuities are so strong that migration simply could not have played a major role in Tewa origins at all. So how and what might we make sense of this? I want to suggest here that as with so many things in Tewa culture, the answer is right there in front of us, if we're willing to pay attention simply. Quote, "there was a big lake, p'o'kwin p'o:kwingeh, sand lake. There were lots of people in there. They stayed underneath the water. Then they were talking about it. How to go up from the water, how to get ready to go up," end quote. So begins the Tewa origin narrative as it was related by a Tewa elder to Elsie Clews Parsons in the 1920s. I want to suggest here that the solution to the puzzle is right here in the first line of the story. Tewa people emerged from beneath the surface of a lake. Now, why is this significant? A good place to begin is to consider what happens when you look at the surface of a lake on a calm day. What you will see is the landscape reflected in the water, but notice it does not take the form of the world as it exists above. Rather, it is a mirror image in which spatial relationships appear reversed, or opposite the way they are in the world above. Now, the Tewa word for mirror, p'o:kwisa'weh, literally puddle through house, captures this experiential connection between a still body of water and mirror image reflection. As Rena explains so eloquently, Tewa people extrapolate from this experience that the spirit world consists of water in its various forms, and as a result, one can contact this world at any number of places where water stands still, whether this be in the form of clouds and snow on mountains and hills, pools of water at mountain lakes, marshes or springs, moist caves, even subterranean kivas. So as water circulates through the world, so does amnesty flow through both worlds as p'o:waha, literally, water, wind, breath. Well if you think about it, mirror image reflection is apparent in a range of bodily experiences. If you look at your shadow on the wall of a canyon, for example, you will see not yourself and your companions, but a mirror image of your group looking back at you. The person to your left in this world is to the right of your shadow on the rocks. And, of course, you'll see the same phenomenon even more clearly if you look at your reflection in the lake. If you raise your right hand in greeting, you will see your reflection in the water waving its left hand back at you. And it doesn't stop there. If you cover your right hand in pigment and press it on a rock, the print you make will be of a left hand from the perspective of the rock facing you. In my experience, Tewa people use this principle to determine whether a depiction in rock art is of this world or the spirit world. Since most people are right handed, a right hand in a rock art image indicates a being that is present in this world, whereas a left hand indicates a being that is behind the mirror in the spirit world. By this logic, the rock art image on the right reflects an ancestral cloud being that has crossed over into the physical world. Now mirror image reflection is apparent even in the sky. In the Northern Hemisphere, the sun rises each morning in the east, and then it travels upward and southward until noon before turning downward and northward until it sets in the west each evening. During the night, the sun continues moving beneath the surface of the earth before it reappears on the eastern horizon the next morning. Now here I'd like to thank Patrick Cruz for pointing out that, when you're in a kiva, the image of the sun on the walls moves opposite, the way it does in the world above. In the morning, the sunbeam passing through the hoyi, or roofhatch, projects an image of the sun on the west wall of the kiva, not the east. And then, as the day progresses, the image moves downward and northward until noon, at which time it reverses and moves upward and southward until the evening, where the image sets along the east wall. In short, the sun inside the kiva moves in a mirror image of the sun in the sky. And if you think about it, the reflection of the sun on the surface of a lake does the same thing, all the way down to the beams of light penetrating the water. This is surely one of the basic experiential domains behind the Tewa conception of the kiva as a microcosm of the spirit world beneath the surface of the lake. Indeed, Tewa stories explicitly state that lakes and kivas are the same thing. In this story, for example, Cactus Flower Girl runs away from home with Spider Grandmother after being scolded for misbehavior. Quote, "soon they reached the edge of the lake. In the middle of the lake there were two poles coming out of the water. As they watched, the poles grew higher and higher, soon there was a big ladder coming out of the water. This was a kiva, and out of it was a good-looking woman," end quote. This story clearly portrays the equivalence of lakes and kivas as portals to the spirit world, and the Tewa term for this vision, p'o:kwikoyi, or lake roof hole, reinforces this view. Now the concept of reflection is also expressed in contemporary Tewa rituals. The Tewa ritual circuit begins in the North but then preceded to the West, the South, and finally, East. This is opposite the direction in which the sun moves in the physical world, but it matches the sun's movement in the spirit world, and thus reflects the order in which events occurred beneath the surface of the lake prior to emergence. An anti-sunwise circuit is thus appropriate for Tewa rituals because it reflects their primary purpose, to bring about a desired state in the physical world through communion with a spirit world. In addition, Tewa concepts of time and space are related via the image of reflection with the present moment at the immediate location being the lens. Water collects over the mountains that ring the Tewa world in the form of clouds, rain, and snow, and then this water moves from there toward the center of that world through rivers and streams or via rain. Elder men, in contrast, move opposite the water along the quampo, or rain roads, to the mountain-top shrines in making their prayers. The farther away something is from home, the longer it takes to get there, and thus, the further in the past that location is. As a result, the mountains are the realm of the ancestors, but via the logic of reflection, the mountains of the spirit world are the realm of the as yet unborn. In other words, the physical world recedes into the past with distance, but in the spirit world, beneath the lake, space recedes into the future. One can see this relationship between space and time in the very terms Tewa people use to address their relatives. A fascinating aspect of this terminology, diagrammed here, with ego at generation zero, is that terms of reference for relatives in the minus one and minus two generations are constructed using terms of address for the plus one and plus two generations. So, for example, if si'weh is a grandmother, then si'weh'e is a grandson. And if me'me is an older uncle, then me'me'e is a younger nephew. Importantly, the same construction is involved in creating the term for a kiva. The word for a house, a hole, or a burrow is dweh, and accordingly, the term for a kiva is dweh'e. I think a good way to interpret this pattern is that the suffix, e, is used to indicate a special version of something, which is to say, its spiritual counterpart. Thus, a kiva is a mirror image of a physical house, or house in the spirit world. And a person's descendents are their mirror image spiritual ancestors. In other words, in the spirit world, time moves forward with distance from the present, just as it moves backwards with distance in the physical world. Now the final point with a bearing on this discussion is that there is good evidence that the ontology of mirror image reflection has considerable antiquity in the culture of Tewa ancestors. To give just one example, Tewa people today use a bowl filled with water to represent the emergent's place in ceremonies. And, of course, the kiva itself represents the world beneath the lake. These relationships between the underworld, lakes, pottery bowls, and kivas are reflected in the etymologies of the Tewa terms given here, and it is also reflected in patterns of mural painting in Mesa Verde region kivas that you see here, dating to as long ago as 1100 C.E. So it seems reasonable to assume that the ideas I have been discussing here were present in the worldview of Tewa ancestors before they migrated from the Mesa Verde region to the northern Rio Grande. So given all this, I wish to argue that the true significance of the lake in Tewa origin narratives derives from this ontology of reflection. To say that Tewa ancestors lived beneath the surface of a lake is to say that they lived in a world that was a mirror image of this world today, a world in which the relationships were reversed, or opposite those that characterized the present. This provides deep insight into the nature of Tewa origins, namely that it involved the creation of a society that was the opposite of the one from which it derived. In other words, mirror image reflection and its connection with lakes is a key to understanding the social transformation involved in Tewa ethnogenesis and the conspicuous absence of material culture continuities with Mesa Verde. My suggestion is that Tewa ancestors recruited this logic of reflection in imagining the social transformation that was to be accomplished through migration and then in realizing that goal upon arrival in the Rio Grande. So let's take another look at the pattern of change associated with Tewa origins in light of the perspective I've just outlined. First, Mesa Verde migrants were moving to a place that was far away, beyond the horizon, or a place of the past. The people who were already there had not participated in the chaco phenomenon and appear to have spoken a related Tanoan language. It would have therefore been natural for the immigrants to interpret these people as ancestors who had not been corrupted by recent events. Thus, by adopting Rio Grande kiva architecture, the Mesa Verde migrants would have clothed themselves in the traditions of their metaphoric ancestors. And we can see the same discourse in pottery. The simpler designs painted by Mesa Verde migrants on Santa Fe and Wi'o black and white vessels appear old fashioned from the perspective of the mature Mesa Verde style, but by the logic of the lake, they reflect ancestral ways, or the decorative style of the immigrants' grandparents. Finally, one can interpret ancestral Tewa architecture as the mirror image of Mesa Verde architecture. Symbolic power that had been invested in corporate king groups in the unit Pueblo became invested in communities overall. Distant relatives were now close relatives, and close relatives, distant. So the significance of this analysis is that it provides an explanation for the relationship between Mesa Verde and ancestral Tewa society in terms of a traditional native ontology that was transformed into political discourse and embedded in Tewa origin narratives. This analysis also provides an explanation for how these discourses acquired the moral authority needed to produce the conspicuous discontinuities in material culture that archaeologists have observed. This moralizing political discourse would have made it easy for Mesa Verde immigrants to determine what they should do, namely, the opposite of what they had been doing, with opposite being defined in terms of indigenous Rio Grande practices and past practices from the Mesa Verde homeland. In this way, the logic of the lake is the lens that brings the relationship between Mesa Verde and ancestral Tewa society into focus. Now I could meditate on the philosophical implications of this argument for quite some time. For example, the logic of the lake seems to have supported the development of a radically new social charter, even as it supported a continued connection with ancestral ways. That's pretty interesting. It also shows that even the deepest ontological commitments ultimately originate in and emanate from embodied experience. It's just that people in different cultures seize upon different aspects of this experience in building their understandings. But since my time is up, I'll just leave it here for now and suggest that if Rena were with us, she would want us to spend some time reflecting on what I've said in a quiet place, preferably outdoors in a contact with water, wind, and breath to see where our thoughts take us. I hope all of you have a chance to do that sometime today. Thank you. (applause) - [Severin] Thank you very much, Scott. Our final paper for this morning is by Lars Fogelin. He'll be speaking on "Resonance, Pablum, and the Shock of the Familiar: Applying Deloria's Metaphysics to the Study of South Asian Archaeology." Lars. - [Lars] First, thanks for all of you who came out this fine Sunday morning, and thanks to Sev for inviting me. As should be clear at this point, Sev asked several of us to examine the value of applying American Indian metaphysics, as laid out by Vine Deloria, to our own research. In my case, that would be the archaeology of ancient Indian Buddhism. This struck me immediately as productive, and I'm always interested in gathering inspiration wherever I can find it. I did, however, run into one issue right at the start: The word Indian. As I imagine most people are aware, the use of the term Indian, for American Indians, is a misnomer, popularly attributed to Christoper Columbus. What people may be less aware of is that the term Indian is just about as much of a misnomer for Indian Indians. India, in India, the word India, Indian, is most likely a bastardization of the word Hindu, which was itself a gloss used by foreigners to describe a bewildering variety of religious practices centered on a large pantheon of only somewhat related gods and goddesses. Worse still, Hinduism is not and was not the only religion practiced in South Asia, with substantial number of Jains, Muslims, Christians, Buddhists, and others throughout the subcontinent. Normally, all of these misnomers would not be particularly troublesome unless you're me right now. In order to keep things clear, I've decided, for the purposes of this talk today, not to use the word Indian at all. For Indian Indians, I will use the phrase South Asians. For American Indians, I will use the phrase Native Americans, recognizing I sound like a relic from the 1970s. Back in April of last year, when Sev asked me to participate in this session, I was coincidentally a participant in what the University of Arizona calls the Academic Leadership Institute. This year-long series of workshops was intended to develop a new generation of entrepreneurial leaders who advanced the University of Arizona into the 21st century, some 15 years after the calendar had made it fait accompli. The University of Arizona paid an ungodly sum to two professional leadership educators, Clint and Chet, to teach 25 future leaders the ins and outs of academic leadership. Clint wore polo shirts and Birkenstocks, Chet wore pink oxfords, a tie, and loafers. In the Academic Leadership Institute, I learned that leaders lead through leading change by modeling the leadership of other leaders. Don't judge me. I work at a state institution, and I want a raise someday. But why do I bring this up right now? On the very first day of the Leadership Institute, Clint and Chet led a discussion concerning the spiritual side of leadership. With this in mind, they had us meditate on a leadership wheel of their own construction, were we a visionary, a nurturer, a warrior, a teacher, or a sage. Clint and Chet assured us that the leadership wheel was based on their own studies of ancient wisdom, primarily through Clint's retreats in Sedona. Specifically, they based their leadership wheel on Native American medicine wheels and Buddhist mandalas. Thus, once we identified our archetype, we could understand our intelligence, wisdom, shadow, and wisdom activity. For example, those of you who are so diluted as to think that your chosen profession as a professor means you're a teacher, your intelligence is intellectual, your wisdom is absolute clarity, your shadow is tightness, and your wisdom activity is objectivity, whatever the hell that means. The key point here is that Clint and Chet were very interested in bringing this ancient wisdom, specifically Native American and Buddhist wisdom, into modern management theory. To be clear, Clint and Chet were not bringing in this ancient wisdom in an ad-hoc or loose manner. They were very intellectual about the whole thing. To quote Clint and Chet, "although no perfect parallels exist, the similarities between the five archetypes and the research of 20th century psychologists and management thinkers are remarkable. There are clear parallels, for example, with the four Jungian types, the five dimensions of the Five Factor Model used in modern psychological research, and recent management literature including the work of Peter Senge, Kouzes and Pozner, and Peter Koestenbaum, and others. It seems, then, that our modern age is rediscovering this ancient wisdom." So there we have it. I don't need to examine the similarities between Native American and ancient Buddhist metaphysics because Clint and Chet already have. And it's all a justification for why corporate hacks are proliferating in academia. Obviously, this misappropriation of Native American and Buddhist metaphysics is pablum, trite, naive, or simplistic ideas or writings, intellectual pap. Alternatively, we could just call it bullshit, or, in "God is Red," Vine Deloria wrote, perhaps more kindly than I, "many people, Indian, non-Indian, have taken the few principles to heart, mostly those beliefs that require little in the way of changing one's lifestyle. Tribal religions have been trivialized beyond redemption by people sincerely wishing to learn about them." It would be hard to come up with a better characterization of Clint and Chet's spiritual leadership. It was in this light that I began thinking about Sev's challenge, to consider how Vine Deloria's presentation of Native American metaphysics might help me better understand South Asian Buddhism. At the most basic level, this seemed to be a straightforward process. In my previous research on South Asian Buddhism, I've been inspired by many scholars, including Karl Marx, Charles Sanders Peirce, Sherry Ortner, and many, many others. And I've also drawn inspiration from archaeological studies as diverse as the British Neolithic in Peru. It didn't seem, then, to be particularly challenging to do the same with Deloria. It would also be an important corrective, a displacement to the over-reliance on Western scholarship in contemporary anthropology. Clint and Chet provided an object lesson in what not to do, but I, as a trained anthropologist, should be able to do much better. But slowly, as I read through Deloria's work, I found I was doing something very different. Rather than apply the metaphysical insights of Deloria to South Asian Buddhism, I applied what I knew of South Asian Buddhism to my readings of Deloria. I simply was not doing what was asked, but rather pretty much the complete opposite. To go further, I really wasn't only applying what I knew of South Asian Buddhism to my reading of Deloria, I was bringing all my previous scholastic readings to my readings of Deloria. I also brought a ton of cultural baggage concerning Native Americans, white Americans, and the rest to my readings of Deloria, here neatly summarized by a picture of Elvis Presley dressed as a cowboy. To be clear, much of what I know of Indian colonial anthropology, Subaltern studies, and post-colonialism greatly informed my readings of Deloria's critiques of American anthropology and the treatment of Native Americans by white Americans. It also helped that Deloria was relying on many of the same authors I did. And I could see in his critique the same ideas and protestations I employ. In many areas, most notably Christian theology, his understanding of my traditions far exceeded my own. What I did not find, however, was any serious productive resonances between Native American metaphysics and Buddhist metaphysics. What I found in "God is Red," and what I've seen Sev apply convincingly in his own research, was the idea that Native Americans see the world through a geographic lens while Christians see the world through a temporal lens. That is, for Native Americans, their world view stresses ties to specific geographic locations critical for the success of their endeavors. This simply did not resonate with what I know of South Asian Buddhism. In fact, if I were to see any resonance, it would be with how Deloria describes Christianity, with a place of the Buddha's enlightenment, Bodh Gaya, seeming very much like the way Christians view the place of Jerusalem. That is, for significant periods of time, Christians did not have access to Jerusalem, and Buddhists did not have access to Bodh Gaya, and both seemingly did fine. It was troubling to say the least that the only portion of Deloria's writing that resonated with me were the parts where he was relying on the same Western intellectual tradition as I do. What started as an exercise of displacement of the Western canon was turning out very badly. How had anthropology failed me so? I began to consider some of the very basic basics of the anthropological enterprise. There are many ways to view the anthropological process. Among the absolute worst and most untenable would be the study of the unfamiliar through reference to the familiar. That is, interpreting the actions of another group based upon your own prior knowledge set. At a basic level, this is precisely what Franz Boas was rejecting when he spoke of cultural relativism, the bedrock anthropological idea that specific cultural practices are best understood in relation to other cultural practices within the same culture. Thus, at a basic level, my attempt to understand South Asian metaphysics through Deloria's presentation of Native American metaphysics was idiotic at the outset, and I'm thankful that I failed. Upon reflection, the reason it wasn't working is fairly obvious. I have the whole thing reversed. Of course I would read Deloria's work in light of South Asian Buddhism. I very simply know a whole lot more about it. At least, unlike Clint and Chet, I had the sense to stop and throw my hands in the air before I did any real damage. That said, any anthropologist needs to start their investigation somewhere. As has been amply demonstrated in the centuries since Boas, all anthropologists bring their own biases, concerns to whatever and whoever they study. In the last century, many anthropologists have thought of the anthropological enterprise as an act of translation, that is, anthropologists as translators between two cultures. In this perspective, anthropologists must spend considerable time making the unfamiliar familiar and then allowing for their knowledge to modify and change their preexisting beliefs. Many scholars have also critiqued this view. Talal Asad, for example, argues that the act of translation is always implicated in issues of power as weaker languages and cultures are forced to conform to more powerful languages and cultures. James Clifford claims that the translation creates, rather than reflects, another culture. With those hesitations noted, it does seem that anthropology as cultural translation has much going for it. Translations as a mode of inquiry where an anthropologist circles between different contexts, refining and adjusting each, seems to be what I and many other anthropologists do when they're doing their best work. It is certainly what I hope I have done in my own research in ancient South Asian Buddhism. I do not simply apply the Western canon to interpret Buddhist metaphysics, but rather, I evaluate and modify the Western canon based on what I have come to know about South Asian Buddhism. For example, based on my studies of Buddhist prayer wheels, I have challenged concepts of authenticity as developed by Walter Benjamin. At some level then, this back and forth, this willingness to accept changes in my own beliefs, is what separates me from Clint and Chet. The methods of anthropology conceived here as an act of cultural translation make my work good and explain why Clint and Chet's is so very awful. Except it really doesn't. In reality, Clint and Chet do pretty much the exact same thing I do. They began with existing management theory, applied the study of ancient wisdom, then altered their previous understandings of both. Methodologically, at least, they seem to be just as much cultural translators as I am. If I'm to distinguish myself from Clint and Chet, I cannot do it methodologically, and I'm left wondering if I am really that different, if my work is all that much better than Clint and Chet's. In the end, it is not anthropology that resolves these issues for me. Oddly, it's Vine Deloria and his blistering critique of anthropologists. The problem with Clint and Chet was not their method. It was not even their goals. It was that they didn't have the least idea what the hell they were talking about. They were ignorant of both Native American and South Asian metaphysics. They took what they believed were timeless truths about Native Americans and South Asian Buddhists and ignored the history of colonialism, warfare, broken treaties, and material deprivation. Anthropologists, and wannabe anthropologists like Clint and Chet, are subject to the same problems, the same mistakes. At the most basic level, this is the mistake of abstraction. Anthropologists, myself included, have a nasty habit of trying to use complex, abstract ideas to either soothe or stoke our fear of being frauds, our fear that everything we ascribe to the people we study is wrong. And the sad fact is that both of those are possible. We may be frauds, and we may be wrong. There is no theoretical or methodological--sorry. But neither will be fixed by theoretical or methodological abstractions. There is no theoretical or methodological panaceas for stupidity. Human societies are complex and ever shifting. In order to study any society, the full complexity and the history of that complexity must be taken into account. The act of translation is very hard, and it often takes a very long time. The lesson from Deloria, then, is simple. Spend time. Listen. Study. And be careful of applying ideas useful in one context uncritically to another. And, finally, work and support of the communities you study. For me, applying Deloria's metaphysics to South Asian Buddhism didn't work, not for any complex theoretical or social reason, but rather because they just don't resonate. They are not that similar. This failure is not one of anthropology or even really a failure. In "God is Red," Deloria clearly identifies a disjuncture, a degree of incomprehensibility between Native American and Christian metaphysics. Why, then, should I be surprised or even troubled when the same disjuncture exists with South Asian Buddhist metaphysics? Thank you. (applause) - [Severin] I'd like to thank once again all of the speakers. We're now very honored to have Kim TallBear to serve as our discussant this morning. So I'd like to invite Kim to the stage. Thank you again. - [Kim] Good morning. Thank you for not partying so hard last night that you couldn't be here this morning. The bar was packed at three, did anybody else notice that? (laughs) Everybody felt bad by midnight. Ok. So, I'm going to go in a strange direction by the end of this, this set of comments, but just let me get started. So, Professor Deloria profoundly shaped my life as a Dakota person, as an Indian, there's scare quotes around these terms because they're all constituted, and later as a Native American and an indigenous intellectual. Lars Fogelin already called attention to the constructed and shifting nature of these labels. Now, Deloria's work is vital to the field of American Indian studies, which emerged in the late 1960s and which is a forerunner to today's field of indigenous studies, which is still very much an English language-dominated field but which is hooking up with studies of indigeneity and other parts of the world. So I was born in 1968, in a time of exciting and grave change in the U.S. and globally, much like today. And I asked my mother before I could read, when she was an undergraduate at Northern State College in Aberdeen, South Dakota, what does it mean that Custer died for your sins? I didn't even understand what Jesus died for your sins, and Custer was a-- I knew who was, so it's not that I didn't know who Custer was. So Deloria's work, American Indian movement discourse, and the music sung by Floyd Red Crow Westerman after Deloria's critiques were feverishly circulating in Indian country in the late 1960s and early 1970s, Vine Deloria, Jr. and my mother, although she was never in the academy, modeled early for me what Severin Fowles lauds about Deloria, quote, "a principled unwillingness to hand over epistemological privilege to Western science." And I readily understood feminist standpoint when I encountered it in graduate school because Deloria and my mother, Lee Ann TallBear, had already taught me indigenous standpoint implicitly. So this panel is an effort to reveal Deloria's intellectual contribution to anthropology in a way that is already obvious to us in Native American indigenous studies. Fowles noted that his goal this session was to reclaim the ontology debates as fundamentally Delorian. That is, that Deloria was already engaged in his own ontological turn in the 1970s and that he explicitly linked comparative metaphysics to a progressive political agenda, including environmentalism, something the new materialists are also doing these days. I like simply how these papers take up Deloria as a theorist and engage in conversation with him. It is such a simple act, but one inhibited by the long historical study of American Indians as subjects of difference. I will continue to digest these papers, and I may well cite these authors, too, as I continue to wrestle with Deloria's example in my own work that attempts to retheorize material and immaterial divides, time and space, indigenous versus universal that we've inherited in the academy. Importantly, Deloria was always in analytical conversation with thinkers in tribal communities, both present and past. Like, when he refers to old Indians and their analyses, and I guess I took this lesson from him and from my mother implicitly because I don't remember ever not doing this, not citing intellectuals amongst us in community. Both Deloria's and TallBear's examples to do this were there from the beginning of my coming to conciousness. Taking up Deloria's work helps non-indigenous thinkers to benefit from the theoretical insights of the old Indians, citing them as thinkers and not as informants. For example, I'm delighted with Benjamin Alberti's ontonorm, his base assumption that working with materials leaves traces of the tools and struggle, and that it is imperative that these marks be seen and given permission to shape and mark and turn our interpretations. When I read in the new materialism, I'm consistently struck by the lack of the term indigenous in the index or anything like that, and I make my own. In Jane Bennett's book, for example, I've added two dozen references to her index that could have been there, openings for engaging indigenous thought. I think that in terms of indigenous analytics, so instead of indigenous thought, I'm thinking about indigenous analytics. Now these could be references come up for me over and over in reading the new materialisms. Alberti reads the vitality of body pots, that's the term, right? Body pots? (laughs) In part through Deloria's example to read indigenous articulations, and in Alberti's case, these are marks on pots, but reading these marks as theory. Chris Watts uses Deloria's example to engage a very young indigenous theorist that is Metis or Michif anthropologist Zoe Todd, who has lately, in both her academic writing on human-fish relations and on her blog and on Twitter, been getting after voices in the ontological turn for ignoring indigenous analytics. Her Twitter name is Mouthy Michif Todd. She's fun to read. So like Severin, Zoe Todd notes that Delorian analyses proceeded those most cited in the Western academy. Watts takes up a critical Delorian insight that reality for tribal peoples was the experience of the moment coupled with an interpretive scheme that had been woven together over the generations. That is, the world is alive in a way that is dynamic and not the domain alone of organismically-defined life and which does not rely ultimately, despite the Christian language in forming Deloria's analyses, on a spirit-material divide. Deloria does the best he can in this compromised language to express the relatedness of everything, and I think Watts and the other scholars on this panel also do the best that we can. English is limited. Scott Ortman, I almost teared up when he asked Rena to come back and visit. Precisely. Like Vine Deloria, Jr. cites the old Indians, both those he knew and those who had passed on, whose knowledge was referenced by the living theorists and community that he cited, Rena remains in community, a theorist with whom to remain in conversation. Ortman also clearly invited older theorists to come back and visit us. He invokes the ontology of mirror image reflection and attempts to read relations between Mesa Verde and ancestral Tewa society. This paper is dense; it posits an ontology unlike anything I've personally encountered except perhaps from my very minor dabbling in popular physics and its pondering of parallel universes, so I'm going to revisit this paper especially before I turn this morning's musing into a blog post, which I will run by all of you. Omur Harmansah, did I say that right? Harmansah, ok. His own intellectual engagements is interested in the active building of a landscape of labor and a body of indigenous place-based knowledge as such and the explicit safeguarding of specific places in those landscapes as sacred. Through creative acts of storytelling, building, and image making, he cites Severin again. These doings are, quote, "predominantly concerned with the material interconnections between people, animals, rivers, mountains, corn, architecture, stones, and so on." Harmansah sums up, "this understanding of landscape or geologies of place gain a certain form of agency and animacy" as what has drawn him to the study of places. So this articulation and study of places as dynamically co-constituted with humans and non-humans is an exciting happening in the Western academy despite the other crises that we lament in our academic world. I think that we are at a moment when previously divided conversationalists are attempting to sit together for a bit, which is not an activity that I promote chiefly as a way to repair and make more democratic the academy, although that and this panel is a nice side effect of that. More importantly, for me, the divisions enacted by Western academic thought that I think indigenous analytics can help trouble are concepts that inform the colonial management of our lives as indigenous people, so I'm ultimately concerned with indigenous life, so I am concerned with making wider any spaces that can help facilitate indigenous life. But that doesn't only benefit indigenous peoples. A broader project is one for which the new materialists also express grave concern that other than humans must be given their due as vital, Deloria would say alive, in the world because this is a crucial step in thinking ways to lessen global devastation, what I would call a simultaneous and entangled genocide of humans and non-humans right now. These ideas may be seen in academia as some new kind of turn, but this panel demonstrates that its fundamental insights are not new for everyone. They are ideas that not so roughly translated under what Deloria would call an American Indian metaphysic. That matter is lively, we Dakota, or Sioux, as many of you know us, might say alive, that there is common materiality of all that is. We Dakota might say we are all related, that agencies should be understood as distributed more widely amongst human and non-human beings, and that understanding these things can help change how we humans see our place in the world and, therefore, how we act. So I want to end by engaging the boycott divestment in sanctions from out of an American Indian metaphysic because I've been thinking about this this whole meeting, and something Severin said in his opening remarks brought me back to this. He reminded us, I'm going to quote at length, "I no longer keep count of the number of times I've been seated next to colleagues who are taking a deep, and as often as not, very loud moral stance on crises halfway across the world, but who's moral engagement with distant places seems to be paired with a complete disengagement from ongoing forms of coloniality here in North America. A Freudan would diagnose such colleagues as suffering from a clear case of repression and projection, I suspect." So, on Friday evening, at our AAA business meeting, when we were over 1,500 of us, more than the convention center ballroom could hold, debating a resolution to boycott Israeli academic institutions and to honor the BDS Campaign, I voted yes, and I sat quietly through much of the meeting with tears falling down my face, but they weren't tears of joy. It was a familiar sadness encapsulated by Severin's estimation of how Deloria's work is basically ignored in anthropology while, for example, Said's similarly crucial work on Orientalism is required reading. So I tweeted, "Yes on a BDS boycott may help make change, but there will never be a boycott to help end U.S. occupation of this land. Still a sad moment." And a second tweet, and this is with all the jubilation around me, too, "I hope everyone in this room never forgets you also sit on occupied land, recognizing the dispossessed traditional owners notwithstanding." I understand that for Palestinians, boycott support around the globe is probably a cause for celebration. I think U.S. Americans of many stripes should be a little bit more self-reflexive, especially anthropologists, in their, our celebratory tone. Supporting the boycott is perhaps the best we can do in a world where there are few choices left, but certainly Americans depicting it as some kind of righteous victory seems a bit ironic. I guess the dispossession of we indigenous peoples for most of our traditional territories seems a foregone conclusion. To most of the 1,500 folks who sat around me two nights ago in this cavernous ballroom, in this sprawling Denver convention center, a testament to the state's appropriation of indingenous resources, yet Israel alone was referred to as an occupying power. There was another slight troublesome aspect of conversations surrounding the boycott that I have pondered and which come again to mind for me as I read Lars Fogelin's analysis of Deloria and his entertaining elucidation of Clint and Chet's hermeneutics and their appropriation of what they believed were timeless truths about Native Americans and South Asian Buddhists that ignore histories of colonialism. Fogelin reminds us that a principle lesson from Deloria is to spend the time, listen, study, and be careful of applying ideas useful in one context uncritically to another and critically work in support of the communities you study. A less than careful equation of our understandings of indigeneity in this country, I think, sometimes inform discussions of indegeneity and its definition in that part of the world, in Palestine and Israel. Mary Louise Pratt has written about the generative quality of the category of indigenous, and I have seen it spark shared lessons of decolonization, organizing strategies against genocidal and assimilative states. It helps us socially network globally, and this is a good thing, but I worry that indigeneity is becoming too generative, and its traction will be diminished in parts of the world where it constitutes a clearer claim. The idea of the indigenous sparks networks and shared decolonization lessons, but I think we should be careful about assuming that it is a tool of categorization that works well in very many places. It works well in settler colonial nations, such as the U.S., Canada, New Zealand, and Australia. It is defined, in part, differently in Latin America. Beyond that, it gets even more complicated in Asia, Africa, and, no doubt, in the Middle East. It has been useful for helping build alliances between indigenous Americans and Palestinians, but I have also seen a few Native Americans use indigeneity to sure up their support for the Zionist project. From what I can tell about that part of the world, I would be very careful, as an American, doing what Fogelin, after Deloria, cautions against, applying lessons useful in one context uncritically onto another. One better have considerable experience on the ground in parts of the world where one wants to invoke an indigenous analysis about that place. Places are specific, as are the humans co-constituted with those places. I am intrigued to take up these conversations with everyone here on this panel today, and I ask that we take to heart the lessons of humility embedded in the American Indian metaphysic articulated by Vine Deloria, Jr., although his own use of English was not often humble. But look at the arrogance of Western thought against which he fought. His bravado was necessary and generative. Thank you. (applause) - [Severin] I'd like to thank Kim very much for that discussion. I don't believe that we've got another session in here after us. I don't see anyone protesting, so perhaps there is time for a question or two if anyone would like to ask one. Otherwise, we could just gather more informally. This is a massive room. Are there any questions? Ok, one question. Yes, Yvonne, please. Sorry, please. Offer a question or statement, that would be wonderful. - [Yvonne] I really like the way Kim brought us back, as Lars did, to the idea that Deloria is an interpreter. He's translating for us, and in a way, he provides a bridge which makes Native Americans ideas and ontologies more accessible to us. And the risk, of course, with that comes back to what Sev was talking about in terms of if you take in particular the big men and their words as an interpreter and line them up, as in Said and Levi-Strauss and all of these people, that leads potentially to what you described as the contagion phenomenon, and while it doesn't look like contagion is imminently a crisis here at the moment, I was thinking how in your project of using Deloria's work you hold back from the risk of the contagion of fit, because I'm sure that's not what you want to happen, and it's not what he would've wanted to happen, and I was thinking about that because you opened that idea at the beginning, I was thinking as we were going through each of the papers, and everybody spoke to that, and one of the things I thought was that perhaps it's in the way that we use his work that we can undermine and hold back that risk of that contagion process, that if we use his work in a way that's too simple, that people can then mine it in its simplistic way, then you have the risk of contagion and so we can actually think about that potential risk in the way we actually use his work. And so if anyone-- does that make any sense? - [Severin] It does, yeah. Would anyone like to comment on that? I'm very interested in your comment. One certainly wouldn't want to fight contagion with contagion, which is the risk that you were pointing to, I think. On one hand, it seems to me that Deloria is a kind of invitation to do exactly what Scott Ortman did in his paper, which is to look to Rena Swentzell, in this case, as someone who was situated in a particular place, and if Deloria moves us towards those kinds of engagements, then that's a very productive move. But there's also something that's so central to his thought, this focus on particularity, which is really difficult to articulate and to engage, but it's so prevalent in every moment of his writing. I think that that's something that we could be infected by a little bit productively, so I think Deloria would fuel his own unpacking if he was taken up, I think that he would dissipate quite quickly into a great many of plurality of native voices if read that way. Any other thoughts or comments? Perhaps we can get away from the stage then, and we can gather for a little bit up front. Thank you very much for joining us this morning. (applause) 