 Hello! My name is Amy Sturkey. I am a pediatric physical therapist. I'm here with my co-instructor, Myla, who is helping me teach activities for children with low tone. She loves her sock and these toys. So I'm going to use them as motivation. I'm working on getting up to sitting. Myla can sit short periods as long as she's protected by pillows around her. The next skill is going to be getting into sitting. So I use my own thighs to practice that. So I pick her up. I'm going to put her on her stomach over my thigh. Just to make it a little bit easier, I'm going to take that lovely sock as rude as that might be. I'm going to take her legs and spin her legs around, the farthest leg up toward me, using my forearm to hold her down her upper body. So that I'm getting legs spinning but her top is staying still, so The sock? Is it the sock that might get you to go the rest of the way? Come on? The rest of the way? She says, "I am not having it!" How can it be so rude? Right here! Oh! There you are! I start off on my thigh and work progressively lower to I'm getting rotation. Oh Golly! I am so sorry. Then I am going to try to get her to come on up. The sock? Is it the sock that might get you to go the rest of the way? Come on? The rest of the way? She says, "I am not having it!" How can it be so rude? Right here! Oh! There you are! I start off on my thigh and work progressively lower to The sock? Is it the sock that might get you to go the rest of the way? Come on? The rest of the way? She says, "I am not having it!" How can it be so rude? Right here! Oh! There you are! I start off on my thigh and work progressively lower to the skinnier and skinnier parts of my legs. I do both sides. So I'm not going to do that now, because I can see it would not be popular, but you spin her around. Bring that top leg up and towards you. Hold those legs down, and try to entice her to come up with the rest of her body, up the rest of the way. I hope that is a simple idea. Watch the video and do it at the same time because my handling is a little tricky on this one. I hope it's a simple idea, and I'll see you later! Thanks! Bye! Hey! Are you mad at me still? 