 Everything we do is with the customer in mind. We're always thinking, what are the benefits to the customer? How can we help them solve their problems? At the end of the day, if we're not benefiting the customer in some way we're not doing our jobs. So we focus on the customer. And that's critical when it comes to solving a problem or pain-point they have. Focusing on the customer to me means to be a customer advocate every day and make sure their voice is heard within the walls of CloudHealth. I absolutely love working here at CloudHealth and having the flexibility and agility to improve upon systems we have in place with workflows. Really anything to try to make things easier at CloudHealth Our great CEO Tom Axbey said, "Try to have a smile every day" and I think with the people around us, it's easy to do that. It's being responsible for what you're working on and thinking outside of the box We often times see customers change companies and they'll bring the product with them to that new company. I definitely think that in my role this means that if I have an idea, and I have a good reason behind it that I can demonstrate business value with, I have a mechanism by which I can go role it out. And effect change within the organization. I think it's really retaining the culture we had when we were just starting.  Being able to collaborate across the board between engineering, product and design. to deliver the best solution. So when I think about innovating in my role I think about my past experiences And what have I seen done before...and what can I bring to the table? I'm constantly encouraged to make changes if I can identify a more efficient or more effective process. And then it really makes it feel like you're making an impact. Every individual group is making a significant impact. On the growth of the organization, where we go next, and really setting that bar high for everyone else in the industry to try to keep up with us. We have a lot of opportunity at this company to share our ideas and have our ideas heard. Our interaction and our connection to driving value to our customer base is awesome. It's better than any company I've worked at before. And it's been a really unbelievable experience.  Just so you know, CloudHealth is actually staffed by superheroes... These are the type of people we hire! People with capes...and with... Tridents? Tridents! This is how we do what we do. so if you're looking for that type of work and have some sort of super power...please contact us! 