 Our vision was to bring artificial intelligence to the places where people, never even imagined that they will be able to have before. To help people right where we need it so decisions can be made right now. We've got this great ruggedized one-ton suburban. We can take this car in a disconnected environment. There's a lot of different data collection devices that are within the vehicle. Everything from an in-car camera, we can actually capture images better than the human eye. We have a 360 by 240 degrees spherical camera, the camera itself is GPS located. We are able to deploy drones from the vehicle, but when you really talk about power at the back, is a little black case. With the rugged Azure Stack in the AI that we're able to bring to the edge, the data is amazing, but it's the AI, and Cognitive Services that turn it into something that we can really use in the real world. So, no longer do we have to go and Connect and make our data beat the cloud, we create our own data processing in any environment that this car get us into. In disaster relief, we have the ability to take in and start analyzing the infrastructure, be it bridges, roads, and we could find the most efficient and effective routes to be able to get aid into people. We can help figure out routes to get the people out of harm's way. If you look at it from an enterprise standpoint, increasing inefficiencies, the processes will save companies millions and millions of dollars. By managing power lines or windmills, rather than having to send out entire crews to go out and do inspections, we can send a single guy, and a drone, and vehicle like this. He's taking imagery of the power lines. They can run the analytics based upon the models that are already built, and now we see that this part can fail, or everything's working fine. Being able to take the power of Azure Stack and AI to the Edge, to those people that are disconnected all over the world, and bring them the ability to do things that we've never even been able to dream of before. Now, we can do that. 