Business   Overview NetApp, Inc. (NetApp, we or us) provides software, systems and services to manage and store customer data. We enable enterprises, service providers, governmental organizations, and partners to envision, deploy and evolve their IT environments. Customers benefit from our collaboration with other technology leaders to create the specific solutions they need. We were incorporated in 1992 and created the world’s first networked storage appliance. Today, we offer a portfolio of products and services that satisfy a broad range of customer workloads across different data types and deployment models. Customer Needs   With an IT industry in transition, enterprise IT buyers have many choices in delivery options and emerging technologies. Customers are looking to NetApp for guidance and innovation to help them achieve the right balance of flexibility, cost and data control. They want help creating long-term IT strategies that reduce costs and risk while driving growth and success for their organizations.    New cloud computing options in particular offer compelling advantages but also raise risks. Customers want to seamlessly integrate public cloud resources as an extension of their internal IT environment, an approach known as hybrid cloud. One of the biggest challenges to this vision is data management. While other parts of the IT infrastructure are largely interchangeable and carry no history, once data is created it needs to be protected and managed for its lifetime. As data grows, data and application mobility consume more time and bandwidth. The net result is that data management, NetApp's core competency, has become essential to realizing the promise of the hybrid cloud. To help customers navigate this changing IT landscape, NetApp is investing in key areas including:   Hybrid Cloud. NetApp believes that the hybrid cloud will become the dominant model for enterprise IT for years to come. Customers are attracted by the speed and scale benefits of the public cloud but need new data management strategies to keep control of data as it moves beyond the walls of the enterprise. Today, the hybrid cloud is a range of isolated, incompatible data silos. Every cloud provider has a different way to manage customers’ data, making it difficult to move data from one cloud provider to another. NetApp’s vision for enabling customers to achieve both data control and choice in IT deployment models in the hybrid cloud is called the data fabric. Our patented data management solutions give customers confidence that no matter where their data resides, on-premises or in a public cloud resource, they can control, integrate, move, secure and consistently manage it. Customers benefit from NetApp’s investments and expertise in building enterprise-class hybrid cloud deployments that adapt as their needs change.    Flash. Multiple approaches to the use of flash will become the standard for enterprises as they evolve their long-term IT strategies. NetApp is focused on building a deep and differentiated patented technology around flash, and providing a portfolio of offerings to help customers best integrate flash into their enterprise. We offer both all-flash arrays and hybrid flash arrays to enable the right balance of performance, efficiency, reliability and scale. Our flash solutions help customers drive greater speed, responsiveness, and value from the applications that control key business operations. Our offerings remove performance bottlenecks that negatively affect productivity and the customer experience and eliminate storage overprovisioning that increases costs and adds to inefficiency. Our broad portfolio includes hybrid and all-flash storage offerings, which enable IT organizations to optimize the level of performance, efficiency, and scale to meet their specific needs.   Converged infrastructure. Due to budget constraints and skill imbalances, our customers need greater support from their technology partners to evaluate, integrate, deploy and sustain the sophisticated solutions they need to stay competitive. This trend is driving the demand for converged infrastructure solutions that reduce the time of deployment and lower integration risk. By working with other best-in-class hardware and software providers, NetApp offers a compelling business value through our FlexPod® converged solutions, which reduce risks in ways that cannot be matched by the proprietary stacks offered by server vendors. FlexPod offerings, created in partnership with Cisco, provide a broad range of reference architectures based on our patented technology. Solutions are available for popular top-tier business applications, including Microsoft, Oracle, SAP and Citrix. We also offer FlexPod solutions for dedicated, high-performance workloads such as big data, HPC, and video analytics that integrate Hadoop.    Software-defined Storage: Software-defined storage (SDS) is a key component of the software-defined data center, an evolving architecture and set of technologies designed to speed delivery of IT services to application owners within an enterprise. In an SDS model, storage services are delivered as a software layer that can be abstracted from underlying hardware. NetApp is a leader in delivering innovative SDS technology, having followed the principles of SDS for more than 20 years by incorporating our patented software-defined capabilities throughout our products, rather than adding a separate management layer. Working with NetApp, IT organizations can deploy SDS solutions that address both near-term demands as well as create  5  a long-term roadmap to extend improvements across services provisioning, storage virtualization, infrastructure data collection, data retention, analysis, and reporting as business needs change. Product, Services and Solutions Portfolio Our data management and storage offerings help improve business productivity, performance and profitability, while providing investment protection and enhanced asset utilization. We complement our enterprise-class storage solutions with services expertise that maximizes the business benefits customers gain from deploying our products. In fiscal year 2015, NetApp demonstrated our ability to help customers make sense of the changing IT landscape with products and services that satisfy a broad range of customer workloads across different data types and deployment models.  Our patented unified scale-out fabric-attached storage (FAS) platform uses the NetApp Data ONTAP® storage operating system. Data ONTAP software delivers integrated data protection, comprehensive data management, and built-in efficiency software for virtualized, shared infrastructures, cloud computing, and mixed workload business applications. Our E-Series platform with SANtricity® storage management software offers high-performance, reliable, scalable, and space-efficient storage for demanding storage area networks workloads needing an optimized price-to-performance ratio. We offer hybrid and all-flash configurations of both E-Series and FAS platforms.  Our new FlashRay™ all-flash array system, which runs the Mars™ operating system, is designed from the ground up to improve the performance, efficiency and manageability of all-flash storage architectures used in enterprise application environments.  In October 2014, we announced the acquisition of Riverbed Technology’s SteelStore® product line. The SteelStore product supports leading backup applications and cloud providers so that customers have a choice in how they extend their existing data protection infrastructure into the cloud. This enables us to offer enterprises cloud-integrated storage to securely and efficiently back up their data, to both private and public cloud environments.   Data Storage Systems   FAS Unified Storage Systems   Our FAS family of unified storage systems streamlines, simplifies, and consolidates storage and data management. Our modular, scalable, and highly available FAS architecture supports both scale-up and scale-out growth strategies utilizing the highly efficient Data ONTAP storage operating system.   In June 2014, NetApp introduced two new FAS storage system platforms—the extreme-performance FAS8080 EX and the entry value-priced FAS2500. The FAS8080 EX is optimized for performance-intensive storage area network (SAN) and network-attached storage (NAS) workloads at the largest scale. The entry-level FAS2500 hybrid arrays meets the needs of smaller organizations for simplified operations, integration with existing partner ecosystems, extended system life, and investment protection in their storage assets as their company grows.   E-Series Storage Systems   Since May 2011, NetApp has been offering E-Series storage arrays for SAN workloads. Core patented differentiators of this price-performance leader include enterprise reliability, availability and scalability. Customers choose E-Series for general purpose computing, high-density content repositories, video surveillance, and high-performance computing workloads where data is managed by the application and the advanced data management capabilities of Data ONTAP storage operating system are not required. The modular flexibility of the E-Series enables custom configurations optimized to scale as needed up to petabytes of performance-oriented storage. In February 2015, NetApp announced the E5600, the newest hybrid entry in the E-Series family. It offers a mix of flash and disk to provide cost-effective performance for capacity-intensive applications such as email, SharePoint, high-performance computing, data warehousing and video.  Flash Systems and Technologies NetApp flash solutions enable business agility, improve user experience, lower costs, and use less energy than traditional storage solutions. We are a leader in the delivery of flash innovation. We integrate flash technology across our FAS and E-Series storage platforms, in all-flash and hybrid configurations, and offer the dedicated FlashRay all-flash array.    All-Flash Arrays   NetApp all-flash arrays are designed to deliver extreme input/output operations per second (IOPS) and ultralow latency to drive greater speed, responsiveness, and value from the applications that control key business operations.  6    NetApp offers three complementary platforms in our all-flash portfolio:    NetApp EF-Series is a field-proven platform with a highly efficient, streamlined, patented operating system that was built for I/O-intensive workloads where the focus is on performance, latency, density, and price. EF-Series meets customer needs for latency-sensitive databases and high-performance SAN workloads that leverage application-based advanced data management features. Our newest model, the EF560, was introduced in January 2015, with improvements in storage performance to offer the absolute and consistent latency, bandwidth and IOPS critical to enterprise database and analytics applications. NetApp All-Flash FAS combines low-latency performance with robust data management, built-in efficiencies, integrated data protection, multiprotocol support, and nondisruptive operations. All-Flash FAS can be deployed as a standalone system with Data ONTAP software. It also can be deployed as a high-performance tier in a clustered Data ONTAP® configuration with nondisruptive data mobility between tiers. FAS was built for consolidated workloads and is ideally suited for customers interested in building efficient shared storage infrastructures using clustered Data ONTAP.    NetApp FlashRay is our new architecture built from the ground up to improve the economics and performance of flash, while delivering the classic NetApp values of efficiency, protection and data management. The result is an innovative, patented approach to all-flash storage that delivers adaptable low-latency performance and no-compromise inline efficiencies. We designed FlashRay arrays with the future in mind, establishing a foundation that will enable tight integration with Data ONTAP and leverage future solid-state technologies to further drive down the cost of all-flash storage.    Hybrid Arrays   Flash storage today is primarily offered in the form of hybrid arrays, a practical best-of-both-worlds approach that uses a mix of flash and traditional hard disk drives (HDD). Hybrid arrays provide the right level of performance at the right cost for mainstream business applications. Hybrid FAS and E-Series arrays combine flash storage with HDD storage to increase performance, reduce latency, shrink rack space requirements, and lower power and cooling costs.   Data Management Software Data ONTAP Storage Operating System NetApp’s Data ONTAP storage operating system is a patented, unified data storage platform that supports any mix of SAN and NAS environments. Our platform is compatible with UNIX, Linux, Windows, and web environments.  Clustered Data ONTAP software enables unrestricted and secure data movement across multiple cloud environments and paves the way for software-defined data centers. It offers advanced performance, availability, and efficiency. In a single, feature-rich platform, clustered Data ONTAP software lets customers scale their infrastructure without increasing IT staff. Benefits include:   Nondisruptive operations — Perform storage maintenance, hardware lifecycle operations, and software upgrades without business interruptions.   Proven efficiency — Reduces storage costs by consolidating workloads on the same infrastructure.    Seamless scalability — SAN and NAS storage capacity, performance, and operations scale without reconfiguring running applications.   In October 2014, we introduced the latest release of clustered Data ONTAP. Enhancements to this software-defined storage operating system help organizations of all sizes improve their levels of availability, performance and efficiency. New support for NetApp MetroCluster™ Disaster Recovery Software in this release provides enterprises with uninterrupted recovery from failures across data centers. Critical business applications can continue to operate in the event of disasters or planned outages. The latest version of the software includes performance optimizations for all-flash nodes so customers can maximize performance without sacrificing rich data management, protection, or flexible data movement. The new software includes increased efficiency that significantly improves the cost per gigabyte and cost per IOPS of clustered Data ONTAP, delivering a better return on investment for organizations.   Our new Cloud ONTAP subscription service, announced in October 2014 and enhanced in February 2015, brings the power of clustered Data ONTAP to the public cloud by allowing customers to launch an instance of Data ONTAP in a public hyperscale cloud environment. This first release of Cloud ONTAP service works with hyperscale cloud services from Amazon Web Services (AWS). Cloud ONTAP service uses patented NetApp technologies for non-disruptive operations, seamless scalability, and efficiency, and combines them with the on-demand computing benefits of cloud services. This approach provides a consistent set of data services  7  throughout a hybrid cloud environment. AWS is the first platform provider to run Cloud ONTAP services on its cloud environment. NetApp intends to support additional providers in future releases.    SANtricity Storage Operating System   The NetApp SANtricity operating System, purpose-built for SAN, is performance-optimized to deliver data to enterprise SAN applications. It provides superior performance, reliability, and data protection for application-driven workloads that run on NetApp EF-Series and E-Series platforms. It allows customers to optimize performance on the fly, with adaptive caching algorithms to achieve high IOPS and throughput. Installed on a million systems worldwide, the SANtricity OS is field-proven. In addition, SANtricity Storage Manager offers a powerful, easy-to-use interface for administering E-Series storage systems. With SANtricity software, storage administrators can achieve maximum performance and utilization of storage through extensive configuration flexibility and custom performance tuning.   OnCommand® Management Software and Management Integration Tools The NetApp OnCommand storage management software portfolio incorporates a broad range of data management tools for NetApp and multivendor storage. These products help our customers’ transition to the hybrid cloud. They improve visibility and allow customers to manage, monitor, and optimize their hybrid cloud environments. The portfolio includes: OnCommand Cloud Manager, announced in October 2014, provides a simplified management interface for NetApp Cloud ONTAP service and NetApp Private Storage (NPS) for Cloud solutions. It allows customers to manage and track cloud resources within AWS, and provision and monitor Cloud ONTAP instances from one central console.   OnCommand Workflow Automation improves productivity by automating repeatable manual storage-management processes. It enables users to construct, customize, publish, and activate a broad range of storage workflows, including one-click automation and deployment of applications from VMware® , Oracle®, Microsoft®, SAP®, Citrix and others. It lowers the cost of storage management while fostering the use of best practices.   OnCommand Unified Manager provides a single dashboard to confirm the health of clustered Data ONTAP storage availability, capacity, performance and data protection relationships. It integrates with OnCommand Workflow Automation to automate storage tasks and data protection processes.   OnCommand System Manager, developed for midsize organizations or smaller environments within larger enterprises and service providers, delivers device-level management for NetApp FAS storage systems. It is optimized for IT generalists who need streamlined management, an easy-to-use interface, and best-practice workflows.   OnCommand Insight storage resource management provides end-to-end multivendor storage management, with a view of performance metrics, including application, datastore, virtual machine, and storage infrastructure performance. It enables customers to improve capacity planning, accelerate consolidation projects, and meet internal business reporting expectations. This innovative tool also allows users to discover orphaned and underutilized storage and detect risks to their environments.    Object Storage Software   NetApp StorageGRID® software allows organizations to store and manage massive amounts of data worldwide, on premises and in the cloud. StorageGRID Webscale is a purpose-built, patented, software-defined storage solution for large archives, media repositories, and web data stores. The sophisticated StorageGRID Webscale policy engine provides automated data placement across storage tiers, physical sites, and hybrid clouds. It can be tuned according to customers’ performance and availability requirements and optimized for cost as data ages. Real-time auditing provides continuous and active monitoring for service-level agreement verification and reporting. In February 2015, NetApp added support for Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) as a storage tier to StorageGRID Webscale, providing a scalable, highly durable object storage solution for long-term archives.    Data Protection Software    NetApp offers a range of software products to protect customers’ valuable data and applications. These provide optimal availability and IT efficiency while safeguarding data assets.   NetApp Integrated Data Protection (IDP) uses patented data protection services embedded in our Data ONTAP operating system. This solution scales across applications and virtual infrastructures because it runs in storage, where data resides. It requires fewer server, storage, and network resources than competitor offerings, and services can be activated and delivered in minutes.    8  With IDP, customers lower their cost by purchasing and maintaining fewer systems for data protection. They benefit from controlled data access with secure multi-tenancy and military-grade (AES-256) encryption and proven key-management solutions.   Business Continuity and High-Availability Solutions     ·  SnapMirror® data replication technology provides disaster recovery protection and simplifies the management of data replication.     ·  MetroCluster™ continuous-availability and disaster recovery software delivers zero data loss, transparent failover protection, and nondisruptive upgrades. Disk-to-Disk Backup and Recovery Solutions     ·  SnapVault® software speeds and simplifies backup and data recovery, protecting data at the block level.     ·  SnapRestore® data recovery software uses stored Data ONTAP® Snapshot® copies to recover anything from a single file to multi-terabyte volumes, in seconds. Application-Aware Backup and Recovery Solutions for Application and Backup Administrators     ·  The SnapManager® management software family streamlines storage management and simplifies configuration, backup, and restore operations.     ·  SnapProtect® management software accelerates and simplifies backup and data recovery for shared IT infrastructures. Compliance     ·  SnapLock® compliance software is a flexible data permanence solution for meeting strict data retention regulations or internal IT governance policies. NetApp SteelStore Cloud-native Backup Solution and Integrated Backup Appliance    SteelStore integrated storage allows customers to securely and efficiently back up their data to both private and public cloud environments, with dramatically lower costs than traditional on-premises backup. In February 2015, we introduced three new SteelStore solutions as Amazon Machine Images (AMIs), which provides an efficient and secure approach to backing up cloud-based workloads. Customers can also choose on-premises SteelStore physical appliances for seamless, secure data protection in the cloud.    FlexArray™ Storage Virtualization Software   We built on 10 years of storage virtualization experience and patented technology with our V-Series platform to create our FlexArray storage virtualization software. It runs on the FAS8020, FAS8040, FAS8060, and FAS8080 EX systems, and customers can purchase and activate FlexArray at any time. FlexArray software virtualizes existing EMC, HP, Hitachi, and NetApp E-Series arrays to unify and streamline IT operations. It helps customers implement a software-defined storage strategy across heterogeneous storage assets by accelerating provisioning and data management. Customers can transform existing arrays to create storage that spans private, public, and hybrid clouds. It reduces capacity requirements on arrays by more than 35% and increases the usefulness of current storage.   Converged Infrastructure   The FlexPod® solution portfolio combines NetApp storage systems, Cisco Unified Computing System servers, and Cisco Nexus fabric into a single, flexible architecture. FlexPod solutions are designed and validated to reduce deployment time, project risk, and the cost of IT. Options in the FlexPod portfolio include:       ·  FlexPod Datacenter converged infrastructure includes validated designs for enterprise private clouds as well as software-defined data centers (SDDCs), unified scale-out storage, virtual desktop infrastructure, databases, secure multi-tenancy, business continuity, and data protection.     ·  FlexPod Express reduces costs and complexity for smaller enterprises by consolidating the entire IT infrastructure on a single, easy-to-manage platform. Customers can reduce the number of servers and the storage capacity needed for applications and standardize their environments to more easily predict budgets and support growth.     ·  FlexPod Select delivers validated, preconfigured components for rapid deployment of dedicated, high-performance workloads, such as big data, high-performance computing, databases, and data warehouses.  9  NetApp Private Storage (NPS) for Cloud NetApp’s Private Storage for Cloud solutions give customers the freedom to connect to the clouds they want while allowing them to maintain complete control of their data on a dedicated, private NetApp storage system. In this approach, customer data resides on NetApp storage “next to”, rather than “in”, the cloud provider’s environment. The customer-owned NetApp system is co-located in data centers managed by our partner, Equinix. Equinix has data centers located next to major networks and in close proximity to major cloud providers including AWS, Microsoft® Azure and IBM SoftLayer.   NPS for Cloud eliminates time-consuming, costly data migrations. Customers can turn off connectivity to one cloud and connect to another in minutes, without having to move their data.   OpenStack Contributions    NetApp is a Gold Member of the OpenStack Foundation, which supports creation of an open-source cloud operating system. OpenStack is a global collaboration of developers and cloud computing technologists producing a ubiquitous open-source cloud computing platform for public and private clouds.    Cloud services based on OpenStack® software, in particular those for enterprise applications, require a robust storage infrastructure that is available, efficient, and protected. NetApp storage integration with OpenStack makes deployment of cloud services simpler, faster, and more scalable. NetApp drivers for OpenStack reduce the integration burden for IT departments deploying cloud services and enable high-value services and tight service-level agreements.   Professional and Support Services NetApp and our ecosystem of partners deliver a full portfolio of professional and technical services that enable customers to achieve greater business value from NetApp products and solution investments. Our professional services team and certified services partners have the expertise to assist customers with each phase of their IT lifecycle, from planning next-generation storage systems and deploying new technology to optimizing the operational efficiency of existing infrastructures. Technical support services ensure our products operate efficiently and benefit from the most up-to-date software to help customers minimize downtime for systems running business-critical applications. Our services organization also provides in-depth guidance and education that include extensive access to our global technical resources and intellectual property. Customers can choose from a number of support options including direct touch, web-based My AutoSupport™ service, training on our product and solutions and an active online community of customers. NetApp utilizes a global, integrated model to provide consistent service delivery and global support during every phase of the customer engagement, including strategy, assessment and analysis, planning and design, installation, implementation, integration, optimization, ongoing support, and remote management and monitoring. Sales, Principal Markets, and Distribution Channels   We market and sell our products in numerous countries throughout the world. To increase visibility of NetApp in the broader IT segment, we continue to make investments in our multiyear branding and awareness campaigns.   Our diversified customer base spans industry segments and vertical markets such as energy, financial services, government, high technology, internet, life sciences, healthcare services, manufacturing, media, entertainment, animation, video postproduction, and telecommunications. NetApp focuses primarily on the data management and storage markets. We design our products to meet the needs of our broad customer base – from large enterprises to midsize customers.   NetApp uses a multichannel distribution strategy. We sell our products and services to end-user business customers and service providers through a direct sales force and an ecosystem of partners. We work with a wide range of partners for our customers – including technology partners, value-added resellers, system integrators, OEMs, service providers and distributors. During fiscal 2015, sales through our indirect channels represented 80% of our net revenues. Our global partner ecosystem is critical to NetApp’s growth and success. We are continually strengthening existing partnerships and investing in new ones to ensure we are meeting the evolving needs of our customers.   As of April 24, 2015, our worldwide sales and marketing functions consisted of approximately 7,370 managers, sales representatives, and technical support personnel. We have field sales offices in approximately 50 countries. Sales to customers Arrow Electronics, Inc. and Avnet, Inc., which are distributors, accounted for 23% and 16% of our net revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2015.  10  Information about sales to and accounts receivables from our major customers, segment disclosures, foreign operations, and net sales attributable to our geographic regions is included in Note 16 – Segment, Geographic, and Significant Customer Information of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Seasonality We have historically experienced a decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year, as the sales organization spends time developing new business after higher close rates in the fourth quarter, and because sales to European customers are historically weaker during the summer months. During the second quarter of our fiscal year, we have historically experienced increased sales, driven by the government sector, concurrent with the end of the U.S. federal government’s fiscal year in September, as well as an increase in business from European markets. We derive a majority of our revenue in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. Bookings and revenues typically follow intra-quarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter. Backlog We manufacture products based on a combination of specific order requirements and forecasts of our customers’ demand. Orders are generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis. A substantial portion of our products is sold on the basis of standard purchase orders that are cancellable prior to shipment without penalty. In certain circumstances, purchase orders are subject to change with respect to quantity of product or timing of delivery resulting from changes in customer requirements. Our business is characterized by seasonal and intra-quarter variability in demand, as well as short lead times and product delivery schedules. Accordingly, backlog at any given time might not be a meaningful indicator of future revenue.     Manufacturing and Supply Chain We have outsourced manufacturing operations to third parties located in Memphis, Tennessee; Olive Branch, Mississippi; Schiphol Airport, The Netherlands; Komarom and Tiszaujvaros, Hungary; Wuxi and Tianjin, China; Taoyuan City, Taiwan; and Singapore. These operations include materials procurement, commodity management, component engineering, test engineering, manufacturing engineering, product assembly, product assurance, quality control, final test, and global logistics. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for materials, as well as several key subcontractors for the production of certain subassemblies and finished systems. We use multiple vendors and have our products manufactured in a number of locations wherever possible to mitigate our supply chain risk. Our strategy has been to develop close relationships with our suppliers, maximizing the exchange of critical information and facilitating implementation of joint quality programs. We use contract manufacturers for the production of major subassemblies and final system configuration. This manufacturing strategy minimizes capital investments and overhead expenditures while creating flexibility for rapid expansion. We were most recently awarded International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001 and ISO 14001 certifications on September 15, 2014, and continue to be ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certified. Research and Development We conduct research and development activities in various locations throughout the world. Total research and development expenses were $919.3 million, $917.3 million and $904.2 million in fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. These costs consist primarily of personnel and related costs incurred to conduct product development activities. Although we develop many of our products internally, we may acquire technology through business combinations or through licensing from third parties when appropriate. We believe that technical leadership is essential to our success, and we expect to continue to commit