 - A native of Birmingham, Alabama, Edgar Peters Bowron, known to almost everyone as Pete, received his B.A. from Colgate University and his M.A. and PhD from the Institute of Fine Arts, New York University. He began his professional career at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and has subsequently worked in a number of American art museums. He was appointed Director and Professor of Fine Arts at Harvard's Art Museums in 1985, and served as Senior Curator of Paintings at the National Gallery of Art in Washington from 1990 until 1996. When he joined the staff of the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston as the Audrey Jones Beck Curator of European Art, well, he joined it after that. Responsible for the installation of European art in the Audrey Jones Beck Building, which opened in March 2000, Pete continues to supervise that collection of Impressionist paintings, the Kress and Straus collections of European Old Masters, the Museum's wide-ranging collection of European art from the Middle Ages to 1913. A widely respected scholar and connoisseur of European Old Master paintings, Pete has particular interest in French, Dutch, and Italian painting of the 16th through the 18th centuries, with a special enthusiasm for painting in Rome in the 18th century and Italian view painting of that period. His writings include numerous collection and exhibition catalogs, including Art in Rome in the 18th Century, Bernardo Bellotto and the Capitals of Europe, my favorite, Best in Show: The Dog in Art from Renaissance to Today, and Pompeo Batoni: Prince of Painters in 18th Century Rome. He also wrote Antiquity Revived: Neoclassical Art in the 18th Century. During his museum career, Pete has played a major role in acquiring significant works by artists such as Bellotto, Canova, Chardin, Courbet, Baron, Gerard, Panini, Rembrandt, Guido Reni, Jacob van Ruisdael, just all the A-list, as you can tell, Turner, and Jan van Huysum. This afternoon he will share with us much of his knowledge and set our whole symposium on a sure footing with his presentation, The Critical Fortunes of Italian Baroque Painting in America. Please join me in giving a warm welcome to Pete Bowron. (audience applauds) - Thank you, Inge. You remind that I once bored a similar audience in this very room on the subject of Guercino's great Aldrovandi Dog in the Norton Simon Museum, which is indeed the greatest representation of a dog in the Italian Baroque. (audience laughs) When we consider the interest in Italian Baroque painting on the part of a handful of American collectors, museum curators and directors and scholars, beginning in the 1920s and over the years gaining more and more adherents, particularly in the 1950s and 60s. It's easy to forget that the Baroque has played at least a supporting role from the first tentative appearances of European art in this country, and that even our Founding Fathers showed an interest in the art of the period. Before his departure for Europe in 1784, Thomas Jefferson compiled lists of works that he would like to have copied for his gallery at Monticello, based in part on Horace Walpole's description of the pictures at Houghton Hall, that included this celebrated Salvator Rosa Prodigal Son, which is of course today with the Walpole pictures in The Hermitage. In Paris, Jefferson bought copies after Domenichino, Guido Reni, Ribera, Solimena, and Carlo Maratta, and from Italy wrote that Carlo Dolci had become a "violent favorite." The leading American painters of the late 18th century were also drawn to the Baroque to further their artistic education. Benjamin West, John Singleton Copley, and John Trumbull all admired the 17th century Bolognese school, and West made several really very fine copies after Guido, including this Herodias with the head of Saint John the Baptist, which was in the Palazzo Corsini in Rome. By the early 19th century, as Americans traveled to Europe in greater numbers emulating the British on the Grand Tour, they increasingly acquired examples, both originals and copies of the Italian paintings they had admired. Richard Mead, a Philadelphia art collector, for example, amassed an important collection of Old Master paintings between 1810 and 20 while serving as a merchant and as U.S. Consul in Cadiz, Spain that included Luca Giordano's large Calling of Saint Matthew, which was acquired by Georgetown University in 1860 from his daughter. Eric Zafran, in his essay, A History of Italian Baroque Painting in America, which was published in the catalog of an exhibition of Italian paintings from Bob Jones University at the Philbrook Museum in 1994, has provided an indispensable guide to the subject of this symposium. With meticulous attention to seemingly, really it's quite astonishing, Eric, with your 362 footnotes, to seemingly every detail that pertains to the Italian Baroque in America, and he's documented the continuous interest in paintings of the period by Americans from the founding of the nation to the 1990s, noting just in passing the purchases of two visitors to Florence in 1836, Henry Wilde of Georgia and Colonel James Thompson of New York, who acquired from the Riccardi family in Florence Salvator Rosa's Landscape with the Baptism of Christ, which is at Bob Jones University, which you see there, and Salvator Rosa's self-portrait, which was acquired by the Metropolitan Museum in 1921. But this essay and its roster of private collectors, dealers, and art institutions in 19th century America, and the works they acquired by the likes of the Caracci, Domenichino, Guido, Guercino, Castiglione, Mola, Maratti, even if these paintings were not always authentic or what they claimed to be, is really quite eye-opening. In the 1800s, from Boston and New York to the Midwest to the West Coast, we see collectors buying Italian Baroque paintings. For example, James Scripps, the newspaper publisher and philanthropist about whom we'll hear more from Andrea Derstine, acquired this Head of Christ by Guido Reni and gave it to the Detroit Institute of Arts in 1889. Now, as we explore over the next day and a half the collecting of Italian Baroque painting in America, there are at least five aspects of the subject that the speakers will consider and that we should focus on, first and foremost the personalities, the collectors, the curators, the museum directors who acquired these paintings; the art market, that is to say the dealers, auction houses, and commercial galleries that provided access to them; as Inge mentioned, the vicissitudes of taste and the influence of writers, teachers, art historians, and art historical scholarship in shaping perceptions about 17th and early 18th century Italian painting; the role of exhibitions and exhibition catalogs, and also the shifting market values for the works themselves. These various aspects are all inextricably entwined, and it's very difficult to look at one in isolation from another. For example, take the vagaries of the fashion for Italian Baroque painting in America. Eric Zafran has pointed to the 1840s and 50s as the zenith of the taste in America for the grandiose and sentimental Baroque, especially the work of Guido Reni and Carlo Dolci, which was an enthusiasm that lingered on in conservative upper class circles for some time. Henry James has one of his most fatuous female characters say, "We have a Sassoferrato, you know, "from which we're inseparable. "We travel with our picture and poodle." (audience laughs) But just at the moment that these painters were enthroned as exemplars of taste and quality, and prints and photographs of Guido Reni's frescoed ceiling of the large central hall of the garden palace, the Casino dell'Aurora in Rome, adorned Victorian parlors and libraries across the country through the medium of prints and engravings and photographs, the tides of taste began to reverse. Differing opinions of the importance of these artists and even of the period of the Baroque itself were increasingly being expressed, notably by John Ruskin who wrote to his father from Italy in 1845, "I've pretty well now arranged my scale of painters," and in the bottommost group, the school of errors and vices, were the Caracci, Guido, Carlo Dolci, and Caravaggio whose paintings he particularly reviled as "morbid brutality" and, quote, "feeding upon horror and ugliness and filthiness of sin." The enthusiasm with which Guido Reni had been regarded in the 18th century, after all Winckelmann compared him to the Classical sculptor Praxiteles, and in the early 19th century, in which the poetic imagination of poets like Shelley were sustained, plummeted in the second half of the century under the scornful attacks of Ruskin who condemned him and the entire 17th century school for being overly sentimental and lacking in sincerity and religious conviction. George Hersey, who has written quite perceptively on the critical fortunes of Neopolitan Baroque painting in America, noted a variety of influences that doomed the prestige of Italian 17th century painting, above all the figure of Ruskin, the first art historian, who was at the same time a major literary influence, a bestselling author, an immensely popular lecturer, and even something of a seer, in Hersey's words, with disciples who ranged from Proust to Pater to Berenson to Mahatma Ghandi. The tentacles of Ruskin's high regard for Giotta, Fra Angelico, and the early Italian school to the detriment of the Baroque soon reached America. In 1864, we find the collector and writer James Jackson Jarves describing Domenichino's Last Communion of Saint Jerome in the Vatican, which for many a visitor to Rome was the supreme achievement in paint after Raphael's Transfiguration, as, quote, "a violation of artistic rule, "instigated by the ascetic side of religion, "and lacking a proper understanding of Christian art." Charles Eliot Norton, the leading American disciple of Ruskin and lecturer on the fine arts at Harvard University, influenced several generations of scholars and collectors, such as Bernard Berenson and Isabella Stewart Gardner with such pronouncement that the same artist's Martyrdom of Saint Agnes in Bologna was one of the worst of the Bolognese school, marked by "coarse materialism, disgusting exaggeration, "and the utter want of elevation "or truth of expression," which, I have to say, I find absolutely astonishing. By the 1860s, Italian Seicento painting was probably despised far more in England and American than on the continent. Happily, Ruskin's scathing view that Reni and his ilk epitomized a "feeble and fallen school" did not survive the reappraisal of 20th century scholarship. Instead, the sculptor Gian Lorenzo Bernini's view, that Reni painted pictures of paradise, has gradually been restored, beginning in the 1950s and 60s through an older generation of scholars, and then through American art historians such as Stephen Pepper and Richard Spear, and I'm confident that at least some of us in this room have come to view Guido Reni as, quote, "perhaps the purest painter "who ever wielded a brush, an artist of unearthly talent "and labyrinthine complexity," as Charles Dempsey once pronounced. But throughout the 20th century as we'll hear, there's been a kind of yin and yang, an oscillation between praise and blame, fame and disrepute for those works that had once been so widely hailed for their beauty and religious fervor and then disparaged as academic, monotonous, tearful, and saccharine. And even looking back to the heyday of the popularity of Italian baroque paintings in America in the 1960s, 70s, and 80s, I often have to wonder myself just how deep and widespread this popularity in fact was and is. It's not that the Baroque has lacked admirers. It's just that maybe we need to pinch ourselves to remind ourselves again of the sort of outright and prejudice against and indifference to the art of the Catholic Counter-Reformation. It's a prejudice that's deeply rooted in aesthetic, social, and religious traditions on the part of many American trustees, patrons, and the general public. One of my favorite museum anecdotes involves the exhibition The Age of Correggio and Carracci, which was shown in Bologna and New York and Washington in 1986, and featured, among other pictures, the Metropolitan Museum's great Guercino Samson, which was given by the Wrightsmans two years before. The late Dean Walker, who was Curator at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, was approached by a patron and a trustee, perhaps, and engaged in conversation, and she said she was going to Washington, and did he have any recommendations, and he praised this exhibition, said she couldn't miss it, it was a once in a lifetime opportunity, et cetera. And sometime later he ran into her at a party and rushed up to her and ask her how she liked it and what she thought and saw, and she put her hand on his arm and said, "Dean, someone should tell you those are the kinds "of paintings people are afraid they're going "to see in museums." (audience laughs) But we're jumping ahead of ourselves. At the beginning of the 20th century when it came to collecting Italian art under the influence of Charles Eliot Norton, Berenson, Robert Langton Douglas, (clears throat) excuse me, and dealers like Duveen, Colnaghi, and Knoedler, Renaissance masters such as Bellini and Raphael along with gold-ground painters of the 15th century were ascendant. None of the great American collectors, Bache, Frick, Huntingon, Mellon, Morgan, Rockefeller, Widener, considered Italian 17th and 18th century pictures to be of any significance, and what few they did buy were restricted to the occasional sketch by Tiepolo, genre scene by Pietro Longhi, or view by Canaletto or Guardi. And now, whether these collectors actually subscribed to Berenson's dictum that, quote, "our grandfathers were thrilled "by Guido Reni's ecstatic visages, "whose silly emptiness now rouses our laughter," their interest certainly lay in the great masters in Dutch, Flemish, and English schools, as a glance at the pictures outside this auditorium will confirm. By the 1920s, however, this anti-Baroque sentiment began to reverse, and remarkably swiftly. The resurgence of interest in the Baroque began in Europe around World War I with the work of a handful of scholars including the Swiss art historian Heinrich Wolfflin. Between the two wars the period continued to acquire, the period of the Baroque continued to acquire increasing status. A new generation of scholars, such as the Italian art historians Giuseppe Fiocco, Roberto Longhi, Matteo Marangoni, the Germans A.E. Brinkmann, Dagobert Frey, Nikolaus Pevsner, Hans Posse, Werner Weisbach, and in England Tancred Borenius, Anthony Blunt, Ellis Waterhouse, and Denis Mahon made the art of the Baroque increasingly familiar and accessible to specialists and students. A seminal event was this great exhibition, (clears throat) excuse me, in Florence in 1922 with more than 1,000 paintings representing the artists of the period from Francesco Albani to Antonio Zanchi, and it's an exhibition that opened the eyes of dealers, scholars, collectors, and the general public alike to the breadth and variety of Italian Baroque painters such as Caravaggio. The Borghese picture was in the exhibition. This was followed by others in London and elsewhere devoted to the period and a growing number of specialist studies. Notable would be Herman Voss's Die Malerei des Barocks in Rome, 1924, which even a century later continues to provide a useful look at painting in Rome from the Caracci and Caravaggio to Anton Raphael Mengs and Domenico Corvi. In the same year, Sacheverell Sitwell published Southern Baroque Art, a study of painting, architecture, and music in Italy and Spain of the 17th and 18th centuries in which he boldly, if perhaps prematurely, declared, "Baroque art needs no defense now. "The victory has been won a long time." The changing attitude of the 1920s toward Italian Baroque painting in America is reflected not only in the remarkable collection assembled by the circus master and entrepreneur John W. Ringling, as we'll hear from Virginia Brilliant in a moment, but also by a host of acquisitions that were made by American museums in the 1920s. These were noted as signs of their gradual reinstatement to the public's good estimation in a Metropolitan Museum bulletin article in 1929 by the curator Harry Wehle whose own institution did not make a serious effort to collect Baroque paintings until relatively recently, as we'll learn tomorrow from Andrea Bayer. And, of course, the culmination of this remarkable decade of the 1920s was the first exhibition of Italian Baroque paintings held at the Fogg Art Museum in January and February of 1929. Thanks to Eric Zafran, we actually have a detailed decade by decade account of the rehabilitation of the Italian Baroque in America, which is well beyond the scope of my introduction. The developments in the 1930s and 1940s are to a large extent dominated by the activities of Ringling, whose great Pietro da Cortona bought in 1930 you see; A. Everett Austin, "Chick" Austin, director of the Wadsworth Atheneum who acquired in 1943 Caravaggio's Saint Francis, which was for many years the only authentic painting by the artist in this country, which he bought for $17,000 from Arnold Seligmann, Rey and Company; and Samuel Kress, the businessman and philanthropist and founder of the S. and H. Kress five and 10 cent stores. From 1927 to 1936, Kress bought exclusively from the Italian dealer Alessandro Contini Bonacossi, who conceived for him the ambitious, improbable project of acquiring a fine work by every known Italian master. By 1935, he had invested the rough equivalent of $60,000,000 in today's money in his collection, and in the next two years he more than doubled that outlay. Now, in accordance with the taste of the day, Kress's earliest purchases were almost all Italian Renaissance works from the 13th to the 16th centuries, with the notable exception of a group of Italian 18th century Venetian paintings and this fine Panini interior of the Pantheon, which he bought in 1927, which is in the National Gallery. Now, it may be that Contini shrewdly kept from Kress the excesses of Italian 17th century painting, the martyrdoms, the adorations, the penitent saints that to the previous generation epitomized the sick sensuality, the melodrama, superstition, and popery of the period, but when Kress acquired Tanzio da Varallo's Saint Sebastian in 1935, he was certainly bucking the taste of his generation. The work of Tanzio remains as shockingly original today as it did in 1922 when the Saint Sebastian startled visitors to the Palazzo Pitti exhibition where, incidentally, Roberto Longhi correctly identified the author of the painting as Tanzio, and it brought the vivid and eccentric character of his art to a wide audience for the first time. But in our discussions, which is why we didn't include Kress by himself, he's something of an outlier, because, as I said, he set out a priori to create a collection ranging from Cimabue to the end of the 18th century and thus, by definition, he bought the very Italian paintings that collectors like Andrew Mellon and Henry Clay Frick had shunned. After Kress became ill in the early 1940s, the responsibility for the future growth and development of the collection fell upon the shoulders of his younger brother, Rush Kress, who bought this Fetti Veil of Veronica in 1943, which is in the National Gallery, who, with the advice of the restorer Stephen Pichetto and later Mario Modestini and the art historians Wilhelm Suida and Robert Manning, set out to form, quote, "not only the most complete, "but also the most beautiful collection "of Italian Baroque paintings," in the words of a memorandum that Suida wrote in 1949. And the moment was propitious, because the 1950s were a golden age for acquiring Baroque paintings. Never before or since were they so cheap and plentiful. The social, the political, and economic upheavals of World War II resulted in the dispersal of many great aristocratic collections on the continent, but particularly in England, and suddenly large numbers of 17th and 18th century Italian paintings were available on the London art market. And I think that what fired the enthusiasm for the Baroque in America was the availability of fine pictures by neglected masters that could be acquired for a few hundred or a few thousand dollars. In the early 1940s, the exchange rate was one pound to four dollars. One British pound equaled four American dollars. By the second half of the decade, it had dropped from one pound to $2.80. At the Ellesmere sale in Christie's in London in October 1946, paintings by the Caracci, Domenichino, and Guido, who for a century earlier had been revered in England as the flowers of the Seicento, were sold for prices that we can scarcely believe today. A Vision of Saint Francis by Annibale Caracci which was owned by John Pope-Hennessey and is today in the National Gallery of Canada, sold at that sale for 23 pounds, or $92. Domenichino's The Way to Calvary, also owned by John Pope-Hennessey and today in the Getty, a small masterpiece on copper of around 1610, brought 42 pounds, or $168. And one of the finest pictures in the Kress Collection, Lodovico Caracci's The Dream of Saint Catherine of Alexandria, which is in the National Gallery, was acquired from Contini in 1950, brought only 52 pounds, or $210 at the Ellesmere sale. As a result in the 1950s the prices of Italian 17th century paintings brought very little in comparison to their exceptional artistic quality and historical importance. And buying often in London, dealers like Julius Wiesner, David Koetser, Elkan and Abris Silberman, Frederick Kleinberger, Nicholas Acquavella, Frederick Mont, and Oscar Klein shrewdly seized this opportunity and brought these pictures to New York for sale. And at the same time a number of collectors, a small number of inspired collectors realized the extraordinary opportunity for them, and beginning around 1950, as we will hear this afternoon and tomorrow, Walter Chrysler Jr., Louis Ferre, Paul Ganz, Robert and Bettina Suida Manning, and Dr. Bob Jones University, (laughs) Dr. Bob Jones Jr. (audience laughs) I was about to say all began to form their important eponymous collections. Among these, perhaps the collection of Paul Ganz, shown here remarkably calm and self-absorbed in a portrait by Gabby Koppelman, is perhaps the least familiar today, owing to the dispersal of the nearly 1,000 pictures that he owned, some of the best of which were acquired by his friends Morton and Mary Jane Harris, and subsequently given by them to the Metropolitan Museum and the Palmer Museum at Penn State University. He's certainly remembered fondly by many for his enthusiasm, for his manic enthusiasm for Italian Baroque paintings, and for the late-night soirees that he and his wife Eula held in their apartment on Upper Park Avenue, which were inevitably centered around their pictures by Cirano, Fracanzano, Guercino, Morazzone, Alessandro Turchi, and Pietro Testa. I think this beautiful Herodias by Francesco Cairo is representative of his interest. It was a picture that he gave to the Metropolitan Museum in 1973 in memory of Rudolf Wittkower, whose classes he attended and to whom he was devoted. I'm sorry this slide is so bad, but it's a good illustration with respect to the economics of Italian Baroque painting and reminds us the 50s were the halcyon years. For thereafter prices began to rise gradually in the 60s and then sharply in the 80s and 90s. And this lovely, small, it's a little panel that measures 12 by 15 1/2 inches, depicting the rest on the flight into Egypt by Bartolomeo Schedoni, was bought on the London art market about 1950 or so by Julius Wiesner. He sold it to Victor Spark, who sold it to Frederick Mont, who offered it to sale for about $2,000 to $3,000. Then he sold it in 1956 to Paul Ganz. In 1968, he sold it to a private collector in New York for $6,500, who lent it to the Metropolitan Museum for a decade beginning in 1987, insured for between $200,000 and $300,000. The painting was offered with an estimate of $400,000 to $600,000 at Sotheby's in New York on 28 January, 1999 and sold for $772,000. And another example which I'm not illustrating but many of you will know is of course the great, dramatic Ribera representing Prometheus that Barbara Piasecka Johnson sold in 2009. Patrick Matthieson's consigner paid $31,000 in 1982. Matthieson himself sold the picture to Barbara Johnson two years later in 1984 for $460,000, and then she sold it at her sale in 2009, 25 years later, for slightly north of $6,000,000. Now, it wasn't just private collectors that benefited from this. Public institutions also bought in the 1950s and 60s advantageously. Seicento painting was not at all popular at the time of the opening of the Cleveland Museum of Art in 1916, and the institution was slow to add Italian Baroque pictures. In 1929 they bought a painting by Strozzi, followed in 1950 by this powerful vision of Saint Jerome by Gian Battista Langetti. But it wasn't until the 1960s that the museum under Sherman Lee and the curator Ann Lurie began to concentrate on the Italian Baroque. And within a space of a few years they had paintings by Cavallino, this Adoration of the Shepherds bought from Frederick Mont, Lisgouli, Giordano, Gentileschi, Guercino, Reni, and so forth, culminating in Caravaggio's Crucifixion of Saint Andrew in 1976. The acquisition of Italian Baroque paintings in Toledo and Minneapolis, under the aegis of Otto Wittmann and Tony Clark respectively, followed a similar pattern. For example, beginning in 1960 and largely buying from Colnaghi and Agnew's, Toledo acquired within a dozen years important paintings by Batoni, Cortona, Luca Giordano, Maratti, Sebastiano Ricci, Solimena, and notably this great Mattia Preti, which they bought for $25,000 from Colnaghi in 1961. Minneapolis followed, as I said, similarly. They bought some two dozen Italian Baroque paintings in the 1960s alone, including this great Castiglione, which once adorned an altar in the Capuchin Church of Osimo, which was bought for $30,000 in 1966. Burton Frederickson was doing something of the same at the Getty Museum, with buying pictures such as this beautiful Carlo Dolci Saint Matthew Writing His Gospel. And the result of this tremendous activity in the 60s was that suddenly in America we could demonstrate, we could represent in detail the history of the Italian Baroque. In the important exhibition Art in Italy: 1600 to 1700, which was organized in Detroit in 1965, the loans included Tanzio's Saint John the Baptist in the Wilderness, which Samuel Kress had bought in 1939, and Guercino's Semiramis in the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, which it had purchased in 1948 for $1,000. And even more narrowly focused exhibitions, such as the Genoese Masters: Cambiaso to Magnasco, which was organized by the Mannings and shown in Dayton, Sarasota, and Hartford in 1962, and Florentine Baroque Art, organized by Joan Nissman at the Metropolitan Museum in 1969, included painters which today are recherche, Giovanni Balducci and Giovanni Battista Lupicini, but also works by the more familiar masters, Francesco Ferrini, Lorenzo Lippi, Simone Pignoni, and of course Carlo Dolci. The point is that these exhibitions could now be assembled exclusively or at least largely from American collections. I'd like to return to the Kress Collection, because, as you know, one of its distinguishing features is the variety, the number, and the quality of its Italian Baroque paintings. The Kress Foundation took shrewd advantage of this neglect of later Italian painting in the 1940s and 50s and began to acquire such important examples of the Baroque and its aftermath, as Antonio de Bellis's Sacrifice of Noah, which was bought from Julius Wiesner in 1945, Castiglione's Allegory of Vanity bought from Wiesner in 1952, and Baciccio's pair of Old Testament scenes bought from Contini in 1950. Now, that these paintings are now in Houston, Kansas City, and Atlanta, and not in the National Gallery in Washington as intended, brings us back to this recurrent prejudice against Italian Baroque painting. From the moment of Samuel Kress's initial gift to the National Gallery in 1939, he endorsed the principal of exchanges to improve the quality of the collections on view in Washington. For 20 years, from the opening of the Kress Collection galleries in 1941 until the presentation of the final Kress gifts in 1961, paintings had been delivered to Washington, exhibited at the gallery, and either retained for its collections or, in the case of most of the Baroque pictures, returned to New York for dispersal to one of the regional galleries. And the result, as you know, is a superlative collection of Italian Renaissance paintings in Washington, but a collection in which the major figures of the Italian Baroque, Domenichino, Caravaggio, Reni, Castiglione, Mola, Rosa, Baciccio is conspicuous. The decision to relinquish the majority of the 17th and 18th century paintings to the regional galleries was made by John Walker, the gallery's Chief Curator from 1938 to 1956, and Director from 1956 to 1969. Walker was a disciple of Bernard Berenson who in 1949 had written, "In Europe itself, art history must avoid "what is not contributed to the mainstream, "no matter how interesting, how magnificent in itself. "It should exclude, for instance, most German "and even Spanish and Dutch art. (audience laughs) "It should dwell less and less "on Italian art after Caravaggio, "and end altogether by the middle of the 18th century "with Solimena and Tiepolo." And Walker, thus encouraged, I should say Walker encouraged the Kress Foundation to create a great collection of Italian Renaissance painting and sculpture for the National Gallery, but his disinclination to bolster the Baroque holdings of the Kress pictures there is especially frustrating when we consider the prices and the rarity and soon to be the impossibility of ever remedying that. These pictures are almost unobtainable. I've noted elsewhere two paintings that would be in the Kress Collection in the National Gallery if it weren't for John Walker's opposition: Valentin de Boulogne's Musical Party now in Los Angeles, a superb work painted in Rome by the greatest Caravaggist master, which, I think you'll agree by virtue of its quality, its provenance, and subject, is without parallel in the National Gallery's collections, and, perhaps even more dramatically, Caravaggio's brooding, melancholic Saint John the Baptist, now in the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art, which Mario Modestini and the Kress staff desperately wanted to acquire. But looked at nationally, the Italian Baroque pictures that Washington lost now grace Raleigh, Houston, Memphis, Kansas City, El Paso, San Francisco, Tulsa, and other cities. Now, in helping to organize the proceedings of this symposium, I'm conscious of so many lacunae in the program. Perhaps we should've taken a closer look at the role and activities of some of the New York art dealers in the 1950s, notably Julius Wiesner and David Koetser, the Dutch-English art dealer who sold so many pictures to the Kress Foundation after he settled in New York in about 1950. Tomorrow Patrice Marandel will discuss one of the more remarkable figures in the later development of our subject, Andrew Ciechanowiecki who, as the director of the Heim Gallery in London, spurred interest in the Baroque as a field of collecting in America. He established the precedent of scholarly dealer catalogs, and he sold many pictures to American museums. From this single catalog alone he sold pictures to Cleveland, this great Solimena, the Snite Museum at Notre Dame, the Getty, and the Art Institute of Chicago, as well as to Berlin, Birmingham, and the National Gallery in London. Here's the de Mura that he sold to the Art Institute from that catalog. I personally would've liked to have heard more in detail about the English dealers, Jack Baer, for example, or the group of young men who gathered around Roddy Thesiger at Colnaghi in the 1970s, like Patrick Matthieson and Michael Simpson, who played such an important role in our story. And in an ideal world with no constraints on our time, we might have looked more closely at the circumstances behind some of the more remarkable, if anomalous, acquisitions of Italian Baroque paintings in America before 1900, such as the great Cecco del Caravaggio Resurrection of Christ which was acquired by the Art Institute of Chicago in 1834, or, say, the activities of 19th century collectors like Thomas Jefferson Bryan in New York. Henry Walters' 1902 purchase in Rome of the large collection of Italian pictures assembled by a Vatican priest and a member of the papal court, Don Marcello Massarenti, which included this great Strozzi Adoration of the Shepherd, merits mention. And, of course, there's another omission, is the development of the important holdings of Italian Baroque paintings in the museums of Greater Los Angeles: the Los Angeles County Museum, whose Adoration of the Shepherds was acquired, which you see here, from Matthieson in 1981, the Getty, and the Norton Simon Museum. And I, ideally, wish we had had a session entitled The Italian Baroque Today, to remind ourselves both of the activities of private collectors in this field in recent years, such as, say, Mark Fisch and Nelson Shanks , who come to mind or of the many great paintings of the period that have enriched American museums over the past three decades, such as the magnificent Mattia Preti Saint John the Baptist, which San Francisco bought in 1981 from Heim Gallery in Paris, the Gentileschi Lot and his Daughters that the Getty bought in 1998 from Johnny van Haeften, and the great Guercino Christ and the Woman of Samaria, acquired in 2010 by the Kimbell Museum from Adam Williams in memory of Ted Pillsbury. But as President Clinton famously reminded a young White House intern, every day can't be Sunday, and we have a wonderful program with a roster of distinguished speakers which I hope you're looking forward to hearing as much as I am. Thank you. (audience applauds) 