 That has become a destination for Asian art creators, collectors and connoisseurs, all over the world. Now we move onto Lot 106, this is the wonderful little toad. And I have a running on this, I'm going to start it at 130, 140, 150 thousand, 160, 170, all upfront with me at 170? Fine in here. 170 thousand pound--uh, dollars. $170,000. 500! $500,000. *gasps* 500 thousand? Yes please. Very happy to give you 500 thousand! *laughter* $500,000. Shu's bidder, on the telephone. Are we quite sure? Everyone's been chased away. *laughter* That all? 500 thousand then, Shu's bidder, on the telephone, I am selling. Thank you, Shu! 500 thousand. One of the great things about the Chinese art world is that it's a truly an international world, with collectors literally all over the world, from the west coast of America, all the way through America, to the east coast of America, Europe, many of the different countries in Europe collected Chinese art historically, and then of course Asia. But not just China, we have Singapore, Japan is a very strong collecting country for Chinese art. So I have been lucky to travel and spend time in all of these countries, and to meet collectors in all of these countries. A lot of it comes down to taste, and that taste actually is as much about time as it is about nationality or location. So you'll find that collectors in the 19th century had a different taste to collectors in the early 20th century, had a different taste to collectors in the middle of the 20th century, have a different taste to collectors today. This time we have three very important single owner sales of Chinese art, from the collection of Stephen Junkunc, the Youngman collection, and the Jie Rui Tang collection of Kangxi porcelain. What we're seeing in New York and particularly this time here at Sotheby's, is a return of some of those early collecting tastes from the American sense. So from the middle of the 20th century, the great American collectors, the taste that they were forming, now after 50, 60, 70 years, these pieces are coming back, and particularly we have a group from the collection called Stephen Junkunc, Steven Junkunc the 3rd, a Chicago industrialist. His taste is coming back, I would say historically we're looking much more at a 30, 40, 50 year cycle, particularly of taste. But again maybe not because China has surprised us by the speed with which as everything has happened. China coming into the world, in terms of being open to the world, and the wealth that is being generated in China, coming into the art market, has been something that has influenced the whole world. In terms of buyers there's possibly a greater focus on Chinese art, but then that you know and that comes a lot from mainland China. And they drive the market, they've pushed the prices much much higher, because the Chinese recognize the value of this art in a way that is higher and more important to them than it was previously to people in the West. We saw things which have been in a North America for a long time, and which actually a lot of buyers from China would like to acquire because of their strong provenance. This is really no surprise, and is something that we we should have expected, if we look forward, but what no one really saw was the scale, as in the size of the jump, of values and the speed with which it happened, because it's really only been going on for the last 10 or 15 years. 