 - Our next speaker, Ian Kennedy, was educated at Cambridge University and the Courtauld Institute of Art, studying under Michael Jaffe, Michael Kitson, and Antony Blunt. Can't do much better than that. From 1968 to '76, in the intervals of independent travel, he worked for Christie's in London before transferring to Christie's New York where he worked until 1993 as the head of the Old Master Paintings Department. From 1993 to 2002, Ian ran the New York office of the London dealer Simon Dickinson. And that very year, 2002 until 2013, he was Curator of European Paintings and Sculpture at the Nelson Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City. Ian is an expert on the Italian Baroque and has published articles on various 17th Century artists, including Elsheimer, Claude Lorrain, and Poussin. He is also the author of a general book on Titian in the Taschen series While at Christie's, Ian was responsible for the public auction of several notable works of art, including Pontormo's Portrait of Cosimo de' Medici, sold to the Getty Museum, and for the discovery and sale of Dosso Dossi's Allegory of Fortune, sold also to the Getty. While at the Nelson Atkins, he organized an exhibition, Art in the Age of Steam, about art and the railroad, which also had a European venue at the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool. He's currently working with the Museum of Fine Arts Boston on an exhibition provisionally entitled, Rank and Status in the Age of Rembrandt and Vermeer. This is scheduled to open in 2015, and it examines Dutch art of the golden age with a point of view of class and socioeconomic groups. Ian also has a very strong interest in military history, and I would be remiss not to bring that up too, I doubt if he will during his talk, notably the first World War. He has lectured on that subject very widely and especially at the National Museum of World War I, in Kansas City. But today, his presentation is focused on the Bob Jones University Collection. Please welcome, Ian Kennedy (applause) - Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm talking about the Bob Jones University Collection. Let's kick off with some personal reminiscences. I first went there in 1973 on a Greyhound bus, I was doing the round of U.S. museums. And I was quite amazed at the concentration of Baroque art there, at how much one could learn. It is in fact statistically the fourth largest Baroque collection in the U.S., but it's off the beaten track, rather. I once went there with Jack Kilhool when I was a dealer with Dickinson, and we went via Atlanta to the wrong Greenville, Greenville, North Carolina not Greenville, South Carolina. And we wanted to make the appointment, so we rented a plane and flew from the wrong Greenville to the right Greenville. And we made it. But I wouldn't do it now, I don't think. It didn't cost as much as you might expect, actually. We'll get onto the collection, but Dr. Bob Jones II, the son of the founder, started collecting in the early 1950s, and the museum opened in 1965. His father, who started the university in the 1920s, wasn't an art collector. This is the view of the gallery, I think probably around 1965 judging by the shoes and the hairstyle and the women's fashions and all that kind of thing. Circa 1965, I would call the photograph. Art must have been in Bob Jones' blood because, not many people know this, and in fact, I'm probably the only person who does outside the family, that he was related to the Bankeses of Kingston Lacy, the magnificent collectors in England, which has the Sebastiano del Piombo, Titian. Marvelous paintings, it's in the west country. I think he was related to them through his mother. And he would tell you that, in fact, with a certain amount of pride, so art was there. In professional life, he was obviously a Baptist preacher with controversial views. Many people in the art world are liberals, and he was not a liberal, to say the least of it. This put people off taking him seriously as a collector, and it's put people off going to Greenville at all. In fact, he did give an honorary degree to the Reverend Ian Paisley, if I get my Ulster accent right. The Ulster Orangeman, so that doesn't go down well with a lot of people as well. I didn't see that side of him, and I don't want to discuss it any more today. I knew him quite well, actually. I went there quite a lot while I was at Christie's, not just for mercenary reasons. It was such a good collection to learn at, and I find him genial, worldly, with a great sense of humor. There he is on the right, in a very Baroque pose, I must say. (audience laughs) Now, some of you may be able to tell me who the other guy is. It may be Charlie Cunningham, it may not be. I don't know who he is, but I'm sure some of you will recognize the other chap. Dr. Bob is on the right. This was probably taken in the mid-60s. He was a good actor, and this is him as Richard the Third. He also made a movie about the Grand Inquisitor, which I saw with Rich Kominsky and I went there. For a Baptist preacher to play the Grand Inquisitor might be described as getting to know the enemy from within. (audience laughs) He also relished the role of Shylock. While I'm not gonna go into that, you can make of it what you will. Dr. Bob knew all the players, and he was first advised by Carl Hamilton, the mentor to so many. And Carl Hamilton introduced him to Julius Wiesner, the New York and London dealer from whom Dr. Bob bought half his pictures. And they became great friends. It sounds an unlikely friendship, but they became genuinely great friends, and I've been through some of their correspondence which is at the museum, and it's very moving, some of it. They shared their personal problems: burst marriages and deaths and stuff like that. It was actually a very close bond there between the two of them, not just based on buying, selling pictures, it was much more than that. The collection is not all Baroque. A lot of it's 14th, 16th Century Italian and Northern, in the U.S. tradition of scholarly collecting, like John G. Johnson of Philadelphia. On the other hand, it's most famous for its Baroque pictures. And the Baroque itself is not all Italian. It's also Northern schools and Spanish. In the 1950s, Baroque pictures were cheap, and even in the '60s, they started it with David Caret at Christie's, he sort of promoted the Baroque, and they started getting more expensive, they're very flashy pictures. The really outstanding painters cost more in the '60s than they had done, but most of the stuff remained fairly cheap. And even in the '70s, the average Baroque picture was not expensive. I remember selling a Volterrano in 1978, one of the first sales when I was at Christie's, for two and a half thousand dollars. But the '80s is when things changed. I must pay tribute to my deadly rival at Sotheby's, George Wachter, who played an enormous part in encouraging private buyers in the Old Master field, especially in the Baroque field. Before then, all Italian pictures, especially Baroque, were Hoovered up by the Italian trade, and at that time the dollar was quite low against European currency, so they really had a ball. But in the '80s, Wachter and others brought in a lot of private buyers. Actually, George managed to get Big Al Taubman, his owner, to buy Baroque pictures. Some of these are on loan to Detroit. One of them is actually a rather good picture by Giacobelli Gossi we saw in the last talk, but Giacobelli Gossi's a pretty obscure artist, even to specialists, and we may safely say, I think, that before he met George, Big Al had never heard of him. (audience laughs) Dr. Bob got lots of advice from Wiesner. Judith, his wife, said that Wiesner had made a living selling unsalable pictures. a lot of them to Bob Jones, but that's nonsense, actually, because he discovered Down in the Lion's Den, Reubens, which was sold to the National Gallery in Washington. And a Sanducci in a West Country sale, which was very controversial now, and the National Gallery in London. He did sell great pictures, but obviously he had a good line to cheaper pictures, and especially Baroque, through Bob Jones. Bob Jones, he had a modest budget to start with, $30,000, something like that, but the pictures would have cost more than $1,000 or $2,000 each. He got a tax break on that, but the trouble was he would not allow interracial dating on campus. He dug his heels in on that, and the IRS said, "Right, mate, that's it. "You lose your tax break unless you change shoe." And he wouldn't do it. He bought much, much less, and he sold a bit, but he just couldn't buy as much because he didn't have his tax breaks. I'm actually glad to say that policy has now been changed, for some time, actually. And also, the museum is not quite so closely associated with the university. It's run by his granddaughter-in-law. It's a slightly separate institution now. They don't make many acquisitions anymore, but they do have an energetic educational program. Some fundamentalists, other fundamentalists, apparently disapproved of him buying Catholic pictures as a Baptist preacher. It's surprising, but I think the idea was rather Counter-Reformation. Art should explain the scripture and be a didactic force in religious education. And that in really one sentence, explains his philosophy of collecting, you don't need to say any more than that. There are other people who encouraged him, a guy called Billy James Hargus, I think in Tulsa, was also a fundamentalist preacher. and I knew him, and I went and saw him in the '70s and '80s and I fobbed some pictures for him at Christie's. They weren't as good as Bob Jones' but same sort of thing. Hargus was a, we might describe, stout fellow. That may sound like the pot calling the kettle black, but he was a big guy, Hargus. There was plenty of him. And he had this picture in his office by Jordans, and it was the most ghastly thing. It was a man with a pear-shaped head with multitudinous chins. It was so trony, it wasn't a portrait, you know. I suppose you might call characteristic tacti, I said to him, "How the devil can you have such an unprepossessing object on the premises? "Put me off my morning bowl of Special K any day." And he said, oh, I can't do a Southern accent, but he said, "I love that picture, it looks just like me." And it did (chuckles). There is another collector down there, I won't give his name, but who collects Baroque pictures on a smaller scale 'cause he lives in a private house, and rather good actually, rather good things. So, the tradition goes on. We'll sort of gradually get on to the pictures. I'm going to talk about them, I'm going to talk about Baroque pictures and non-Baroque pictures and talk a little bit about them art historically because I bet many of you have not been there. Most of you have not been there, and I'm not going to embarrass you by asking for a show of hands. So you might as well see what's on the walls, and I hope it'll encourage you to go. I'm only going to show about a small selection of them, there're about two or three hundred, no, three or four hundred pictures on the walls, a lot of kit. A lot. When you go there, the collection's arranged roughly by school. When I visited there in 1973, the galleries were a bit glitzy, to say the least, with background music, which I asked if they would turn it off. It was pretty rough stuff, violin-y stuff, you know. Ghastly. They wouldn't turn it off, but they did at least turn it down, which didn't make a lot of difference. Things are better now. The display is still very crowded and has a very old-fashioned look, which I actually rather like, but a lot of you would think it was not museologically up to speed, or up to the minute. They do their own framing. Well, until recently, they did their own framing, made on the premises, good craftsmanship, but some of it's a bit over-the-top for purists. The restoration has been mixed in the past, but now, I'm glad to say, is in the hands of David Ball, so that's very good news. Because of budget considerations, the best pictures are often by lesser names. But this is in some ways an advantage, since as a training ground for connoisseurship and total immersion in the Baroque school, I know of no better place in the U.S. And in a way, this collection is not for the novice. You've got to know a bit about it to get the most out of it, I would say. But you do learn a hell of a lot. Okay, let's get cracking on the paintings. I'm going to start with Italy first and not necessarily Baroque, but this is a fantastic picture by Francesco di Vannuccio, who's a Sienese 14th Century expressionist in the typical style with lots of blood all over the place and thin arms, that type of thing. The thing about Francesco Vannuccio, he's a bit of a miniaturist, he usually paints on a small scale. This is much bigger than usually for him. But it doesn't lose any intensity, it's a marvelous picture. In the Pinacoteca Nazionale in Siena, it would look fine, it would be a star piece. So, it's a really good painting. This one is by a chap, Antonio Chechi di Imola, whoever he is, I've never heard of him before. But they know about him in Forli because this picture was painted for St. Agostina in Forli in 1470. I'm putting this picture up because it's what you call gloriously provincial. The artist has just jammed everything he possibly can into the picture, and it's overcrowded, like a lot of Pre-Raphaelite pictures. It's not an entire success, but he certainly gets marks for trying. It is old-fashioned, the gold ground, and this artist, I suppose, reflects the influence of Melozzo da Forli. This really does take you, in spirit, to the provincial Italian gallery. It has a sort of atmosphere about it, which I find rather unusual in American museums. Sorry, I've got a cough here, do something about it. Next picture is by Grenacha, one of the nicest pictures in this collection, Raphaelesque, sort of Michelangelo influences This is a classic Florentine High Renaissance picture, with Grenachas' typically blond tone and in good shape. So, that's one of the more important pictures in the collection, perhaps. And then this one is, this is Sodoma. (Ian coughing) Now this is typical of Bob Jones' taste, sort of very gutsy, dramatic narrative, quite clear. Inspired a bit by Raphael's Spasimo di Sicilia, but it has a strong dose of northern realism in the faces. This really does show Bob Jones' taste for clear, pathal narrative which can be used didactically. This picture is an early Tintaretto from 1540s, not in the best of condition, but the surface patterns on the floor and in the draperies really do fit rather strikingly the mosaic tradition in Venice, the light glistening on the surfaces. It's a very Venetian looking thing. This is by Pier Francesco Sacci. Pier Francesco Sacci is Piedmontese, and this picture is from early 16th Century and has strong central Italian influences. It's in very nice shape. This is a picture by a minor artist from a minor school in Italy, but of really top quality. Obviously, a very strong Flemish influence too, of Memling and people like that. It's an interesting picture to see in the cross-currents between the north and south. It has a big Flemish influence as you'd expect in Piedmont. It's very instructive to look at a picture like that, and also, enjoy it because it's in such good condition. This work is by Venturo Salimbeni, one of the main Barocci followers, him and Vanni are the main Barocci followers in Siena. Well, I don't know any other Salimbeni in American collections. Here's a chance to see one, and it's a good one. It's big, it's about five- or six-foot high. It's also a very interesting picture, too. It's transitional between Mannerism and the early Baroque. It has all the grazia of late Mannerism, which we associate with artists like Cavalier d'Arpino, but it also has the strong interplay of limbs which is characteristic of early Baroque, which a lot of early Baroque artists did, this sort of contrast to the strong surface pattern of the limbs is something that early Baroque artists they sort packed it in to art in 1620. Before that, they were all doing it. Caravaggio and Morazzone, and all these sort of artists of that time. It's a very instructive transitional work. This is Domenichino and is probably the most valuable picture in the collection. It is an important thing. And it's sort of a junior version of the big Domenichino St. John the Baptist on loan to the National Gallery in London, currently from the Glyndebourne Collection, Christie's collection at Glyndebourne, where the opera house is. A magnificent work, I hope it stays in England and doesn't come here 'cause it's very good, looks great in the National Gallery. I've got a new passport; it's practically unpatriotic. (audience laughs) This is a classic Grand Tour picture, and the provenance is classic Grand Tour. Philippe Egalite, and then Lord Carlisle. Lord Carlisle of Castle Howard was one of those aristocratic vultures, really, who descended on France after the Revolution to snap up all sorts of goodies. Some they kept, some they sold on. This stayed at Castle Howard throughout the 19th Century and was in the Manchester Art Treasury of 1857. It's classic Domenichino, classic Bolognese Classicism. Here's some Renis or they're Evangelis or something. Evangelis. They're all good, actually. They're from the '30s, broadly painted, and really meant to be seen from a distance, far away, probably quite high up. But they're very adroit, virtuoso things. They're rather fun. This is a classic Dolci, one of the most refined Florentine Baroque artists. Actually, the Dolci is perhaps a little bit Catholic for Bob Jones. He could be too merry logical, but, you know, there it is. I suppose there's lots going on in it, strong gestures, and there's a strong physical presence. I think that may have allowed him to overlook the very Catholic element of Dolci's art. And here is a Maratta, which there's another version on the art market, The Crucifixion of St. Andrew. An early Maratta, very Sacchi-like. He bought this some time ago, where Maratta's become quite valuable recently. He makes several hundred thousand dollars, even more sometimes, on the private market. When Dr. Bob was buying Maratta, Maratta's very important to late-Baroque Classicism, he was cheap. I don't think Dr. Bob paid very much for this. Maybe $10-$15 thousand when he bought it. Maratta there had a great art historical reputation, didn't really have a great market presence. Here's Preti, which John Spike links to some pictures in Taverna, it's quite a late Preti, these have orange tones, reddish tones characteristic of his late style. I actually wonder if it wasn't done in Malta, but John will tell you about that. But it's a later style Preti. And here is a big Novelli. Novelli worked in Sicily. He was a Ribera follower in Sicily, influenced by Van Dyck, who also worked in Sicily and left works there. There's a sort of incisiveness about it which he got from Van Dyck. This is a full-dress Novelli altar piece, a full-dress Italian altar piece, which are not that common in American collections. Here's a Giordano study for a fresco in the Escorial, it's like the study, or a recorder for a highly important composition. The Escorial frescoes, especially the one over the central staircase, the thunderous, great thunderous frescoes over the central staircase, really are, I think, his masterpieces. A lot of artists get worse as they get older, but look, Giordano actually got better. This is nice to have a study for such an important commission, or a picture related to such an important commission. Now this is a Rosa, which is a very good one. I think it's been put up for yesterday. As I think was mentioned, this picture was in America quite early, by 1840. And it was bought from the Medici Ricciardi collection, Florence. In 1840, Grand Tour taste still prevailed in America. It didn't disappear until Ruskin, and then Charles Eliot Norton put the kibosh on it about 30 years later. Rosa is the epitome of European Grand Tour taste, which still persisted in America at that time. Also, the wildness of the landscape would have appealed to American collectors because America has so much primeval wilderness. The wilderness in America in the 19th Century had a sort of moral force. The idea of a log cabin in the wilderness was a place you went to get away from the burgeoning materialism of the industrial towns. The 19th Century was considered an archetypally American phenomenon. There wasn't much wilderness left in Europe, but there was plenty of it in America. Rosa really would have appealed to American collectors in that way. They would have identified with that kind of subject matter. Here are two pictures. The one on the left is by Giuseppe Nuvolone. which is done in the soft style, Milanese style, which developed after the plague of 1630, heavily influenced by Bolognese Classicism. The picture on the right is by Filippo Abbiarti. He's an artist you can see in the Castello Sforzesco in Milan he doesn't normally like this. He normally looks more Rococo, more Venetian, more like Bolestro or somebody. And I looked at this picture and I said, "I don't know who this is." And they said, "It's Filippo Abbiati." I think it's signed. But it's very much in the style of the Nuvolone family, and so it's early. I don't know what you think about this sort of observation. I'm assuming if you're being diplomatic, you might say, "Huh, very interesting." If you're being less diplomatic, you might say, "So what? Who cares?" All I can say is, tough. I care. I think it's fascinating. (audience laughs) You learn something from it. You'd be hard put to do this in Librera, and there's no other place in America you can possibly make this kind of comparison. I'm probably the first to make it 'cause I pointed it out to Bob Jones, sort of register how interesting a comparison it was. It shows how much you can learn at this place. I find it very exciting, that kind of thing, and they're both pictures in good shape. And the Abbiati is nice, actually. A minor artist, but pretty good thing. Here's a picture by Giovanni Bautista Carloni, which might be described as "hairy Genoese Realism." In Genoa, you expect to have big Northern influence. And this is almost like a Bamboccianti, it's a religious subject: it's the story of Joseph being sold, but it has a strong narrative content. It's almost like a Bamboccianti picture, a Northern genre picture writ large. More specifically, Andres Bauth writ large. If anything is typical of Bob Jones' tastes, it's this. Old Testament subject, as these fundamentalists like Old Testament with strong narrative content. It's a good storytelling picture. It tells a story, and it illustrates one of the classic stories of the Bible. He's got two. There were a set of four. And very stupidly sold two of them, it's a stupid thing to do. He's kept two of them, thank goodness. It's not a household name, but he's one of the better pictures in the collection. I think it would be good as a center for a sort of Genoese show. There hasn't been Genoese show in America for a long time, and I think these could form the centerpieces or something like that. This is Pietro della Vecchia, Venetian pasticher of Giorgione, and it's very surprising to find this with Bob Jones. This is really over-the-top stuff. I don't know how, why, he bought this. He's dead now, I can't ask him, but this is pretty Catholic stuff, whatever. It's not what you expect Bob Jones would like, but there it is. Maybe he was feeling good that day, I don't know why he bought that picture. But a surprising picture, it's rather good, actually. It's sort of a travesty of courage, really. (audience laughs) Obviously, Bob Jones couldn't buy a Caravaggio, he didn't have the money. He did the best he could and bought Baglioni. But this is a very interesting picture, actually, 'cause it's really Cavalier d'Arpino, and specifically him. Look at the face or the maglin there; it's very Cavalier'd up. Updated through the prism of Caravaggio, so it's a transitional work. It's probably the client was conservative and said, "Look, I don't want anything to Caravaggio-esque "Just make it sort of middle of the road, please. "Bit of Cavlier, bit of Caravaggio." It's sort of in the middle there, but at least this does duty for Caravaggio. But again, it's interesting stylistically. You learn something from it. And most Baglionis, I haven't seen a Baglioni quite as transitional as that. The one's I normally see are more Caravaggio-esque. I think in this case the transitional nature of the thing is probably more to do with the patron than the date or anything like that. This is Mariano Rossi, Roman, 18th Century. Partly, my friend Peter, all these pictures obviously look rather the same. The connoisseurship is pretty difficult. There are a bunch of pictures like this. Tony Clark taste, 18th Century Roman school. They were meant to look all the same, really. They were meant to conform to certain Baroque Classical ideal. And I find them fascinating, actually, but they are difficult to distinguish unless you have a lot of practice. And Tony Clark popularized them in Minneapolis, and he wrote a lot about them. He was the sort of guru of this sort of style. They were quite cheap, actually, in the '60s, when he started working on this. And of course, Bob Jones bought a few of them, not for very much money. And I think they're very nice, actually. They're sort of cheap and pleasant paintings. Let's get onto some of the Northern schools, get away from Italy. This is not, obviously, a Baroque picture, but I just want to show something that the breadth of the collection. This by the Master of St. Severin from the Cologne school and a very important artist of the Cologne school. This is pretty majorly an example of him, very typical of the rather feline faces. I don't think there are many pictures by this chap in American museums, certainly not on this scale. This is quite interesting. This looks like the master--it's called Mabursa. It's got nothing to do with Mabursa. It's in the style of Robert Campin, the master of Flemalle, but it's done 100 years later when there was sort of a revival of Eyckian and Flemalle-esque type of art. It's a sort of pastiche of Robert Campin done 100 years later. Very good quality. It was in the Cook Collection, Richmond, and then came, I think, to Bob Jones through Newhouse, or at least they had it at some point. Here's Yul Broy, a very powerful German High Renaissance artist, and very Baroque. You can see why Dr. Jones liked that picture. It's Baroque avon la lettre. He hasn't got it displayed very well. It's one of the best Northern pictures there. But he's got it tucked away, sandwiched between lesser pictures. He really ought to give it more focus. We're getting on to the Baroque now. This a Honthorst, Christ in the Carpenter Shop, a very unusual subject, unusually realistic, with everyday narrative content. Rather like the G.B. Carlone's, it's Caravaggian with a strong dose of everyday realism, which obviously appealed to Dr. Bob at putting religious education on an accessible level for his public. This is a marvelous picture by Rembrandt follower Renesas. It's Rembrandt-esque, obviously, but the juicy colors and the deep chiaroscuro are rather like Nicholas Mars. I love that sort of Baldolphian figure in the britches and the breastplate, so villainous-looking back view. And there's a great, I don't know if you can see it here, there's a great vignette lower left of a jailer herding prisoners into the dungeons. It's almost Goya-esque detail. Renesa's not very well known. I should stress that Dr. Bob was one of the first people to interest themself in, first American museums to interest themself in Northern Baroque art. That came after the interest in Italian Baroque, and this is a Baroque picture, really. Dr. Jones was-- Yeah, I'll try and wrap it up. Was rather a pioneer in that respect. Well, I've been told to hurry up, so I'll just get quick. This is a Buchhorst, a marvelous picture, in the style of Rubens, but with great, with virtuoso brushwork and marvelous sense of interval. As good as Buchhorst gets, and rather a pioneering purchase in that respect. Patrice Marandel bought a Buchhorst triptych for Los Angeles recently, of the same quality. Let me just go--leave that. And that, and that. This is a picture attributed to Orenti, I don't know who it's by, but it's a gutsy picture. I'd like to have some views on that. I just want to talk about, this is important. This was second to last. This is a picture by Francisco Herrera the Elder. And Dr. Bob was very interesting about this because it's a Catholic picture with the emphasis on the figure of the saint. But he says in a correspondence, "Why, that's a Catholic picture, "and not a veneration of the virgin, of anything that kind. "It has the quality of a group portrait." It was Catholic, but not too Catholic, so he was able to deal with it in that respect. Leave that. I'll have to leave that, I don't have time to talk about it. (audience laughs) This is a Benjamin West. It's part of a bunch of pictures painted for the King's Chapel in Windsor. Commissioned by George the Third, but stopped because the king went mad. There were 35 commissioned, 18 executed, and seven on display in the Memorial Chapel of Bob Jones University. West is normally thought of as a near-Classical artist, but this is particularly Baroque and anticipates 19th Century Baroque. Actually reminds me of these French Pompier painters, like Roche Graz and that type of thing. This is an Overbeck, a Nazarene picture. It's completely out of place there, it's very good. If that was at Hamburg, you'd love it, but down there it just doesn't work, really. Okay, well, that's it I'm afraid. Just a brief overview. The collection was very much put on the map by Steve Pepper when he organized a touring exhibition a few years ago. But still, not enough people go there, and it's well worth a visit, even if Baroque's unfashionable it's a wonderful connoisseurial experience. And the Carolinas, North and South, where I now live, are a boom area. Downtown Greenville's been given a makeover, so if you go there, you perhaps have less chance of going to the wrong Greenville. Thank you. (applause) 