 Smart cities are the new buzzword this market  is exploding. The market size of smart cities   is already at 410 billion dollars now  in 2020 and over the next five years   this market is projected to be worth around 820  billion dollars with the CAGR of around 14.8%.   so one of the consequences of this exploding  smart city market is the explosion of cameras.   You are going to see cameras everywhere embedded  vision is going to become ubiquitous. So then as   an engineer who's working to develop these smart  city applications you might have a question   how do i choose the right image sensor or  an embedded camera for any of my smart city   applications, right? but then over here we have  a migrant set of applications for smart cities   such as parking lot management, or surveillance,  intruder detection, business situation monitoring,   etc for all this you need to choose the right  cameras. Hi this is Alphonse and in today's   edition of unraveling computer vision and Edge AI  for the real world we will be exploring a little   bit on how to choose the right image sensor and  embedded camera for your smart city application. Based on my team's experience in building more  than 15+ embedded solutions and creating cameras   for this vertical we have understood the first and  foremost challenge we face while building smart   city applications is the variation in lighting.  For example almost all smart city applications   such as traffic management or your parking lot  management your cameras will be placed in an   outdoor environment which means your camera should  be able to capture within a single scene the   brightest objects placed under the sun and the sky  while also the darkest regions such as the shadows   under the tree are also captured properly. The  only way to choose the right camera for this kind   of scene is to make sure these cameras have a very  wide range to capture both the brightest and the   darkest images accurately within a single scene.  My team here at visAI labs uses the See3Cam_Cu20   to solve this problem. Another subset of lighting  problems which you will face while building AI and   CV based applications for smart cities is the  problem of managing both day and night lighting   for applications such as intruder deduction and  surveillance you need a camera which can run   24/7 and these cameras should be able to  capture detailed accurate images both in day   and night time, in order to have such cameras you  need to have a specially designed image sensor   which has NIR lighting capability. NIR lighting  can help cameras manage the deficit of visible   light we see that there are many specifically  designed image sensors which are highly sensitive   to the NIR spectrum. To solve this particular  problem we at the VisAI labs actually use the   hyperion image sensor. Now with the problem of  lighting out of the way we now enter into the   third problem which most people will face while  building smart city application that is the   problem of accurate details. In this scenario  of accurate details we are very prone to fall   into the bias of the cheerleader effect in imaging  well whilst the overall image might look perfect   once you zoom in and you look at the specifics  of the image you will notice that the individual   effects are very grainy but you want the  entire image along with the internal parts   to have high degree of accuracy, otherwise your  algorithms will not be able to process the image   and give you a perfect output. Truth be said,  cameras which do a surveillance and monitoring   rely on providing images which have low noise  output. The machine learning algorithms also   depend on neutral color reproduction  irrespective of the lighting conditions   be it artificial or natural to do the right  processing and provide you with the right output.   The challenges in lighting also poses and  significant problem in the sense that it   might induce noise into the final output and  this is very undesirable for most algorithms.   So one of the ways we actually solve this problem  is by identifying cameras which have large   pixel sizes as they typically have better SNR and  they have the ability to reproduce true colors   the camera which my team at we say labs uses  is the See3Cam_Cu20 especially when we are   building these outdoor focus use cases for smart  cities. That being said there are an n number of   applications for smart cities and if and  when implemented right have the ability   to be useful to a large swathe of humanity. But  according to venture beat more than 87 percent   of ai projects do not go live into the production  stage, the major problem here is because we do not   choose the right set of Hardware and edge-based  ML algorithms right in the POC stage. So the   transference from POC to a production-ready  AI application is actually very low and we the   team at we say labs hope to increase it, but  then hey that's other topic for another day.   Today however hopefully you have learned something  about what kind of image sensors can be used for   smart city applications and you would find some  of the suggestions on what image sensors to use   to be very useful. This is Alphonse signing  off and hopefully, I would connect with you   in another session of unraveling edge AI and  computer vision for the real world. Ciao! 