 Hi, this is Dr. Bertalan Mesko, The Medical Futurist. Today I want to talk about RFID chips, and whether or not it’s a good idea to implant one. In the past couple of years, Sweden has seen a growing number of people getting microchips implanted under their skin. It was once a very niche thing among the most dedicated biohackers. But now it’s becoming mainstream in the tech-savvy and open-minded Scandinavian nation. And I’m a proud geek, so I wanted to get one too. RFID technology has been around for a long time. It is a tag or a label that can exchange data with a reader through radio frequency - or RF - hence the name. There are thousands of applications for it; we use them in our credit cards, we tag our luggage with it, and we implant our pets with it so they always carry contact information in case they get lost. It’s a simple but wonderful technology. What’s new is that now we can implant it in our body too. I asked my community if anyone has done it. Eric Orlowski, a Swedish anthropologist came through, so I asked him what his experience was like. So curiosity and tech-optimism are what you need with a little openness. It’s like he’s describing me. I went online to order an RFID chip from one of the most popular online resellers. They’re called Dangerous Things. No red flags whatsoever… And in two weeks they delivered this package. As you open the box, you can tell right away that this is not a toy. They immediately warn you not to meddle with anything to keep it all clean and sterile. But what we do have here is: 1 Next implant 1 Vivokey implant 2 injectors 2 pair of procedure gloves 4 antiseptic wipes 2 gauze pads for post-injection care and bandages. Despite their ominous name, Dangerous Things takes the procedure very seriously and so should you. This is a small operation. Can you imagine that there’s no surgical protocol for the injection of these things? And while technically a piercer could do the job, it’s highly recommended to do it with a surgeon. And Dangerous Things does help you with this, as on their website they show you professionally trained partners who are equipped to implant these chips. But what I think is really going to make a difference in terms of chip implants going mainstream is how easy it’s going to be to set them up. So I asked the Founder from Dangerous Things about what to expect: Seems fairly easy. With one of those things you have the option to customize it more, while this one is as simple as it gets for the basic applications. And at this point I really had to google what it’s like when they inject it. It’s not too bad, right? Apparently, it feels like a bee sting. A really big bee sting. And just like that, in a few seconds, you can be part of a yet small group whose members are technically cyborgs. And since I’m a huge fan of science fiction, I find this pretty exciting. But as a physician, I wanted to know more before I was about to commit to a medical procedure altering my body. Right? So I prepared a few questions for my surgeon friend, Dr. Zsolt Varga: With all these pieces of information, I thought the rewards outweighed the risks. At least  for me. With this chip, I could operate doors, unlock my phone, or even carry my boarding pass at airports. It’s awesome. I just needed to get the all-go from my wife as we discuss every body altering technology that I plan to use. So that happened. There went my dreams of becoming a cyborg. Apparently, my wife sees a different risk-to-reward ratio. As all RFID chips are hackable, depending on what kind of information I store on my chip, hackers could get access to it. For example; as I said, I could have my phone password right here and unlock it with a wave of my hand or have all my medical records right here, with me at all times. But do I really want to have that information exposed like that? I’m not comfortable with the fact that hackers could access it fairly easily. Another problem is the limitations this technology has right now: It can have a widespread application, we can program a chip for a lot of things, but one chip can only do one thing. And even though the Next implant from Dangerous Things has two chips in the physical space of one, it’s still not a lot. And even though these chips are passive, meaning they have no internal source of energy and you don’t have to change batteries, in case you do want to remove them, as my surgeon friend described: it’s way more trouble than implanting them. It requires an actual surgery. So, as of now, my RFID enthusiasm is put to rest. The plan is that I’m gonna wait for the tech to catch up with my vision for the future. Because I believe in a few years, chip implants will have better security, bigger capacity and more customization. We’re going to have multiple applications in a single chip. And we gonna see universal standards for digital identification systems, and finally surgical protocols for implantation. And further down the line is when it’s going to get really exciting. When these things are going to have sensors that will be able to track vital signs to keep our health in check all the time. And with better security, they could revolutionize medical care. Instead of my medical data being stored at various hospitals, my GP’s office and at the pharmacy, I could have the chance to establish my own health care identity and become the steward of my own data. And imagine all that in a medical emergency situation. The first responders arrive and they only have to scan your hand to get to know every valuable medical information about you. They can spare crucial minutes and really focus on your care. That’s when these chips are really going to start changing lives, and that’s when I’m going to pitch this idea to my wife again. Because then, the rewards of this thing will truly worth the trouble. Until then… Patience 