 So here at Oracles Netsuite We've learned of some really exciting innovation that's coming in machine learning inside Netsuite. So one of the ideas is Form Assistant So as the system shows you a form where you normally put in details of a new client it highlights on this side the four or five fields that you usually put in when you bring a new customer not because someone set it up, but more because this is what you usually do when you're in the fields that you usually use when you set up a new customer or when you are putting in an order So it will suggest different fields to different people based on their habits. And it will suggest different fields based on the action you're currently doing what you're trying to achieve. The other thing it does is that it learns that when you tick this box you normally also tick that box. When you put that address or in that geographical area you typically also assign that salesperson. It's not rules that anyone's put in, it's just learning what we normally do. How I as the user normally use the system, and they can be a great time saver and also help us avoid mistakes. The other thing that I found really exciting was their predictive and prescriptive analytics So predictive means the system can pop up we saw a demo that has been popping up and saying hey I think that shipment's going to be late because that Shipper had a certain percentage of their orders late last week. It's not a rule that anyone set up. It's just the system looking at trends and trying to predict things. And then the system can say 'well, I suggest that you deliver that or that you ship that from a different location because that location had higher accuracy or shipping on time in this recent time frame'. 'Prescriptive Analytics', turns out, is that the system can actually go and do that and then they're talking about the 'Analytics Latency': the time that he takes us to identify that even realize that there is an issue, to identify what it is, what the source is, to decide on the action and then to do action all of that would be shortened dramatically if we let the machine do it. And then they spoke about what can go wrong which is also which is also interesting as well. I think it's funny ideas about what happens when the machine comes up with correlations that are not real. They just look real so all very exciting about SuiteAnalytics that's going to be released in the next version of NetSuite 