 (upbeat music) - Hello, and welcome to your demonstration of Paypod pay stations, by CPI, your new cashier assistant, making handling cash at the point-of-sale easier, faster, more accurate, and more hygienic. Paypod solutions accept cash payments at the point-of-sale from customers and automatically dispense change all without the cashier even touching the money. Let me introduce you to your new cashier assistant, and let's take a closer look at how Paypod pay stations work for you and your customer. This is Paypod Embedded. Customers approach your counter, and you ring them up as you always have. The total is presented to the customer. When the customer decides to use cash as their form of payment, the cashier selects the cash option in the point-of-sale, or POS, system. Then Paypod pay station steps in. This activates the Paypod unit, which replaces your manual till and acts like a smart cash register drawer. Instead of the customer handing the cash to the cashier, the customer inserts the money into Paypod. During this time, the cashier can be preparing the purchase or engaging the customer, further building a relationship and making the customer experience better. Paypod automatically dispenses change to the customer and the transaction is complete. The count is accurate, the money is secure, and the transaction was fast and easy. When you are ready to balance, you spend just a few minutes to reset your Paypod by removing the cash you want to deposit and replenishing any denominations you may need for change. Let's take a closer look at the system itself. Paypod Embedded is installed through the counter giving an attractive and more integrated look. It also avoids using valuable counter space. On top, you'll find the coin input opening. In the front, the coin exit cup and the note insertion and payout slots. Only three small holes in your cabinet are required to install Paypod. Service and maintenance happen from the employee side. To open the embedded model, we'll go around to the back of the unit. As we open the door, we'll highlight two features that add safety and security. First, the automatic damper system lets the door open smoothly into the correct position. This avoids the door simply dropping onto the floor or on someone's feet. It also ensures the correct position of the door so the inside cart can be moved out easily. Second, the secure locking system of the Paypod Embedded door. It provides four locking points on each side to securely close and lock the system while in operation. Now we'll roll back the system and rotate it in place. This gives access to the internal components. Inside, you'll have some of our most widely used coin and banknote recyclers in the market. A recycler means that when a customer pays with notes and coins, it's temporarily stored in a unit. Then the same notes and coins are used to give change out to the next customer. This reuse of money means you are loading and unloading cash less often and tending to the machine less frequently, saving valuable time and letting you concentrate on other tasks. This model consists of two recycling cassettes, a loading cassette, and the cash deposit cassette, all of which have lock control. The unique benefit of the loading cassette is that it stocks Paypod with its beginning float amount and replenishes the recycling cassettes during the day to keep the unit up and running. For coin, a customer drops coin in the top here. Via our world-class recognition sensor, it is being validated and sorted by size into the dedicated coin hoppers. The coin is stored in these hoppers, and change is dispensed through the coin exit cup to the customer. Foreign objects or unrecognized coins will be rejected and returned to the customer. Banknotes are inserted here. The sensors in the main module will validate the notes and then move them to the recycling units or cashbox. From the recycling units, change is given to the patron here. This is also the same location where rejected notes will be given back to the customer. Both the coin and banknote acceptors look for counterfeits and accept only genuine money, so you're protected from the very front of the money exchange. With Paypod Embedded, various models offer you some options, such as higher recycling capacity or note-loading capability. Please talk to your representative, who will consult you on the best configuration for your environment. Paypod also allows you to use different configurations across different sites, depending on your individual business case, but following a singular operational concept. When you close out, you know your counts are accurate and there are no discrepancies between your cash and your POS totals, further saving you time by eliminating the burdensome task of investigating where discrepancies occurred. Integrating the Paypod solution into your POS system is easy using our POSlinq software application, meaning you can be up and running quickly. Talk to your representative to learn more about integration options for Paypod. Paypod pay station is your new cashier assistant and is ready to help your business save time, save costs, speed up transactions, and make the customer and employee experiences better and cleaner. Let's put a Paypod pay station on your staff today. Visit cumminsallison.com/paypod (upbeat music) 