 We're bringing to Samsung health the next evolution of the Wellness experience. Your wearables provide feedback tailored to you, as your needs change so do those recommendations. If your galaxy watch sensors that you're feeling stressed it might suggest that you meditate, this is kind of stressful so I'll take that recommendation. That felt good. It counts every move and also captures your heart rate during workouts, It's like having a virtual personal trainer. Keeping tabs on your daily wellness can help you notice and address issues before you get sick. Samsung health is convenient, immersive and kind of fun we know that caring for you is an important job so important that it should be a team effort. I'm excited to say that Samsung health is partnering with leaders in the health care industry to improve your well-being, so please please give a warm welcome to Dr. Fiona Hoshi of Kaiser Permanente To hear more about new digital first approaches to health care. Thank you Sebastian. Cardiovascular disease is a leading cause of death worldwide. Over a million people in the US will suffer from a heart attack every year, and of those nearly 20 percent will pass away within a year. If we could develop a medication that could save over a quarter of those lives it would be a game changer, perhaps the most popular drug on the market. Now what if I told you such an intervention does exist but it's not a pharmaceutical. cardiac rehab reduces the risk of dying from a subsequent attack by nearly 30 percent but most patients never enrolled in these programs and even when they do less than half finish, and it's easy to understand why because traditional rehab requires taking time out of your day to either have the rehab at a hospital or a medical office building. Well what if there was a way we could directly bring that care to people wherever they are. That's the idea behind HeartWise a virtual cardiac rehab program created through a collaboration between Samsung and Kaiser Permanente. Patients recovering from heart attacks are guided through a cardiac rehab program using devices like wearables and smartphones. This is a rehab program that can you can perform whenever and wherever you want while a clinician supervises your rehab through a secure dashboard. HeartWise is now the largest home based virtual cardiac program in the world. And since we launched in 2018 completion rates have more than doubled that of traditional rehab and readmission rates have plummeted from 15 percent to less than 2 percent. The marriage of technology and medicine brings health care to people where they are and when they want and this means better more accessible and more equitable outcomes. The possibilities are endless. We're already exploring further applications from pulmonary rehab to mental health and as technology gets smarter the possibilities for synergy get even more exciting, synergies that save lives. 