 Hi, this is the new UDOO BOLT a mini-PC that integrates a powerful AMD Ryzen Processor with a Radeon Vega GPU and an Arduino-compatible microcontroller, all in this small form factor. Like all the other UDOO Boards it joints the flexibility of a Single Board Computer with the Arduino fast prototyping world. The main processor is the AMD Ryzend Embedded v1000 with the Vega GPU, it manages all the peripherals of the SBC and it's powerful enough to run video editing, triple A games, video analysis, machine learning, augmented reality, professional development tools, so basically all power you need for your projects. The second one is the ATMEGA32U4 microcontroller, the same of Arduino Leonardo and it's able to bring you in the Arduino world with all the sensors, the actuators, the libraries and sketch do you want. The two processors are connected through an internal USB serial connection, so it's exactly like having an Arduino Leonardo connected with external standard PC. Basically, you can run Windows 10 or a Linux 64bits on the main processor, open the Arduino IDE and program directly the Arduino side. Let see it more closely. the form factor is a standard Nano-ITX, 12 by 12 centimetres. Under the heatsink we the Ryzen v1605B or the v1202B processors with up to 4 cores 8 threads. A Termal Design Point of a maximum of 25 Watts and it is designed for really fast ultrathin laptops. The GPU is up to a Radeon Vega 8. Here the two slots for up to 32GB SODIMM dual-channel 64-bit memories DDR4 2400 MHz. The power jack needs to be a 19 Volts with a minimum of 60 Watts. Here a Gigabits Ethernet and up to four 4k resolution monitors at ones provided by the two HDMI and the two USB-C through the DisplayPort Alternate Mode. This two USB-C connectors features also a Dual Role Power Delivery so you can power it up the board directly from here. Regarding the audio, we have this combo jack connector for digital optical audio S/PDIF and analogue stereo output. These two connectors are for pre-amplified speakers and this one is for a headset, microphone plus headphone. In the front, we have also two USB 3 connectors, Infrared Receiver, power button and front panel headers. The Arduino side is also covered by this complete pinheader connector and these three Grove connectors for UART, I2C and Analogue connector. Let's move to the bottom part now, there are a lots of storage options here, for example the eMMC on board of 32GB. Here a M.2 Key M connector for super fast NVMe drive. You can also use the 4 lanes of the PCIe to connect and external adapter for GPU. We have also here an M.2 Key B for Sata drives and also a M.2 Key E for Wi-Fi and Bluetooth module. And finally this pinheader connector let you use Input Output from the main processor like I2C, UART, SPIand so on. This little switch here allows you to reset the BIOS to the default options. Ok so, to learn more about the UDOO BOLT you can visit our website and the shop where you can buy it or find all the other accessories you need to start your project. 