RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves significant risks, a number of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following discussion highlights some of these risks and the possible impact of these factors on our business, financial condition, and future results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be adversely impacted, causing the trading price of our common stock to decline. In addition, these risks and uncertainties may impact the “forward-looking” statements described elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. They could affect our actual results of operations, causing them to differ materially from those expressed in “forward-looking” statements. Global economic and political conditions may further impact our industries, business and financial results.Our overall performance depends largely upon domestic and worldwide economic and political conditions. The United States and other international economies have experienced cyclical downturns from time to time in which economic activity was impacted by falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, poor liquidity, decreased government spending, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies and overall uncertainty with respect to the economy.   These economic conditions can occur abruptly.  For example, the recent Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) has caused additional uncertainty in the global economy.  The extent to which COVID-19 may impact our financial condition or results of operations is currently uncertain and will depend on developments such as the impact on our customers, vendors, distributors and resellers. Due to our subscription-based business model, the effect of COVID-19 may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods, if at all. If economic growth in countries where we do business slows or if such countries experience further economic recessions, customers may delay or reduce technology 2020 Form 10-K  14Table of Contents purchases. Our customers include government entities, including the U.S. federal government, and if spending cuts impede the ability of governments to purchase our products and services, our revenue could decline. In addition, a number of our customers rely, directly and indirectly, on government spending.  As described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, we are dependent on international revenue and operations and are subject to related risks of conducting business globally.  Geopolitical trends toward nationalism and protectionism and the weakening or dissolution of international trade pacts may increase the cost of, or otherwise interfere with, conducting business. These trends have increased levels of political and economic unpredictability globally, and may increase the volatility of global financial markets; the impact of such developments on the global economy remains uncertain. Political instability or adverse political developments in any of the countries in which we do business could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. A financial sector credit crisis could impair credit availability and the financial stability of our customers, including our distribution partners and channels. A disruption in the financial markets may also have an effect on our derivative counter-parties and could also impair our banking partners, on which we rely for operating cash management. Any of these events could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our strategy to develop and introduce new products and services exposes us to risks such as limited customer acceptance, costs related to product defects, and large expenditures, each of which may not result in additional net revenue or could result in decreased net revenue.Rapid technological changes, as well as changes in customer requirements and preferences, characterize the software industry. Just as the transition from mainframes to personal computers transformed the industry over 30 years ago, the software industry has undergone a transition from developing and selling perpetual licenses and on-premises products to subscriptions and cloud enabled technologies. Customers are also reconsidering how they purchase software products, which requires us to constantly evaluate our business model and strategy. In response, we are focused on providing solutions to enable our customers to be more agile and collaborative on their projects. We devote significant resources to the development of new technologies. In addition, we frequently introduce new business models or methods that require a considerable investment of technical and financial resources such as our introduction of flexible subscription and service offerings. For example, in fiscal 2021, we are transitioning multi-subscription plans to named user plans.  It is uncertain whether these strategies, including our product and pricing changes, will prove successful or whether we will be able to develop the necessary infrastructure and business models more quickly than our competitors. We are making such investments through further development and enhancement of our existing products and services, as well as through acquisitions. Such investments may not result in sufficient revenue generation to justify their costs and could result in decreased net revenue or profitability. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, either with respect to our software or the manner in which we provide such products, or if we are not able to adapt our business model to meet our customers' requirements, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted.In particular, a critical component of our growth strategy is to have customers of our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products expand their portfolios to include our other offerings and cloud-based functionality. We want customers using individual Autodesk products to expand their portfolio with our other offerings and cloud-based functionality, and we are taking steps to accelerate this migration. At times, sales of our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT or individual Autodesk flagship products have decreased without a corresponding increase in Industry Collections or cloud-based functionality revenue or without purchases of customer seats to our Industry Collections. Should this continue, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our executive management team must act quickly, continuously, and with vision, given the rapidly changing customer expectations and technology advancements inherent in the software industry, the extensive and complex efforts required to create useful and widely accepted products and the rapid evolution of cloud computing, mobile devices, new computing platforms, and other technologies, such as consumer products. Although we have articulated a strategy that we believe will fulfill these challenges, if we fail to execute properly on that strategy or adapt that strategy as market conditions evolve, we may fail to meet our customers' expectations, fail to compete with our competitors' products and technology, and lose the confidence of our channel partners and employees. This in turn could adversely affect our business and financial performance.2020 Form 10-K  15Table of Contents Our business could suffer as a result of risks, costs, charges and integration risks associated with strategic acquisitions and investments such as the recent acquisitions of Assemble Systems, Inc., PlanGrid, Inc. and BuildingConnected, Inc.We regularly acquire or invest in businesses, software solutions and technologies that are complementary to our business through acquisitions, strategic alliances or equity or debt investments. For example, we recently acquired Assemble Systems, PlanGrid and BuildingConnected. The risks associated with such acquisitions include, among others, the difficulty of assimilating solutions, operations and personnel, inheriting liabilities such as intellectual property infringement claims, the failure to realize anticipated revenue and cost projections, the requirement to test and assimilate the internal control processes of the acquired business in accordance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the diversion of management's time and attention. In addition, such acquisitions and investments involve other risks such as:•the inability to retain customers, key employees, vendors, distributors, business partners, and other entities associated with the acquired business;•the potential that due diligence of the acquired business or solution does not identify significant problems;•exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, or other third parties;•the potential for incompatible business cultures;•significantly higher than anticipated transaction or integration-related costs;•the potential additional exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and•the potential impact on relationships with existing customers, vendors, and distributors as business partners as a result of acquiring another business.We may not be successful in overcoming such risks, and such acquisitions and investments may negatively impact our business. In addition, such acquisitions and investments have in the past and may in the future contribute to potential fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. These fluctuations could arise from transaction-related costs and charges associated with eliminating redundant expenses or write-offs of impaired assets recorded in connection with acquisitions and investments. These costs or charges could negatively impact our financial results for a given period, cause quarter to quarter variability in our financial results or negatively impact our financial results for several future periods.We are dependent on international revenue and operations, exposing us to significant regulatory, global economic, intellectual property, collections, currency exchange rate, taxation, political instability and other risks, which could adversely impact our financial results.We are dependent on our international operations for a significant portion of our revenue. International net revenue represented 66% of our net revenue in both fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our international revenue, including that from emerging economies, is subject to general economic and political conditions in foreign markets, including conditions in foreign markets resulting from economic and political conditions in the U.S. Our revenue is also impacted by the relative geographical and country mix of our revenue over time. At times, these factors adversely impact our international revenue, and consequently our business as a whole. Our dependency on international revenue makes us much more exposed to global economic and political trends, which can negatively impact our financial results, even if our results in the U.S. are strong for a particular period. We anticipate that our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our net revenue, and, as we expand our international development, sales and marketing expertise, will provide significant support to our overall efforts in countries outside of the U.S. Risks inherent in our international operations include:•economic volatility;2020 Form 10-K  16Table of Contents •tariffs, quotas, and other trade barriers and restrictions;•fluctuating currency exchange rates, including devaluations, currency controls and inflation, and risks related to any hedging activities we undertake;•unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and practices;•delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology;•different purchase patterns as compared to the developed world;•operating in locations with a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent business practices, particularly in emerging economies;•increasing enforcement by the U.S. under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and adoption of stricter anti-corruption laws in certain countries, including the United Kingdom;•difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales and development operations;•local competition;•longer collection cycles for accounts receivable;•U.S. and foreign tax law changes impacting how multinational companies are taxed and the complexities of tax reporting;•laws regarding the management of and access to data and public networks;•possible future limitations upon foreign owned businesses;•increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;•inadequate local infrastructure;•greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property; •software piracy; and•other factors beyond our control, including popular uprisings, terrorism, war, natural disasters, and diseases, such as COVID-19.Some of our business partners also have international operations and are subject to the risks described above. The "Brexit" vote has exacerbated and may further exacerbate many of the risks and uncertainties described above. The United Kingdom officially left the European Union pursuant to Brexit on January 31, 2020, with a transitional period set to end on December 31, 2020. The withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union could, among other potential outcomes, adversely affect the tax, tax treaty, banking, operational, legal and regulatory regimes to which our businesses in the region are subject. The withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, create currency volatility, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the United Kingdom and the European Union and significantly disrupt trade between the United Kingdom and the European Union and other parties. While the United Kingdom left the European Union as of January 31, 2020, it has until December 31, 2020 to negotiate a new trade agreement addressing customs and trade matters. Further, uncertainty around these and related issues could lead to adverse effects on the United Kingdom economy, the European Union economies, and the other economies in which we operate. In addition, the current U.S. administration has instituted or proposed changes to foreign trade policy including the negotiation or termination of trade agreements, the imposition of tariffs on products imported from certain countries, economic sanctions on individuals, corporations or countries and other government regulations affecting trade between the United States and other countries in which we do business. New or increased tariffs and other changes in U.S. trade policy could trigger 2020 Form 10-K  17Table of Contents retaliatory actions by affected countries, and certain foreign governments, including the Chinese government, have instituted or are considering imposing trade sanctions on certain U.S. manufactured goods. The escalation of protectionist or retaliatory trade measures in either the United States or any other countries in which we do business, such as a change in tariff structures, export compliance or other trade policies, may increase the cost of, or otherwise interfere with, conducting our business. Even if we are able to successfully manage the risks of international operations, our business may be adversely affected if our business partners are not able to successfully manage these risks.Security incidents may compromise the integrity of our or our customers’ offerings, services, data or intellectual property, harm our reputation, damage our competitiveness, create additional liability and adversely impact our financial results.As we digitize Autodesk and use cloud and web-based technologies to leverage customer data to deliver the total customer experience, we are exposed to increased security risks and the potential for unauthorized access to, or improper use of, our and our customers' information. Like other software offerings and systems, ours are vulnerable to security incidents. We devote resources to maintain the security and integrity of our systems, offerings, services and applications (online, mobile and desktop). We accomplish this by enhancing security features, conducting penetration tests, code hardening, releasing security vulnerability updates and accelerating our incident response time. Despite these efforts, we may not prevent security incidents, and we may face delays or other difficulties in identifying or responding to security incidents.Hackers regularly have targeted our systems, offerings, services and applications, and we expect them to do so in the future. Security incidents could disrupt the proper functioning of our systems, solutions or services; cause errors in the output of our customers' work; allow unauthorized access to sensitive data or intellectual property, including proprietary or confidential information of ours or our customers; or cause other destructive outcomes. The risk of a security incident, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. These threats include but are not limited to identity theft, unauthorized access, DNS attacks, wireless network attacks, viruses and worms, advanced persistent threat (APT), application centric attacks, peer-to-peer attacks, phishing, malicious file uploads, backdoor trojans and distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks. In addition, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, vendors, partners or users to disclose information to gain access to our data or our users’ data and there is the risk of employee, contractor, or vendor error or malfeasance. Despite efforts to create security barriers to such threats, it is impossible for us to entirely eliminate these risks. If any of the foregoing security incidents were to occur or to be perceived to have occurred, our reputation may suffer, our competitive position may be diminished, customers may stop paying for our solutions and services, we could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to evaluate and alleviate the security incident and in an effort to prevent further or additional incidents, and we could face regulatory inquiry, lawsuits and potential liability. We could incur significant costs and liabilities, including due to litigation, indemnity obligations, damages for contract breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations, and costs for remediation and other incentives offered to customers or other business partners in an effort to maintain business relationships after a breach, and our financial performance could be negatively impacted.We cannot assure you that any limitations of liability provisions in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim relating to a security breach or other security incident. We also cannot be sure that our existing insurance coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims related to a security breach, or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition, operating results, and reputation.The effect of the novel coronavirus COVID-19 on Autodesk’s business is currently unknown but it may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The impacts of the global emergence of COVID-19 on our business and financial results are currently unknown.  We are conducting business with substantial modifications to employee travel, employee work locations, and virtualization or cancellation of certain sales and marketing events, among other modifications.  We have observed other companies as well as many governments taking precautionary and preemptive actions to address COVID-19, and they may take further actions that alter their normal business operations.  We will continue to actively monitor the situation and may take further actions that alter our business operations as may be required by federal, state or local authorities, or that we determine are in the best interests of 2020 Form 10-K  18Table of Contents our employees, customers, partners, suppliers and stockholders.  It is not clear what the potential effects any such alterations or modifications may have on our business, including the effects on our customers and prospects, or on our financial results. Increasing regulatory focus on privacy issues and expanding laws may impact our business or expose us to increased liability.Our strategy to digitize Autodesk involves increasing our use of cloud and web-based technologies and applications to leverage customer data to improve our offerings for the benefit of our customers. To accomplish this strategy, we must collect and otherwise process customer data, which may include personal data. Federal, state and foreign government privacy and data security laws apply to the treatment of personal data. Governments, regulators, the plaintiffs’ bar, privacy advocates and customers have increased their focus on how companies collect, process, use, store, share and transmit personal data.The General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") is applicable in all European Union member states and introduced new data protection requirements in the European Union and substantial fines for non-compliance. We have modified our privacy practices to comply with GDPR. We have self-certified under the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield program and make use of model contractual clauses approved by the European Commission in relation to the transfer of personal data from the European Union to the United States. The Privacy Shield and the European Commission’s model contractual clauses are currently the subject of legal challenges in the European Union, however, and it is unclear whether these will serve as appropriate means for us to transfer personal data from the European Union to the United States. We have also self-certified to the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield program in relation to the transfer of personal data from Switzerland to the United States. This Privacy Shield program also may no longer be valid due to possible legal challenges. Additionally, in June 2016, the United Kingdom voted to leave the European Union, which could also lead to further legislative and regulatory changes with regard to personal data. The United Kingdom Data Protection Act that substantially implements the GDPR became law in May 2018. It remains unclear, however, how United Kingdom data protection laws or regulations will develop in the medium to longer term and how data transfers to and from the United Kingdom will be regulated at the time, if any, that Brexit is effectuated.In addition, in June 2018, California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act (the "CCPA"), which took effect in January 2020.  The CCPA, among other things, gives California residents expanded rights to access and delete their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing, and receive detailed information about how their personal information is used.  The CCPA was amended in September 2018 and November 2019, and modifications were proposed in February 2020. It is unclear whether further modifications will be made to this law. Additionally, in October 2019, the California Department of Justice published a notice of proposed rulemaking action with respect to draft regulations to implement the CCPA.  We cannot yet predict the impact of the CCPA on our business or operations, but it may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in to comply.The GDPR, CCPA and other state and global laws and regulations increased our responsibility and potential liability in relation to personal data, and we have and will continue to put in place additional processes and programs to demonstrate compliance. New privacy laws and regulations are under development at the U.S. Federal and state level and many international jurisdictions.  Any actual or perceived failure to comply with the GDPR, the CCPA or other data privacy laws or regulations, or related contractual or other obligations, or any perceived privacy rights violation, could lead to investigations, claims, and proceedings by governmental entities and private parties, damages for contract breach, and other significant costs, penalties, and other liabilities, as well as harm to our reputation and market position. Additionally, we store customer information and content and if our customers fail to comply with contractual obligations or applicable laws, it could result in litigation or reputational harm to us. The GDPR, CCPA and other laws and self-regulatory codes may affect our ability to reach current and prospective customers, to understand how our offerings and services are being used, to respond to customer requests allowed under the laws, and to implement our new business models effectively. These new laws and regulations would similarly affect our competitors as well as our customers. These requirements could impact demand for our offerings and services and result in more onerous contract obligations.2020 Form 10-K  19Table of Contents We rely on third parties to provide us with a number of operational and technical services; third-party security incidents could expose us to liability, harm our reputation, damage our competitiveness and adversely impact our financial performance.We rely on third parties, such as Amazon Web Services, to provide us with operational and technical services. These third parties may have access to our systems, provide hosting services, or otherwise process data about us or our customers, employees, or partners. Any third-party security incident could compromise the integrity of, or availability or result in the theft of, data. In addition, our operations, or the operations of our customers or partners, could be negatively affected in the event of a security breach, and could be subject to the loss or theft of confidential or proprietary information, including source code. Unauthorized access to data and other confidential or proprietary information may be obtained through break-ins, network breaches by unauthorized parties, employee theft or misuse, or other misconduct. If any of the foregoing were to occur or to be perceived to occur, our reputation may suffer, our competitive position may be diminished, customers may buy fewer of our offerings and services, we could face lawsuits and potential liability, and our financial performance could be negatively impacted. Delays in service from third-party service providers could expose us to liability, harm our reputation, damage our competitiveness and adversely impact our financial performance.From time to time, we may rely on a single or limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for the provision of services and materials that we use in the operation of our business and production of our solutions. The inability of such third parties to satisfy our requirements could disrupt our business operations or make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. If any of these situations were to occur, our reputation could be harmed, we could be subject to third-party liability, including under data protection and privacy laws in certain jurisdictions, and our financial performance could be negatively impacted.We are investing in resources to update and improve our information technology systems to digitize Autodesk and support our customers. Should our investments not succeed, or if delays or other issues with new or existing information technology systems disrupt our operations, our business could be harmed.We rely on our network and data center infrastructure, technology systems and our websites for our development, marketing, operational, support, sales, accounting and financial reporting activities. We continually invest resources to update and improve these systems in order to meet the evolving requirements of our business and customers. In particular, our transition to cloud-based products and a subscription-only business model involves considerable investment in the development of technologies, as well as back-office systems for technical, financial, compliance and sales resources.Such improvements are often complex, costly and time consuming. In addition, such improvements can be challenging to integrate with our existing technology systems, or may uncover problems with our existing technology systems. Unsuccessful implementation of hardware or software updates and improvements could result in disruption in our business operations, loss of customers, loss of revenue, errors in our accounting and financial reporting or damage to our reputation, all of which could harm our business.We may not be able to predict subscription renewal rates and their impact on our future revenue and operating results.Our customers are not obligated to renew their subscriptions for our offerings, and they may elect not to renew. We cannot assure renewal rates, or the mix of subscriptions renewals. Customer renewal rates may decline or fluctuate due to a number of factors, including offering pricing, competitive offerings, customer satisfaction, and reductions in customer spending levels or customer activity due to economic downturns or financial markets uncertainty. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions or if they renew on less favorable terms, our revenues may decline.Our software is highly complex and may contain undetected errors, defects or vulnerabilities, each of which could harm our business and financial performance.The software solutions that we offer are complex and, despite extensive testing and quality control, may contain errors, defects or vulnerabilities. Some errors, defects and vulnerabilities in our software solutions may only be discovered after they have been released. Any errors, defects or vulnerabilities could result in the need for corrective releases to our software solutions, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, an increase in subscription cancellations or lack of market acceptance of our offerings, any of which would likely harm our business and financial performance.2020 Form 10-K  20Table of Contents Existing and increased competition and rapidly evolving technological changes may reduce our revenue and profits.The software industry has limited barriers to entry, and the availability of computing devices with continually expanding performance at progressively lower prices contributes to the ease of market entry. The software industry has undergone a transition from developing and selling perpetual licenses and on-premises products to subscriptions and cloud-enabled technologies. This shift further lowers barriers to entry and poses a disruptive challenge to established software companies. The markets in which we compete are characterized by vigorous competition, both by entry of competitors with innovative technologies and by consolidation of companies with complementary offerings and technologies. In addition, some of our competitors in certain markets have greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, and other resources. Furthermore, a reduction in the number and availability of compatible third-party applications, or our inability to rapidly adapt to technological and customer preference changes, including those related to cloud computing, mobile devices, and new computing platforms, may adversely affect the sale of our solutions. Because of these and other factors, competitive conditions in the industry are likely to intensify in the future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced net revenue and profit margins and loss of market share, any of which would likely harm our business.We are sub