 When was the last time you carved like this, Martin? - I think it must have been, with the accident in 2010, in the spring of 2010. - In the spring of 2010? - About ten years ago... - It's been a while, then!  - It has indeed! All my life, since I was a child, I've had an interest in mountain sports almost exclusively and ending up in 2010 in a wheelchair, so ten years ago I thought, "You're gonna have to get over it." and now it's great to be able to do something I'm really interested in again! Walking is cool, but skiing is something I couldn't really do without the exoskeleton. This exoskeleton belongs to the TWIICE family of exoskeletons, the goal is for it to be worn by all paraplegics... provided, of course, that the pilot has the ability to control the exoskeleton with the upper body. - I'm hyper-focused, but after a few minutes you get used to it... and... it's magic! The objective of this project was to show that within a month we were able to adapt an exoskeleton that was designed for walking to an exoskeleton that allows a person with paraplegia to backcountry ski. So we had to adapt certain parts so that they could attach to ski boots and skis to allow the person to perform ski touring. We really wanted to show that we can address different types of activity, but also different types of pathology and morphology. Examples include people with stroke or people who have had an amputation and target different activities such as walking, running, but also mountaineering or ski touring The improvements we have seen are improvement in ranges of motion in flexion/extension both at the hip or at the knee. - And also something we often forget: the digestion has improved a lot just by being up and moving while standing. For me as his dad, of course, to see him arrive here, at destination, as planned, with a smile is a great satisfaction. I can imagine the efforts that have been made since that fall... with all the regular training that has gone into achieving that goal today. - It had become almost a dream, something impossible for ten years I spent in the chair, and all of a sudden we're here... there are no words... 