 Get away from her you @$#%*! This video has been sponsored by Skillshare but more on that later. Hey guys! I am super super super excited to announce our latest and one of our biggest make real projects yet. The power loader from aliens. Hydraulically powered and able to lift thousands of pounds. If there is a mid-sized 8 to 10-foot mega bot or Battle BOTS League it would be a serious contender. It will be able to flip and crush cars. You see I've actually wanted to do this project ever since I started making videos for YouTube, but the budget and scale of it was just too big at the time. After the exoskeleton is done my next main project I really hope to do is building the EXO loader suit from the alien movies. It's quite a bit bigger of a project and it would probably cost at least five to ten thousand dollars in materials alone I won't be doing that for a while unless obviously this channel becomes really big. Though I'm honestly not sure how I thought it would only cost five to ten thousand dollars we've already spent that much just on one arm. Anyway I mentioned the project again and again as the channel grew in various interviews, comments on YouTube and videos! I'm planning on doing the Power Loader from the Aliens movie. And that will be able to flip the car not just pick it up. In fact it was in this video that we met Bogdan for the first time. He was a fan of the original pneumatic exoskeleton that I built and he actually built his own version during high school. Then he volunteered for us that summer and he's been working part time with us ever since. He's now almost done college and convinced me to finally start the power loader project and he's actually been doing a bunch of the design of the arm over the past year so without further ado let's take a look at the cad and see how this is actually going to work! All right, so, how are we actually going to design the power loader from aliens? Now luckily since the movies been out for 33 years it came out in 1986 there's actually a lot of reference material available online so let's take a look at this fan-made Wikia of the P-5000 powered work loader. And as you can see we've got lots of pictures on here, some sketches and diagrams and of course they made a whole bunch of little toys. One of which I actually have right here. It's pretty cool It can't really do that much and it's a very basic model of the power loader there's no hydraulic hoses or anything like that and honestly it's pretty pretty fragile unfortunately but let's read a bit more about the power loader and how it actually works. So the really neat thing that I can really appreciate on this is they actually made a full working prop for the movie as you can see right here. The funny thing was it's actually it's a prop that's constructed around the stuntman who's actually moving the suit and Sigourney Weaver is actually attached to the stuntman. The whole thing weighed about six hundred pounds it was made of fiberglass PVC and aluminum, none of the hydraulics worked but the  grippers did actually open and close but the whole thing was actually kind of more like a marionette for the actual filming of the movie, and they also made a miniature for a bunch of the shots including the wide-angle shots during the fight with the Queen. The next question I have is if this movie has been out for 33 years and there's this much reference material online why hasn't someone already built a power loader? Is it too complicated to engineer? Is it too expensive? Unfortunately I think the real reason is: it's just not very practical a regular forklift is actually very good at what it does and there's no real reason that you want kind of a clumsy suit like this: To replace a forklift. But, luckily Hacksmith Entertainment here, we focus on building the projects that aren't commercially viable we're not trying to make this to sell it we're just trying to make it to see if we can and because it's a freakin power loader, who doesn't want a power loader? The questions back to how are we actually going to design this like it is quite the engineering feat. So like what we do for most of our projects we're gonna go to grab CAD. Now grab CAD is a community site that allows you to share 3d models of pretty much anything let's just take a look and see if we can find the power loader. So there's some construction equipment... Wow look at that! So a guy named Dano Vinson actually uploaded a model of the power loader which looks fairly accurate to the movie. That's pretty cool he's done some renderings of it and I think there's a video. So yeah he's done actually a really good job modeling the power loader from the movie and in whatever software he used I don't think he's using SolidWorks he was able to even do some dynamic movements like this to show how it actually work. So why don't we open up this model in SolidWorks and see if we can use it as a reference for when we're designing the real thing. So here it is. That's pretty cool. Now the unfortunate thing about this model is it's actually just a single body, which makes it really difficult to actually try and use this model for our design so really what we're just going to be doing is using it as a reference for scale and general shape of parts that we're trying to make. But to start why don't we start removing the stuff that just doesn't work the funny thing is: hydraulics are a very real thing but they need to be used properly to actually work. So all these hoses none of this is realistic. Remember a hydraulic hose can carry high pressure hydraulic fluid and having connection points like this just doesn't work so I'm just gonna go ahead and go through the model and basically turn everything that we can't use whatsoever red. So now just you know paint the model red. All right so there we go so basically as you can see none of these hydraulic hose locations or fittings or connections are going to work for the real thing so we're gonna have to definitely design that on our own. But what else will actually work and what won't work? So in the movie it says it's actually a combination of a hydraulic system and electric motors. So apparently the the hips here are electric motors even though they have hydraulic hoses going to them and there's also no way, like, how does this joint rotate? how does this joint rotate? It's either gotta be an electric motor or... I'm not even sure so we're gonna have to figure out how we're actually going to do that but one of the biggest issues with this design is these big cylinders on the back. So we've got a joint here that basically allows the arm to rotate back and forth like this and up and down like this. But the way they show it being powered is with this one big hydraulic cylinder and as you can see it's mounted down at the back near the spine and then attaches there. That's only going to allow you to do one movement you're not going to be able to isolate moving your arm forwards and back as well as up and down so that's also something that we're going to have to change so I'm gonna paint these red as well. Alright so there's that. So what will actually work on this design? Well the bicep hydraulics actually will work. It's fixed to the shoulder and then it pushes the elbow out not unlike my original pneumatic exoskeleton that I built years ago. So that'll work we can use the general shape and outline of the arm, there's a lot cosmetic features that don't really matter that we can include to make sure it looks like a power loader. The question for the engineering standpoint is: Just how are we actually going to make it work? Because like you saw in the actual movie it was just a prop that was moving around using wires and movie magic. So to make an actual working power loader we actually have to think a little bit and figure out how best to approach this. Now because this is such a huge project we're gonna break it down and build individual pieces of the power loader at a time so to start we're gonna build just the arm. So I'm actually going to just isolate just the arm and then we can go from there. Alright so now that we have the ar isolated, how are we going to use this as a reference to actually design our version of the power loader? And the nice thing is in SolidWorks is you can do something called a face export to DXF. So basically I can select all these faces of this linkage that we'll call the bicep linkage and if I right-click on that I can do export to DXF. And what we're left with is a perfect outline of the arm now this is just about all that we can actually use from this reference model just the general outside shape of some of the joints to try and keep it to make sure it looks like the actual power loader that you can see right here. Because mechanically all the hydraulics and all the actual working features of the power loader we're gonna have to design those from scratch. But this is at least at least save us a bit of time in making sure that it actually looks like the power loader I'm just gonna go go ahead and save that. And what we can do is if we open it up we can import it as a 2d sketch. Now just to show you how simple this is we can select all these areas, let's make it half an inch thick. And there you go that's the rough shape of the bicep of the power loader arm. So the nice thing with that is now we can do any modifications we need to actually mount the real hydraulics and the other joints and how all that's going to work but at least having this model means we have a reference to look at to make sure we're on the same track to make sure we're actually making it just like the actual one from aliens. All right, let's start designing! There you have it. All right just kidding we've actually already designed the arm and when I say we I actually mean Bogdan. So Bogdan has been the main driving force behind actually making this project happen. He's really inspired by the power loader and he designed all this, actually a good part of it last year before we had the funding or the even the ability to build such a thing in-house. And ever since we got the plasma cutter from Elite Metal Tools it was like: "Hey we could actually make this now." So this past Christmas break we actually we started actually making it for the next design we will actually record it and show you guys how we actually did the 3d modeling but for this I'm just going to try and explain how we did the design. So if you can't wait for our future power loader videos and you want to start learning SolidWorks right away there are actually some awesome SolidWorks tutorial classes available on Skillshare.com. One of the most common questions we get asked about our projects is: How do we learn how to do all this cool stuff? And the answer is simple we're self-taught learners we use the Internet to our advantage to solve problems. It's amazing the kind of resources you can find just like Skillshare.com. Skillshare is an online learning community for creators with more than 25,000 classes in design, business, technology and even lifestyle! Start 2019 outright with a premium membership that gives you unlimited access to take all the classes you want on skills you want to learn to achieve your 2019 goals. Wanna learn how to design cool things in CAD like us? Like, I don't know... A power loader?! We use SolidWorks on a near daily basis and you can learn how to use it too right here on Skillshare.com or if you're more interested in making videos like us we use Adobe Premiere Pro and we've learned tons of tricks from Jordy who's another youtuber and instructor on Skillshare.com. Skillshare premium is super affordable with an annual subscription costing less than $10 a month plus the first 500 my subscribers to use my link below will get two months absolutely free. Over 7 million other creators use Skillshare so, what are you waiting for? So for the next design we will actually record it and show you guys how we actually did the 3d modeling to come up with the actual design that we then manufacture and fabricate. But for this I'm just going to try and explain how we did the design. So first I'm gonna roll back some of the features inside of SolidWorks. There, look familiar? So we did have to modify it a little bit as you can see, this mounting point for one of the cylinders was originally a lot lower and we had to move it up here so we could actually get a proper range of motion for the whole arm. Which you'll see here. That means that cylinder is actually going to be able to allow you to have the arm be able to go from a full curl to a straight arm like that. How we're actually going to fabricate it is kind of cool. So what what Bogdan is done is he's designed a tab and slot system so what that means is after we plasma cut the whole thing out we'll actually be able to just almost like put it together like a normal puzzle and then once it's clamped in place we just have to weld those seams in and we'll be left with an extremely structural, very strong steel member. We've got some face plates here and then the joints will actually be these big pipes right here. So moving on let's take a look at the arm or the forearm. Same idea what happened was we originally exported a DXF of the outline of the reference model and then we use that to make sure what we were designing is at least similar so it ends up looking like the power loader. And again we added some slots and tabs and if you're curious about slot and tab design, it's great for plasma cutting as well as just laser cutting, which you'll be able to find a local makerspace. And there's actually this really cool website I like and it's called makercase.com. So what this does is if you select finger joints you can actually say: "I want to make a box that's 12 inches wide by 4 inches tall by 8 inches deep" And you can say how thick the material is that you're going to be using for the project. And if you go generate laser cutter plans. It actually exports the outline that you need to then put in your laser cutter and actually be able to make that box. And it's a really cool fabrication method that you can use with a laser cutter to quickly fabricate project boxes. Because you wouldn't want a 3d print a giant box it would take forever. So with a laser cutter sometimes it takes less than a minute to laser cut all that stuff out, a bit a hot-glue, a bit of folding it around and bam you're left with a box. So basically that's exactly what we've done on just a larger more industrial scale for the power loader, except our box is made out of steel and we're actually gonna be welding it shut. So next up we have the wrist joint which is kind of cool and to solve the issue of being able to have a wrist that can actually go like this. Bogdan decided to mount another hydraulic cylinder on the side of the arm. Now this is not how they did it in the movie but it's probably the best way that we can actually do it. So as you can see this cylinder when it extends will actually allow you to move the wrist 90 degrees in total from one way to the other way. And then the part that we haven't quite touched yet is actually the wrist. How are we going to get the wrist to actually spin like this? There's a few methods: we could either try and build something like this hydraulic cylinder or we could potentially have a hydraulic motor with a gear around this entire plate that allows it to rotate. And the cool thing with that is if we do that we could potentially have infinite rotations we could just keep spinning it. Because once this thing's done we're gonna be wanting to add different attachments like say maybe a Bioshock Big Daddy drill. Which could just continually spin and we could do all kinds of cool stuff like that. So anyways like I said this CAD design was already done over actually the past year, so we weren't able to record it and show you the actual process of doing that but for future designs we will be showing you the actual CAD process. But, what this means is we can start fabricating the arm so, let's start building! So now we're exporting all the remaining DXF for the three inch steel. And then we'll be ready to start welding! Alright while we finish plasma cutting the rest of the parts for the power loaders first arm, make sure you smash that subscribe button and turn notifications on! Because this is a video series you do not want to miss. We'll be trying to release one video per month on the series while still making our regular make it real content. It'll just be like the days of the original exoskeleton where we posted a bunch of updates as the project evolved. Anyway in the next video we'll get the arm fully welded and built with hydraulics and do a quick test. But, if you can't wait for that next video make sure you follow us on social @theHacksmith as we'll be posting real time project updates. Also if you happen to be a YouTube channel member of the Hacksmith it's that join button right next to subscribe. You'll actually have access to see video number two right now! Do it... Do it now! 