 Lightning’s shitty. Well, face the camera. What for? What “what for”? Don’t you want to say hello to subscribers? No Hello comrades. We are in Vladimir again. It’s sad, but here we are again. Sorry for our look. My friend doesn’t want to show his face, ‘cause he’s too shy. As for me, I’ve just burned half of my face with argon-arc welding, so everything’s alright. Anyway, we’re here again and again it’s a business trip. (Translator’s note: they’ve already been at this military testing ground with the earlier model of Mark-4.The video was made, but it’s quite uninformative because of secrecy.) Unfortunately, we can’t say anything specific about this project. We can just show you some photos. By the time you see this video, maybe something can be shown. It was interesting experience, but working over 12-14 hours during the whole week is a bit much. On the other hand, there is a positive point. We saw Moscow, saw some very serious companies that are engaged .. What are they engaged in? By the way, is “Class” Central Research Institute or Research Institute? “Class” is Research and Production Enterprise. We were constructing Mark-6, as we call it. But for them it’s a separate model. Again it’s a prototype with a passive frame that takes over the weight of the armored shield and distributes it. It’s caused with such fact, that the shield itself, which is regularly mounted on the shoulders of a person, plus Class 5 bulletproof vest, is extremely heavy, it’s as heavy as lead. I picked it up myself, hung a body armor on myself - it's terrible. I just can’t imagine how stormtroopers deal with it. It’s horrible. However, everything becomes easier with exoskeleton, even with a passive one. The load is transferred to the feet, and from the feet to the ground. The only thing that’s hard is walking. You won’t be able to run, but you can walk,you can even go fast. Central Research Institute agreed to show Mark-5 at an exhibition absolutely free. Due to this point we have to reconstruct it to meet the requirements of the reduced load made by bulletproof vest. As a result, it’ll have nothing in common with Mark-5 as it was planned. They didn’t assess flexible back. They said they need something else and so on. Generally, our visions didn't align. Nevertheless, they kind of liked it. So, they’ll show our prototype for free. Yes, today I’m inclined to tell the truth, because it doesn’t matter whether I mount this video or not, it will still remain in my memory. Today our welder has “died”. What do you say? Nothing? Okay. Oh, look - it’s hanging. It’s made for left-handed people. Nevertheless, we try, construct something, and will keep up. And yes, we’ve already got the ordered parts for Mark-4m, which is the active exoskeleton for running and jumping. We’ll continue its construction as soon as we get home. And we’ll make the next video when we make the second leg. And field tests, right? We’ll see. We’ll see how it goes. It’s been a week since we’re here. We already look forward to go home. My friend is black as thunder. He is very unhappy, tired and he wants to go home. I really want to go home, too because my cat is hungry, although I don’t have a cat. Don’t lose sight of us, we‘re still alive. I don’t say goodbye to you right now, because we’ll shoot a video from the railway station. Maybe from Moscow, and maybe from here. He yawns, because he’s tired and bored. 