 In Australia, there is an estimated 450,000 stroke survivors, and two thirds of them are dependent on another person for their daily needs due to long-term disabilities. To regain the affected functions, stroke survivors need to receive intensive rehabilitation therapies for months and years. Here, at the school of biomedical engineering UTS, our team, Kai, Li, and Jephil, offer a robot-assisted rehabilitation system that not only achieves better rehab results from personalised training, but also provide an opportunity for home rehabilitation. Now we meet Franky, our first prototype. It is made of 171 carbon-reinforced pieces printed at ProtoSpace. This powered exoskeleton is portable, and the touch-screen feature creates a user-friendly interface. At early stages of stroke recovery, Franky reads the movements picturing in the head by measuring the electrical signal generated from the brain. It then performs the movements as direct visual feedback. This training will help the patient to re-connect the damaged neural pathways. When patients start to show limited movements, Franky serves as a wearable robot to help them in motor trainings. Using biosignal processing techniques and machine learning algorithms, the robot studies the user’s muscle activity, and provides the assistance-as-needed when movements cannot be fully completed. In 2020, the global pandemic made us realise the importance of tele-health. Our robot can be safely set-up by non-professionals at home, and doctors can record physiological data, and control the robot anywhere in the world, through our website. In fact, in today’s event, we welcome you to our breakout room to control the robot on your own computer. According to WHO, there are more than 80 million stroke survivors worldwide and 40 -50 % of them suffer from upper limb impairment. The global medical exoskeleton market is projected to reach almost 600 million by 2023. In recent years, there has been several rehabilitation robots developed as research-based prototypes. After a systematic review study and learning the needs and demands from patients and doctors, our exoskeleton offers more DOFs to perform daily living tasks, patient-specific rehab schemes, and telehealth services. Regarding our business model, we are going to sell both the hardware and software with subscription-based package. For research institutes, we also provide software development tools for programming purposes. This robot has attracted attention from domestic and international institutes and hospitals for collaboration. Right now, we are planning to conduct clinical trials in Australia, China and India. Before we finish, I’d like to show you a YouTube comment that is written under one of the most viewed Ted Talk about stroke. With the use of our exoskeleton, our hope and our goal is for stroke survivors like Sage Brooks, to relearn the skills lost and regain the independence of life. 