 Hello everyone. My name is DOJO MOJO and I make tech videos about tech news. Today, I've got some crazy news for y'all and no it's not about Samsung or about folding phones or whatever you commonly see on my channel but about a robotic tail named Arque developed by a couple of researchers at the Keio University in Japan, if I pronounced that correctly. The team presented their anthropomorphic creation on August 1st at the 2019 SIGGRAPH conference in Los Angeles and basically the tail acts as a balance when people are carrying heavy objects or doing something as simple as walking around. It would especially be used by elderly people people trying to walk again and even regular workers. The structure of art was inspired by seahorses and how their tails are strong enough to withstand attacks from predators yet flexible enough to hang on to coral as you can see Arque changes shape depending on the users position and what they're doing using a wearable body tracker mounted on the upper body of the user that estimates the center of gravity. Artificial muscles inside the tail control its movement by contracting or expanding using an external pressurized air system. To adjust for a personal body type, the wearer just has to remove a vertebrae and the system pretty much balances itself. Like I mentioned before, Arque can be used by the elderly individuals relearning even the most basic of things as walking and regular laborers but surprisingly can also be applied to VR as it can be used to throw the user off balance one playing a VR game adding a sense of realism and immersiveness. We might see this implementation in battle heavy games like Call of Duty or Battle Royale games like Fortnite, both a very controversial video game and a very dead one if you ask me, but I digress. The team has also said that they plan on making the robotic tail more portable in the future because it can't go very far when it's tethered So we could be seeing a battery and pressurized air system attached to the prototype in the near future. What I do have my concerns as to whether this will make it more difficult for the machine to balance out the human body because of the extra weight so they should consider this when making their next iteration. My best guess is that the team of researchers will go on to make adjustments to the system like making it more portable and open it up to the public for medical and work-related uses. I also think this could push the boundaries of VR and definitely give developers of VR video games the freedom to add in a plethora of special effects to boost engagement with their video games and create a sense of escapism into a world programmed to be realistic but separate from our reality, but I think we've got to address the elephant in the room here. I really and I mean I really see this being worn by Furries. Like I'm not even joking when I say that because people tend to do stupid things with things they don't understand. For example, vaping was originally targeted at people trying to quit smoking but look at who's the main consumer of these products, teens and young adults whose background does not include previous smoking. Want another example? Alright, I've got you: Tide Pods. We all remember Tide Pods, those squishy, cubie things that we put in the laundry or washing machine. They keep our clothes clean and well scented but people started eating them. Exactly what I mean. I think we've got to put a great deal of energy make sure no more instances like the ones mentioned don't see the light of day again. Also in case you're confused as to why I'm ranting about something as unrelated to technology as what was previously mentioned, I'm just expressing my concerns for these developers, inventors and researchers who put their hard-earned money, time and energy to make things for the general public and then having squandered by those who don't have any dealings with them. It just... doesn't make sense. If you'd like to read more in this project, I've got the articles linked below in the description and hope you all have a wonderful time reading it and are definitely inspired to create wonderful solutions like the one we discussed today. If you'd like to see more content like this on my YouTube channel, leave a like, subscribe and tell me what you'd like to see in the comment section below. I'll be more than happy to read your responses and it definitely makes me feel good because 1) I know that my content is improving and 2) I know what to keep in them now. Curious as to whether humans can improve their overall intelligence, I've got a video about Neuralink and their work on a brain computer interface that'll sure to get you thinking bigger. You can check out the video with the link in the description or with the i-card on the top right corner, So make sure to check that video out! But without any further ado, this is your boy, DOJO MOJO, signing out! 