 Claudia Briedbach wants to prove she's the best at using one of the world's most sophisticated bionic arms. Over the next two days, she'll compete in the powered arm prosthetics series race. It's an early rehearsal for a global competition called the Cybathlon. With these ordinary tasks, the Cybathlon is the place to see just how far this technology has come in the past decade. Even while the competition pushes more life changing innovation. Claudia came in fourth in the first global Cybathlon back in 2016. Claudia has been training ever since and this is an early test for her in the lead up to the global competition in 2020. I'm Kayle Hope. This is Quartz. Please subscribe to our channel. Over the next two days, Claudia will compete in three qualifying races and two finals. Each race covers the same obstacle course with tasks like breakfast and laundry. in the big 2020 competition. This is the haptic box challenge. It's a brand new task and Claudia has to match objects by feeling them. She gets to try it out before the race begins. In this first race, Claudia is up against Roza Bellin from the Italian team softhand pro and she doesn't do well. These races focus on tasks that are easy for the human hand, but are incredibly difficult even with the most advanced robotic arm. And that's the point. Reiner came up with the idea for the competition and he says early races like this one give teams a preview of the tasks so that engineers can design process prosthetics that can handle them for 2020 and then that tech makes it to the public. In the past decade there's been a revolution in technology designed to help people like Claudia. From powered limbs to wheelchairs that can climb stairs to exoskeletons and the Cybathlon includes races for all this tech. And it's done a lot to push it forward. And those improvements are a big deal. Right now up to 60% of people with upper limb amputation that are fitted for prosthetic devices fail to use them regularly. This is the final race in the powered arm prostheses series competition and Claudia has reworked her strategy. Whoever has the most points at the end will win. 