 Hello everyone and welcome to today's webinar  which is titled Introduction to Innophys   and their product. My name is Kristoffer Iversen   and i'm from AnyBody Technology and  i will be the host of today's webinar.   Today i am here with my colleague Bjørn Kjeller who is  also a R&D Engineer here at AnyBody Technology. Today we have an external speaker who is Mr. Daigo Orihara,  the president and CEO of Innophys,   and Mr. Daigo Orihara is going to give his presentation in a minute or so. But just before we start, i will give a general  introduction to the AnyBody Modeling System   for those of you who are unfamiliar with the  software or musculoskeletal modeling in general. But first of all what is the AnyBody Modeling System? So the AnyBody Modeling System   is a software that allows you to do musculoskeletal modeling.   As input it takes motion data, as kinematics  and forces, and it calculates the internal body loads as joint moments, joint reaction forces and  muscle forces. And right here in the bottom of the   screen you can see a screenshot from  the AnyBody Modeling System - so this is how it actually looks. At the moment AnyBody is used in  a wide variety of areas and applications. And a few examples of this is movement analysis,  product optimization design, the field of sport,   orthopedics and rehabilitation, and assistive  devices which we're going to learn more about   today. The typical workflow in AnyBody could look  something like this: So you provide some kind of   motion data as input and then you use the body  models, which you or others have built, and then   you provide some kind of environment, which could  be an exoskeleton. Then you can use AnyBody to   combine these things and run the Inverse dynamic  simulations to calculate the internal body loads. You can output the results and use it for  post processing with for example some kind   of finite element tool but many users also  closes the loop completely by doing some kind   of design optimization and then run this cycle multiple times. This actually brings me to the end of the introduction, and i will   hand over the presenter role and word to  Mr. Daigo Orihara instead. Hello, so now we   are able to see your screen, can you  please go ahead with the presentation. Hello, good afternoon - sorry for keeping you  waiting. We had a minor system problem. Now i   think it's fixed. Sorry for taking time. Thank you first of all, thank you very much   for having me and giving me the opportunity to introduce my company, our company and our product.   My name is Daigo Orihara, the CEO of Innophys. Today i would like to   talk about three topics okay. I'm  gonna talk about who we are basically,    introduction of Innophys and then i want to go into the introduction   of our product and then briefly talk about  what we are going to do in the future.   Innophys originally came from  the research of a professor of Tokyo University   of Science. We came out of that technology  from the professor and the company was   incorporated in 2013 which is seven years  ago from now. Our recent annual sales   is about 7 million US dollar and our capital is  about five thousand, i mean five billion Yen. And also you can see our major  shareholders on the left bottom of   the corner. So on the right hand side we have  management: Hiroshi Kobayashi, he's a founder and   chief technologist of our company and he's  a professor of Tokyo University of Science.   And Daigo Orihara, which is me,  and Takashi Furukawa, chairman of the company. And this is our mission, our mission is  to support independent life as long as you   live, which is why we as a company develop  and launch um the product that reduces burden   and/or help people to work or move easier. So this  is our mission and we are basically following   this mission. And our business model is like this:  In the middle there is Innophys and on   the left hand side, we have partners. One is Tokyo  University of Science. We collaborate research with the university, and then also we received  the ip transfer and license from the university.   Innophys basically develops and markets  the product, and sell the product, and actually in   the manufacturing - since we are a factory-less company, we don't have any factory so we have   manufacturing partners. I'll talk about  who our manufacturing partners are later, but this is how our business flows. So i'm gonna talk about the history of the company.   Our starting point is about six years ago from now. There is a company named ***** and the caregivers of the company, the turnover rate was was very high because  many people had a back pain and they quit the job,   so the company *****, basically what  what they do, is they visit homes/houses   and then provide visiting bath service. So we heard their needs and developed our   first end product, and launched the product  about six years ago. So this was our first step.   Since then we have upgraded the product since the launch of the first model, and   basically updated it every year. As you  can see on the on the half bottom of the side. Then also in order to grow  our business, we have raised a couple of times. I mean capital a couple of times, and last  year we raised about the 4.3 billion Yen.  Then also we reached a total unit sales of 10 000 units in March of 2020.   This is how we progressed since the launch of the company. And what we are addressing   is this - there are in Japan a low  birth rate and the aging population is a very   serious current issue in the society.   And we are addressing this social issue   caused by low birth rate and the aging  population, for example in specifically labor shortage and increases in elderly care  and healthiness of the elderly people. In Japan, the number of hard physical worker is about 24.5  million and the number of people who are certified for long-term care is about 7.3 million. The number  of people aging over 75 year or above is 18.4 million, so we are addressing issues for those segments and i believe what is going to happen, what is happening in Japan, it's going to be happening in other nations as well. Again Innophys is approaching those issues and developing products.  So as i mentioned earlier, we started of from helping workers in visiting bed care,   but as we develop the next generation, i mean new  generation, of the product. The usage of the product becomes wider and here's the expansion of our application.   Well we started from the nursing care, but now many companies, there are many companies   which are using our product, for example factories and constructions, and others such as transportation, and warehouses and  plus recently a growing segment is farming.  In japan, the farmers average age is  about 67 years old which is very very old,   but many people still wants to work, and people in the farming segments, recently many of them started using our product.  So this is the current situation of the company. Now i would like to share with you what we do, which is our product introduction, and how it works. So here are our product lineups. We basically have two lines of the product, one is a lower  back support and the other one is the arm plus lower back support.   The major product line in lower back support, we have two vertical lines. One is the muscle suit: Every, which is the latest model of our  company, and the second one is the muscle suit: Power.   The very difference is that, the muscle suit: Every, is a standalone product   where the muscle suit: Power, requires air attachment - so basically it's active air actuated   powered suits - so this is the muscle suit: Power.   And for arm and lower back support, muscle suit Upper is an also active type.   It requires a power air supply when you use them. I will talk more about the muscle suit: Every later. So i will briefly talk about the muscle suit: Power and Upper more.   Muscle Suit: Power, its assist power is about  35 kg, so it helps to support your body behind with the maximum of 35 kg. And the weight is about 6.6 kg and the price is about 900 000 Yen. The muscle suit: Upper, is on the right hand side and it's a powerful one. It supports both arms and back and it cost about two million Japanese Yen. The Next slide is our latest main product, the muscle suit: Every. We launched this product last year, last November. It's a very, i mean new challenge for our company.   Muscle suit: Every, is a strategic product and the price of the product is 136 000 Yen. Which is very reasonable pricing. And the merits of characteristics of muscle suit: Every, basically we have three main points. One is quality, it has a very powerful   nature - the maximum power is 25.5 kgf of assisting  power. It has a very good usability.   One, it is very lightweight with the weight of only 3.8 kg. I talked about the weight of the muscle suit: Power, is 6.6 kg.  So compared to that, you can see how light this product is and also very easy to wear   i'll show you how the muscle suit: Every, looks like, and how you put it on in the movie on next slide.   But it is very easy once you get used to it, you can put on in like 10 seconds. Very simple, and it's a water   and dust proof. You can use it outside or you can  use it in the rain - so you can basically use it however   you like and also it's eco-friendly, as this product  is actuated by air it doesn't require a battery.   so you can just, you know pump in the air  and it works. Lastly, it's very reasonable price.  Our price is less than 150 000 Japanese Yen.  So this is pretty new and our challenging strategic product. So now i want to show you some video of how our product looks like and   basically this is spoken in japanese but you can see the subtitle in the bottom Okay, so here's how our product works and   as i mentioned earlier, our product is actuated by  muscle, artificial muscle. So structure wise, two artificial muscles are installed in  each side of the back frame like a A shaped frame,   and once you pump in the air it generates the  assisting power. Our product, in February 2020 we certified with the iso 13482, which is a certification for personal care robots. Also, i want to talk about the comparison between the previous model and the new model i mentioned earlier. Our new model was launched last year, last November and until then we had a previous model   which was called the muscle suit: Edge. So here's the  difference. Of course, it looks different, but price is also different on the previous model it  cost about 500 000 Yen, which is about 4 800 US dollars.  Now the muscle suit: Every, cost 136 000 Yen, which is about 1200 US dollars, i think.   If you look at the assisting power, in terms  of the assisting power, it's it's exactly the same.   And then look at the weight, previous one weigh 4.8 kg, but the current one is 3.8 kg.   Also, we are a factory-less company. The factory  means, the company who makes our product.   So in the previous model, we asked ***** to produce, to manufacture the product and then   current one we asked Ricoh, the copy machine company  to manufacture for our company. So basically,   the cost is one-third and the performance is  the same and it became lighter. So what we did   was we basically changed the material of the product. The previous model was made from aluminum,   but now our current model is using a plastic  resin. So it makes it lighter and also we reduce the   number of parts significantly. So that also  gives us the opportunity to reduce the cost. So this is how we challenge - this is  what we challenged. And you know we   made this latest model. And because of this low price and also user friendly feature,   i think our product is in a very very unique position of wearable exoskeleton. Our product is   a passive one uh so we don't use electricity and  it's actuated by air, as you could see on the movie   and we actually uh sold more than 10 000 units already on commercial basis. So why we could we could capture that market share? I think there are various   reasons, but the key points will be that we could address user needs which they think is important. One is safety and the second one is  easy to use and then also a reasonable pricing. Our product is sensor less and no, i  mean it's a passive one, so it doesn't really   malfunction. Artificial muscle supports  human body was a very smooth way, and   when you wear, when you put it in it's very easy and  very easy to use with the strong assisting power. And the very simple structure allow us to reduce a manufacturing cost.   That is how, that is why, we could do this very reasonable pricing. So those are   the main points that we think is important. Now i want to explain i want to   show you how the muscle suits support lower back. Okay, so this is a comparison of compression forces, to the back with and without a muscle suit. So when lifting and moving a box   without the muscle suit, on the left hand side, as you leaning forward the compression force   increases i think you can see it on the graph, but with muscle suit, on the right hand side, since   the wearable device support lower back compression,  then the compression force remains almost flat. So when you actually hold the box and the weight of the box added the weight goes up but still the peak force is much lower   with the muscle suit. You can probably see it. There are another task we simulate, which is shoveling mud. Okay, shoveling mud as you can see. This is also the same, when you're leaning forward and lifting up the mud, the product also   reduces the burden. On the left side without  muscle suit, every time he try to lift the mud   the compression forces goes up, but with muscle suit it's kind of flat.   So you can see how different it will be. So this is how the muscle suit: Every, reduces   the burden of the lower back and to  help physical stress of the users. Next slide, actually i have to apologize this  doesn't have any translation or any subtitle,   but i want you to understand the image of how the muscle suit   functions, or how actual users use a product. So he's a farmer, he makes potatoes, sweet potatoes actually, and after picking   the potatoes, he put the potatoes in the back and  then load and unloads the potatoes, which weigh about   25 kg. And he has a back pain because of this  hard work, loading and unloading many of these bags. He bought this product because it can be used  outside with no battery, actuated by air only.   so he decided and he basically mentioning it pushes your back and maybe reduce the risk of getting a back pain. So basically, what he mentions   probably you can have an idea of how  muscle suits is usually used in the actual field. Okay, other use cases of this product  can be used basically with two purposes.   One is keeping the forward bent posture and the  other one is lifting and moving heavy materials. So keeping forward a bent posture for example  in farming, harvesting, weeding, thinning, and sorting the vegetables at the sorting area, various areas. And in nursing, nursing care, changing diapers and bathing assistance. And in factories it can be used in sorting between pallets and  when doing the processing it helps to keep the posture which leaning forward   And the other one, for example foundation  work at the construction site etc. and in   lifting and moving heavy materials in farming like in the previous movie, like transportation of crops,   fertilizers and baskets. Moving baskets, loading or unloading the baskets.   And in nursing care, transferring from the  bed to wheelchair, or transferring for bathing,   and in the factory scene, loading and unloading  raw materials which is very heavy.   And feeding materials into manufacturing equipment  etc., and also shoveling, especially in mud or   snow is also very heavy. So snow and mud in those  scenes muscle suit: Every, helps to reduce the burden. Okay, so this is our product and how our product is used and how our product works. I talked about, you know the company and the product and  now at last i would like briefly to talk about   what will be we will be going on in the future.  In the near future, what we're doing is product   expansion and global expansion. Now we are planning to cooperate with the sales partners in   each region which is shown in the slides. We have already a couple of partners   in Taiwan and Hong Kong, and we would also like to go into China, Korea, Europe and the USA market   this year and next year. So this is what we are planning and what we are doing right now.   and also we would like to create a new rehabilitation world. There are in Japan a mismatch between those who need a rehabilitation and those who   provide a rehabilitation. So upside one is a  population pyramid in Japan. it used to be a   pyramid, but right now the Japanese population is more like a reverse   pyramid structure. So many people are in the rehabilitation but less people provides   rehabilitation. There's a huge gap between that and it's gonna be, it's gonna be more we think.   Ae would like to address those mismatch and then like to solve this issue by our product,   making and helping a new product in this segment. So here's what we are going to do in future. Okay, so this is pretty much what i would like to  talk about today, and thank you very much for listening.   Tthank you very much for the presentation. So i   would just like to say a few words before we go to the Q&A session. So, yeah, first of all i would like to point your attention to our online resources and   if you want to know more about AnyBody Technology, you can go and check out our webpage at   anybodytech.com and here you can find special  events and dates, the full publication list of   everyone who is working on or published  something with AnyBody Modeling System.   I would also like to point your attention to  anyscript.org. This is our community website for   people using AnyBody and here you're able to find  the Wiki page and the links to the repository   sites and also our forum, so if you need some help  from some fellow AnyBody users please go ahead and   ask your questions there and usually people are  really helpful with answering these questions.   Also, i would like to point your attention to a  new webcast we have coming up on november 5th   the title is Occupational exoskeletons  as advanced ergonomic devices and how the   AnyBody Modeling System can be applied. And  the registration link for this will follow   shortly on our webpage and also will be  sent out on social media and by e-mail.   If you have any questions or want to meet up  please feel free to send us an email at sales@anybodytech.com and if you have created  something really interesting with the   anybody modeling system yourself and you  would like to share it with the audience   and do a future webcast, then please feel free  to send me an email at ki@anybodytech.com 