 hello everyone and welcome to today's webinar.  Today's webinar is titled occupational exoskeleton   as advanced economic devices and how the AnyBody  Modeling System can be applied. My name is   Kristoffer Iversen and i'm from AnyBody Technology  and i will be the host of today's webinar. Today   i am here with my colleague Morten Lund who is a  senior consultant and R&D engineer here at ABT. Today we have an external speaker who is Mark  Tröster and Mark is an associate researcher   from Fraunhofer Institute for Manufacturing  Engineering and Automation. And he has a lot   of experience in modeling and simulation  of biomechanical human exoskeleton systems   and Mark is going to give this  presentation in a minute or so.   But just before we start I will give a general  introduction and overview to the AnyBody Modeling   System for those of you who is unfamiliar with the  software or musculoskeletal modeling in general   So what is the AnyBody Modeling System? The  AnyBody Modeling System is a software that allows   you to do musculoskeletal modeling. As input  it takes motion data as kinematics and forces   and it calculates internal body loads as joint  moments, joint reaction forces, and muscle forces.   Here in the bottom of the screen you  can see a screenshot from the AnyBody   Modeling software which could give you  an idea of how the system actually looks. At the moment AnyBody is used in a  wide variety of areas and applications   and a few examples of this is movement analysis,  product optimization design, the field of sport,   orthopedics and rehabilitation,  and assistive devices.   And the typical workflow in AnyBody  could look something like this.   So you provide the motion data as input and  then you use the body models which you or   others have built and then you provide some kind  of environment which could be an exoskeleton.   You can then use AnyBody to combine these things  and run the inverse dynamics simulations to   calculate the internal body loads. You can  then output the results for post processing   for example with some kind of finite element  tools. But you can also close the loop completely   by doing some kind of design optimization  and then run this cycle multiple times.   I think this brings me to the end of the  introduction and I will make Mark Tröster   presenter instead. Okay thank you. So good morning  and welcome to everybody. My name is Mark Tröster   i'm a research associate at the department of  biomechatronic systems at the Fraunhofer Institute   for Manufacturing Engineering and Automation.  Today I'm going to present some of our work about   occupational exoskeletons and how we apply the  AnyBody Modeling System to objectify and optimize   assessment and development of assistive  devices within an ergonomics technology loop. Physical work problems are still a  big challenge we have to handle now   and in the future. Especially as musculoskeletal  disorders in the context of the demographic change   is a big problem of almost all  societies in the European union 60 percent of the workers in the EU  complain about work-related health problems   caused by musculoskeletal disorders. Further the  world health organization roughly estimates that   the number of people affected by muscle and  joint disorders will be doubled in 20 years. During the past decade occupational exoskeletons  attracted more and more attention occupational   exoskeletons are active semi-active or passive  mechanical assistive devices which which are worn   on the human body. These devices redirect external  forces around vulnerable body region regions   with the main aim of preventing musculoskeletal  disorders during physically stressing work tasks.   Here you see exemplary application areas where  occupational exoskeletons have found their way   into practice. Especially in the automotive  assembly there are overhead work places where   exoskeletons have already been declared  as obligatory personal protective devices.   Further in healthcare for ambulatory and  stationary care exoskeletons can support   during manual patient handling and remaining  in awkward postures for example in a long-term   surgery application. As you can see on the picture  in the middle. Further, in logistics especially   active exoskeletons are applied to relieve the  back during lifting and carrying heavy objects. Before I proceed within the ergonomics technology  loop I want to introduce ourselves. We are an   interdisciplinary exoskeleton development  and assessment team at the Fraunhofer IPA   in Stuttgart. As you can see in the green  boxes our engineering competences are   completed by other scientific competences from  a medical, material, sports, physiotherapeutic,   design, and biomedic biomimetical background.  This fruitful and challenging combination enables   different perspectives and approaches for the  development and assessment of assistive devices. We mostly do and did research and development  on our technology platform Stuttgart Exo-Jacket.   As you can see here on the first version  on the picture. Our focuses are mostly on   the research and development of active  Exoskeleton technologies which enables   software-based interaction and automatic support  control. Further research and development on   embedded electronic architecture and especially  comfort engineering for exoskeleton mechanisms   is what we are working on. Also  with external industry partners. On this slide you can see the second version  of our Exo-Jacket has an active controllable   supportive wrist for heavy manual load handling.  Based on the experience and knowledge we could   gain during the research and development  of the Exo-Jacket we follow an ergonomics   technology loop approach to support companies  as an application oriented research partner   in transferring active, semi-active, and passive  assistive devices into successful application. For the development of an assistive solution   for an ergonomic problem in a work process we  always try to follow an ergonomics technology   development loop. Always starting with the  ergonomic problem we first do an ergonomic   analysis on site in the real work environment,  which captures information and data for a more   sophisticated biomechanical lab analysis. Based  on these two analyses we define ergonomic needs   which can then be translated into technical  specifications for a potential assistive device.   Based on a design concept we can  proceed with model based optimization.   After that we set up a hardware prototype and  do real testing and optimization. Before we can   integrate and test the assistive device in  the real work environment we have to handle   safety assessment and certification. Finally the  evaluation has to be done which means to quantify   the ergonomic effect of the developed device in  the real application scenario and environment. Now, further, I want to highlight how we  apply a biomechanical analysis framework   based on the AnyBody Modeling System  within the ergonomics technology loop.   In general always based on a motion and load  analysis a kinetic biomechanical analysis   can be done. Based on the biomechanical  analysis without assistive device   an assessment of the biomechanical  effectiveness of an exoskeleton can be further   investigated. As you can see on the right  picture. The following slides I exemplarily want   to demonstrate how the AnyBody Modeling System can  be applied within the introduced development loop. You can use the AnyBody Modeling System for the  ergonomic analysis on site. The biomechanical lab   analyzes to define ergonomic needs technical  specification and based on a design concept   do of model-based optimization. Finally I want to  conclude with a future perspective on how AnyBody   could help for the integration and  evaluation in the work environment.   The ergonomic analysis on site we have two working  approaches to assess physically stressing tasks.   As a human-centered approach we do  physiotherapeutic assessment for example kinetic   work movement training. Like a medical analysis to  get an idea about the health state of the workers.   That means to talk to the workers and to find  the real person-specific problem of a workplace.   A second approach to objectify the  ergonomic problem we additionally apply   traditional ergonomic assessment methods based  on motion data to identify workplace specific   problems. This is where the AnyBody  Modeling System can support to both   objectify and identify person and workplace  specific ergonomic problems and needs. As example I brought a logistics manual handling  scenario to show how AnyBody could help during   the analysis on site. To reduce the amount  of data which has to be analyzed in AnyBody   we do a kinematic pre-selection, which means  to identify critical movement sequences   based on measured anatomical angles. In this  example we selected a sequence caused by   critical high trunk and knee flexions as  you can see here in the third selection. The selected movement sequence can be further  analyzed within the AnyBody Modeling System by   adding the load information to the human model.  In this case we modeled the loads as a symmetrical   constant force vector. The load could also be  modeled as a CAD objects with mass and inertia   which is much more realistic, or much more  important especially for dynamic movements.   Yeah as I mentioned because of the integration  of the mass and especially inertial properties. To demonstrate how the kinetics of the human  body can be assessed I brought two plots which   showed that it's definitely important to  have a deeper look into human biomechanics.   The three different model loads  show that for the L5/S1 shear forces   we reach the maximum acceptable limit already with  the second load of 30 kilogram. Which we wouldn't   consider as critical if we would only look at  the NIOSH limit for the compression forces.   Between L4 and L5. If feelt necessary based on  the ergonomic analysis on site   we can set up a mock-up of the real work  environment in our lab. We can additionally   make a 3D scan of the working environment  to support the design of the setup. In the   biomechanical lab analysis we can do more precise  motion analysis based on optical motion detection.   Do more precise and flexible load analysis by  integrated sophisticated load measurement systems.   For example load cells or force transducers. And  we can also do human stress analysis by measuring   human biosignals like electromyography  electrocardiography and ergospherometry. In the following slides I want to  demonstrate how you can use AnyBody   to get from the biomechanical lab analysis to a  model based and optimized exoskeleton mechanism. In the following model-based development was done  in the framework of the research project ExoPflege   funded by the german federal ministry  of education and research. The focus   of the project is on the manual support of  transferring fully or partly narcotized patients   in the pre-operation waiting room. The project  consortium consists of a research and development   team mostly out of small medium-sized enterprises,  and a hospital application partner, and our team   from Fraunhofer IPA as research partner. Based on  a workshop in the hospital a real mock-up of the   operation waiting room environment has been set  up to replicate the manual handling scenarios.   The movement sequences were pushing pulling and  lifting the patient's legs as you can see on the   video and the pictures. The main advantages  of the biomechanical lab analysis are that   you can analyze isolated and repeatable movement  sequences in the ideal case you get real workers   into the lab as we had. That you can take your  time for replicating the movement sequences   talk and apply for example a detailed  questionnaire together with the workers. Based on the measured motion data  we set up kinetic models in AnyBody.   Each in the representative most loaded posture  with load boundary conditions based on maximal   measured load data. On the two tables you can see the modeled  biomechanical muscle and joint stresses   stresses for all three load postures. Joint  stresses are leveled within a still healthy   considered load cases. The healthy load  cases were separately modeled with AnyBody  to get a reference for each joint stress.  For the elbow and lower back joint   a model standing straight holding a 20 kilogram  box with two hands has been considered. The knee   joint stress has been referenced by a model  walking with normal speed taking the maximum   of knee stress during stance phase. For the  glenohumeral joint aesthetic 45 degree abduction   holding a two kilogram dumbbell has been taken  as load reference. All three reference models   where an average 50. percentile European male  represented. Muscle stresses are leveled within   their percentage activations. The tables show  that especially for the shoulder arm system in the   pushing and pulling scenario and the lower back in  the lifting scenario are critically high stressed.   The results can be taken as quantitative  indicators for potential muscle and joint   disorders within each movement sequence. To sum  up the main aim of the assistive device is to   reduce musculoskeletal load on the shoulder arm  system especially for pushing. Futher, a torso   stabilization especially during rotated lifting  of the patient.Patient's legs is recommended. Before i describe how we designed a mechanism for  the pushing movement I want to describe how we in   general did virtual range of motion testing  and kinetic optimization within the AnyBody   Modeling System. The exoskeleton mechanism is  designed and adapted within a CAD environment and   iteratively transferred to the AnyBody Modeling  System using a software interface in AnyBody.   We then can apply the design changes  in a specific modeled load scenario   based on the mentioned two design frameworks we  followed an optimization loop. As you can see   here. Person application and exoskeleton specific  data is combined to an exoskeleton human model.   Kinematic and kinetic analyzes identifies  and quantifies by mechanical strain outputs,   which are compared towards the desired  approximation whether to exit or to   re-run the optimization loop by modifying  specific exoskeleton design parameters. Based on the assumption to define a modular  exoskeleton system consisting of a back module, a   shoulder arm mechanism with an upper arm bracing.  We, further. based on the biomechanical analysis   assumptions decided to design the mechanism  to be optimized for the pushing scenario.   In the upper figures you see how we in general try  to understand how the support could exert for an   optimal assistance between a back module and an  upper arm bracing which is placed on the humerus. In the upper right picture you can see how we  derived the attachment point of an artificial   fixed force between the upper arm and the back  module. On the graph on the lower right side   you can see the effect of the attachment point  on the resultant glenohumeral reaction force.   So we try to find a mechanism which optimally  exerts the aim force between the upper arm   bracing and the back module. A mechanism  with an active motor unit connected to   the back plate with a spherical joint  and connected to the upper arm bracing   with the cut out joint has been defined as  solution for the aim shoulder arm mechanism. Here you can see the final  exoskeleton human model design   in comparison to the scenario without exoskeleton.   Externally biomechanical output parameters show  the effectiveness of the mechanism referenced   to a load model without exoskeleton with reduced  hand pushing force based on the 50th percentile   of permitted maximum pushing force taken from  the german mounting specific force atlas. Further, from the final exoskeleton  model design you can acquire torque   requirements for your aimed motor unit.  Based on variable load boundary condition   you can set on your model. Further, the details  of the model based design study can be found   on the referenced publication  you can see on the slide. The first prototype of the shoulder arm mechanism  has been set up and will be tested with real   workers in the biomechanical lab. The current  shoulder arm mechanism is shown on the upper right   picture in a preliminary pushing test scenario.  On the video you can see how we exemplarily assess   our Stuttgart Exo-Jacket for  an overhead drilling task   using electromyographic data. To conclude  my presentation I will on my last slide   talk about how in future work the AnyBody  Modeling System could help to support the   integration and evaluation in the real work  environment of exoskeletons. Or for exoskeletons. As a perspective on digital evaluation...I   hope that the videos work now. Yeah. It's  the perspective on digital evaluation   exoskeleton human models in AnyBody could  be integrated or combined with holistic   digital work planning tools. On the lower right  side you see an example of digital human twins   acting in a holistic work environment. Holistic  sequential motion and load data can be taken   from existing digital work planning tools. Further  exoskeletons can be integrated as ergonomic tools   in a database to be selected and applied by  industrial engineers entrepreneurs. Anthropometric   databases can be integrated to further analyze  and understand unintended side effects of the of   the exoskeletons or the exoskeleton for the whole  human body overall, the whole working time, and   process. This would enable software-based design  of exoskeleton oriented manual work processes Thank you all for your attention and I wish you to  stay healthy especially during these tough times.   And now i'm here and open for questions. So, thank you very much for the presentation Mark  and just before we go to the Q&A session I would   just like to say a few words regarding our online  resources. So if you want to know more about the   AnyBody Modeling System or AnyBody Technology  in general you can check out our website at   https://anybodytech.com, where we will find events  and special dates and the full publication list.   And you can also check out https://anyscript.org,  which is our community website for people using   AnyBody. Here you can find our wiki page and  links to the repository sites. And you can   also find the forum, which is located here if you  wish to need some help from fellow AnyBody users.   I would also like to point your attention to a new  webcast we have coming up on November 11th. The   title is "Ccreating an Ergonomic Assessment - from  recording to a riomechanical analysis report".   This is a joint presentation by the  AnDY project members Ottobock,, Xsens,   IMK and AnyBody Technology. And  the webinar is hosted by Xsens.   If you have any questions or you want to meet  up with us, then please feel free to send us an   email at sales@anybodytech.com. Aand if you have  created something really interesting with AnyBody   Modeling System yourself and you would like to do  a webcast in the future and present your results.   Then please feel free to send me  an email at ki@anybodytech.com. 