 They say nothing changes faster than fashion trends, and no one has had it harder keeping up with the times than Steve Rogers. These are the top 10 costumes of Captain America throughout comic book history! Number 1: The Original Suit Cap’s debut suit has him sporting stars and some slimming stripes on his chainmail garb. That paired with his badge-shaped shield paid homage to medieval knights. One issue later, and this shield was changed to the iconic disc shape. Number 2: The Silver Age Suit After spending a cool 20 years as a Capsicle, Steve Rogers joins the Avengers in a darker blue costume. Keeping up with the times, he switches from briefs to boxers. They're still on the outside of his pants, but it’s a step in the right direction. Number 3: Nomad Steve Rogers briefly ditches the red, white, and blue costume to fight crime as the Nomad. This costume marks Cap’s first crisis of faith, as he loses trust in the U.S. government. Steve starts sporting a very '70s blue and gold suit, with a plunging deep V neckline. Cap might have escaped Hydra, but no one escaped disco...no one. Number 4: The Captain Steve takes a second protest break from being Captain America. He modifies his original costume to a black, white, and red color scheme, drops the “America” from his name, and continues to fight crime, even without trust in the government. Number 5: The Exoskeleton Tony Stark designs this mech suit for Steve after he’s left paralyzed by a Super-Serum sickness. This suit has numerous non-violent defenses such as Mylar sheaths, vertigo-inducing beams, and anti-missile missiles. But nothing in Cap’s arsenal is more intimidating than those shoulder pads! Number 6: The Ultimates Suit In this Alternate Universe reimagining, Cap redesigns his classic Silver Age costume with extra stars on his shoulders, pouches on his belt, and red military-style gloves and boots. Number 7: The Marvel Knights Suit In this acclaimed run of comics, Cap adds the wings back to the side of his mask and replaces the smaller-shaped chainmail with a larger hexagonal pattern. This costume had the added feature of mysterious pockets that would conspicuously appear or disappear depending on the artist drawing them at the time. Number 8: The Bucky Barnes Suit Bucky Barnes is the longtime frenemy and former sidekick of Steve Rogers, who has some baggage from his time as a Soviet assassin: The Winter Soldier. Bucky dons a half-spangled, half-black suit when he briefly takes over as Captain America. He keeps the iconic shield, but also adds a gun and knife to his arsenal, making him a much more edgy version of the Super Soldier. It’s not just a phase, Mom! Number 9: The Sam Wilson Suit Sam Wilson, AKA “The Falcon,” takes on the Captain America mantle after Steve Rogers is drained of his Super-Soldier Serum. Sam keeps the theme of Rogers' classic costumes while also adding some “Falcon flair” with his signature wings and goggles. Number 10: Steve Rogers 2016 Suit Steve Rogers returns as Captain America with a modern redesign. This suit has a more tactical look, with a classy blue uniform that features less red and white. Steve also trades in his classic disc shield with a new triangular one. But that’s not the biggest change Cap sees in this outfit. Turns out, Steve Rogers is a secret Hydra agent due to some reality-altering shenanigans. But don’t worry, he’s all better now. Well, that’s a wrap on our top 10 Captain America looks! What is your favorite costume? Are you mad we left out Werewolf Cap? Be sure to let us know in the comments below. 