 Hello comrades Today video is a bit late as always but you see that we aren’t giving up and going further. “Mark-4” As you can see, this is the movable dorsal part. Reinforced frame is used in order to put ICE onto the back Also we can put it onto the stomach if we’ll be able to combine “Mark-4” with power armor. Here will be a chainsaw’s ICE, which will be redesigned. On the ICE we’ll install frame with softeners for attaching to the frame. It will be done for preventing vibrations transmit to the body. It’ll look like this. On the one side there will be an engine and on the other side there will be cylinder for pneumatics or hydraulics. We have not decided yet. Oops, I turned the ignition on. Sorry. Let's do it again. It is quite light In theory, its power should be enough We’ll install silencer on it, of course Initially, this entire project was conceived so that power armor could run or at least walk on active drives. Step by step you will see how it will be done. Here you see the leg frame It hasn’t been finished yet, but it’s already been reinforced. In comparison with “Mark-1” this model is much stronger. That's how it will hold on then. We used very thick iron to prevent construction breaking and very reliable joints not to get injured during tests Why did we start to do it? Because we do not want to constantly make changes according to the results of tests of active drives in power armor. We want to master active drive technology on this model If possible, we’ll try to make this frame plug-in power armor. It is more reasonable than spoiling an already finished frame of power armor. All in all, you’ll see everything by yourself. Here, you see how we realized the pelvis support system It will use gas lifts that will unload operator’s back. You see that the back is supporting, it is not divided into sectors On feet you see tie rod ends again, because they need some degrees of freedom Active drives will be installed here. They’ll move the legs to relieve the pressure from walking and running. At the moment, we are more inclined to hydraulics. Many would say that pneumatics is easier to work with. But firstly, the hydraulics is more powerful. Because the density of air is less than liquid. Secondly, pneumatics is faster and sharper, and we want smooth movements. Hydraulics is easier to implement in valves and control system. Also, we have ideas for a system based on pneumatics and artificial muscles, but we haven’t tested it yet. I think it comes to this system. We’ll try If you are constructing an exoskeleton, never forget about joint restraints. Otherwise, there is a risk that they’ll bend too much or in the opposite direction That could injure you There we’ll certainly install the restraints Due to the fact that you, our subscribers, helped us financially, we significantly accelerated the release of this video. Thank you very much And now I’m saying goodbye There are a lot of interesting things ahead See you 