 Good morning. My name is Allen Yang from EECS Department. Myself and also our faculty members are running a new center, called the Center for Augmented Cognition. Today I would like to share with you some of the very exciting activities in research and application in our College of Engineering. One of the hot areas in Silicon Valley and around the world is in argument argument reality and virtual reality. Just this year, in 2016, we have seen at least four very exciting products actually getting into the hands of the consumers. For example, from Facebook we have Oculus, and from Microsoft we have the Hololens. And this month, Sony is going to announce their own VR product and I think many people actually know Pokemon Go. I want to see a show of hands again how many you actually have tried the Facebook Oculus? Ok just few of you. How many you have try Microsoft Hololens? I think a little bit less. And how many of you have tried the Pokemon Go on your phone? Ok, now we have more. So just shout out here, actually the founder of Pokemon Go, if you don't know, John Hanke he actually is also a Berkeley Haas alum, for that particular reason, and the company, for the particular reason the company has placed strategically some unique monsters around our campus. So take advantage today to actually catch those monsters just to be safe, you know just make sure that you are safe. Now and I have seen that some of you may not actually have ever experienced the AR and VR experience before. But no worries, you can actually no recall some of the glimpses of the technologies if we walk down the memory lane. I know that some of you maybe fans of Star Trek, right? (sounds from video clip playing) Now you know that there is a device in Star Trek called the HoloDeck and it is actually based on virtual reality (voice on video)I have something in satin. Begin chapter 30 (Yang continues talking) And then the whole empty room turns into a virtual reality set. Other than these two characters all the sound, building and the band they are all virtual.  (video) No, no, no look at me, try to act naturally. (Yang talking) Alright, in Star Wars you know what motivated Luke Skywalker to venture out and the in the galaxy far far away, actually was a fragment of a Princess Leia hologram, which is another name for argument in reality. (video, Kenobi) Now let's see if we can figure out what you are my little friend and where you come from. (video Skywalker) I saw part of the message you (video Kenobi) I seemed to have found it (video Leia) General Kenobi, years ago you served my father in the Clone Wars. Now he begs you to help him in his struggle against the Empire. I regret that I am unable to present my father's request to in person but my ship is falling under attack, and I'm afraid my mission to bring you to Alderaan has failed. I have placed information vital to the survival of the rebellion into the memory systems of this R2 unit. My father will know how to retrieve it. You must see this droid safely delivered to him on Alderaan. This is our most desperate hour. Help me Obi-Wan Kenobi, you're my only hope. (Yang speaking) I think it's safe to say that it was these wonderful visions that actually drove not only the moviegoers but also researchers like us to actually continue to innovate and study how we can continue to actually develop new concept in AR and VR in this space. So these are the concepts. You know in academia people have been working on this for the past 50 years, but since 2012, something magical has happened. This abstraction and concepts that people thought could only existed in movies suddenly become household names and even commercial products we can you put our hands on. For example, in 2012 Google announced the Glass product, which revolutionized how the head-up display was designed. You know in the past you you have to spend tens of thousands, but here on the Google Glass is a basic piece of head up display that cost about, you know, a few hundred dollars. In 2012, and 2014, we have Occulus Rift and HTC Vibe basically also put the concept of Holo Deck in reality. We just had some fun about the Pokemon Go in 2016. If you dig into the technology archives in 2012, Qualcomm in partnership with Disney actually had put out a demo that let you play with the Sesame Street characters on a tablet.  In 2012, I joined a startup team called Atheer, which is a company in Mountain View, and we designed one of the first 3D gesture interface that, in real time, can allow you to use native hands to manipulate 3D virtual content in space. So similar to what Tom Cruise was able to do in the movie Minority Report. Now if you are interested in these kind of visions you may actually ask that, if you're ready today to declare that in augmented or virtual reality is your dream career, what kind of resources can you get at Berkeley? Well the first one I want to let you know about is that in 2015, I helped a a group of very highly motivated undergrad students to start a VR club, Berkeley VR Club , undergrad students who is are going to do a demo today for all of you guys in the Jacobs Institute. At the beginning we only had about five people and in the past 12 months we have seen tremendous interest and growth of our membership. Most of our students, during Cal Day, once they put on the AR and VR headset, they just couldn't put it down. They just couldn't put it down. And in this semester, during our enrollment period, we receive more than 200 applications, more than 40 times growth. I would encourage you to go to our website VR.berkeley.edu, and there you can check out more than ten independent student projects on the website. In 2016 we also started a new center with the goal of mainly supporting faculty and graduate students doing research, and one of the unique, characteristics of this of the center is that not only do we have professors in EECS, mechanical engineering, we also have a big umbrella, a big tent, from other parts of the campus. For example, we have our professors from Haas Business School, and we also have serial entrepreneurs such as Jack McCauley. He he is the co-founder of Oculus and we also have Ren Ng, he is the founder of Lytro Camera. And we are also currently developing new programs for master students, you know for students who don't need to take a five year PhD degree, and we are working at the Fung Institute for Engineering Leadership, and then we are planning next year to launch a master of engineering program for AR and VR . If you're interested in this in this area, to take a master program you're definitely actually keep that in mind. I want to show you two videos from our students and I think that you will enjoy it. The first one is called Open Ark, many of you know one of the traditions of Berkeley, the traditional Berkeley is open-source research. So last year our students took some of the off-the-shelf components and design an open source AR glasses, so you know you don't have to wait for the Microsoft Hololens and so on and so forth. Now with these types of devices, remember this open source, it's off the shelf it's not too pretty, and what can you do with it? Well, if you load our software on the device you can do this (video playing music) So I call this the Pokemon Go of the future with interactive gesture control, you know? Wouldn't that be nice? Finally, let me show you one last video, and this is called VR Campanile and this is entirely designed and coded by our undergrad students. (student in video talking) The Campanile is the most iconic symbol of UC Berkeley, and at its peak sits the Carillon, a massive instrument consisting of 61 bells. All around Berkeley you can hear it ringing the hour and broadcast music, but few people ever get the chance to go near it, let alone play it. Through virtual reality, however, this can be achieved pretty easily. The intention of the Virtual Campanile is to give people a chance to experience playing the instrument for themselves. The HTC Vibe was the perfect platform for this project, the 360 degree room scale motion tracking allows you to move around freely and hit the keyboard precisely. Now I let my team talk about how we put this together. Using recorded sound samples provided to us by the Berkeley Carillon Guild we were able to recreate the full set of bells of the Sather Tower Carillon. We imported the audio samples into a digital audio workstation, then we cleaned the samples using equalization to remove excess noise and create a clearer overall sound. We focused on the Carillon room and the keyboard. We began in Maya by designing a single key and pedal, then duplicated them to create the instrument modeled after real Carillion blueprints. Finally we stitch these designs together with clouds, models of buildings around the Campanile, and the tower itself. With the sound recorded and models built, it was time to put everything together. We attach the spring to each key to make it move realistically then use the physics framework called Newton VR to support controller interactions. Finally, we made it so that the corresponding sound would play whenever a key was pressed. The Virtual Campanile was very well-received on Cal Day 2016. People would wait in line for 30 minutes to try our demo and I remember that almost everyone ,especially kids, would end their demo with a glissando, which is sliding across all the keys. While anyone can have fun playing the Virtual Campanile, dedicated carillon players can also use our platform to practice at their convenience. However, it still has room for improvement and creativity. For example, we're adding a guitar hero mode for people without previous training. Overall, we're just excited that we can bring this unique Berkeley treasure to the general public. (Yang speaking) Alright, make sure that I run all of the credits. So so finally, I would just say thank you again for coming back to Berkeley. The faculty and students at Berkeley will continue innovating at the frontier of science and technology, and I just want to thank you for your support as alums, parents and students. Thank you very much. 