 In this video, we'll talk about how simple head motions and facial expressions can actually result in cursor motion. So when you want to move the mouse using the Smyle Mouse software, there are actually two mouse motion modes to select from. So by default you'll notice that the 'Always' mode is selected. Which is indicate right here. The way 'Always' mode works is essentially, whenever I move my head, the cursor will move in that direction automatically. So for instance, if I wanted to navigate to the Google Chrome icon, at the bottom of the screen, all I have to do is look in that direction, and the cursor will move. Like so. So very quickly, and very precisely, I can navigate to that specific point on the screen. So I'm going to go ahead and click on it. And I can very easily exit out of this page as well. Something to note about the always mouse motion mode is that there is a setting called 'Stickiness'--which is a threshold of motion that must be surpassed before the mouse actually starts moving. So what that means is, if you look at the camera, you can see my head is slightly moving as I'm talking to the webcam. In fact, I can even move my head slightly to demonstrate this point. Even as I'm moving my head the mouse isn't necessarily moving. So this threshold that must be surpassed before the mouse actually starts moving... that can be configured in our settings panel. And it is referred to as 'stickiness'. The other mouse motion mode to select is 'With Smile'. I'm going to go ahead and select that. The way 'With Smile' works is it looks at my facial expressions, more specifically the intensity of my smile, and using that, it will trigger mouse motions. So I'm moving my head right now, I'm looking left and right, and the cursor is remaining stationary. In order for me to actually trigger that motion, I have to start smiling and moving simultaneously. Like so. You'll notice this meter at the side of the screen as well. This meter represents the intensity of my smile. I'm going to go ahead and click on some additional icons just to demonstrate the level of precision one can achieve with the 'With Smile' mode. I'm going to click on that icon. Maybe go to the store. And I'm going to exit out of this window as well. The amount of time that you actually have to hold a smile before the software picks it up, can also be configured in our settings panel as well. The final thing to note about this mode is that the user doesn't necessarily have to hold that smile after the mouse starts moving for it to continue to move. So for instance, once I get the mouse moving here, you'll notice I'm not even smiling. The mouse is simple moving because my head is still engaging in a continuous motion. But when I remain stationary and the software realizes I'm no longer smiling, then it'll stop. 