 In Microsoft 365 Defender, automated self-healing mimics the ideal steps a human would take to forensically investigate and remediate organizational assets impacted by attacks. It's like increasing your capacity by adding a team of security analysts working 24/7. Automated self-healing helps security teams to respond more efficiently; investigate and remediate alerts automatically; and free critical resources to focus on other tasks. An automated investigation begins before a human analyst even sees the alert. Microsoft 365 Defender automatically fuses alerts into incidents and remediates affected assets across domains. It starts by investigating impacted assets and grouping them together. Then, it collects all the evidence of compromise--across all domains and correlated alerts--to provide visibility into related events, timelines, state information, and more. After that, for each piece of evidence, it decides a verdict; suspicious, malicious, or clean; and acts on the evidence appropriately. For example, Microsoft 365 Defender might take immediate action on a malicious process by forcefully closing it, a malicious URL by blocking it, or a suspicious email by quarantining it. Last, it expands the investigation to include more potentially affected assets and continues the cycle. Automated investigation and self-healing look at an enormous amount of entities--across domains--in a very short period. (Human analysts would require much longer to complete the same investigation.) Therefore, it dramatically reduces the time an attack can operate before remediation shuts it down--not to mention the time it saves the security team. Microsoft 365 Defender surfaces automated investigations in incidents. And since we have another video that describes incident management in more detail, we'll skip right to the Investigations tab to focus on automated self-healing. The Investigations list shows all the investigations that Microsoft 365 Defender automatically performed as part of the incident. It includes the alert that triggered the investigation, it's status, and service source. (Notice the different service sources that are contributing to the incident.) Drilling into an investigation reveals all its details, starting with the remediation status. Microsoft 365 Defender automatically remediated this investigation, and the status includes a summary of the action it took. Beginning to end, the investigation took just minutes. We know that because the Investigation page lists the starting and ending times, plus how that time was spent. (Human intervention would have likely taken much longer.) Below that is the investigation graph. A nice overview of the investigation. It starts with the alert received; lists the entities analyzed, evidence collected, and wait times, and finally, the remediation result. Selecting of these icons will open the corresponding tab on the Investigation page. Most of the tabs on the Investigation page are like the same tabs on the incident page. The difference here is that these tabs are in the context of this one investigation, and they often provide additional status. However, the Evidence tab is unique to the Investigation page. It lists all the malicious and suspicious entities that Microsoft 365 Defender automatically investigated. For each, the Status column indicates its current status, and the Action column indicates the action that Microsoft 365 Defender took on that entity--if any. The Log tab is my favorite part of this page, because it shows each action that Microsoft 365 Defender took during its investigation. In most cases, the type, action, and description columns are adequate to understand what took place, but you can select an action in the log to see more detail. While you can review, and if necessary, approve actions in an individual investigation, security teams can see all recent automated actions in the Action Center. For example, select a pending action, review the high-level details or open the investigation. When ready, just approve or reject the action. You can review completed actions on the History tab. The Decision column shows whether the action was approved or rejected, and the Decided By column indicates who made the decision. Actions that were decided by automation are those that the automation and artificial intelligence in Microsoft 365 Defender completed automatically. Microsoft 365 Defender can stop attacks quickly by automatically investigating and remediating them--across all domains. For more information about automated self-healing, see our documentation on Microsoft Docs. 