 Hi, everyone! Welcome to another episode of GTV. It's me again Mommy Ginger and today this is something again that is so unique. Our topic today is so unique i've heard of this term but but really I don't know i don't know anything about it but i heard of it from my friend, Martine de Luna and also H, one of my friends, so they said that they know someone who is an expert when it comes to bio hacking so our topic today is biohacking. The lady that they're talking about is right here and thank you so much Eli for guesting. Hi, thank you so much. Hi everybody! hello to all the viewers. Thank you mommy ginger for having me today to talk about biohacking which is a very very novel concept in the philippines. Yes!. I have so much to ask you. I have many questions to ask you because, number one, I would like to know what bio hacking is, but i've heard so many good things from Martine and even H. So maybe first of all before we go to the topic maybe you can introduce yourself, Eli. I'm Eli Abela. i'm the Philippines first human potential coach who was mentored by Dave Asprey He is the inventor and founder of bulletproof coffee If you guys are into the Keto diet and you're into bulletproof yes yes he's my mentor he's also known as the father of biohacking so if you didn't know yet bulletproof coffee is his first biohack. okay yeah because it's a high fat diet it's part of a high fat diet and the high content of fat actually hacks your hormones so that's why it's enough so it's so if if you didn't know you were a biohacker and you took bulletproof coffee, you're actually one. so we're actually biohacking i actually tried that. There was a time I tried Keto. a lot of people who are like uh going through that diet in keto diet they're doing that and they're taking that Yes, exactly. So biohacking sounds really scary actually they've asked for a coin the term because he used to be a silicon valley programmer so he's used to hacking computers but um during his 20s and 30s he was really sick like gravely sick and then he went to doctors and the doctor said no we can't do anything for you there's nothing wrong with you one of the tests were coming out normal but he was feeling terrible, so he said i'll just i'm not do this on my own i'll research or i'll do it i'll buy machines or whatever. So he started buying gadgets and machines he spent 300 000 of his own money experimenting on himself on food on machines on gadgets. He started getting better. Then over time he discovered bulletproof coffee when he was in, I believe, Nepal because there's butter yak tea there, and then he got this download while he was in the mountains oh my god my brain feels so um sharp. What is this? It's the fat. So when he got home, he said what if i put butter and extra fat in my coffee how will i feel there's bulletproof coffee that's how it came about okay and then his use of the machines he also kind of proliferated that practice and and then he started the not talking about it he starte talking about it and people started getting better then the movement just got bigger and bigger and thus biohacking came about so by hacking is not scary It's very practical like bulletproof coffee. That's a biohack right so it's knowing how your body puts itself back in equilibrium so in other words knowing how the body self-regenerates... self-heals and then using gadgets machines, mindset, timing of eating, timing or sleeping to harness those pathways that's that's it that's all it is okay it's easy intermittent fasting is a biohack okay so yeah so you're harnessing the bodies different processes and you're hacking into it that's all so there are many different degrees but everyone can be a biohacker and get benefits from it. So you mentioned there are different degrees now like i'm i'm thinking of the actual "hacking" because of the actual "hacking" there are like different people building using different languages like our bodies are set differently you know we have unique bodies we have unique i don't know  behaviors and lifestyles so so yeah, how does that work when it comes to biohacking.  So exactly what you said biohacking is really about bio individuality so if we go through um the allopathic method of wellness it's not really bio-individual. It's monotherapy because you're sick of one thing they give you one therapy just this one drug and expect it to be well but biohacking honors the fact that you are a unique individual and you're different from even your own twin so you want to address your own custom issues with custom therapies custom approaches so yeah so by hacking also um is about being your own doctor your own nutritionist your own philosopher your own shaman it's it's knowing where you are at this moment and and what's getting in your way correct taking those out and then adapting practices and stuff that will make you move forward so it's like a step above self-care because self-care oh yeah i do myself but this one is like you're geeking out on on where you are at this moment and what you can do to make yourself more optimized. You're kind of obsessed with that idea yeah so Eli, how is it different from holistic medicine because i've heard of that as well. yeah so holistic medicine i mean they're all part and parcel because it's actually closer to biohacking than than allopathic medicine holistic you take you the the body is a system so it's systemic healing systemic kind of therapy approach so same with biohacking you you take into account the gestalt you take into account the whole person psychology the mental health the physical health all of that but biohacking, you put your power in your own hands so you don't give it away to your therapist in holistic medicine you don't give it away your functional integration who's also into holistic medicine you have a say and you have you play a role why because you know exactly what's going on so you're empowering yourself to be... to be to know who you are. I know my body i know what i want to do with it you can help me okay help me but don't tell me what to do and you basically just take back your power and then take responsibility as well accountability so it's a whole new way of looking at managed care got it so it's really you. You're part of the process. okay, you HAVE to be yeah you have to be.  yeah you are responsible for that so Eli, how did you get into this like i imagine like being the first in in the philippines Yeah... it's so weird um it i just downloaded it okay this is this is really i mean i saw bulletproof coffee someone posted it online and something clicked inside me i need to see this i wasn't really sick or anything but if anything i was when i discovered it in 2015 i was a vegan at the time and then two years now you know veganism there's always this thing with any diet now there's always what you call a window of wellness you feel so great for a few months and that's how i felt with veganism so i'm so thin and i'm so energetic yeah a little over time thereby over time you kind of push yourself off the edge of too much nah and so i think i was at the point where my body was already starving it was deficient in vitamins and  what veganism might (i'm sorry to my vegan friends) but i was there for two years and when i when i saw the coffee, um something clicked inside me i should try this and then when i tried it i bought the brain octane oil, the grass-fed butter and the coffee i tried it my brain just lit up . I had so much energy yeah and then you know and then i just started following Dave Asprey read his book, it made sense to me.  I started eating meat when i read his book. what really resonated with me was that you shouldn't be an exercise machine you should be a recovery machine which is so unheard of everyone is always like go, go go. push, push, push. But for him, longevity means you pull back more. in fact you pull back twice as much as you push because that's how you uhm... that's how you welcome longevity is is by pulling back more by uh resetting yourself and recharging your energy because you can't run an empty and expect to live for a long time you have to recover that you have to uh create energy for you to move forward. So it really resonated with me -- his thinking and his approach yeah like that's the first time I've heard that we should be recovery machines yeah i've never thought of it that way so in terms of the adoption here in the Philippines like are many filipinos or do many filipinos know about this. Honestly, this is the first time i'm hearing this. this is the first time that i'm actually talking to someone who knows about this. i sort of read a little bit, before this interview but i really didn't understand what it was. Yes, there are a some people, but maybe not to the extent that i know it because i liv, breathe biohacking but i know i know a particular niches like the freelancers because they're all about you guys they're all about optimizing the brain performance sleep so they read brain you know the books by Jim Quick, Sleep doctors all of that because they want to optimize so so we can speak the same language and then also athletes because athletes are the most inflamed people on the planet they really are because they're telling their bodies that they're being chased by tigers 8 hours a day and then for them sleep is not enough so they really have to optimize yeah so they know bits and pieces of um biohacking they even use machines like compression machines, cryo yeah that's biohacking also hyperbaric so they've been using it also yeah but but only for yeah but for recovery so yeah it's here and there. So, Eli, for the average person like what what can we do... like how do we start doing this? Yea, okay it's super easy. First change the mindset so you always look at two things: there are things that can repair you and there are things that will impair you. that's all. Okay so what are the things... immediate sources of energy. Food is one yes so again categorize what is repairing and what is impairing more often than not we are eating things that are impairing our immune system because of too much inflammation because they're pro-inflammatory like dairy milk cheese ice cream soda, pork grind... what else so those those are the things So it's not good also because if you're scared of Covid and you're eating that you're allocating your immune systems resources to the protecting you from those foods. It's a waste. You want 100 on Covid, but then what you're doing is you're grabbing from your resources. to detox that, since it's inflammatory. What happens is that when there's too much toxins you gain weight because fat is simply a way for compartmentalizing toxins so it will it will wrap itself around toxins to protect you and that's why people gain weight it's actually the body's protective mechanism okay yeah but then so that's why also when you stop eating inflammatory foods you start to lose weight yeah start to lose weight. It's releasing toxins because the body now sees that there's nothing in the mind that's harmful yeah yeah okay yeah it will start to release it now yeah so food is a big thing so i always with my clients or anybody who asks me i always say determine what is your kryptonite that's keeping you from being super and then remove it. That's it! So easy. But everybody's like... this is the problem. People say... I can't give up rice because we Pinoys love rice. rice isn't even the worst... like bread is worse.. pasta is worse i know the sugar is worse. I noticed that because whenever i eat bread i feel bloated for some reason yes there's gluten in bread that's a weed that it's hard to digest a lot of people well as filipinos we have resistance with gluten we might have like a celiac disease propensity. Also there's bromide in flour and the flour and the bread will defeat our iodine and iodine is something that's used or molecule that's used for so many repair signaling processes yes we have so little iodine we might also not be able to digest well or you know detox well so bread is really really bad news unless you're from Europe i'm just kidding i know there's gluten free bread, etc. these bread doesn't really contain what you mentioned. so yeah i know if i so we'll look at the food and then we can start with that . So do you have a list of that or is it the usual like food that we know that we should avoid? Pretty much, avoid junk food, those that use plastic or wrappers, or cans because of preservatives. it went through a manufacturing process it's not straight from from the soil the water from the ocean the trees It goes through a lot, so scratch off those. so start there and then also the water that you drink has to be good because we're um 80 water so your water needs to be clean uh distilled water actually, the best glacial water okay so like spring water which i don't know if we have i don't know. It's hard and expensive to buy those here. Yeah. Reverse osmosis is the best if you can buy reverse osmosis machine from the us and then just process your water here. that's good also. I drink distilled but this is is replete of minerals So just add minerals or just take supplements you take your electrolytes. How about infused water? water with lemon? yeah yeah that's good also yeah the lemon will um remove any bacteria parasites and then also alkalize the body so it's good good okay all right yeah it smells good also. So food water and then sleep how about sleep? This is a biohacker's obsession. Even if we sleep well. It's a problem of a lot of people. It either you sleep a lot or lack sleep. If you sleep a lot, that means you're compensating for a problem there's definitely something you're trying to fix that you can't so sleep is our darling. We track it we do everything everything that we do yeah we do it for sleep yeah so the time that we eat what we do at night the time we turn off our lights is all because of sleep. it's the most important thing in a person's life because if it weren't important mother nature wouldn't have plugged it in to be one third of our lives yeah but 1/3 of our lives are sleep yeah. So if it wasn't important, mother nature could have just taken it out. It could have just evolved to us needing prolly two hours of sleep, but that isn't the case. We need sleep for I think it's important for biohackers too because when your premise revolves recovery recovery of the body, restoration. People say that when you sleep that's when your body recovers and restores itself exactly... yeah there's so much more to sleep like when you work out in the gym you actually build muscle in sleep because that's when the human growth hormone comes out and also if you have cancer cells that are floating that's when they get destroyed by natural killer cells so they control your body and look for malignant cells and then they kill them but you have to be asleep.. deeply, in order for that to happen yeah so lots of things happen your brain also gets recalibrated so if there it it modifies painful memories so if you have i mean you know if you're upset about someone during deep sleep, paid gets removed. Your brain gets rewired. and then also there are moments of brilliance that can be concocted during sleep because the the brain during rem sleep, it integrates old memories with new yeah and then creates creativity like a  eureka moment. so when you wake up "oh okay i've solved my problem" so that's why i encourage everybody to really sleep because that's where the brilliance comes usually you think you're asleep but you're actually so active so it's true when people say to sleep on it when you need to make big decisions or like you want to do something right away with impulse but people say sleep on it... I didn't know that it had a basis yes!!! there's a basis!!! In fact the geniuses put it.... like Dali, who else... thomas edison i think they would induce lucid dreaming in themselves so they would sleep and then they would put themselves in between deep and rem so that's lucid dreaming yeah and then they would wake themselves up and then that's where supposedly that's for dali's images for his paintings came from from that state and Edison also so sleep is so powerful the brain is super active during sleep So when you got into this Eli, what were the stuff that you didn't know before that you can share as tips with other people like even now, what are the things that you can think of that actually has basis. What are the other things? through biohacking or learning about hacking yeah so there's a lot of things that you can do actually these are very simple um like um going out in the sun between 12 and 2. people say that it's so bad for you skin cancer no it's the best time to go out to 12 noon so the highest the the highest the position of the sun because that's where vitamin d gets converted the most uh the fastest vitamin D, so 12 noon let's say you get you can convert maybe 10 000 ius in in let's say 20 minutes whereas if you did it any other time it would take you an hour but 12 noon is like quick fix so um the sun the uvb so again ultraviolet (they say it's bad) no! you need ultraviolet rays uvb particularly to convert your cholesterol cholesterol is good into vitamin d into vitamin e and it happens the fastest at 12 noon okay a lot of people like say i'll put i know sunblock i'll wear shades or wear a hat No! Don't do that! Sunblocvk has petrochemicals what you put on your skin you're eating as well because the skin is alive i mean it's it's your largest organ so if you won't eat it don't put it on your skin look at the shades shades the eyes are the most important to get sun in because the eyes is connected to the brain that will determine our circadian rhythm yeah something called the super super charismatic nucleus it's there in the so you and that's what determines when you wake up when you sleep all of that but it needs um daytime it meets the signal of the natural rays of the sun Oh this is why we find it difficult sometimes to sleep when we are inside our homes. Our bodies don't know when it's morning or evening. Our rhythms get disrupted. Exactly! So when you're on your laptop or cellphones at 7pm, our bodies are confused. It thinks it's daytime so you're not sleepy. So what do we do about this? We have a biohack for that. These are called blu blockers. these are amber lenses and they block the blue light from your computer from your tv from your cell phone and then so when the blue light is blocked so you only wear this at night at sunset so since you match it you wear it and then the body will start to get sleepy so the body will say oh it's evening... i'm gonna pour melatonin slowly so you become sleepy. Oh, I want that! It's so nice! yeah if you don't have these yet, you can hack it turn off your lights oh so we will have this available soon in the Philippines. wow that's so nice so sorry Eli, for those who don't know, why is Vitamin D important. Some of our viewers Might not know. because it's actually vitamin d is not a vitamin it's a hormone and it's important yeah it's a hormone it's important for about 2000 gene expressions especially a lot of those expressions are immunogenetic expressions. so immune system... so a lot of COVID patients who passed away were very low in vitamin d that's why it's important so the sun is the best way to get it the quickest way to get it in the most natural form otherwise you can also get supplements but you know the sun is still better yeah The important thing to not is that if you get it in supplement form you must also pair it with vitamin k2 so d3 and k2 always together for absorption right yeah for absorption actually because vitamin D3 will will promote calcification and so K2 redistributes the calcification so when it when there's calcification it doesn't get stuck in one place because it can also cause problems. k2 will redistribute it in fact here's a here's a a little cool fact. for osteoporosis this is what you use you don't drink milk you don't drink calcium you take vitamin d3 and k2 to fight osteoporosis so the calcium is being distributed to where you need it yeah okay that's interesting. I'm learning a lot! This is so interesting. I'm happy to share. i'm sure like people come to you and say hello, Eli! I have a problem one is sleep i think we sort of tackled that... that's number one yeah and what else is there that they usually come to you for? Oh! weight loss Yes, please! what can you share about weight loss? Oh, that's actually related to sleep. Sleep problems and foo... addiction. hormones have an imbalance so that will mean your mood is affected and they're all connected so that's why i always say tackle food and then and then focus on sleep more because usually those two are what really affect the hormones so much yeah if those two are very balanced almost you'll see uh it propagates throughout the whole system your mood gets better you don't get as hungry so the misfiring of that i'm hungry every two hours true it won't happen so if you sleep well and you and you balance your hormones with good food it's usually it will propagate itself throughout yeah in terms of exercise, what are your thoughts on that ah okay this is going to discombobulate you i'm anti-exercise haha just kidding yeah no i love exercise you need it when you need it but don't over exercise the problem with um what's being taught since the i don't know time immemorial since 50 60s 70s 80s now but you have to see that's true you shouldn't um because um exercise is still stress so if you're stressed at work and then you're stressed at home and then exercise kapa your compounding stress and stress and stress is people are saying oh exercise will help you because of the indoor fans because it's you know the thing is if you're addicted to endorphins like downhill because you're addicted to the feeling instead of the real benefit that exercise should bring which is to lubricate the joints to sharpen the mind and all of that to enough to move so i think just like with anything um do something that keeps you in your sweet spot if you're doing something and you're being pushed off like me the above vegan sm i was so great up here for a while too much if you're exercising too much because you feel it's going to make you it's going to make you feel better wake up and see and really check in with yourself and say ah can i just exercise twice a week and and be okay about it if you're if your sleep is not good first thing you should take out is exercise if you're exercising uh too much yeah because if you with the freelancers exactly so we have this term called cardiac cardio yeah you see a lot of triathletes they collapse and because they're really overdoing so many things so if not so that's the first thing that i know that i would say um if you want to exercise and you're stressed let's say a real stress reliever is walking risk walking for five ten minutes okay oil your joints lubricated get your heart rate up a little bit just a little bit it's also a type of meditation taking a break taking a very productive rest from work uh and also risk walking has shown that it reduces alzheimer's in women by about 30 so it really optimizes the brain so i think everybody should do that okay and then if you're my age so mid middle age now so almost 50. um our hormones already low so our thyroid hormones are low our adrenals are very weak already we shouldn't exercise at this point um in my 20s and 30s i used to run marathons on a black belt seven hours of snowboarding don't exercise don't exercise for the wrong reasons yeah exercise for energy but if it depletes your energy you have to step back again going back to be a recovery machine again that's mindset because we were wired to think that we need to do more all the time but no biohacking pull back yeah that's that's longevity so what i'm getting from you telegano it's really number one listening to your body because there are times there are times when i feel stressed tapas i exercise me times you can't get to that point that you course correct if you don't try the name the pattern you try better in moderation will come and overdo it and then you go back to the past is it something that we need to do as well and where do we have machines here in the philippines and what are the methods for yes uh yeah i put up the first biohacking center in the philippines okay unlimited umltd unlimited so i have the machines here and they're not because they're on a cellular level now they they create energy on a cellular level it's for not just athletes it's for everyone who wants who everyone wants to optimize brain and body performance so freelancers you know seniors entrepreneurs everyone even special needs kids which is my part of my market also mental illness drug rehab cellular level shock so but they're non-medical okay and they're but they're clinical grade so if we can also address help uh with the process of preparing for cancer or autoimmune yeah depression and stuff that's all inflammatory yeah so it addresses inflammation at the cellular level yeah but but they're not the no they're not like hard to be you know besides easy enough plug and play yeah grabbing results it's really real it's real science but it's so accessible now yeah so yeah are these like different machines or just one yes different machines yes okay it's different so i have like i think seven different machines so my my main one one of the main ones is neurofeedback so brain brain training training for the brain can you can you sorry can you go through less seven yes gives information about your activity so we've never had a way to to let our brains know how it's dysregulated yeah so this machine is very advanced software that that's able to take information from the electrical uh part of the nervous system into the software and feed it back so basically it's like a mirror so when you're putting out your you're passing through passing by a mirror and then you know you look and then you notice that your back is not straight correct that's feedback yeah you correct yourself yeah right yeah so that's feedback so it's self-correcting so it's your brain that corrects itself so the machine doesn't push anything otherwise i would not go for the machine it's your brain that organically uniquely knows what it needs to self-correct so because it's very subjective and it's unique to every brain the results will be variable got it so somebody who's lacking in sleep and this is very common will sleep better okay someone who's anxious will have less anxiety attacks or panic attacks depressed will i know but of course flexible expectations because it's very um organic just like with everything else the body needs repetition for it to go towards a trajectory but it's not monotherapy it's unique therapy so uh it's brain training so it's like when you go to a gym diva you have yeah yeah exactly so same same concept yeah yeah and so i use it for special needs kids for adults with alzheimer's athletes who are always overthinking their mistakes performance anxiety yeah so it's very very safe because it's it's not pushing in it's your information and nobody knows you better than your brain nobody knows what you need better than your own brain i love it that it honors you it really honors so far uniquely as an individual that's why i like this machine great and then for for the other and then uh i have near infrared sauna so the near infrared sauna um pushes out infrared wavelength of light which is invisible to the eye but it's the longest wavelength so the sun sunrise and sunset will have infrared near infrared it penetrates into the about nine inches into the body so this light is bioactive so it it know it repairs cells it has it promotes collagen and then the heat yeah will mobilize toxins so there's detox and regeneration yeah so it's great for um heavy metal detox so people with cancer people with depression autism there's a lot of mercury involved in other heavy metals there's pain in the joints that's usually either oxalic acid or gout or heavy metals also but it will relieve that yeah there's a lot there's a lot um i have red light red dead so it's a bed of pure red and near infrared light so it's like the um the rays of of sunset and sunrise by the way this is free biohack go out sunrise and sunset take care of light very healing also fixes vision problems so if you really look at sunrise and sunset it will help the light with vision problems the red bed just magnifies that the sunrise sunset magnifies that so actually one of the bio hacks you can do at night is you get one of those red bulbs from ace hardware yes oh or candle candle or red actresses were saying that oh let's go to this red room because that's they started explaining so so normally when we put zika my daughter to sleep kayla and red moon in a red light snap in like a few minutes no before sleeping you are a bio hacker yeah you're hacking the red light of sunset it says sunset is what the eyes use to sit to signal your melatonin to start pouring it's so relaxing oh yeah perfect perfect thank you for that yes i have a whole room of that okay and then i have a pulsed electromagnetic fields mat which is like grounding so you've heard of grounding grounding walking barefoot on the ground yeah taking the negative ions yeah you're right i mean the negative ions they um they attach themselves to free radicals and then and then it just flies away harmlessly so that's why we feel good when we're in the beach because sand is that has negative ions the wind and the air all of that in the beach and forests and lakes negative ions it has different frequencies for different conditions like osteoporosis cancer even ankle breaks even chakra chakra aligning mankinians they electromagnetic fields around us uh which light is a part of actually at the electromagnetic spectrum so so um we use this light we use the grounding and then i also have this inhaled water vapor okay this inhaled water vapor when you inhale it it tells the body um it signals cellular repair in the body i don't know how but it does it's amazing so it has had also um efficacy efficacy against cancer okay i think was that what martine tried i saw like a picture yeah yeah so all of these you can use it prophylactically or for prevention but if you already have something you can use it for repair because it's cellular repair don't play like i knew about this well before martin told me no i'm super honored that you're here as a guest i'm sure like a lot of viewers are i cannot like you thank you so that your lifestyle moves grab it okay i learned so and you don't have to spend much yeah you're welcome thank you thank you for having me it's my um vocation to help people especially pinoys a lot of people are uh taking health and safety about being very safe yes so what are simple tips that you can give them so that their immune system are at its best during these times yeah so very simple i know it's rainy um but if there's a spot of sun that you can find go out breathe the air you know get get out of the sun get your vitamin d if not then get the supplement form and always pair it with k2 number two um cold showers cold showers are the best yes cold showers i they boost immunity they put you in the calm state they put your body in a calm state yeah these are all my yeah because it's free dubai just just don't put on the hot water just go cold you know if you're scared if you're not comfortable go hot and then the last few seconds go cold because you can train yourself to really go cold or you can get a bowl of iced water and dump your face in it wow what that does is it it increases bagel tone so there's a vague there's a cranial nerve called the vagus nerve so it comes from here and then it then it goes all the way down to all our organs so it's like the signal carrier carries messages into our organs so when when um you get the cold splash the body puts itself in parasympathetic nervous uh the parasympathetic mode parasympathetic is the opposite of stress okay if stress is the gas parasympathetic is the break so when your body goes into that through the cold it sends a signal that it's relaxed so the whole body goes in that bone it's good first thing in the morning because when you wake up you need cortisol to wake up you know cortisol is a stress hormone right yes so it's not it's not a bad thing when you wake up in the morning to get you out of bed your body secretes cortisol right so it puts you in a stress um mode no but when you do your cold shower or your cold dump you put it back in parasympathetic so you settle it down yeah so for someone highly stressed you want to practice going into parasympathetic again that's self-regulation self-regulation is the key to longevity again recovery what we've been doing now is correct yes for the main reason i love cold showers and my husband hates him yeah so that increases immunity because it also brings down your heart rate it brings you back to rest and digest instead of always in stress so if you're always in stressful mode you're activating the stress response your inflammation also goes up your immune system will be always on the on the no but an active mold yeah you want to pull back so that's one way that's one way to do it let's see thank you if you have like questions feel free to comment on the comment section below so that i can show ellie so that uh malaya we can invite her again if you have enough questions we'll talk about all of your questions and i'll ask her to give tips and and tricks also ayan so ellie any last words for our viewers um well for the viewers it's easy to buy a hack yourself just be interested in who you are uniquely as a person um be interested in what you like not what other people do always use yourself as your own benchmark not another person you are your own unique individual um start with food start with food please try to remove as much as you can now because food is our immediate source of energy and it's the uh parang it's the it's the highest signaling um element that we have in the body for repair or impair so the good news is when you give when you use food to signal repair the body responds so quickly so fast so you you find and changes wow do that first right there thank you thank you so much ellie i've learned so much from you so what we will do is we will put uh all of the links in the show notes below so that people can look at unlimited center center yeah so we'll put the links below if you like this video so like comment share uh share it with your loved ones because i think this is the time that we take our health seriously so that's it for our episode today i hope you liked it thank you for watching bye 