 This multi-layered self-healing material is capable of microsecond healing across a wide range of temperatures and NASA has made this technology patent available for use in the private sector. In 2011, I started a ph.d program in macro molecular science & engineering at the University of Michigan and heard that NASA is worried about damage from micro meteoroids, so that if a little space rock punctures a spacesuit, a spacecraft, or a habitat on the Moon or Mars, this would create a situation where the the air inside could rush out through that hole and put the lives of those inside, the astronauts lives, at risk. My idea was if we could fill the walls of the habitat, or craft, or space suit with a reactive liquid as the air rushes out through that hole, this liquid will come through the hole, come in contact with that air rushing out, turn from a liquid into a solid, and plug that up. So that's my original idea and I put this in my proposal to NASA in their space technology research fellowship program (NSTRF), and That's how this project got started. I found out that I had won the fellowship and that's when I started working on this project with NASA. NASA has worked on this problem for quite a while and this is work. That was pioneered by Mia Siochi & Keith Gordon at NASA Langley They have found several types of plastics, where as you shoot it with a bullet, there is no hole left behind. Problem is it only works under a certain temperature range, so as a way of having a backup self-healing system, or a fail-safe, that was why we incorporated this this reactive liquid within this multi-layered structure, to cover all possible circumstances where this material would be punctured by a high-velocity projectile. We want to actually prove this idea that a liquid could react fast enough to seal that hole because these plastics, when they are able to self-heal, the healing action is essentially instantaneous. microseconds. But in cases where it's not going to work, we still need that liquid layer to form that solid seal as fast as possible. In the experiments that we did here at NASA Langley, we show that. This is just one of many technology patents NASA has available for the private sector. For more videos like these check out our YouTube channel and webpage for more extensive list of technologies. This NASA technology and many others are ready to be transferred to your business find out more by visiting technology.NASA.gov 