 [Music] Scientist at the University of Idaho are using Landsat data to save endangered birds. We took freely available Landsat imagery, and  we developed this range-wide model that covers   a vast spatial extent and a really wide temporal  window. To develop these fine scale maps of   habitat suitability, for an endangered species  in an environment that's changing all the time. Technology Meets Conservation: Mapping Habitat for Endangered Species So I'm a research biologist, slash project manager  for the University of Idaho, and i work on this   endangered Ridgway's Rail in the southwestern  United States. It's a species that needs   attention. It is an indicator species of marsh  condition throughout the whole Colorado river   system. I know they're a marsh bird. They're they're like the size of a chicken,   but they're high up the food  chain in these marshes. And so   if Rails are doing well it's indicative of a  healthy system. So if we can develop products that   help us manage marshes for the Rails, it's also  going to help protect habitats for other species.   In 2020, Harrity and coauthors published a research paper discussing the habitat suitability models. And we are really focusing on, okay how  do we take effective tools and apply them   in space and time to maximize their benefit to  the species? So we paired this spatially extensive   on-the-ground sampling data, with really extensive  satellite imagery, to develop range-wide habitat   suitability models, that can inform management  actions throughout the range of this species. Harrity turned to Landsat for the satellite imagery he needed. We needed a product that was accessible,  available, covered our area of interest,   and our time frame of interest, and  Landsat really fit that perfectly for us. And with this Landsat data, the Yuma Ridgway's Rail suitability model was born And we built this tool that  is accessible to managers,   and they can view it, and it's  updated annually so they'll have   up-to-date predictions of habitat suitability  throughout the entire range of the species. So   they can really focus in on the areas that  need management, that don't need management,   that perhaps need on the ground confirmation. It  should be a powerful tool to more effectively   and efficiently allocate limited resources, to  ideally one day get the species fully recovered! [Music] NASA USGS Science for a changing word. Landsat is a joint program of NASA and USGS 