 Hey guys, huddle up! It's time for another Around the Storage Block Chalk Talk. in this Chalk Talk, I want to give you an overview of HPE StoreEasy Storage and the HPE Storage File Controllers. Finding the right storage solution for your data can be challenging. SMBs are faced with a number of challenges: Time - managing storage is too complex and time consuming. Cost - upfront investments can be expensive and trying to keep up with growth is a challenge. The protection you need to make sure your critical data is protected and keep the proprietary data and files from falling into the wrong hands. Today I want to talk to you about a solution that addresses these challenges: the HPE StoreEasy Storage and HPE Storage File Controllers. Spend less time on storage with a simple to manage centralized space for storing file data. Affordable scale to support business and data growth with more cost predictability than public cloud. And secure and govern your indispensable digital assets. protect against loss corruption and breaches. These solutions let you focus on your business and not your storage. It's tailored for file storage with pre-configured storage and OS, fast deployment with install wizard, and new management, monitoring, provisioning for StoreEasy Storage. Secure and protect your data with protection for data at rest and in- flight. an optional backup to Azure. or compliant archive with iTernity Compliant Archive Software. Save time and money was support for tens to thousands of concurrent users, sub file deduplication with an average of 50% space savings and enterprise file sync and share. And ultimately prevent business and user disruption with continuous HPE active Health System Monitoring, file system self-healing, and native file replication. And this is all backed by comprehensive support for the whole solution. Let me briefly mention what's new across these dimensions. StoreEasy is twice as simple to manage and monitor with a new management console. There's greater efficiency and more value through better performance, affordable hybrid flash options, and lower cost capacity expansion. Built with the foundation of HPE ProLiant and Apollo Gen10 - the most secure industry standard servers to help protect data against evolving threats. And tailored for resiliency and reliability and backed by warranty and support for every system component including automated pre-failure alerts and parts dispatch. Let's look at the product family of HPE StoreEasy and HPE Storage File Controllers: the sixth generation of a leading family of under $15,000 network attached storage! If you're getting started the StoreEasy 1460 and StoreEasy 1560 are compact affordable rackmount and tower NAS models ideal for small sites and remote offices. The StoreEasy 1660 and 1660 Expanded are capacity optimized to you rack mount NAS appliances built on best selling ProLiant and Apollo servers. For performance intensive workloads, StoreEasy 1860 is a performance optimized to 2U NAS that scales up to 28 small form-factor drives with hybrid flash configuration, a second CPU, and up to 24 memory DIMMs. And finally the HPE Storage File Controllers are cluster ready rackmount gateways for adding file services to HPE storage arrays including HPE Primera, 3PAR, Nimble Storage and MSA Storage. I suggest you google "HPE StoreEasy QuickSpecs" to see the details of the different models in the family. Let me wrap up by talking about the ideal use cases. First Secure anywhere file sync and share for desktop and mobile devices. Secure access from multiple locations, apply data management and security policies with support for Apple iOS, Android, and Windows Mobile devices. Home directory consolidation where you can centralize user data storage by consolidating local home directories with simple management, reduce client upgrade costs, and greater IT control. Group, department and corporate shares: enable efficient collaboration and data distribution with group, department and corporate file shares that enhance organizational security and control of data. Simplify branch office connections tailored for distributed sites and predominantly Windows environments. Next, compliant data preservation: you can ensure long-term data integrity via tamper proof legally compliant archive and data preservation solutions with iTernity Compliant Archive Software and StoreEasy. Cost-efficient high density System Center Data Protection Manager system: ideal with a 2U StoreEasy 1650 Expanded storage system for both short- and long-term recovery goals. And finally, flexible deployment options for Hyper-V and SQL Server simplifying deployment, maximizes your infrastructure with improved performance, reliability, and efficiency. I covered a lot in a short Chalk Talk - to learn more go to hpe.com/storage/StoreEasy.  I always love to hear from you on Twitter where you can find me as @CalvinZito. You can find my blog at hpe.com/storage/blog. Until next time thanks for joining me on this Around the Storage Block Chalk Talk. (Closed captions by Calvin Zito) 