 (subtle electronic music) 5G fundamentally changes how mobile networks are built, opening up a whole new set of possibilities for operators. In order to illustrate the benefits of deploying a true open 5G core, Hewlett Packard Enterprise partnered with Casa Systems and Orange Labs in an experiment to demonstrate multi-vendor open integration, cloud-native scalability, and closed loop automation. When you look at the demonstration that we did with Orange, I really think it's beyond just a proof of concept. There's some really interesting value that they're demonstrating there. The first one is the value propositions of multi-vendor and interoperability. We have chosen HPE and Casa Systems because first, they are open to work altogether because they are complementary companies. Each supplier is providing a part of the 5G core network. A key feature that 5G enables is network slicing. Network slicing allows you to tune and scale the network to fit the unique needs of each application. Each slice can have distinct characteristics in terms of quality of service, latency, reliability, et cetera. Network slicing enables service providers to monetize new revenue by introducing a myriad of different types of services. These services can include ultra-high bandwidth types of applications, they can also include ultra-low latency types of services, or even services that require mission-critical performance and five nines availability. The robot demonstration was a good way for us to demonstrate all the key features that we can have with this new 5G technology and the way they are implemented over the cloud infrastructure. To illustrate dynamic scaling and network slicing, Orange partnered with Hewlett Packard Enterprise and Casa Systems to build a complete cloud native 5G test network that can demonstrate dynamic creation of new slices to increase capacity on the network. To begin, the user launches HPE Service Director to instantiate the initial network set-up in including functions, services, and network slices. One of the interesting things about this particular demo is how tangible it is. A lot of times we just have scripts running and they show command line stuff of what's changing, but by connecting the core through the RAM, all the way down to the device, and actually seeing our cute little robot out there moving and you literally see what's going on, congestion happens in the network. As congestion is added to the network, the robot's responses slow down, and it becomes clear that the increased latency issues affects its response. When quality falls below an acceptable norm, the network is able to dynamically spin up a new type of a traffic slice for low latency services, and move the traffic from the one application that may have been running on a different slice to the secondary slice. The response is immediate, as the robot regains its normal speed. And you literally see what happens whenever you move the traffic over to another slice. All of a sudden, that end user experience becomes real to you. The experiment shows how an open multi-vendor 5G system enables scalability and automation that telcos can harness to create new services. Ready to learn about our other use cases and discover how you can benefit? Find out more today. 