 (gentle music) (lines zapping) - If you don't know who that is, that is Dr. Sebi. Now Dr. Sebi is a well-known, or he was, a well-known herbalist and a self-proclaimed healer. His whole thing was that you can heal yourself naturally using herbs and minerals, all things from the earth. He was all about that. He was so popular. Some people didn't believe him. Some people thought he was just a snake oil salesmen, and some people said that his stuff really had some substance to it. I've never tried any of his stuff, but one of the things that have really stuck out for me with him is sea moss. People are rushing around looking for something to boost their immune system naturally. Now sea moss is something that's been mentioned a lot in the black community, and it's something that I think is worth looking into, or exploring. Now I've seen sea moss quite a lot recently. I've seen it in the health food shops. I actually saw some in my barber the other day, and he was like, "Yeah, COVID is happening right now "so this is the stuff that you need "to start taking," and a lot of people are taking it. Yeah, you can take the vitamin C, which is the well-known one for immunity, but sea moss seems to be growing in popularity and it seems to be the supplement of choice right now. So I thought I'd try it just to see if there's any truth in the claims that they make on this product. Sea moss is nothing new. It's been consumed historically for thousands of years, in places like the Caribbean, and Ireland, so it has some substance to it. Like with a lot of supplements, the research is quite scant. The safety and effectiveness also has been questioned by a lot of people. And another thing to be aware of, is the potential side effects. A lot of the makeup of the sea moss that you might buy depends on where it's actually being cultivated from. And another problem is the lack of knowledge that we actually have on the bioavailability, or how much your body actually absorbs of the sea moss that you actually take. It's just something you have to be aware of. Sea moss is really high in iodine. Now iodine is a mineral that helps your body to produce thyroid hormone. And, believe me, you don't want your hormones thrown out of wack. Not enough iodine, and a little bit too much iodine can throw your whole hormones out of wack. And if you do throw your hormones out of wack, it could lead to things like weight gain, or it could lead to things like mood swings. So that is something you need to bear in mind if you do decide to go down this route. Now, another thing I noticed is that there's so many ways you can buy sea moss. I saw sea moss dried, you can get it pills, you can get it ground, you can even buy a drop of it. And then I saw you can buy sea moss facial cream, you can buy sea moss shampoo, sea moss hair conditioner, it comes in many forms, which is really surprising to me. But the thing is will I actually try this stuff? I'm not sure. Maybe I'll add a little bit to my smoothie in the morning to see if it makes any difference, or if I feel any different, but I'm going to try it out and see. But also, I wanna know if you've tried sea moss and what you actually think of it? Did it change your life? Did it change the way you feel? Whatever way you bought it, sea moss algae, seaweed. Did you try it, and did it make you feel any different? So, leave a comment below and let me know how you felt. (gentle music) 