 Coming up, a look at MyAnalytics. Formerly known as Delve Analytics which gives you personalized  insights on your time at work. I'll show you how you can prioritize  your time by assessing time at work, and specifically in meetings. Who you're spending your time with, your email habits and effectiveness, and we'll take a first look at how we  are extending MyAnalytics to help you assess your impact within  the teams that you work with. To get to MyAnalytics, navigate to Delve from the app launcher, and then click on the MyAnalytics link  in the left navigation. Or, you can get there directly by using the link below. In the future MyAnalytics will have  it's own tile in the app launcher for more direct access. So let's start by looking at the MyAnalytics dashboard. This is really an aggregation of the information that already exists within your email and calendar activities around how you spend your time and with whom. It's your personalized view of this information and only you can see it. MyAnalytics surfaces where your  time spent across four different areas. Your time spent collaborating with others in meetings. Your time spent communicating with others. The amount of time you get to do your job, and how far your day extends. We also have a network section, which provides details on your top collaboraters and those that you're losing touch with. And these are people that I've added  to my important list. If I want to add more I can just do this here. Now let's take a look at how we can use this information so that you can spend your time wisely in the future. I can drill down into any of these areas. But, I'm really most interested in my meeting hours. I'm well over my meeting hours goal  of 15 hours last week. Here I can see that I was multitasking in a large number  of the meetings that I attended, which immediately makes me question the overall value of my time spent in those meetings. Also worth noting is that nearly a quarter of my total week  is booked before it event begins. with recurring meetings. Now meetings that are recurring  where I'm also multitasking are a potential opportunity for me to save time. Looking at the detailed breakdown, I can see which meetings those are  and reflect on how I can improve. Such as the cross-cultural marketing  meeting or the weekly content review. We're also making it easier for you to find these potential time saving opportunities in your data. If I scroll back up to the top of the dashboard, you'll see a new section called "Food for Thought". In my case MyAnalytics has noticed that I spent a lot of time in meetings with Pradeep and it's highlighting that from my review. Now another area that I would like to show you is the Integrated Outlook Experience with our MyAnalytics add in. This add in is automatically included in Outlook if your admin has enabled MyAnalytics. At a glance, I can see the nature of my  relationship with another individual. In my case, Noel. Things like how responsive I am and how  much email I have to catch up on. I can also get an update on how impactful  my email communications have been with read rate information on the emails I've sent. This solution can come in really useful when I've sent email that is really important people read. Or, when i send a email with broad exposure and I want to understand how successful it's been. These capabilities exist today in MyAnalytics. We also know that around fifty to  sixty percent of your time is spent working with groups of people. And we have a number of new  capabilities coming soon to help you understand and improve the effectiveness of your group collaborations. Here's an early look at what the team is working on. In this case, I'm logged in as Iris. MyAnalytics will automatically provide a visual overview of the groups that you're working with. Or, you can create a new group. If I drill into the Growth PM team, I can see exactly how much time  I'm spending with the group and each individual. And I can learn more about my behavior with the group based on data calculated from my mailbox. If I set a target time to spend with the team than MyAnalytics will help me  to reach that goal in Outlook. For instance, here i can see that it's  recommended that I catch up with Kat from the Growth PM group. And if I agree to take action MyAnalytics will provide a suggestion  on how is the best way to catch up. It will even find a good time and pre populate the meeting details. And it will also learn over time who the most  valuable people are for you in the group to get more accurate with its suggestions. As you can see, personal analytics is  an area that we are continuously advancing. And you can give us your  feedback directly within the product. MyAnalytics is a part of Office 365 E5 and is turned on by default. So if you are in IT, as you sign E5 to your users  it will automatically be turned on. You can learn more at the link below. If you're an admin, you can sign  up for a free 30-day trial. Bye for now. Microsoft Mechanics www.microsoft.com/mechanics 