 Rapper and TV personality Chanel West Coast met pro skater and TV host Rob Dyrdek just before he cast her on his MTV reality show Fantasy Factory. While that was just the start of her career, it was also the start of her intriguing relationship with Dyrdek. Sharing a winning on-screen chemistry, the pair would continue to collaborate after that. Here's the truth about their relationship. Rob Dyrdek began production for his show Ridiculousness long before Fantasy Factory was coming to a close. The series clearly sparked both a friendship and business relationship between Chanel West Coast and Dyrdek, because they continued to work together on Ridiculousness, which featured funny, silly, and over-the-top videos from the Internet. The show premiered in 2011, when West Coast was at the height of her fame from Fantasy Factory. On Ridiculousness, West Coast and Dyrdek often razz one another, and it sometimes sure feels like flirtation. Dyrdek often teases West Coast with jokes loaded with sexual innuendo, but the two are not dating in real life. We repeat: They are not an item! Dyrdek has, in fact, been happily married to model Briyana Noelle Flores since 2015. It's no secret that Chanel West Coast and Rob Dyrdek have a fun friendship that we see onscreen in Fantasy Factory and Ridiculousness, but the pair make time to hang out behind the scenes, too. After the success of Ridiculousness, West Coast launched her own clothing line, called LOL Cartel. When it came to finding inspiration for her chill, California-themed duds, West Coast turned to her longtime collaborator. The clothing line, which featured all unisex threads, is geared toward hippies, skateboarders, and other people who enjoy a chill, laid back lifestyle. On Instagram, West Coast shares images and videos from LOL Cartel that depict skateboarders cruising through Venice Beach and Los Angeles. After collaborating with Dyrdek for so long, it's no surprise that West Coast found inspiration from the former skateboarder when it came to this marketing venture. Chances are good these two friends will keep collaborating for years to come. "Ya know, you never know what you're going to get, but it's always priceless." These days, aspiring artists might use Twitter and Instagram - or even Snapchat, YouTube, Twitch, and TikTok - to catch the attention of influential people. But years ago, there was a pioneering social media platform that paved the way for online networking: MySpace. Do you remember MySpace? Chanel West Coast certainly does, since it led to her longtime gig alongside Rob Dyrdek. While chatting with No Jumper in September 2019, West Coast, whose real name is Chelsea Chanel Dudley, revealed how she first connected with Dyrdek, who had already become famous due to his status as both a professional skateboarder and MTV star. "I randomly met Rob Dyrdek through MySpace. So basically, I would go and I would add all the top artists on MySpace, and then I would add all their top friends. I figured it was like they might have a manager, somebody important in their top friends." Saying that she followed someone else in the entertainment sphere, Dyrdek was among their top friends, so she added him along with other, quote, "skater homies," who eventually introduced her directly to her future professional peer. Do you love to laugh while watching Rob Dyrdek's shows, Fantasy Factory and Ridiculousness? Be honest: Are you often just laughing at how uncomfortable Chanel West Coast is being made to feel? If so, you're certainly not alone, which is why it's become a tried and true formula. "You are known for laughing on this show." "Yeah!" Frankly, according to MTV, Dyrdek has, quote, "made it his personal mission to make [West Coast] squirm, giggle, and get so red in the face she could conceivably be confused for a fire hydrant." If you've ever even watched just a few minutes of these shows, then you've probably seen it happen. Yeah, it's been a rough, sometimes humiliating ride for West Coast, who is apparently willing to put up with a lot. It's a good thing that she's one tough, tolerant, and not to mention incredibly forgiving lady. While Chanel West Coast and Rob Dyrdek usually spend their time on TV acting like silly, scrappy siblings, they're also willing to team up for a serious initiative when the opportunity arises to use their influence in a positive nature. For instance, Dyrdek hopped onto Instagram in May 2020 to promote the "All In Challenge." If you're curious about the kind charitable cause that West Coast and Dyrdek would get behind, the All In Challenge, quote, "aims to be the world's largest digital fundraiser in history by raising tens of millions of dollars to feed those in need." Plus, fans making donations to the "All In Challenge" put themselves in the running to appear on an episode of Ridiculousness alongside West Coast and Dyrdek. Chanel West Coast and Rob Dyrdek see each other pretty often, since they work on TV together, which is why they might feel the need for a bit of distance when it comes to where they live. However, they were almost neighbors. Back in 2019, West Coast bought herself a $1.65 million, 2,600-square-foot, three bed, 3-and-a-half bath house in the close-knit Los Angeles, California neighborhood of Hollywood Dell in the eastern side of the Hollywood Hills, according to Variety. The "contemporary home" dates back to 1954, but was "radically renovated in 2018." These days, West Coast can enjoy "an open-concept living area with grey hardwood floors," a kitchen with "white-oak cabinetry and high-end appliances," as well as the master suite, which boasts her very own private balcony. Outside, the star can lounge in the "terraced, fully landscaped backyard." As for Dyrdek, he sold his own Hollywood Hills home in 2016 for $3.5 million, so he never got a chance to live in the same neighborhood as his co-host. Dyrdek and his family of four later moved into a Beverly Hills house in 2019. It cost him $6 million, and put them in an exclusive enclave with several other famous residents -- just not Chanel West Coast. "That was close!" Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more Nicki Swift videos about your favorite celebs are coming soon. Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit the bell so you don't miss a single one. 