 Well, hello everybody! Welcome? Or I guess not because, you know... lockdown so... Hello everybody! Not welcome. So a lot has happened since my last video. Well, that's ok. "Oh, you'll have time to do everything you want to." They said. "Oh, you'll have time to develop this new skill you've always dreamed of." They said. "Oh, yeah you will have all of this energy. "Where are you gonna put it? Maybe work out? Maybe get some summer body?" ha ha ha... HAHAHAHA. They said. I've been taking the time in the evenings to draw a little bit, whenever I feel like it. Because, you know, Corona it's not necessarily something that gives you energy forever. AHHHH! For today, I actually don't have much planned. So, I asked Maki, cuz I'm going insane and the only people I talk to is my cat. This is his answer. So, Maki, what should I record next? But I kind of drew that before the lockdown... You do have style! I actually thought about that too. Right... No, no, you're right. You're absolutely right. Oh, of course, sir. I'm sorry. Well, anyways. let's get to it. I'm gonna share with you some ideas some secrets to get your mind off of the 'Rona and start doing the things you want to do yourself, because you have all the time in the world. So they say. I'm gonna start with sharing with you what I actually do There's two ways to go at it. You either draw from your mind, from scratch, or you draw from a picture or something you're looking at. Depends on what you want to draw you can use regular paper. It can be your notebook, I guess, to draw whatever you want. Drawing paper if you want. Or you can use what I use: watercolor paper. You have two types. You have the ones that are hot pressed. It doesn't absorb as much, so it's really good for drawing things on it directly that have like lines... like really thin.. like uhnnn... Or you can have the cold pressed paper, which is actually porous. It's just like a bit more... This type of paper is used for when you want to use a lot of water; a background that is all WHOOOAAA... super absorbent. This is the cold press. Now, if you need a little bit more precision a little bit more help you can also get yourself some transparent paper. So, what I did was put this transparent paper on top of the screen or of the printed picture, or whatever you want, then I drew it with my pen, my trusty pen. Then, on the other side I kind of like did it like this with a pencil and then you trace it back and what you get, you will get like on the paper that you traced it on, it will be like kind of like a shadow, smokey graphite lines, and then you can go yourself from that. So that's how I start my paintings. Now let's go back to mr. Maki. All right, so once I had all the lines traced I decided to go for glasses and also like a shawl. I don't know, I kind of pictured Maki as this type of really fashionable cat who's judging you. Isn't that what cats do? Like, judge you harshly forever? Anyways, so what I did was try to mimic the same colors. First, you want to start with the lightest, the very light colors. Just look at your picture what are the lightest colors. The whites? Leave them white. Don't paint those, because the paper is white. So you go for the grays, you know, the yellows, light blues, etc. And then you start filling in the darker ones. If you want something that is a bit less... how shall I say? Separate? That is more like: "Oh, the color changes from one to another. What is this mayhem? What is this? Crazy! Oh, my god!" Then you should try to add more color when it's still wet. Really look at your picture and really look at the colors. Just try to... try to match it. So, what you don't want to do, don't do the same mistakes I do here for the love of God, don't do them. Wait until it's completely dry. Ah! Look at the bleed! Stop it! Stop it! What you can do, in case you make something stupid like I just did, you simply dab it. Just dab on them haters! Wait for it to dry, because obviously if you put water in water then water will mix and then you have some bleeding and that's not what we want. In the meantime just be patient. Do your thing. You made a mistake? Yeah, well, just dab on it. Dab on it! Don't worry, don't worry. It will be noticeable, sure, but who cares. It's your art. Art is subjective. Once you have all the background done, which is all the colors, all of that nice and and diluted stuff, then you can go for the foreground. Of course, you can also do the opposite if you have really nice ink that dries and that is not, you know, that doesn't dilute with water. You can start with the ink and then add the water colors, but for this specific thing I first wanted the background and then I wanted to add all of the details. Yeah, so here I'm just looking at the picture back and forth and just making sure that the lines I draw are not, you know, incorrect, that they're not wrong, they're not a mess. Because, guess what! You cannot go back on ink! haha! So the ink part is really important. Once you go black you never go back. That is a saying and it's because of the ink. So make sure that your lines are very, very carefully drawn on, very thought-out and you will be fine. And if not, again, it's art. You can just say: "Yeah, whatever it's okay, I made a mistake. Who are you? huh? Cast the first stone! Back off, man! So, for Maki, I actually use the picture of him to to have it more realistic looking and then I used my imagination to add some things. Watercolors don't have a lot of color, because they're diluted with water. I don't know if you knew that, but... Of course, will also go through the digital machine! Alright, so first what you want to do is select the outside of whatever you're working with. If you want to replace the background and delete! Boom! So I took a picture of a paper, I cropped it, I took the blue part and I put it as a background. So what I do next is simply replace the background, but I didn't like the blue, so I played around with it until I came with this orange and I use that as my as my guide of colors. Now remember. Digital art is like Shrek; it's full of layers. So again, what I said:  layers, layers, layers, layers. If you work with layers that means that you can change them without affecting the rest. I added some shading, maybe you needed more white over here, maybe needed gray over here... and I used a brush that was similar to a watercolor type of brush. You always want to have your reference picture, if you're using one, nearby So that you can see what went wrong. You can see what the details are that you're missing. In this case, I missed all the really thin white lines, and in my experience, adding white lines on regular paper is kind of difficult. Especially on watercolors. So what I do is add them digitally. And guess what! Whenever I made a mistake control-z You can do so many things to fix your mistakes. Nobody's perfect, go ahead and fix them, you know? Once I was done adding all those white little details of all colors,.. Just to give it some more, you know, to make it more furry, I went ahead and started to work with the colors. Now, when you want to select a part only, you can use the little magic wand, you can also use the loopty-loop or you can use that weird pen. Anyways, the point is you have to select the parts that you want to change specifically, and be very precise about it. A pro-tip: it's sometimes easier to select   inverse. Instead of selecting the thing that's in the middle with a background, with your right click you go on select inverse and it will select the opposite of whatever you selected, which is sometimes a lot easier. Another pro-tip for Photoshop is that you can click on the little weird eyes, select what you want to see and what you want to hide. In this case I hid the background, which is the original picture. You always want the original picture as a background, just like in case you make some terrible mistakes you can always go back to the original. You play around a little bit with it until you find your match. Another pro-tip, especially for people working with Instagram, is: you either want a square picture or the dimensions of 4 by 5 because that's the crop that Instagram uses. Then at the end, I just added the Maki, because that's his name, added my signature and I uploaded. Voila, you have yourself a stupid picture of a cat. I hope it was useful and that it gave you some ideas on what to do during these times. If you do have that time and you actually draw something cool please tag me, comment, send it to me, message me, I really want to see what you guys make and if these videos are helpful at all. So comment below what you would like to see next. And if you like this and you want to see more, please give it a like and subscribe. Anyways, that was it, you guys. See you next time! Hello, my name is Pauline. I've been editing these videos for the past I don't know how long and this is a message for you. Please, if you see this videos contact your local police and send them out here to save me, please. I've been in here for longer than I can remember So please, please help me. 