 Who came in ninth in an eight-person race? Who thinks Einstein invented bagels? [laughter] It's time to vote off the weakest link. [dramatic tones] announcer: The players will cast their votes based on how well or how poorly they think their teammates did in that round. Scott is statistically the strongest link, answering both of his questions correctly and banking $2,000. Statistically, the weakest link is Krystal. She only answered one question correctly and didn't bank any money. Who will be the first player voted off the team? - The voting is complete. [dramatic sting] Krystal. - Yes? - So you're an entrepreneur. - I am. - And what do you entrepreneur? - I own a beverage marketing agency, and I'm also cofounder of a water company. - So you're marketing something that we all can get for free? - Exactly. - Yeah. So who did you think was the weakest link in this last round? - Shaun. He passed, you know? You should at least say an answer and try, and to me, it was a pretty known one. - And what was the question? Do you remember? - Who's the Real Slim Shady? - And who is that? - Eminem, yeah. - Right. - Marshall Mathers. - Shaun, did you just lose yourself in the moment? [laughter] - I knew that. I just couldn't come up with it for some reason. - Well, you know that this is the place and the time you come up with these things. [laughter] Because you're a firefighter, you're used to acting fast. - Usually with my body, not my mind. - That's clear. [laughter] So, Shaun, who did you think was the weakest link? - I chose Raymond. - And why Raymond? - I don't remember the question, but it was a fairly easy question that he missed. - Raymond, do you remember? - I remember. - What was it? - The answer was Samsung. - That's right. The Galaxy phones were created by Samsung. It's a very simple question, and, no, you did not answer it correctly. Well, as you know, it's the team's votes that count, and it's time to reveal who the team thinks is the weakest link. [dramatic sting] [dramatic sting] - Well... Shaun, with four votes, you are the weakest link. Good-bye.   