 - Everybody, I'm back with Olivia Munn, along with an audience full of active duty service members, give it up. (audience claps) On this veteran's day, we honor your sacrifice as well as the countless men and women who have served in uniform. Thank you, thank you, thank you. As my next guest will tell you, families also share that sacrifice. 13 years ago, he started Folds of Honor, a charity that gives scholarships to spouses and children of fallen or wounded service members. Let's give a big welcome to fighter pilot Lieutenant Colonel Dan Rooney of the United States Air Force, y'all. (audience claps) All right, Lieutenant Colonel Dan, I feel like I'm Forrest Gump right now. Lieutenant Colonel Dan, tell us what Folds of Honors does. - Well from humble beginnings above our garage in Broken Arrow, Oklahoma 13 years ago, our mission has never wavered, and that is to honor the sacrifice by educating the legacy, providing scholarships to spouses and children who've had someone killed or disabled defending our freedoms. And as we sit here on veteran's day, a lot of people don't realize less than 1% of this country wakes up every day, puts on the uniform and says, "Hey, I'm willing to die for our freedoms." And the journey of Folds of Honor is nothing short of biblical. We've got 28,000 recipients now, It's about $140 million out the door since we've started in these life-changing educational scholarships, and we're also really proud. 41% of our recipients are minorities and, humble opinion of one, that equality comes through education in this country. And we're glad to fight for that. - That's not just one brother. That's all of us. That's a true statement. So Lieutenant Colonel Dan, this was inspired by a specific moment, right? Can you tell us what happened? - Yeah, Kelly, I call them moments of synchronicity or chance with a purpose, when God puts you someplace that you're not expecting to be. And for me, it was on a commercial flight, not in a fighter jet, going from Chicago O'Hare to Grand Rapids, Michigan. I remember getting on this flight, I see a corporal in dress army greens. You know, I don't think much of it, press on back to coach. About an hour and a half later, close to midnight at this point, we finally touched down. As we pull up to the gate, the captain comes over the PA and makes an announcement that we're carrying an American hero, that we have the remains of Corporal Brock Bucklin on this flight, and his identical twin brother, Corporal Brad Bucklin was in first-class and had brought him home. And I just returned from a tour over in Iraq, and so it was like the war really followed me home that night. But I've certainly seen as a combat aviator that freedom is not free, but that night I watched the other side of war. The Bucklins on the darkest night of their lives. His brothers, his parents, his wife, and his four year old son. And it was really the other side of war for me and very emotional, and as that wrapped itself up, I grabbed my backpack and I stood up only to see that more than half the people had gotten off the plane, despite the captain's requests that we stay in our seats. And it was in that moment that I felt the hand of God on my shoulder, and he picks the least among us, but was called to action. And that was the inspiration for Folds of Honor, and our very first recipient, 28,000 later, looking back is a Brock son, Jacob, who's now 18 years old. - Wow. And I apologize for all those inconsiderate people that got up and shouldn't have. We were talking about you growing up on the base, but I didn't really think about that. Like as a kid, did you see that? Like people, obviously, sometimes people don't come home. - It was Desert Storm was what was going on for us during my upbringing. And so I didn't, I was such a small kid too, so I didn't really have the understanding of that. But we did know when our, my friend's parents would go away, and my stepfather would go away, that was a really, really scary time. And I think that to his point is that there's so many people, it's less than 1%, but still it's a lot of people that put their lives on the line to serve this country. That's what being part of the military is, is that when you join the military, you're doing it because you love this country, and you want to do something to give back. - Agreed. So you have a family you're working with right now, right? Can you tell us about them? - Yeah, Sergeant Shelvin is a hero. He's done seven tours of duty, he is a dad girls, just like myself. And we were blessed to honor his sacrifice by providing a scholarship to his oldest daughter who's in college this year, and now they're going to join us after the break, but we've got, I think, a real surprise for his family and a true thank you on this veterans day on behalf of Folds of Honor - One of those recipients is Shamyra. She's with us now, along with her father, retired Sergeant first class Leroy Shelvin, her mother Veteran Staff Sergeant Latisha Shelvin, and her younger sister Serenity with that beautiful name, give it up for the Shelvins, y'all. (audience claps) So Shamyra, I'll start with you. So you received your scholarship last year. Tell us where you're going to school. What's going on? - So yes ma'am I did. I'm going to San Antonio College in San Antonio, Texas. I'm majoring in social work and American Sign Language. After I graduate, I want to work within the deaf community, and I'm just really proud of my parents that they've served that they gave me the opportunity to realize that that's also what I want to do when I grow up. - Oh, that's a beautiful dream. I love that you're in Texas. I wish I was there. So Latisha, why is this scholarship important for your family? - Kelly, Folds of Honor has been a tremendous blessing for our family. Leroy and I met while in the military. We both joined fairly soon after graduating from high school. And the army was the stepping stone for us to complete our educational goals. But we did so while serving our country and raising a family. Our goal for our children is that they will be able to go to college right after high school, and before any other life responsibilities. Shamyra may decide to go into the military after she completes her education, but Folds of Honor has given us the opportunity to send our girls to school simultaneously without a financial burden. - So Leroy, Shamyra qualifies for this program because of the sacrifices that you've made. So tell us a little about your service, if you don't mind. - Oh, yes ma'am. Well, I joined the military when I was 17 years old, straight out of high school and I've deployed numerous times, seven times, places such as Somalia, Haiti, Macedonia, Iraq. And during those times I experienced and seen some some things, and as a result, I deal with PTSD, anxiety, among other issues that's, aches and pains and things like that. And as a father, my goal is really just to protect my kids. And part of that protection is ensuring that their financial needs are met, and Folds of Honor has truly, truly helped us in that aspect as far as their school - Well, to Colonel Dan, Lieutenant Colonel Dan is it, it's true though, right? Most veterans just want a better life for their kids and the next generation, right? - They do Kelly. And I will tell you, I've got 3000 hours of fighter jet time and three deployments in Iraq. And the hardest thing I ever did was kiss my five daughters goodbye before I deployed. You don't know if you're gonna come back the person you're gonna be. Leroy, you are a girl dad as well, and that is a calling in itself. So we just, we want a better life for our families. I think that's our greatest concern. If we don't come back or we're disabled, that our families have an opportunity to chase their dreams in this great country. - And I haven't forgotten about you Serenity. I love your name, it's a beautiful name. You're also starting college, right? - Yes, Ma'am. I'm a freshman at Northeast Lakeview College in San Antonio Texas. I am studying to become a teacher, so that I can work with children when I graduate. - Oh my gosh, that's another hero. My mom was a teacher, that's a hard job. It's a whole separate kind of hero. Well, Lieutenant Colonel Dan, you have something you want to say, right? - I have a, I think a great surprise, and our motto, "Honor the sacrifice, educate the legacy." You know, COVID has been hard on all of us in different ways, it's been very hard on nonprofits at Folds of Honor, but we had a donor step up, and Serenity, I'm so proud on behalf of the Folds of Honor to let you know that we will be awarding you a scholarship, just like your sister. And we are committed as an organization for $20,000 over four years, and we just love you guys and everything you stand for, and makes you really emotional to get the, give you the good news. (audience claps) - Oh, oh my gosh. - Thank you, thank you so much, oh my gosh, thank you. - Oh my gosh, look at her smile. (audience cheers) Well, I mean, Olivia, would you like to say anything? This is an amazing family. - I'm just like, too much. - Like everyone's. I know, I know, okay, don't do it. Cause I've been fighting it this whole time. - Like, I'm just, yeah. - [Kelly] It's beautiful. - I mean. I just want to say, you know, it's, to me the fact that they were put in a position where they had to decide which of their children could go to college right now, when both were completely able and intelligent and eager to do that. And the fact that Folds of Honor gave them - Opportunity. - That opportunity especially since we are the most powerful country in the world because of Leroy and other men and women in the military. It's not just because we're just the greatest, we didn't just wake up like that. It's because of our military, and it's because of these men and women, and the fact that he comes back, and he serves our country, and then he's got this whole other battle to fight which is how do I raise my daughters? How do I give them everything that they deserve? And we don't have that in place. And thank God there's people like Lieutenant Colonel Dan, and Folds of Honor, but it should be something more. We should all be lifting them up. - I agree. I agree completely. Well, we also have one more surprise. We reached out to our friends at Veterans United Home Loans who helped more veterans and service members use their VA benefit to buy their forever homes than any other lender in the country, and they want to help you continue to provide scholarships to families. So they're donating $10,000 to Folds of Honor. How's that sound? (audience claps) - Oh, this is so good. Oh, what a blessing. And that's two more scholarships that we'll pay forward. - Oh my gosh, that's it. Well, everybody for more information on Folds of Honor, and I know everybody always asks me all the time, I don't know how to help. I don't know if my money's going somewhere good. This is a great thing. So if you're looking for somewhere to donate and really help out a family, especially a family that has sacrificed so much for your family, please go to our Instagram story and be a part of Folds of Honor and donate what you can, all right. And one more thing, be sure to check out Lieutenant Colonel Dan Rooney's new book "Fly into the Wind" available this month. 