 Afternoon everyone. My name is Kenyatta Malloy,  and I work with the University Career Center.   I'm the Career Events Coordinator, and I'm here  today welcoming you to our building your brand,   and your virtual presence workshop. This workshop  is to help you figure out you know, how to get the   job you want by telling your personal story.  Getting the job you want is a lot more than just   applying and sending in a resume and  a cover letter. It's definitely about   the aura that you can bring to a job, and the  company's culture as well. Next slide please. So this event, webinar will be recorded,  so if you don't possibly want your   screen to show your face to show on the screen,  please go ahead and cut your camera off, but this   will be available by the end of the week on our  YouTube channel, at UMDCareerCenter on YouTube. And a few housekeeping items before we get started.  Like I said this will be recorded and available   in the next few days on our channel, if you need  to catch up on any notes that you may have missed.   Please make sure everyone has their microphones  muted, so that, so there's no feedback as I'm giving   the presentation, and everyone can hear clearly in  the recording. And then if you have any questions   that come up during the presentation, please  feel free to leave them in the chat. You can   chat them to me privately, or for the whole, for  everyone to see. I will answer them at the end,   but feel free to send them as we go along just  in case you think you might forget something. Okay. All right, so jumping right in. What is a personal brand? As you can see on the screen   I have a definition from personalbrand.com,  which is a consulting company that works with,   excuse me, a consulting firm that works with six  and seven figure companies, as well as, individuals   who want to build and define their brand. So they  say a personal brand is, "a widely recognized and   largely uniform perception or impression of an  individual, based on their experiences, expertise,   competencies, actions, and or achievements within  a community industry, or the marketplace at large."   So that is a great definition, but I'm sure we're  all still thinking, well what does that mean?   In today's world, as you all know with  social media and the different technologies   we have, it's a very look at me, look at me,  I'm trying to grab everyone's attention,   I'm trying to prove my worth kind of world.  Add that to our oversaturated job market,   and establishing your presence in your industry is  a must. So that is where a personal brand comes in.   It's a lot more than just a great  logo, and posting consistent pictures,   It's about positioning yourself as the industry  as an expert, or at least a taste maker within the   industry that you are looking to join. Whether that  is by exemplifying your strengths, and your skills,   you want to not only join the workforce,  but become an integral part of it.   So by creating a personal brand, and  creating a story along with your personal,   excuse me, your career journey, you're able to  develop how you're seeing within your industry.   It's important to remember that when you  graduate, and you join the workforce, yes   you're joining a business or organization, but  you have to remember that you are a business   as well. So instead of marketing a product, or a store, you are marketing your services,   your marketing your expertise, and most importantly  your time. That is why building, creating this   brand is most important. It also creates  building blocks to help set up the your,   set you up for success in the future, and help you  make sure that you're reaching certain goals, both   personal and professional in order to get to where  you go in the long term of your career. It helps   you establish kind of like a clear trajectory of  where you want to go within your career. Okay Ethan. So why is a personal brand important? Besides  some of the things that I just named in our   little introduction, it's important to have  your personal brand, because it sets you apart   from other candidates that and aligns your  skills, and experiences again with your personal   story. You're not just a set of classes that you  take in college, you aren't just the list of jobs   that are on your resume. You are a unique person,  and you bring certain skills to the table, and the   only way to demonstrate that prior to starting  a job with an employer is telling that story   through the means of communication that you have.  And right now in the current state of our world,   we're all digital. We're doing the best  that we can in our COVID pandemic times, so   a digital brand is the most important way to do  that. All employers are going to be looking for   you online, and so by having a presence on multiple  sites, or being searchable, mainly, is what's most   important there. So again let's start off with  differentiation. It helps you stand out from the   crowd. As the nature of our work is continuing to  shift and change having a great job does not   guarantee that you'll have great career  success for the long term. And your competencies   no longer just determine what, no longer  depend on what you know, it's about who you know.   And it's about the conversation that you  create around the work that you produce,   as well as, within your industry. So it's important  to figure out what makes you different, rather than   what makes you better. It's very possible that,  with UMD I've noticed that there are a lot of   stellar students. You can have, I like to call them  your college twin you know, say you have two people   came into college at the same year, we're in the  same major, we take the same classes all throughout,   and have pretty similar GPAs. How will you  position yourself once you graduate, and   get into the job market in a way that makes  you the best candidate to take that job, or   move into that job or position over your college  twin? That's where telling your story comes in. Your personal brand can also help you build a  network, and building your network across multiple   platforms demonstrates versatility, and the depth  of your knowledge. So there are four things that   come out of building your network that I think  are most important to talk about, and we'll go   more in depth in those later on in a few videos  that I have to show you. The first is knowledge.   So across these platforms you can demonstrate  what you know about the industries in the field   that you're joining. You get to schmooze, or mingle,  and connect with people in your industry, or feild. Identify certain taste makers, and prominent  leaders. And places like LinkedIn where you   can actually connect with them depending on,  depending on how you engage. There's personal   involvement, again when you can share your  work, your resources, and your services, whether   that is, you completed a project on campus for a  class assignment, and you decide to make a video,   and talk about your findings, or you built a  robot and you want to post pictures, or talk   about that assignment. There are different way,  different ways to engage with the online world   based on the school work that you've done,  or your freelancing opportunities before you   actually join the workforce. And then lastly,  dialogue feeds right into that. It allows you to   ask questions, brainstorm, and start to learn from  others as you develop your professional experience. Next is employability. Easily said, it leads to  opportunities. As you start to develop your network,   and continue certain conversations, and build,  that can lead to job interviews, job placements,   promotions, partnerships, or even speaking  engagements. And in today's world, it's   more important to be, to position yourself as  employable, than look for employment security.   Just in this year alone we've seen that a lot of  people who thought they were secure in their jobs,   they weren't. Just because maybe the business  couldn't handle it financially, economically.   It just depends, but if you always are learning,  if you're always growing, and if you're always   developing your story, and the connections that  you have, continuing your professional journey,   even in times like a pandemic, won't be as hard  as it is if you just had a resume or cover   letter that you're blasting out everywhere. So you  want to make sure you're updating your skills, and   that you're desirable to employers all the time.  And then last but not least, someone is always   watching. So whether you know it or not, someone  is always going to be screening you online, whether   you're actively job searching or not. If you have a  LinkedIn account, I'm sure you get the emails that   they send you, or the notifications when you log  in that says you appeared in 20 searches this week,   or this person reviewed your profile. I know I'm  not actively job searching, but I always get those   notifications. So it's just important to know that  recruiters or future employers, and even your peers,   they're always looking, because people want to know  who you are. And as job seekers it's important to   remember that you don't just accept a job, you are  accepting a community, and it's just as much the   job of the recruiter to make sure that you fit the  culture of the company, as it is for you to decide   if the company culture fits you. Okay. So with  all that being said, Ethan the next slide please. One take away from today that I think is most  important is that, developing a personal brand does   take work, and it's not going to happen overnight,  but once you do the benefits are endless. And   we just went through some of those benefits, but  there are going to be different stages throughout   developing your personal brand, and it's  important to know that even when your   status get to a point of satisfic, being  satisfied, there's always something that   can be tweaked, or changed, or developed a  bit more when it comes to your journey. So   don't think that you can apply all the information  you want in the time you want today and it's going   to work itself out. No like, give it time. It takes  time to develop content, it takes time to develop   connections, it takes time to put yourself  out there, so one step at a time. Next please.  So where do I begin? the best place to  start is by completing an online audit of yourself.   You're going to want to find out  what's currently out in the world   web about you. Most importantly clean up your  social media accounts. I know we all have them.   And at the very least if you don't want to  necessarily clean up your social media account   make sure that if it's a personal account it's not  necessarily associated with your first and last   name, your name that you are using to apply to jobs.  For that reason being when you do a google search,   it will come up. So start with google. Google  yourself. People are going to be googling   you at every stage in your career, so you should  know what is out there, and what they are seeing.   You don't want someone else to have the upper  hand on you, and the best way to do that is to   see it for yourself. Review your images, as well  as, review the content on the google search pages.   And it's notable to even realize that things  you may like ,or favorite on different social   networks, can also pop up in the search for you,  so when you're online it's very important to   be aware of the things that you are giving your  attention to. Personally, if you google Kenyatta   Malloy, there are plenty of pages of content, but  there are three that have, three pages of google   results that correspond with me and my internet  presence. Everything from my Pinterest account, to   my Upwork account, to my LinkedIn. So anything  associated with your name most likely will come   across google, so it's like I said always  good to audit yourself and start there.   Second you're going to want to  define yourself and your values.   That's sometimes easier said than done, but  in order to articulate your value to someone   else, you have to understand yourself first. So a  couple questions that you can start to develop, to develop and find out more about yourself, and what you want to do is, what is important   to you, what do you value, what do I do that I'm  most proud of, who do I want to impact the most,   what ignites or breaks your heart, and what are  you known to known for as the go-to person for?   Those are kind of just some brain teasers to  start to develop yourself, and define yourself.   It's also important to identify your skills,  and your strengths. Are you ambitious, curious,   empathetic? Are you a team player, or more of a lone  ranger when it comes to your work? Are you good at   troubleshooting, or do you think quick on your feet?  All of these skills and strengths can be developed   when you're building that brand messaging. And  kind of like think of it as an elevator pitch, but   it's definitely a lot more comprehensive than that.  But all of those things can go into building that.   And once you've started to define yourself  for you, it's also good to kind of cross   reference with individuals who may know you  well. Think counselors, teammates, or classmates   and ask them for three words that they may use to  describe you, just to see if the way that you see   yourself, or the way that you would like to portray  yourself to the world, is actually how you're   coming across to others. And then once you get the  feedback from others you check in with yourself,   and you think about the kind of person you  want to be, versus the job that you want to do.   You can sit down and begin to craft  your brand statement. LinkedIn has a   spot right at the top where it's your about me  section, or think of it like your objective on your   resume. This is kind of where you  can start to craft that thought. And then thirdly you want to build your  online presence that showcases your skills,   and accomplishments. So now I'm going to play a  couple of videos from a webinar we did earlier   this summer, where we went into topics on Twitter,  Instagram, and LinkedIn, and how you can use them   in your career journey. Give me just a  second and I will get that started for you,   and please do not hesitate to drop any questions  that you might have in the chat box during these   videos. We will take time again at the end of this  discussion to answer any questions you guys have. Oops one second sorry (Video starts) It's super important to me, but also  everyone I'm on this panel today.  For me personally I found every job that I've  had up to this point through social media. Whether   it's been through Twitter, Group me, Facebook,  Instagram, at some point in time throughout   the process I was engaged with someone who worked  for the company through my social media. Twitter   which is the first platform that we'll speak  about today, is extremely important, because   as it relates to digital platforms,  Twitter is an ongoing conversation,   it's an ongoing networking platform, it's an  ongoing informational interviewing platform.   And so to control what employers see, to control  what organizations see, first and foremost, honor   that first impression. Which is first your profile  picture, as well as, your bio. What do you want the   world to know, and that's the first thing that  I always ask students, also peers when they're   creating their Twitter, or reviving their Twitter.  I think that's crucial to put that in your bio,   so that's the person they see, but the first  thing they can also refer to you know, when   having a conversation with you. Personality  is extremely encouraged, so if you use emojis,   use emojis. If you say certain word, like y'all. Like I say  y'all all the time, I'm going to include y'all,   I get my bio, but also my tweets. Additionally,  in your bio you want to cultivate affinity.   So as we may or may not know, but through twitter  you can you know you can add different accounts.   And so you know include um any organization,  any um affinity groups that you're a part of   to show that one, you're connected with said group,  but then two, those that come in contact with   your profile have you know more of a reason to  engage with you, both online and offline as well.   Lastly within within the bios section, I'm  including any personal websites, LinkedIn URL,   your LinkedIn URL, or any websites or social  causes you may be passionate about. And again,   I will show an example of that in just a second.  So as you know you have your profile picture,   you have your bio, but then in the background some  of the LinkedIn, you have a header. One platform   that you can use to create a header that is not  just visible, but also congruent to who you are   is Canva. So using Canva, and they have  different formats that you can use, they also   have a header section you can honestly just pull  a template from. But in this, in your header you   want to include your mission revision statement  if possible, right? If you can't include the entire   statement include a few words, keywords that  are important to you. You can also include your   personal values in that header section, because  again people are going to read you know, it does not have to be, follow the same  guidelines as LinkedIn, but it can be something   that's related to your career, or personal life. But  again, I want to emphasize that personality is key   in every, every phase of your twitter  profile. So if you click to the next slide   I wanted to include an example of what my  current twitter, current and really forever   twitter has looked like over the last several  months. So you see where the cursor is right now,   my profile picture, so I'm not wearing a bow tie  today but I'm often in a bow tie. So when people   see this picture they see me on campus, they see  congruence. It's easy for me to be recognized   in person as it is on social media. Jumping up  to the header you see the words identify passion,   inspired vision, and walking purpose, which is my  personal mission statement. Something that you'll   continue to hear uh be reiterated through every  platform, whether that's my Twitter, my Instagram,   podcast, LinkedIn. You'll see those those  three statements anywhere you look.   your at name is extremely important. So  similar to any email addresses that you   will, that you had created, you know, making sure  it's appropriate for your role, and for your career,   making sure identifies who you are. People,  don't you don't want people to have to like,   look at your twitter and then try to google you  to find out what your real name is. I'll just be   straight up, and use a name that reflects who  you are, and but also who you want to become. As   I mentioned before your bio, it is extremely important  to creating affinity, but also creating connections   with your followers on the Twitter platform.   So as you read my bio, I include an educator as   I work at the University of Maryland. I'm currently  a student like yourselves. I'm at the University of   Maryland as well. Scrolling through you'll see  that I currently, I used to work at the NCAA,   I'm an alum of Ohio State of South Carolina, and  so I added those accounts so that people, one   saw that like, who I was connected to, but then two,  to highlight and showcase and really promote   the organizations and institutions that I've  worked for. I would have attended in the past.   Gold mine is something that was my fraternity  motto, so anyone that's related to my fraternity,   it is incorporated, they know that I'm a brother in their fraternity. But also across the   division, divine nine, excuse me, my council as  well. I included my pronouns, not just to show that   I am aware, but also inclusive of and understand  the importance of using personal pronouns,  and not just in person, but also digital platforms  as well. And then including my podcast. It is something   I'll continue to try to promote and increase  listeners as we travel along our journeys together.   You can include the location. So the location  that you see is 513, which is not any area   code related to the DMV. That is the area for Cincinnati Ohio, which I do call home. So again,   those that may come to my profile and see you know,  read my bio, they see my header, and they say oh   he's from Cincinnati Ohio. Again that could be  a point of contact and a point of communication   that I can leverage in the future. And then last  but not least, my link tree, which is a link that   includes a bunch of different links that I don't  have connections and ownership of, but easily   clickable for people to read and follow. I mean  last but not least, My birthday is on March 18th   I'm a Pisces, so if you all want to share any birthday  gifts with me next year, happy to receive that over   at the Xfinity center. So that's my profile, but I want to highlight a profile of a student   at the University of Maryland. So this is Taylor Wilson. Taylor's currently a rising   sophomore on the softball team. And I included her  profile, because I know when looking at my past,   my past Twitter, Twitter bio and header, it may have  seemed overwhelming as it relates to you know, you   don't have that many experiences, you don't know  what to say, you know, you've been working in   the field a little bit longer than I have. So as a current student, I work with Taylor to   truly help her identify like what she wants to  include on her twitter. So first and foremost,   looking at the header, as you all know that's the, if you don't know, that's that stadium, the   branding world champions. She's a big, big, big nice fan, so anyone that comes on her   page whether you're like baseball, or not, like  sports is something that's important to Taylor.   Her profile picture is one that she chose not to  use a composite photo, but one of her action shot   of her at an event in a Maryland uniform. So again  you're creating community, affinity with those   who enter, or who visit your page. Looking at  her bio, fearfully and wonderfully made, is a part   of a bible verse, so those who share Taylor's  same religious spirituality, instant connection.   She added Terps Softball, which is something she  did not do in the past. She just had a University   of Maryland softball team, but I said you know, to  be more concise, but also show up to your school.   I mean your program, like let's include  on that. And then be a good human do the   right thing, it's her a personal motto. And she also includes her pronouns as well.   Same thing, she included a link to a website for  social calls that she's extremely passionate about,   Not just right now but in her professional and  personal life. And my birthday is next March, for   her birthday is September, so feel free to drop off  anything Xfinity in a couple months. Next time for   us, Rachel. So a couple things related to Twitter  that I want to, really want to highlight, which is   the direct messaging feature. So you know, sending   a dm. This is extremely important, particularly   to help take the conversation offline. So as  I mentioned before, conversation on twitter   is ongoing. It's really infinite in many  ways, and so to help personalize and humanize   the technology, dms are an important part to not be able, to not only be aware, but also   utilize in your engagement on this platform. As I  mentioned, before you continue dialogue from the   timeline, from your tl, and stuff you've seen  you know, over the last whatever 12 or so hours.   For example, the news that was found above the  Wallace's garage, the Nascar race down in Talladega.   The tl may have deviated from having more point  conversations about what had happened with Nascar,   that's an opportunity, that if you saw a tweet that  someone has shared, never send them a dm and say   hey insert name, I saw that you tweeted. You know,  said language would love to talk with you more   about you know your thoughts, right? A conversation,  a, a more organic conversation that can have, that   you can have without broadcasting into the entire  world. You can provide and see clarification from   tweets. So if someone shares something that you  may have a question about that you don't feel   comfortable you know, replying to directly on  your timeline, again just shooting them dm.   it's important to understand that, oftentimes  you both have to be following each other, so   keep that in mind, but it's another way to help  learn more about what's being shared on your tl.   You can connect with industry specific professional,. and so I'm asking y'all, I   have mentioned building community is going to be  a common thread throughout all of our slides today.   So being mindful of who you follow, but also  how you engage with different people on Twitter.   It's great for informational interviews, and I've  done several, I've been in several tens of hundreds   of informational interviews from people that I've  met on twitter. I've given that they have similar   profiles on LinkedIn as well. But the big thing  that I want to emphasize from this slide is that,   communicate on Twitter particularly in the dm. Dm feature is similar to how you would an email.   So you know address the person by name, right?  Close off with your name. if it's something   someone that you may not know as well, include  your email address so they can follow with you   offline, or off of Twitter, excuse me, should they  decide to do so. But you wanna, you don't wanna   get into the situation where you feel like you're texting someone, right? You can use   Twitter in ways that are more professional. You  can use Twitter in ways that are more deliberate   than many other social platforms, but  be mindful of how you communicate.   One of the things about Twitter that's  extremely unique is that you can have   industry-specific community conversation. These  things can be great for idea, idea generation,   and think tanks, right? Oftentimes, whether  it's on zoom, or even group discussions in   class, or in person, people's voices are not always  heard. In twitter chats you have an opportunity   where everyone has an equal voice to contribute  to the conversation. One of the phenomenal   things about twitter chat is that you bring in,  you're bringing a community of people, not just   across the country, but across the world to have  discussion on different topics, which, which gives   you an opportunity to not only add value to a  conversation, but also elevate your personal brand.   A prime example of this is that, someone I know  hosted a Twitter chat a couple weeks ago, and   got 200 followers just from posting the chat.  We understand followers aren't everything,   but it can help build your professional  community, and engage with people who are   like-minded, purpose-driven as well. Some examples  of different twitter chats that, that I've seen,   The first one is YP Sports Chat, which stands for  Young Professional Sports Chat. So for those who   want to you know, work in sports, or work in a  field that runs parallel sports, I would highly,   highly, highly, suggest you search this hashtag on  twitter, and engage with this chat every Tuesday.   And then the New Normal, which is something  that our athletic department, and the athletic   department the University of South Carolina  hosted together twice over the last several months. So last thing from twitter, and this is going  to be again a common thread, and concurrent thread   throughout the presentation, is self-governance.  We aren't here to tell you what to post, or what   not to post, but are here to encourage you to think about what rules guide what you post, right?   That's not just the tweets themselves, but also  pictures, videos, and emojis. What rules guide you   know, who and what you tag on Twitter? What you  retweet, versus quote tweet? What you decide to dm   to different people? But one that I think does not get enough attention is what you decide to   like and comment, which is just as impactful and  influential, and how you show up in this digital   space that we refer to as the bird, or twitter. But  most importantly make sure you write these things   down, and keep yourselves aware and mindful of  it as we transition to our next digital platform. All right. So that was our  Program Director of Athletics   Timothy Bryson, talking about twitter. So next you'll see, hear from me,   talking a little bit about how to use  Instagram to share your personal brand. All right, I'm back guys. all right, I will be talking about Instagram  today. Thank you Tim for that awesome   overview on twitter. For me Instagram is my social media platform of choice, so   I think that it's important to you know build  authentic relationships online, now more than ever.   We're very disconnected, and so it's important to  feel connected to those that you can through   our digital platforms. There's a multitude of  ways to do that, and focus your social media   efforts around your career success. So right now  it's very paramount that we as users go beyond   passively scrolling, and move to like actively  engaging with our professional networks. So   the first thing on my list is, showcasing yourself.  Just as Timothy just explained you know, everything   from your profile picture, which is a little  less apparent on Instagram, you get the your little   circle right at the top, so there's not too much  you can do to make that a bad first impression,   but more importantly your bio on Instagram is  what typically catches new followers eyes. So   I like to think of my bio as a brief elevator  pitch. Your elevator pitch is gonna typically   be no longer than 30 seconds if you're talking  face to face, or even virtually with an employer.   So think of it as an even briefer elevator  pitch. You can use snap phrases to mention   your goals, or aspirations, as well as, any  accomplishments that you are working on   currently, or have achieved in the past. It's like  a sneak peek into who you are before I have to   scroll through your grid to figure that out. So  definitely take some time to craft that image,   and make sure that it represents who you are, and  what you're gonna see when you come to my page. Obviously it's very important to find new, and  creative ways to display your talents and projects.   I think when it comes to your journey through undergraduate you know, you work on a lot of   projects. Obviously you're building you're working  on your major to move into a career. So we have   work as projects, group assignments, and even things  that we discover on our own, our hobbies that we   throw ourselves into. Instagram is a great way to  snapshot all the work that you've been doing over   the course of the months, whether in school or  on your own in your free time. And chronologize  that for people to see. So, say you're a robotics  major, and your last class assignment, you had a   group assignment to work together and create your  robot in whatever, for whatever the assignment was.   A picture with your team and a picture  of your finished product that you built.   Nice caption to say what is the purpose of this,  excuse me, this electronic your, your robot,   and it explains to people who, what you  did and why it should be relevant to them.   Now say your followers aren't necessarily a part  of the industry that you're posting that contact   for, or that content for, that is where your  hashtags would come into play. We'll talk about   hashtags a little later in our Instagram  overview, but again, piggybacking off the Tim   personality and authenticity is key. We can't  tell you what not to post, and granted for some   employers they might favor a bit more personable  content, than others. It really just depends on   the industry that you are, that you are trying  to pursue. So figure out what you want to, want   the world to know about you, and figure out how  you can make that come across with your photos. Developing connections and building networks.  Instagram has instituted quite a few   features that helps to now build community on  the platform, rather than passively scrolling,   and liking, liking images. So the save feature,  Instagram save is a good way to start to access   content that you found, and favorited anytime.  With all the algorithms on Instagram, new posts   and generated content tends to get pushed down  on our timeline, so we are not able to access   everything that our, the people that  we follow post in a timely manner. So   with the save feature you can kind of fight  back on that Instagram, and curate a feed, which   is more attuned to what you're looking for. You can  use the feature to create like an industry bucket.   So if you are a marketer, and you want to  learn about different types of marketing,   you will go to a hashtag, hashtag marketing,  and you might find digital marketing, email   marketing, and then social media marketing. Three  different realms, but they all fall under marketing.   Within your save feature you can take the specific  content, create a folder, and begin to build up the   circle of content that gets generated by your  saved features. Think of it like a super like   on tinder. That's about the equivalent, excuse  me, the equivalent of an Instagram save,   over just liking the content on Instagram.  You'll be able to find it quicker when you   need to access it, and it'll begin to populate  your field in a new, your timeline in a new way.   hashtags are also a good way to curate your  feed. Now you're able to follow hashtags that   resonate with you, so instead of just having  to go to the search and discovery feature, you   can get content populated right on your timeline  based on that feature or, excuse me, based on that hashtag.   So it'll be mixed in with your current followers,  whether that's family and friends, but then you   can start to be exposed to different topics, and  subject areas, and content within the industries   that you're looking to follow. Using hashtags when  you post your content as well, allows you to gain   relevant followers to your topic. People that might  not be able to find you due to the algorithms,   and it can incite engagement with your post. So you  want to use that to find those like-minded people,   and those influencers within your industries as  well. Oh, you can go back Rachel. One more thing.   In conversation. Joining the conversation.  Obviously, none of this matters if we are not   engaging with the people in our circles and the  content. So sliding into the dms, you can laugh   at that, but and, I'm sure we all think of the same  thing when we hear the phrase, but direct messaging.   It allows you to step outside of the bubble that  is Instagram, and start a new conversation offline.   I don't need to go too deep into that, because  Tim did a great overview of direct messaging.   On most of the platforms they're generally the  same in how they operate, but you want to use   original and non-generic copy, that highlights  that you've taken the time to explore or research   the content that, that was posted, either the  individual's background, or if it's a company   that you're reaching out to online as well. It just  shows just, just, in a cover letter you will tailor   your content to the employer, or the position  that you are applying to. You want to do the same   thing with your job or, excuse me, with your direct  message. And you can also use employ, find employee   profiles at companies that you're interested in,  to figure out what type of content they post. So   you can see, do we align in some of the values  that the employees have as well? You can figure   out is this a good fit for me based on some of the  image that you curate from the employee profiles.   So that's also a good way to find out, and do  some digging into the background of a company. It's very important, and this is a good tip, to  take notice in how individuals communicate with   their audience, whether it's conversational  informative, or friendly and strong. And when   you reach out in the direct message, you want  to make sure you kind of try to mirror the   tone, or the writing style that the individual  uses. Yes make it authentic to you, but it helps   to establish a sense of trust between you  guys, since you don't really know each other.   It's, we like to see ourselves in other  people, and that's a great way to kind of   break the ice a little bit. And then obviously,  watch and reply to IG stories. I'm pretty sure   that's self-explanatory, but it's just  another way to jump into the conversation.   I have a few pictures I'll go through really  quick, just so you all, just in case you didn't know. So the Instagram save feature that I mentioned,  can be used by going on to twitter   and clicking that little bookmark icon that's  right down in the bottom under any post.   Once you click that bookmark, you'll be, a little  box will raise up from the bottom, and it'll   actually if you want to save it to a folder,  a bookmark folder that you've already created,   or you can save it into a general post. So the  second picture on this page just shows some of   the different folders that I've created for our University Career Center. You know, I social   media inspiration that, I like the way this was  laid out so I want to reference it for later.   Career advice that might have been good to  hear online that we can repurpose for later. So   you just, it's all in what you want to do, and how  you want to break down the different research   areas that you are interested in. And here  are some examples of professional, excuse me,   professional, versus personal um Instagram grids. So  this first Instagram is by FindSpark. Emily Meather   is a colleague of mine and this is one of her  companies. So this is more of a professional   Instagram grid. she chose, she chooses to  keep her personal and professionals separate.   You can see there's a lot of text posts, and  just notion, notes to for example, things that are   going on in our world right now, as well as, her  content on career help. This is a great profile   for you to follow if you're looking for some  career tips as well, so Find Spark. But this keeps   it pretty clean, professional, there's no images  of people, so it's more informational. Next please. Now this is a personal Instagram grid. This is  my, one of my personal profiles that I didn't   mind sharing. I would not mind if my employer were  to find this profile of me. It has nothing to do   necessarily with my career goals, but it engages, it engages my users, and my followers, and it   allows my company to see who I am, and what I'm  into. If the University Career Center came across   this profile before I was a employee, to me it  would say I'm fun you know, I like to cook, and I'm   motivational. So if that's the image you wanted to  create for yourself this profile is private, anyone   can find it. I'm not trying to hide it. I'm okay  with this being online. And then the last but not   least, this is one of our recent graduates from the  University of Maryland. Her name is Misha Buckner,    and she is a creative. She is a photographer, an  artist, and this is her professional, and sort of   personal account. So what she uses, is she puts  up her artwork, whether it's drawing or painting,   or her photography, but then she also posts some  snapshots and candid's of herself. I believe her   first picture is a, a play on the late one of  the latest tick-tock trends, where everyone's   taking their mirror outside, and like taking  all the cool pictures. So she still has some   personality thrown in there while you can see the  visual representation of her work, and it's a great   example of the best of both  worlds kind of Instagram layouts. All right, and last but not least, we have a  last video from Rachel Wobrak. She is our CMNS   Program Director at the Career Center, and she  is going to go into LinkedIn, which is known as   the career social networking site. So I'm going to talk about LinkedIn, which I  joke is the least fun social media. I say   that as someone who would rather spend hours  on Instagram, than on LinkedIn, but I do work in   career services, and I know the value of it, and  how important it is, and hopefully you do too.   I think most people think of LinkedIn as the  professional social media, although we've seen   that both Instagram and Twitter can be that as  well. I think what most people know of LinkedIn is   that it can be in your online resume. And that is  true. It's a great place to have all of your work,   and your experiences gathered together, so someone  can see it, but it can be so much more than that.   Of course this is a place to cultivate  both professional and personal connections.   I've talked to students that think it's just a  place for professional connections, and if someone   isn't in their field or industry they shouldn't  connect with them on LinkedIn, and that's false.   Absolutely. Connect with your classmates, your  roommate, your friends, your cousins, uncles, whoever,   regardless of what field they're in, because they  may have a connection that would then be your   second connection, that could be in your field. You  might also know someone that you can connect them   to. So please remember that on LinkedIn it doesn't  just have to be people in your field, it can be   people that you know that are in other fields  as well. This is also a place like our other,    you know, apps and sites to follow companies  or organizations that you're interested in.   If they're posting something there, it's  something that they want people to know about.   this is often a place where they might brag about  a project they're working on, or an award that they   received, or they were called best company for  x y and z. So this is a way for you to find out   that information, and then use that information  when you're applying. Maybe it's something you   add to your cover letter, because you saw that  they just won this award, or something that you   use when you reach out for an informational  interview with someone, or you use it in   an interview, but it's a great way to find  information. It's the information that they   want you to know, because they're sharing  it out. So that's a good place to find out.   Join groups. This could be groups from specific professional organizations.   Personally I'm in a group ,that's the Eastern  Association of Colleges and Employers,   but you can also be a part of groups that are just  started by you know, someone in student affairs,   that wants to sell student affairs professionals  that are interested in this. You know join this   group. It can be a way to broaden your network, and  get to know more people that are interested in   the same work, field, industry that you're in. Can  also be a place to either write recommendations,   or gather your own recommendations from past, or  current colleagues. My trick, the best way to get   a recommendation is to write one for someone else.  You write a quick, and they don't have to be long.   A quick recommendation for someone, chances are  they're going to want to return the favor to you,   and write a quick recommendation. You can of  course always ask them. If you know you're   going to be job searching, and you want some  more recommendations on your LinkedIn page,   reach out to someone, and say you know would you  be willing to write a recommendation for me for   LinkedIn? I'd love to write one for you too. You  know, it I think besides the fact that most people   you know, if you have a good relationship would  want to do it for you anyways, if they know you're   going to write one for them that's an extra  motivation. Plus it can make you feel better   knowing that you're not just asking for something  without willing to give something in return.   LinkedIn of course is a place to share articles.  Either ones that maybe you've written, or ones that   you've found interesting on hot topics, or current  trends in your field. Share events that you plan to   go to, or are hosting, and of course projects. The  biggest thing about LinkedIn, and unfortunately   I think the thing that most people don't know, is  how you can use it to find other people using the   career insights search tool. So I do list a link  there, and it will be on the next couple slides   as well, but the link will go to a video to show  you how to get to what I'm about to show you in   screenshots. So LinkedIn gives you the opportunity  to go to your university page. So in the search bar   typing in University of Maryland. Once you get  there, there's a bar on the left hand side that   says, has you know, menu of things. One of them is  alumni. So when I click to the next page, you'll see   the left-hand side there's that menu. When you  click alumni, it will bring you to this page,   and this is where you can search the people that  are on LinkedIn, let's say they went to Maryland.   So you can see there's over 300 000 people. This is  my favorite tool, and reason to use LinkedIn. Like I   said, I feel like most people don't know it, which  is why there's that link at the bottom. It'll show   you how to get here, and kind of walk you through  the process if you haven't seen this tool before.   But basically you can use that search bar to  search by a number of different things, keywords,   titles. You can also use start and stop date  at the top. If you want to find a more recent   alum ,maybe not someone who's further in their  career, but someone who's closer and remember,   remembers what it's like to be a student. You could  change that start here to 2015 if you want to.   You can kind of play around with those things. And  then there are these categories. They're kind of   at the middle of the page there. So you can see, you  can search by where they live. If your job search   or people that you want to connect with are in the  DC area, you can click on that bar right underneath   Washington DC metro area, and it will then filter  it down to 121 000, and show those people that   meet that filter underneath. And also look by  where they work. You see University of Maryland   is at the top. It's always at the top. At least  for this area, and that's not just because we all   come back to work at Maryland like myself, but  that a lot of people might have jobs that they had   part-time, or internships while they were on campus  at Maryland, and so those positions show up too.   So what you can do there is again, like if you're  interested in Deloitte, click on Deloitte's bar,   or if there's a company that you're not seeing  in that 10-15 that they show you on the website,   click that ad in the corner, and then start typing  in the organization that you're interested in.   I have seen big companies, small  companies, it all just depends on where   we have someone from Maryland working. So even if  it's just one person, you could search for it, and   find them. When you click next at the top of the  page, right above where they live, they'll take you   to the next set of categories. And they are what  they do, so you can look by industry or fields.   Also what they studied. So again it'll show the top  10 or 15, so if your major is not there click add   and start typing it in. But again you can click  on it if you see yours. You'll see that right   underneath there's the start of what are people's  profiles. This is what happens as you play with   those filters. As you play with those filters, they  show you the profiles, and the people that fall   in those numbers. So if I were to click computer  science, this would narrow me down to 16,577, and   those couple people would potentially change. But  then you have the opportunity to find the people   that are doing the work that you're interested in,  potentially in the area that you're interested in,   and look at their profiles. See what experiences  they've had, and request to connect. Biggest recommendation always  add a note. This is huge.   If you don't know someone you can still request to connect, and I would encourage it.   If you're doing it, you found them through this,  click to add a note when you request to connect,   and say I see that you went to Maryland, I saw  that you majored in this, or I see that you work   here, and I'm interested in that. You know, can  we connect? You know, give them some context.   I'm sure you've all had someone that has requested  to follow you on one of your sites, and you're like   I don't know who you are, I have no idea why, or  they want to connect you on LinkedIn, and you're   not sure whether you want to or not. if someone  gives you that context, you're going to be more   likely to say, oh yeah, sure. Great you're interested  in the same thing I am, let's connect. It's   going to lead to people that don't know you, being  more likely to accept your request to connect. All right so switching out of the  LinkedIn sphere for a minute, going back to   all of the overarching social medias,  and the sites that we've talked about,   you really want to use these sites to find, and  to build your community, or to build your network   of people. Following appropriate professional  organizations can be a great way to do that.   If you are interested in sports writing or sports  journalism, finding the professional organizations   that promote that field in that industry, and  following them on any, and all of these to see   what they're posting, and what things are happening,  are going to be a great way for you to stay tuned   in, and to join in that conversation. We've already  kind of talked about some of the other sites like   Twitter and Instagram, learning the hashtags to  follow that are appropriate to your interests,   making sure to follow them. A huge other point. Follow up don't just connect with   people and forget about them. It can  be great, and you can have you know 500   connections on LinkedIn, but if you don't follow  up with some of them, and the ones that you're more   interested in staying connected with, it's going to  be harder to come back into conversation with that   person If it's been a while since you've talked.  So it doesn't mean you have to connect with all   500 people every week, or every month, but those  people that you really want to connect with, you   want to make sure that you're following up, and you  know, checking in to see how they are or how that   project they said they were working on is doing,  or share an article that you think they might   be interested in. Any way to kind of keep that  connection open. And then of course please be sure   to add your value, and your voice to the dialogue.  Mutual exchange of energy is really important.   A good user of any of these sites, is someone who's  an active learner. And what we mean by that is,   someone who's not just going to lurk, and see what  other people are saying and posting, but someone   who's going to add to the conversation. Add their  voice, talk about how they interpreted what they're   seeing, or their experience, their perspective. You  don't want to just think of other people as   the experts, you want to remember that your  voice and your experience is important as well. So now I'm, I'm tapping Tim again.   Awesome stuff to wrap up today. Just a few  reminders. first and foremost again, self-govern,   self-governance. Identify and clarify and define  like what your rules will be, while engaging not   just in real life, but also on digital platforms.  Number two, understand that digital platforms are   an extension of your personal brand, not something  different, or new, but an extension of who you are.   And congruence is super important. Just to  be super to detect when it's not. Build your own   community and network. So individualize your own  experience, and you know, mitigate imposter syndrome .  Job search is always happening. So as I mentioned  about Twitter, but also very true about LinkedIn,   and Instagram as well, but every time, just like  every time you leave your house, you're networking.  Every time you open your mouth you're interviewing.  Your digital platform is a continuous job   search. That's always happening, so be mindful of  how you're engaging on those sites. And last   but certainly not least, keep your information  up to date. So if you graduate or you get a new   job, update that on LinkedIn. If you move you know  update that on your social media platform, because   people are always looking, wanting to engage with  you based off some of those characteristics and attributes. All right, so I hope you  guys are able to find some interesting   information, and to take home some valuable notes  from those three videos on Twitter, Instagram,   and LinkedIn. And I know we're coming up on 5:30,  but I do have just a few more things to mention.   So as you can see here we were just talking  about LinkedIn, and I am more so in the   intermediate stages of building my career.  I've been working on my connections   and, and and cleaning up my act, as well as,  developing my brand statement. So I just decided   to share my LinkedIn with you all. Feel free to  add me, and connect with me there. As you can see,   I'm a millennial student affairs professional,  skilled at, using online influence as a platform   for creating connections. I'm an event planner,  which is what I love to do, and I love to   connect people with the industry, and people  that are prominent within their industry, and   the opportunities that they would like. Hence  why I'm working at the Career Center right now,   but if you go down to my about section  you see that it's a bit more in-depth.   Yes I do mention some of my educational, and  professional background, but I still talk about and   focus on what it is I want to do, what inspires me,  and who I would like to serve. So an inspiring   communications creative, with a passion for media,  career services, and inspiring all generations to   develop their vision through innovative means. I'm  not going to read through the last sentence, but   this is the one that mentions my background, and my  education, but this statement also filters in that,   I enjoy facilitating enriching programs for  students, and underserved populations. So that   is who I intend to impact. Ethan I'm going  to steal the screen really quickly, so that I can   show you all Timothy Bryson's, the gentleman who  was just speaking on Twitter, show you his LinkedIn   profile, because he is phenomenal at establishing,  and creating his brand, and he's a lot further   in the process. As you can see, he has his  corresponding image. Just like he mentioned with   his Twitter. He has his voice prominent on Twitter  as well. He's an educator, a PhD, PhD student and   an entrepreneur. He's recently launched a business,  which is Walk With TFB. He's the founder and   president, which is now on LinkedIn as well. So in  addition to his work at the university, and being   a student in school, he now is an entrepreneur of  his own business, which is all mentioned here. And   then in his bio, he talks more about who he is,  a black millennial educator, with a demonstrated   history, and working in higher education. He was  a former athlete. He speaks a lot about himself.   And then like his purpose, which is to help others  identify their passion, inspire vision, and walk   with purpose. And as you get further in building  your brand, like we mentioned it's not just about   a fancy photo, and a nice elevator pitch, right? It's  also about the conversations that you engage in.   So Timothy on LinkedIn, as well as, on his own  personal sites, he has started creating blog posts.   And one of the cool things about  LinkedIn as well is that you can add   articles in which you have been featured in. So  this was that new, the New Normal Conversation   that he mentioned during the twitter chat. There  was an article written about it, and so now that's   posted, and featured on his page, as well as, any  content that he creates himself. So I'm sure   Timothy would not mind if you all connected with  him either. You can tell him that you got he got   the shout out from our workshop today. Ethan  you can go ahead and take the screen back for me. Next slide. Yep perfect. So the last thing I want  to take away, you guys to take away, is this acronym   by Brand Coach, and Business Advisor Jennifer  MacClare. She created this to help you assess   your personal brand as you continue to develop it.  Your personal brand should always be bold, relevant,   authentic, notable, and differentiated. Bold, meaning  it supports a larger goal that others care about.   Relevant, meaning it is in line with what you do,  or what you aspire to do. Authentic, your pitch can   be aspirational, but make sure you're able  to live up to it. You don't want to aim too   high you know, but don't lower your, aim as high  as you can, but make sure it's still attainable.   And it should also be synonymous with how others  describe you. It should be notable, meaning concise and memorable, and leaves people wanting  more. Wanting to engage with you more and get   to know you. And then again differentiate  it. Remember that different is better than   better. So let it show how it separates you from others, who are similarly situated. I think we had one more, one question come  through the chat, so I'll answer that quickly.   Catherine wants to know, how can you separate  professional and personal social media profiles   if you need to use your name in both?   So if you have to separate, if you have a social,  excuse me, a personal and a professional account,   one you won't be able to have the same handle  for two separate accounts. So what I would suggest   is your professional account be linked to your  name in the social media handle. So for example,   @KenyattaMalloy would be my Instagram or Twitter  professional account, but then for my personal   account, rather than putting your personal  name in the handle, which is searchable, put it   in the bio. You can list your name if you really  want people to be able to find your identity that   way, but it's not necessarily searchable through  google. Now test that out just to be on the safe   side, once you do it, but I don't believe that  it's if it's listed in your bio for certain   social media profiles. That might not be the same  for every site. But if it's listed in your bio   and not the name, your naming mechanism, then you  should be fine to have it linked to your personal. So if Ethan, if you could post our kiosk one last time. If you haven't checked in   for this workshop today, if you could go to the  link that Ethan is going to post in the chat.   Use the access code 1234, and then sign in with  your University ID number, so that we can just   have a count of everyone that came to this  presentation today. And then on the screen   you can see I have some information for you to  sign up for our career the turtle e-newsletter.   It's a bi-weekly newsletter, and career digest that  comes right to your inbox. If you go to go.umd.edu/uccenws   You can get signed up right  for that. We put, we will send you industry   trends, jobs, as well as, tips and tricks  depending on whatever that subject is for   that week. Of course straight to your inbox. So if  you can't make it to one of our wonderful events,   you can always figure out what you missed that  week, or find new information in our newsletter,   as well as, if you're looking for some career tips  on the go follow, our social media accounts at   UMD Career Center on Facebook Instagram and Twitter.  All right. And we post the same thing there, from   jobs and internships, to careers advice, to our  events, as well as, this coming spring we plan to   do a lot more IG takeovers with employers, and  trying to do some quick tip IG story takeovers   with different colleges. So the exciting content  coming up in the next year. Next slide Ethan. And last but not least, here's just a  screenshot of some of our upcoming events.   Leading into next week Nov. the first  week of November, so if you're interested, The   School of Public Health Career Fair Expo is on  Wednesday, November 4th from two to five. But you   can find all of these events on our career  calendar on ucc, excuse me, careers.umd.edu   And you can also find them all in Careers4Terps,  so if you haven't logged in yet this semester, go   ahead and log into Careers4Terps. See what other  events we have coming up for the end of the year,   and also jobs and internships  that have been posted there lately.   So I'd like to thank you all once again  for attending our workshop, and I hope you   all enjoy the rest of your evening. And the rest  of your semester. Thanks Terps. Happy homecoming. 