 - This is going straight in the trash. - That's just dangerous. (laughing) - Gifts, they're hard to give. And guess what? It's gift-giving season. Well, we got your back. We've put together a list of 25 good, maybe bad, gifts for the car enthusiast. Today we're gonna rank 'em, and finally at the end see what is the ultimate car enthusiast gift, and also what is the worst car enthusiast gift. - I'm excited. (James screams) (men laughing) - I'm James, he's Nolan. And this is "D-List." I just want to point out that we are not being sponsored by any of the brands on this list. Although, this video is sponsored by. - Thank you to our friends at Honey, for sponsoring today's video. You know as a busy bee myself, I don't always have time to search for the best deals when I'm shopping online. I'm out here pollinating all these crops, flowers and other things you humans enjoy so much. And collecting that sweet, sweet nectar to create that honey you love. So, yeah, I'm a little busy. Now, I've found a new best friend to do online shopping with. Honey is an online browser extension that works as hard for you as I do. It scours the internet for promo codes and automatically tests them when you're checking out. Then when you're checking out on one of its 30,000 supported sites, Honey pops up and all you have to do is click apply coupons. Zip zap zoom, you've scored a deal. Damn, that's sweet. Well, if you are a human that has opposable thumbs, unlike me, you should have Honey installed for free. It's super easy. Just head on over to joinhoney.com/donutmedia. That way they know we sent you there. Let's get back into it. (buzzing) - Today, I'm joined by one of my best friends in the whole dang world. The host of "Wheelhouse" and cohost of "High, Low" here on Donut Media. Oh, also cohost of the "Past Gas podcast" on Donut podcasts. - Check it out. - Nolan John Sykes. - Thanks for giving away my personal information, James. - Fun fact Nolan didn't know how to spell his middle name till he got his drivers license. I wasn't sure if it had an H or not, you know? - Okay, we're gonna look at some gifts. We're gonna decide if they're really good, really bad. I got this split into five different categories. - Let's hear them. - Down here at the bottom we've got coal tier. That's like, you are mad at this person. Right above that we have wack. Wack is like, I'm definitely gonna return this. Please give me a gift receipt. Above that we got thanks Right above that we have dece. It's like, this is pretty, this is good. And above that, I don't see a lot of gifts going in here. We got B.O.A.T. That's the best of all time. So without further ado, shall we get started? - Please. (James chuckling) Okay. - [Man] So this one's coffee mug of their favorite car brands. - I think that's like a thanks. - I think it's like a, oh, thanks. - Yeah. - Thanks. - It's like, you know what I like, but also. - You know what it says, like it's not a flashy gift. I think that's what they expect. They expect the thanks. Their expectation of your gratitude is like, oh, thanks. So I respect that. There's nothing worse than getting a gift that someone's like so excited to give you. Then you're like (ominous music). - [Man] Thanks. - R/C drift card. - Love it. I think that's a great gift actually. - Yeah? - Yeah. That's a great example of a gift where it's like those are almost too expensive where it's like I shouldn't spend my own money on this. - Exactly. - But if I got it as a gift, it's like this is a great day. - Somebody once told me that a good gift is something that the person would like, but would never buy for themselves. So I think this falls into that category. - If you're gonna get one for somebody, you wanna make sure you're getting it at a hobby shop, not from like Kmart or wherever. - Not to knock Kmart. - Yeah, not to not Kmart at all, but you want a dedicated serious car. - Yeah, all right. R/C drift car. Dece. All right, so this is, I think, some sort of car multi-tool. You got a tire pressure gauge, a saw, 'cause when you need to use a saw on your car. - James, I'm gonna stop you right there. I think this is a perfect example of a thanks gift. You're like, okay, cool. And then you use it that one time and it kind of saves you, but then you never touch it again. - I think it's wack. - Really? - Yeah. I mean, I could see wishing I had one in a situation being oh, I do have that in my glove box. But I think my first reaction if I got this would be like. - [Man] Wack. - [Man] This one is from Nolan. - Oh, okay. - So this is a man that washes cars. - That would just be auto, like gifting someone a full auto detail, both inside and out. - Dece, 100% dece. - I think so. - That is expensive. And for me, I mean, it's like something that I'll do for myself every, honestly, six months. - I think it's a perfect example of something that they wouldn't buy for themselves, but they would definitely be grateful. - Solid dece. - Yeah. - [Man] Dece. - Socks that say clutch and gas on them. Wah, wah, wah. Those are wack. - I have no rebuttal. Yeah. - [Man] Wack. - Ooh, shift knob. This one's from Black Forest Industries. Shouts to those guys in North Carolina. I think this is a good gift. I think this is a solid dece, depending on if it's goofy and it's easy to get a goofy one. Like a serious weighted, feels nice on the hand, not a joke shift knob, I think is a very solid dece gift. - Yeah, I agree. - [Man] Dece. - Nice tools. This might be B.O.A.T. - Yeah, I think that's approaching B.O.A.T territory for me as well. Tools are expensive and you can never have too many of them, honestly. - Honestly, yeah. If you love someone, get them tools. - Good, good tools. - Good tools. This would be like your big gift. You don't get just anybody nice tools. This is like your significant other loves you so much that they know what you could actually use and they get you like an expensive version of it. This is a great, great gift. - Great for the younger kid who may have left the nest. - [Man] B.O.A.T. - What the heck is this? This is an espresso machine for your car. - I'm gonna say wack. - I think this is coal tier, dude. This is going straight in the trash. - That's just dangerous. - This person wants to do you harm. - Yeah, yeah, that's coal for sure. - I'm gonna make coffee in my car. Yeah, this is dumb. - [Man] Coal tier. - You got a gift card to eBay. This one's for $25. We're talking any dollar amount, I think. Yes, eBay has sponsored other videos. They do sponsor us, but an eBay gift card is nice. It's like a person who doesn't know what you want, but they can admit that they don't know what you want. And they got you something you can still use. - Depending on the dollar amount, of course, I think it really opens up a lot of options as to what they're gonna get. You could get car parts, you could get car memorabilia, which is always a fun thing to have. - Yeah, like vinyl and stuff on eBay. People always ask me where I get my cool old car hats. I get them all on eBay. - [Man] Dece. - Okay, so this is a scale model of a car that you own, like a custom one? - [Man] It doesn't have to be custom. - I'm saying custom would be B.O.A.T. - Yeah, custom would be B.O.A.T. - Yeah, let's make a distinction. If you pay for a modeler to make a custom model of their car. - Or if you yourself are a modeler and you make someone a custom model of their car. - B.O.A.T. - Yeah, total B.O.A.T. move. - Best of all time. - Because that modeling takes such a long time. It's so, it's insane. So let's put it in between dece and B.O.A.T. - Yeah, depending 'cause there is a. Oh we got our first middle boy. - [Man] dece/B.O.A.T. - Ooh, driving gloves. - Hmm. - Hmm. I'm actually. Someone gave me driving gloves as a gift. I don't want to hurt their feelings. - Let's say driving gloves are a choice. You know what I'm saying? You're saying something when you put those on. - If I'm feeling like Ryan Gosling, every once in a while, which I probably do once every two months I might put on driving gloves. I have my driving gloves in my glove box. - Yeah, I think these are a solid thanks. - Yeah, for sure. - Yeah, like ah thanks. - [Man] Thanks. - Donut Media gift card. - B.O.A.T. No, not really. I think like if you're a Donut fan, this is pretty dece. - Oh yeah. - It shows that, and again, as being as unbiased as possible, I think it does show not only do they know that you like cars and like car videos, they know the kind of car videos that you like to watch. - That's a dece, for sure. - This is dece. - [Man] Dece. - Are these slippers? - [Man] Miata slippers. - Miata slippers. These are (James cackling). - Yeah, I'm not into that. - These are coal tier. These to me are the perfect example of coal tier because now it's a burden. Now it's like, ah, I have these now. Now I have to move these from apartment to apartment. - [Max] I thought they were cool. (men laughing) - Yeah, Max things it's a B.O.A.T. - Max thinks they're cool and I can see Max behind the camera being like oh. And also, I'm over Miatas. - It sounds like in this case, Miata is not the answer, James. - Miata is not the answer. Do not get these. - [Man] Coal tier. - This is a universal socket. This is like an infomercial tool that your aunt or your mom or somebody would get you. They don't know anything about cars. You're like, I have nice tools. But if it's in your glove box and something breaks and you need a socket, it's gonna save your life. - That's a solid thanks for me on that one. 'Cause I would never buy that, but I'd also kind of wanna see if they work. - Yeah. Yeah, this is a thanks. Throw it in the toolbox, whatever. It's cool. - It's not the end of the world. - This thing could save your life one day. - Who knows? - Thanks. - Gas station gift card. - Dece. - Dece, for sure. - Definition of dece, straight up. Again, it's just like, I think a gift card. I think what we're finding, is pretty good. It's because you understand your own limitations. - Are you putting that on top? - No, man, I'm not great at Photoshop. - First time, first time. - Yeah. - [Man] Dece. - Lego car sets. This is the Lego Technic. Bugatti set, we have this thing. I think this is mad dece. - Yeah, mad dece to B.O.A.T., for me. - For you're a little grittier than I am. - Yeah, for sure. - Depending on what kind of car it is for me. If they gave me like a Hachi-roku. - Oh yeah. - One. I think that would be pretty B.O.A.T. That would be like potentially my favorite gift. - There is one major drawback to these expensive Technic sets which I really like. That one in particular took us 16 hours to build. I'm not lying. - That's with multiple people. - We had to do shifts around the clock building that thing. It took forever. So if you hate somebody. - Also get them this. - Also get them. - We actually hold the world record for world's fastest Lego Bugatti. We made a video about it. Check that out. I'll put a link in the description below. So what did we decide? - I'm gonna say dece. Top of the dece. - Top of the dece. So not quite splitting B.O.A.T., but I'll put it up high. - [Man] Dece. - Car detailing supplies. - Okay. Let's put it in between thanks and dece. 'Cause I mean, detailing supplies can be expensive and I would definitely appreciate getting them, but I also have to do it myself. - Yeah, I also have to then go detail my car or now I feel bad that I didn't detail it. - I think this is a great gift for a teenage enthusiast who might be have their first car that they're really proud of. And this is something that you could do with them. Like a family member could do with them. That's a fun time. - [Man] Dece/thanks. - Oh, ah, coal tier, boo. I hate this. I would not say blow me to anybody, much less everybody everybody I see that day. You know what I mean? It's like walking down the street being like (beeping) you. (beeping) you. - You're walking into me and it's like huh. - Walking through Target, literally just spraying the area with like (beeping). I don't like a lot of cars shirts and this is one of the worst ones. Again, if you like it I don't wanna offend you, but come on. - Yeah. - Coal tier. - James, I got some ideas for new merch coming up. - [Man] Coal tier. - This one and the next one are suggested to us by our Discord. So this is a day of karting. I know that you and I are gonna have very different opinions on this. You think it's probably dece, close to B.O.A.T. - Uh-huh. - I would be upset if someone gave me this. (man laughing) - I think that's a B.O.A.T. gift. - A B.O.A.T.? - Yeah. Again, if you're going with someone if you wanna give them the gift of karting with a family member, I think that's like an awesome day that you're gonna remember for a long time. - Now if someone gave me a go-kart, that's B.O.A.T. - That is B.O.A.T. - That's the best of all time. - Can we split the difference here, B.O.A.T./dece on this one? maybe lower B.O.A.T., higher dece. I don't know. - I think it's dece. I think this is a dece. This is a good gift. This is a good gift for somebody. Not me. - [Man] Dece. - This next one is also from our Discord. This is from you guys. A track day. Some track time. - B.O.A.T., instant B.O.A.T. - B.O.A.T. 100%. - No question. - Agreed. I love driving cars 'cause I'm a grown up. I'm just kidding. Erikson's saying I love karting his whole life. - B.O.A.T. gift. - I think this 100% B.O.A.T. There's very few things that are more fun than driving your car on a track. If you haven't done it, it's relatively easy to do. It's not super expensive. You should definitely do it. The feeling of going as fast as you can without worrying about getting in trouble is something everyone should experience. It is so fun, so fun. B.O.A.T. - [Man] B.O.A.T. By the way, we've been talking about our Discord. If you want to learn more about the Discord, hit the join button. Donut Underground. I don't know what this is. - [Man] That is a replica of Dom Toretto's cross necklace. - This is a replica. This is a movie accurate replica of Dominic Toretto's cross. It's got the moving. It moves. It's got the hinge on the bottom part of the cross 'cause you know (laughing), 'cause you know. Nolan. - Yeah, why not? - One of the things about the "Fast and Furious" movies that I'm always kind of surprised by is so the first movie came out in what, 2001? - Yes. - And this was like kind of a style for 2001. They stayed with this piece of jewelry. This piece of jewelry was a defining characteristic for 20 years now. If someone gave me this cross necklace and it wasn't from the "Fast and Furious," therefore, making it a hilarious gift, coal level. But because it is from the "Fast and the Furious," and it is such a funny decision to keep it part of Vin Diesel's costume for 20 years. I think this is between dece and B.O.A.T. - Dece and (Nolan laughing). - [Man] It's $15 by the way. - Oh okay, that's wack. - 15 bucks, wack. I think it's between thanks and wack. But if someone got me one from the movie, B.O.A.T. - [Man] Thanks/wack. - Is this a jump box? - [Man] Yeah, emergency battery jumper. - Ooh, thanks. - That's a. - Thanks. - That is a thanks. - [Man] Thanks. - Dirt 5, B.O.A.T. B.O.A.T. Nolan and I are, is this any racing game or is this Dirt 5 specifically? - It was a Dirt 5. - Dirt 5. - Dirt 5, B.O.A.T. The reviews are in baby. - It's a great game. - It's pretty good. - It's really fun. - [Man] B.O.A.T. - Is this a geometra? - [Man] This one is just a non-running project car. - Ooh, a non-running project car. Ooh, I mean this one could be B.O.A.T. and this one could be coal. - It really depends on what the car is. - On the car. If someone gave Nolan a non-running Plymouth Superbird. B.O.A.T. - I have never heard of anyone giving (James laughing drowns out Nolan) car as a gift. - The logistics involved of giving someone a non-running project car. - May there's like a 14 or 15-year-old kid in your family who's really into cars, wants one of their own and you've got like a DSM eclipse in your backyard rotting away. That's a cool gift. - This one just broke the game. It could be anywhere from B.O.A.T. to coal. - [Man] Coal to B.O.A.T. - The final gift, a drawing of Max in front of his car. - B.O.A.T. - [Man] It's just like artwork of the person's car. - Artwork of the person's car. I think this is mad dece. - Mad dece. I think it follows the same principle as the car modeling one. A lot of time and work goes into art. - Yeah, aforethought. They thought of this gift months before they were gonna give it to you. They tracked someone down to do it. They communicated with that person. I think this is like healthy mad dece, going into B.O.A.T. territory. - Yeah, for sure. It might be the most thoughtful gift on this list. - I think it is. I think that for that reason, I might make it B.O.A.T. - I mean, it's not like you're ever gonna throw away that photo, that picture. I'm gonna say B.O.A.T as well. - [Man] B.O.A.T. - Oh, I did get you a gift. Combines two of your loves muscle cars and off-roading. - I actually really like it. I mean, thanks. - Oh, that's not your whole gift. The rest is that you get to keep your car at my house for another six months. - Yes! - There you go, Casey and I got together and gave it to you 'cause we said six months and it's been eight. (men laughing) Sounds big. - All right buddy, open your eyes. - Whoa, jumper cables. Thanks. - You're welcome. - I can actually use these. They're long ones. Thanks. Hey, thanks man. Thank you guys so much for watching this video and everything else on Donut. Make sure you hit that like and subscribe button. If you wanna see us break the world record for world's fastest Lego Bugatti, check out this video. If you wanna see Nolan rank every car from the "Fast and Furious" franchise, check out this episode of his show, "Wheelhouse." It's awesome. I love you. - Be kind. 