 - I've got Rachel Brosnahan hanging out on Skype, give it up. (imitates sporting horn) (audience cheers) I just like doing it, it just makes me feel good. It feels like sporting events are still available to all, and they're not though, but okay, cool. My next guest went from WWE superstars to reality stars to motherhood stars. The new season of their show "Total Bellas" can be seen on E! check it out. (baby cries) - [Nikki] Go Artem, go, go Artem, go. - [Daniel] Go get the baby. - Babies cry if they're hungry, tired, or if they pooped or peed. - [Daniel] Baby, what's wrong? - [Artem] Let me check if he pooped himself. Are you gonna be sleeping during this time? Or what are you doing? - I was thinking of making myself a margarita during this time - Just curious. Whoa, you totally poop yourself. - You totally pooped yourself. (laughs) Give it up for the Bella twins, Nikki and Brie everybody. (upbeat music) (audience cheers) I like it. COVID hug, oh my gosh. Well you two are stunning. - Oh my gosh, thank you. - 'Cause the last time we were, it was during my summer sessions, I think. So it was all over Zoom. - [Nikki] Yes, and we were super pregnant. - You were super pregnant. - So pregnant. - Yes. - I was super not jealous of that. (audience laughs) - Honestly. - I was like, oh man, I prayed for you hard though. - [Nikki And Brie] Thank you. - I was like, I hope it's better than mine. Have y'all met Rachel before? - No. - No, hi Rachel. - Huge fan, amazing. - "Marvelous Mrs. Maisel", the best. - The best. - Y'all did say that, that's not a lie. I saw that in an interview. - That's like our favorite show. - They love it. - Oh wow. - The time period mixed with vulgar comedy. That's us. - That's us. (everyone laughs) - That is us in a nutshell, I love it. So this is something interesting that I heard about y'all. So is this true that Freddie Prinze Jr. actually created your very first routine, and what is the randomness in that? - I know, so. - Right? - Did you know him before? - Oh yeah. - No. - [Brie] Well, we love him because - [Nikki] Well his movies. - "She's All That" we loved him in that. So he was a writer at WWE-- - first of all, can I stop you, because I love that you both answered completely different. You said no, yes. - I thought you meant if you've ever had coffee with him I was like, have you been? - You thought this was a marriage. - You meant you knew who he was. - [Nikki And Brie] Oh yeah. - So how did this come about? - So he was a writer for WWE, and I feel like the writing team didn't know exactly what to do with identical twins, and this was before social media existed, so the secret of being twins really was something special. - Very mysterious. - Yeah, so Freddie's like, we're gonna have one debut, one hide under the ring, they're going to do a twin switch at the end of the match, and then the fresh twin under the ring wins the match, but we're going to trick the audience, the TV world until we decided to debut the twins. So this went on from August to November, is when the twins finally. - Last week, literally when the twin, it was 12 years ago last week when the twins debuted. - The twins debuted. - So that's how long ago. - So they didn't even know there was two of you for the longest time? - No. - For like three months. Freddie came up with this genius idea that worked for months. And because no social media, no one knew who we were. - That's amazing, is he a huge, obviously wresting fan? - Huge WWE fan, loves wrestling. - That's so random. - Right, so random, right? - I can't get past the randomness of, I was like, wait how does Freddie Prince Jr fit in? And I thought that was so amazing and very clever, by the way. Did people freak out when all of a sudden there were two of you? - They freaked out. You could tell the audience almost didn't know what to do because they were like, this is, wait, what? - We planned it perfect where one girl's pulling one twin, like, her head and her arms, and the other one's pulling the other side, which is just legs, and then the two girls pull them out - We looked super long, - And they fall back and two girls roll out, and it was like. - And there was - Wait, did that person just get cut in half and become two people? it was so-- - were some people mad? Were they like, wait, what? - We're supposed to be good guys, and they're like, how are those good guys? Boo. - The cheaters. - They're booing us, and we're like, cheating. - Whatever, best magic trick ever. Freddie Prinze Jr. Rachel, is it true that you also, I know 'cause the WWE, you wrestled, right? - I did in high school. Not on a professional level. - This is amazing. This is my favorite thing. This is my favorite thing I've learned about you. 'Cause we were going to have them on here, and then they're like actually Rachel was a wrestler, and I was like, what? - [Brie] That's amazing. - [Nikki] You wrestled in high school? - I did, oh yes, that's pretty tragic, but that is a lot of look. - Well maybe we can bring up those moves again. - Wait, were there a lot of girls where you're from that wrestled? - No, I was the only girl on our team. No, sorry, there was one girl who was older than me on varsity while I was in the little leagues. And it was, I mean, it was amazing. It was a blast. I had so many friends who were doing it. That was, that was kind of the thinking behind it. But I wasn't great, but I loved it. - That's awesome. So you mainly wrestled, then, guys. - Yeah, but you know, it's done by weight class, so it didn't feel, that's the gift of wrestling is it feels like the only thing that separates you is what you're better at than someone else and what they're better at than you, but you weigh the same, and that puts you on a pretty even playing field, I think. - [Nikki] Yeah, totally. - I love that. Have you ever pulled a move on your partner? Have you just like pulled, do you just lay him out? Like I think that would be really cool. - There's still time, there still time. - I have great ideas, Rachel. So I'm just throwing it out there. You're welcome. - [Brie] I love it. - Well, you mentioned you guys were pregnant the last time that we saw each other, so how are your babies? - So good. - Oh, they're so good. - We're so in love. - [Kelly] Are you doing better than with the fake babies? - [Brie] Yeah. (audience coos) Oh my gosh. - [Kelly] Oh my gosh, they're adorable. - [Brie] Aren't they cute? - They are so, I just, mine Matteo, who's on the right, He's just, I mean, he's still, well as you can tell, it's like me, he loves to be naked, so when we took that photo, I'd throw something over him, I'm like, okay, that's my little baby. (audience coos) He's just, I get peed on all the time. And Artem's always like, "Put clothes on him." I'm like, "Just put a towel down. "He needs to be free." But that's the one thing with boys is. - I wasn't even-- - Not just boys. My mother will tell you, I, you couldn't keep clothes on me. - [Nikki] Oh really. - [Brie] My daughter too. - Yup, I would just take them off. - [Nikki] I love it. - But well, how's (laughs) So Brie, how's your daughter doing as a big sis? - So she's doing really good, but you know, you have kids, you get it. She turned three. She's a threenager. So she likes to be bossy. - Oh my gosh, that's real. - [Brie] Right? It's not just terrible twos. - Does she get a little jealous? - Gets a little jealous, and she's starting to tell me off a little bit. - Oh my, my six year old now is a 16 year old at times. - Isn't it crazy? - I'm like, who do you think you are? - That's what I say. Mine will go, "Don't talk to me like that." And I'm like, "No, you don't talk to me like that." It's crazy. - And then I'm like, are you mirror imaging? Is that what I sound like? - You know, my mom said that. My mom goes "Brie, "you know where she heard that from?" I'm like, "I don't say that." - I don't say that, I'm so classy. That's what I say too. Oh man, they can get crazy, but the jealousy thing can get crazy for attention. - Every time I breastfeed, it's when I get told off. - Oh my gosh, well, hang in there. Well you can catch the new season of "Total Bellas" on E!. 