 - This is just, you get ready 'cause this is crazy. I'm kinda angry inside. I needed a minute. I was like, I couldn't believe it was real. But you have to take a look at these two ladies. So pretty, right? I mean, next level, pretty isn't even, yeah, whatever. They look like they're best friends, right? Or sisters, perhaps cousins. Nope. These two recently went viral because this one is 20, she's 20 year old college student, Meilani. Look at her living her best life, being all fantastic. And this one, this one's gonna, you know what, get ready y'all. This is her mom, a 43 year old teacher. She's 43! - What? (cheers and applause) What? - I'm 38! (laughing) I'm like, what? She looks like she could be my daughter. I'm angry about it. Jessie's, she's slowly dying over there. We don't understand what's happening. I mean, together, they have nearly a million followers on TikTok and Instagram combined. But this is such a fun mother daughter story. And they're here to tell us more. Say hello to Meilani and her mom, Joleen. (applause and cheers) Okay, you guys, I'm gonna be honest with you. When I first read this story, I was like, that's a lie. That's not her mom. I was like, there's no way that's her mom. And then I proceeded to feel pretty poorly about myself. (laughter) - You're gorgeous, you're gorgeous! - So Meilani and Joleen, first of all, which one of you is which? It is hard to decipher and that's what makes me the most angry. - Okay, I'm Joleen, mom. - [Kelly] Oh my gosh! - I'm Meilani, the daughter. - Oh my gosh, it's actually insane. So, okay, Meilani, besides looking like sisters are you as close as sisters too? - I would say that I'm really close with my mom. I look at my friends relationships that they have with their mom and I do see a difference. It's always fun 'cause we do like sisterly activities together and we shop at the same stores. But at the end of the day she is my mom and she still gets mad at me for things that moms might get mad at their daughters for doing, but I'm just really happy that I feel so comfortable sharing information with her and asking for advice about things that maybe daughters wouldn't feel comfortable sharing with their mom. I'm just lucky. - Oh my God. So Joleen, you are unbelievably good looking and you're a nice person. This is just getting worse. I mean, on behalf of every woman watching right now, where is the fountain? Like, did you find it, of youth? Like, did you find it? Are you hiding it? Like what do you do? - Well, I've always lived a pretty healthy lifestyle and taking care of myself. I rarely ever drink alcohol and I don't smoke. And when Mei was younger, she was a competitive gymnast. And that really, really motivated me to working out and taking care of myself. As far as my skin goes, I've always been acne prone. And so since I was about 12 or 13 I was always messing around with my mom's skincare. And so like, since my twenties the three things I've always used is like glycolic acid, vitamin C and retinol. I don't know if you've heard of those, but retinol is great because I do feel like it's helped with my lines and hyperpigmentation and just like the glow of my skin. - Oh my gosh, I'm buying it all now. I think it might be too late for me, but it's fine. Who was that guy walking behind you? Is he related, does he look as young as you? - I'm gonna be honest because you're being candid. That was pretty annoying because I told everyone in the house, stay off the WiFi. (laughter) And seriously. He just walks up and I'm just. (laughter) - Oh my gosh, welcome to 2020 via television and doing shows. - Right? - Exactly, it's so funny. So, well, if you're watching at home and you weren't lucky enough to be born with Joleen genes, don't worry. The style and beauty doctor, Danielle Gray is here with expert advice for the rest of us. All right, hi, Danielle! - Hey, Kelly, how are you? - I'm a little down, Danielle. I'm not gonna lie. I feel defeated, (laughs) but it's fine. - You are amazing, you look beautiful, but here are some tips, okay? Joleen said some things that really stuck out to me. Well, one thing I wanna say for sure is that you definitely want to wear sunscreen. Sun protection is a non-negotiable, good genes or not because sun damage causes about 80% of the visible signs of skin aging. So everyone, even if you have a deeper skin tone you need to wear sunscreen because sun damage can also worsen pigmentation. So that's number one, Joleen mentioned retinol. Now retinol and sunscreen usage, you're gonna go hand in hand. Some people tend to think that retinol makes the skin more sensitive to the sun. And that is a common myth. What's really happening is is that your retinol is working like overtime at night to repair your skin and you don't wanna betray it by not going out with your sunscreen during the day and having the sun damage reverse all of that. So non-negotiable, sunscreen, retinol, two things that go amazingly together. - Okay, so how do you use retinol well? I don't wanna like ruin my skin either. - Yeah, so a couple of things. So sun exposure is cumulative. So even when we're working from home and we're in front of windows, those UVA aging rays are getting in. Even if you go outside for like a little 10 minute walk, that stuff adds up. So you definitely wanna make sure that you're wearing your sunscreen. So retinol is amazing, I love it. It does so many really great things for the skin. It helps to reduce the look of fine lines and wrinkles and helps to smooth the skins tones. You get a more even skin tone. It helps with dark spots and it also helps with the appearance of pores. Now it can seem a little intimidating, but I got you. If you're a retinol newbie, try the Olay Retinol24. Now this has an amazing texture. It's going to hydrate the skin immensely for 24 hours but it has a very light weight texture. So it feels like nothing's on. And if you use this consistently for four weeks you're gonna see smoother, brighter skin. So I used the Olay Retinol24 for a year and then I switched to the Olay Retinol24 Max. So this one has 20% more of the Olay Retinol24 Hydrating Complex which means you're gonna get the retinoids in a nourishing and hydrating formula. - Okay, okay, I'm gonna vow to stick with this for four weeks and if I don't look like Joleen at the end of it, I want my money back. (laughter) - You can do it! - So these Olay products can be found online and at retailers nationwide. Thank you so much, Danielle. And you know, kinda thank you Joleen. (gasps) I'm just kidding, Joleen! I love you so much. I think you are a miracle. And Meilani, I mean, God bless you girl. You're gonna look great when you're older too. All right, I'm gonna get myself an umbrella, some retinol and I'm never gonna go outside, okay. 