 (disembodied chattering) (screaming) (slow, dramatic music) (door opening) - You're 40 minutes late. - What's her story? - I don't know. She came from up in New England somewhere. Some witch trial protector of women nonsense. - Is it late 1600s? - Do I look like a curator? Check the file. (slow, dramatic music) Make sure you lock up when you're done. (disembodied screaming) And if you even think that you can just waltz in here tomorrow-- - Okay. See you then. (door closing) (slow, dramatic music) You're a beauty, aren't you? (slow, dramatic music) (slicing) Ow. (slow, dramatic music) (staggered breathing) (statue shifting) (gasping) (splattering) (slow, dramatic music) (mechanism whirring) (water running) (slow, dramatic music) - Goddammit, Inessa. - Geez, Ted, what are you doing back? - Do you have any idea how expensive this stuff is? - I can explain-- - That's the problem with you. Even if you knew how expensive it was, I don't think you'd give a shit. - Relax, Ted. Check your attitude. - What? What did you just say? (clattering) Check my attitude? Oh that's rich. That's real rich coming from you. Look, I don't know what you did to defile yourself to permanently put yourself in Mr. Granville's good graces, but I am your direct supervisor, (hitting) and I have had enough! You don't respect my authority, you don't respect my time, and you certainly don't respect my equipment! I'll be damned if you aren't gonna respect me enough to look me in the eye when I fire your ass. (dramatic music) What? (statue shifting) (hitting) (grunting) (hitting) (slow, dramatic music) (Inessa breathing heavily) (statue shifting) (disembodied whispering) (dramatic music) (dramatic music) (wind blowing) (slow piano music) (door closing) (slow piano music) - [Tim] Rebecca. - [Rebecca] Leave me alone, Tim. - Hey. You're hurt. - I'm fine. Just please, leave alone. I don't need this today. - You're not as alone as you think. Come to worship this Sunday. You'll find that no situation is beyond God's reach. - Is that right? So tell me. Where was he last night around 11:30? I maybe could have used some help then. (ripping) - If you feel that God is ignoring you, then perhaps you should spend some more time on your knees! (swing creaking) (slow piano music) - No class again this week? It's okay. Let me see. - He was drunk. I shouldn't have pushed it. It was my fault. - Rebecca. Look at me. This is not your fault. Don't ever let me hear you say that again. - I don't know what to do. - Pack your things. You're coming with me. (slow piano music) - What are we doing here? - There's something I wanna show you. Come on. Follow me. Watch your step. (slow, dramatic) Watch your head. - What is this place? - My sister used to bring me here when I was about your age. She used to work in a museum. She discovered something amazing before she died. I've tried to keep it safe for her, until I find the right person to give it to. - Give what? (slow, dramatic music) What is that? (slow, dramatic music) - Aponi. (dramatic music) - The power (dramatic music) to fight men like him. Come to me. (gasping) (heavy breathing) (footsteps crunching) (slow, dramatic music) (grunting) (heavy breathing) (slow, dramatic music) (Tim whistling) - God dammit Tim, just leave me alone. - [Tim] Are you sick? - Stop following me. - [Tim] Come on, let's get up. - No! (slapping) (heavy breathing) - Why is it so difficult to make you people understand? (muffled screaming) Shh, shh, shh, shh, shh. You know, someone really should have taught you some manners. (dramatic music) - On your knees. (cracking) - Ow! (heavy breathing) Please, please, no, no, no. (cracking) (dramatic music) (slow, dramatic music) (dramatic music) (disembodied whispering) (chewing) (radio static) - Six Adam. Dispatch, repeat last. Some kind of interference. (radio static) (dramatic music) (bird squawking) (hitting) (slow, dramatic music) What the hell? (dramatic music) Hey! Hey! Wait! Come here! Hey! (slow, dramatic music) Hello? Hello? (slow, dramatic music) It's okay, don't be afraid. I'm a police officer. (slow, dramatic music) (door squeaking) (door closing) (radio screeching) Jesus. Hey. Wait. Stop. Hey! (girl screaming) (dramatic music) (girl screaming) - [Man] Answer me! - [Girl] I'm sorry! - Where are you? Come out! (girl screaming) Where are you? (dramatic music) - [Girl] I'm sorry! (hitting) Please, daddy! I'm sorry! (man yelling) (heavy breathing) - What the fuck? - [Rebecca] Look familiar? - Rebecca? Baby, what are you doing here? - I'm here to give you a message. - What are you talking about? What's going on? - I wanna tell you that it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter how many criminals you catch. It doesn't matter that you pretend to quit drinking. That you get to dress up and play hero. You see, deep down, I know who you really are. - Alright, Rebecca, whatever this is, this is over. You and I are going home, you understand me? - No. I'm not afraid of you anymore. - Rebecca. Rebecca. Come here! Re-- Rebecca! (dramatic music) Rebecca. (dramatic music) Who is that behind you? - I hated you. So much. - Rebecca, who is that? (yelling) (finger cracking) (fingers cracking) (Erik grunting) - You can only beat a dog so many times before it learns to bite. (screaming) (choking) (dramatic music) (grunting) (squelching) (choking) (upbeat electronic music) (dramatic music) (upbeat electronic music) - [Woman] What is that? (dramatic music) (upbeat electronic music) (upbeat electronic music) - [Woman] What is that? (intense eerie music) (upbeat electronic music) (intense eerie music) - [Woman] Power. - You know, someone should've really taught you some manners. - [Man] Ah! - [Woman] Fight men like you. - I know you really hurt. (dark ominous music) (Rebecca gasping) (Rebecca breathing) (sink running) (cupboard closing) (Rebecca coughing) Please just stop. (object falling) (mysterious whispering) (ominous dark music) (object falling) (Rebecca panting) - [Man] Hey, where are you going? (men yelling) Where are you going? - [Man] Get his ass, get his ass, get his ass! - Hey! - Who is this? (men laughing) - They do that a lot? - Jerks. Ah. Thanks. (ominous mysterious music) (Rebecca gasping) - You all right? - Tell me their names. (ball bouncing) - [Man] Boo ya! (keys jangling) - I need to talk to you. - I'm sorry. I can't talk right now. - She won't let me sleep. She keeps showing me things. Telling me to do things. It feels like someone's twisting a knife in me. What does she still want with me? - I don't know, Rebecca. All I know is she must've chosen you for a reason. Here. I know someone who might be able to help you. Take care of yourself, Rebecca. (soft eerie dramatic music) (intense ominous music) - They're just kids. - Poison roots grow poison trees. And poison fruit may fall. (men laughing) - [Man] Boom! - There it is, there it is. (eerie ominous music) - Hey, you guys see that? (eerie ominous music) (man gasping) (man spitting) Ah! - You'll always be a bigger fish. (neck snapping) (woman laughing) - [Man] Dude, are you all right? - [Man] Holy shit. (eerie ominous music) (intense eerie ominous music) - We all go together. We've all made that struggle. Hello. You must be Rebecca. (slow dramatic music) Okay. Shall we start with our pledge? What are we? - [All] Strong. - [Group Leader] Who do we belong to? - [All] No one. (clapping) - All right. Honey, why don't you start us off? What's going on with your stepfather? - (sniffs) It's just I feel trapped. Whenever I'm in that house, I feel like I can't move. Like I can't get away from him. Last night he killed my goldfish. I don't even know why. I mean who does that? Hasn't said a word to me in days and then he just. (dark intense ominous music) - Rebecca, you okay? - Yeah. Just low blood sugar. (door closing) Thank you. - Hey. - Hey. - Thanks. - Why don't you tell someone? Just come forward. - Think I haven't tried? He's like all connected at city hall or something. Lawyers, you know? They're not gonna let him go down. Shit. (car door closing) - I'm tired. Inside and make me a drink and start dinner. (eerie ominous music) (Rebecca gasping) (refrigerator door shutting) - Authorities are searching (microwave beeping) for a person of interest in a fatal animal attack where a mysterious creature viscously killed and maimed several students at a local high school. The sheriff's department released a photo of the monster which is still at large. Anyone who sees the animal should call 911 immediately, as the creature is highly dangerous. (man gasping) (intense eerie ominous music) You! (intense dramatic music) (screaming) - Ah! (man screaming) (woman roaring) (woman laughing) (toaster popping) (girl gasping) - [911 Operator] 911, what's your emergency? (eerie ominous music) (intense dramatic ominous music) (soft piano-based music) - Okay, today we're gonna start with Troy if you're still comfortable sharing. - People find a lot of things to pick on me about. (Troy crying) My weight, (phone dinging) my voice, the way I smell. - [Man] Is that a dead animal? - [Man] You gotta shower with soap, you piece of shit. - I play games because it's a safe place. I mean, I have to be me eight hours a day. But when I go home, I can take a break. Somebody, I don't know who, has been following me online. Posting things. Trying to embarrass me. It's like he found the one place I feel safe, and he doesn't want me to be. - Thank you very much, Troy. That's excellent sharing. Everybody give Troy a hand. (everybody clapping) Who to we belong to? - [All] No one. (slow dramatic music) - Can I help you? - Just walking home. - What did you to do our friend? - I don't know what you're talking about. (neck snapping) Please, you don't need to do this. (man grunting) (man screaming) (eerie ominous music) (woman laughing) (woman screaming) (woman roaring) (big booming) (woman screaming) (man gurgling) - My God, that was amazing. Are you like a mutant or something? Wait, wait, you need help, right? Just let us be your sidekicks or whatever. - I don't think so. - Then teach us, please. Somebody probably taught you, right? (intense eerie ominous music) - Ritalin, Dexedrine, Haldol, Lithium. Think they tried just about everything, oh except actual parenting, of course. Wouldn't want to do that. Last time we saw them was three years ago. It was when we got into that thing with the doctor. - It says here you stabbed him with a ballpoint pen? (intense eerie ominous music) - Does it say he tried to put his hand up my skirt? Or that he used to turn off the lights in his office to give Abigail a private exam? - Okay. I think that's all the time we have for today. Thank you Abigail and Jessica for sharing. That was a lot to get into there. Who do we belong to? - [All] No one. (slow dramatic music) (door shutting) - [Woman] There's so many bad (mumbles). (Rebecca gasping) (Rebecca sobbing) - No please. I can't keep doing this. (Rebecca gasping) (glass breaking) (bottle breaking) (Rebecca screaming) (Rebecca panting) (knocking) What are you guys doing here? - We brought pizza. - Lock the door, Jess. - You always let her boss you around like that? - She's been talking to us. She told us what you did. What you're going to do if you're smart, and you actually listen to her. Go on, bring her out and ask her yourself. - It doesn't work like that. - Oh no? How's it work then? She only comes out when you need help? Well, let's see if we can make that happen. (Abigail screaming) (punching) (Abigail screaming) (kicking) (Abigail grunting) (eerie ominous music) Let her go! Mom? (eerie ominous music) - Abbie, they're not real. They're not real, Abbie. (Abigail gasping) (eerie ominous music) (door slamming) (intense eerie ominous music) - Rebecca, hey. You've been coming to our sessions for a little while now and I want to see if you've thought about sharing. We all have our demons. Sometimes the first step in getting rid of them is giving them a name. Making them know that you're the one that's in control. - Yeah, yeah, I know. And all of this has been really helpful. It has, but I've been doing my own thing too. (eerie ominous music) I think it's helping. - Just think about it. (eerie ominous music) I think it's important to look at your past not as a canyon that you're still trying to climb out of, but as a mountain which you have already climbed. Which now you have vision over everything that has happened before. And you're out of breath and your heart's beating fast. (Troy sobbing) You could see ahead of you and you could see behind you. (slow dramatic music) (horn honking) - [Rebecca] Troy, hey. - Ah, thanks. - Remember me, asshole? (man grunting) You think it's funny to torture people like this? - What? - To pick on people who can't defend themselves? - I was just kidding. - What about those kids that I stopped from kicking the shit out of you? Did you do this to them too? (eerie ominous music) - Ah! Ah ah ah! Let go. Ah, leave me alone! (soft eerie ominous music) - Everything's going as expected. The twins have made contact. It's just a matter of time now. She'll be placed. - What about Rebecca? - I'm gonna try all the food groups until you say yes. - Do you ever feel like someone else is driving your life? And you're just along for the ride? - 16 years on the job, female cop, never had a partner. Anything I wanted in my life, I took by force. Carved it out of stone. And all these years, you know what I learned? You stay in the force long enough, sooner or later you become a wolf. And you're a wolf, Rebecca. You just don't know it yet. - Boom, that's right baby, grenade. - [Woman On Video Game] 55 is under attack. - [Man On Video Game] Feel my wrath. - Oh, we're back in it baby. - [Adam's Mom] Adam, go to sleep! - Just shut your mouth you witch! (video game blaring) Oh come on. No! You piece of junk! (glass breaking) (slow ominous music) - Shut your mouth. (Adam grunting) (rhythmic ominous music) (laughing) - Oh my God. What's the worst thing you've ever done? - I've done a lot of things I'm not proud of. But it was always for the greater good, you know? - Hey Rebecca! He's gone. Mega Red's gone. I guess he stopped paying his bill or something 'cause he's off my server. Or maybe he had a heart attack. God, I hope he had a heart attack. Hey, wait, where you going? - God, can you just leave me alone. - Okay. - My mom died of cancer when I was 13. And my dad, he had already started seeing another woman. Instead of being there for her at the end, instead of being there for us, he was gone a lot. I don't know if it was the guilt or the shame or something, but after she died, his drinking got worse. He never used his hands. He would use things. Anything he could find that wouldn't leave too big of a bruise. I think I must've reminded him of her. Of what he did to her. Things are gonna be okay, and that's what coming here has really helped me see. People like my Dad, they try to put us into boxes. They try to own us. But they failed. We won. We're still here. (Abigail yelling) (dramatic ominous music) - Where the hell did you get that? - Who do you think Darius is, huh? Just some white knight social worker? He works for her, just like that teacher of yours. They gave you your chance and you threw it away. Now it's our turn! - Don't do this. You don't have to (screams)! (Rebecca gasping) - Let her go. - Troy, get out of her. (taser buzzing) (intense ominous music) Don't! Please, he hasn't done anything wrong. He's just trying to protect me. (taser buzzing) (Abigail screaming) (woman screaming) - No! I won't let you do it. I don't need you. I never needed you. (woman screaming) - Just like all the others. Your strength to do must be done. (screaming) Ah! (Rebecca's neck snapping) (soft dramatic music) (Abigail yelling) - This is what they said would happen, right? (slow dramatic music) (soft eerie music) - Come to me. - What? But I did everything! You're supposed to be mine! - No! We belong to no one. - Ah! (intense dramatic ominous music) (screaming) (intense dramatic ominous music) 