 - Welcome. Thank you all who are joining for today's webinar on Driving Revenue Growth with Emerging Technology. Our guest speaker is Dr.Sathya Narasimhan. And those of you that are joining online, you are muted throughout the session but we want this to be an interactive session. Many of you have already submitted questions in advance, but those of you that would like to submit questions during the presentation may do so via the Q&A feature at the bottom of your screen. And we will be answering questions at the very end. I am Leanne from Alumni Relations, and I am going to pass the virtual microphone to Paul Crooker of the Bay Area Alumni Club. Paul. - Thank you Leanne. So, good evening everyone and some of you maybe it's good morning. Thank you for participating. I'm Paul Crooker as Leanne said with the San Francisco Booth Bay Area Alumni Club and we are happy to have Dr. Sathya Narasimhan, PhD and MBA, for this event today on Driving Revenue Growth with Emerging Technology Based Innovation in Enterprises. And Sathya's a senior director of new ventures and technology product management at SAP, and you have his bio on the registration so I won't go through that now. But I think, the real focus here is that the San Francisco Bay Area Economy is significantly driven by technology and innovation. And what Sathya has put together here is his perspective and SAP's approach along with a few examples. So that's what we have planned today. I think it's going to be very interesting and also there is an opportunity as Leanne said to have questions so, thank you for the questions that some of you provided during registration. And also please feel free to put your questions into the Q&A and chat and we'll go from here. So, Sathya with that the floor is yours. - Thanks Paul, thanks Leanne and also thanks to the University of Chicago San Francisco Alumni Club from the Booth School of Business. It's always exciting to engage with the Booth community. You know, ten years ago, when I graduated from Booth, the economy had just come out of the great recession. I remember the very first day I had my orientation at Booth, my classmates were talking about how their standards were entangled and I didn't even know what that really meant. So in the ensuing days as we all know, as I was going to the Booth's classroom everything was put in the context of how the economy was going and it was a great learning experience. So, here again, ten years after graduation we are in yet another unprecedented economic circumstances and one thing I can confidently share is that whatever we went through at Booth, pretty much prepares you for circumstances like this. And we thought about what could be a good information to share in a collaborative manner with fellow Booth Alumni here in the Bay Area. And with that, many of us are in leadership roles either as a technologist rolling out new products or making investment decisions either as a venture capitalist or a private equity or on the adoption side of using technology to grow businesses. So we thought from the perspective of a practitioner, provide some flavor around what it takes to build a new business using emerging technologies, building successfully and also growing to scale. So a lot of information I'm gonna be sharing are based on my experiences from SAP. Although this session is not about SAP or selling SAP. This is more of my personal view forged through my experiences at SAP and I fully aware that there are more than 60 people in this call now, and many of you are already an expert. So I would welcome any comments or questions and any other data points that will also augment or complement the view that I'm sharing now. So the current role I am in for the past five years, as a part of the new ventures and technologies organization, we consider our mission is to really future proof SAP. Meaning we work on topics, both on new technology as well as new business models that the rest of the company may not or cannot work on. So to give you a little flavor at any given time, the water cooler in our office is filled with, what you can play with a buzzword Bingo. And we also make it externally available. So here are some of the ideas we thought through, there is a link at the bottom that I would encourage you to visit where you can go through at any given time, all the ideas that we are incubating. And for the purpose of this session in the next half an hour to 45 minutes, we thought it would be helpful to go through at least two of these domains. So I will be going through all the experiences in building a business around blockchain. And then the second one around applying automation. And also kind of talk about how we are organizationally set up. How do we approach innovation? So going through these three topics over the next 30 to 40 minutes and also answer any questions that you may have along the way. So, to start with a new technology topic, you should have a trigger and the trigger for us came in around 2017 when there is actually a spike, if you look at Google Trends for topics on blockchain. The element of interest not just from the technology and the investors but pretty much the entire ecosystem. In 2017, if you didn't have a point of view on what blockchain is, and what blockchain could do for your business, it passes in the 2000s you didn't have a clue about what websites would mean for your business. So this kind of trigger made us take a closer look at, okay, people are saying, blockchain is gonna replace SAP. So why not invest and understand how we can disrupt ourselves versus being disrupted by somebody else. And when you have a kind of a trigger, the next point is to understand, what does the technology actually entail. So for a very long time, people have solved the databases, the distributed apps, like the trust and credibility that comes with having multiple parties together. So what is unique about blockchain? So the work involved in developing a technology strategy that goes beyond just Bitcoin. So Bitcoin is just one application of blockchain where you're able to bring multiple parties together. Often times these are strangers and they trust each other with one of the things that people don't trust anybody with which is money. So if you can get strangers together in a network, and have them trust their money with strangers, then you have a really interesting technology. So then, how does that translate to an enterprise world? So when you start looking at it from that perspective, we call this the Cambrian Explosion of Blockchain and Related Technology. And everybody was coming up with their flavor of technology that each addresses specific markets or types of problems that they are uniquely capable of solving. For example, on the blockchain side, you have Bitcoin, which is all about creating a decentralized ungoverned network where anybody can participate. On the other hand, the requirement on the enterprise side was we don't really need to have a public network that anybody can join. A lot of times the company to company transactions are private and we need a permission network. And within the permission network, we do not need to share all the data of a business, but maybe you want to share only a portion of a data. So all the collection of technologies and this is not comprehensive is just to give you a flavor, all addressing different parts of the use cases, that one can apply a blockchain or related technology to solve a problem that is a critical problem, but in a new way. So when we look at this, and we quickly analyze, okay, we wanna play on the enterprise permission side. We don't wanna be on the public cryptocurrency side, you're making a call on the technology. So we build that technology strategy and then prioritize where to focus. And when we focused on enterprise permission network, we also wanted to understand where we have our right to win. So SAP right to win is in few of the domains. And one of them is in supply chain traceability. So food safety specifically was a big topic, where you need to have a good understanding of the provenance of how your food is landing on your plate, essentially. So that in case there is a safety recall issue, rather than spending weeks and months, and basically putting the entire industry in jeopardy, you are able to pull the right product from the right shelves in the right time. Now, the hype around the blockchain really put this on steroids which means people that are looking at tracking anything that's noble, for example, from high priced artwork to, kind of short and gourmet wine. So these are all the use cases where you could track them using blockchain, but then what is the value? Is this really sustainable? Does the industry really want them? So we try to apply the traditional rules to come up with a market definition of where do we think it makes sense to apply blockchain and solve a problem in a way that no other technology could solve? So for us that answer was in seafood traceability. And once we determined that, is there any market where it is you need to approach with blockchain? The approach we took was we need a lighthouse customer. We need a first mover who will be willing to take the technology and apply it in their business in a way that is really impacting and moving their needle. So, one of the benefits at SAP is we have about half a million customers, not consumers, but really business customers. Out of the half a million looking for a truly cutting edge innovator in the seafood industry, who will be willing to co-innovate with us to see how this applies and transforms their business. So in this case, it is Bumble Bee. And before I get into kind of how we approach this, I wanted to show a quick video around what the outcome of this effort was. Just trying to switch my video. This is a very short description of what we did. So let's take a look. (motorboat roaring) I am Jafar. I am a fisherman. I'm in Indonesian waters trying to catch yellowfin tuna. (upbeat music) Yaaay! Yes! (smooth music) - Jafar's fish joins thousands others here at the receiving plant. The scanner is the first step in capturing information about how and where the fish are caught. That info is stored in the cloud and enters a secure blockchain. - It makes me feel proud about myself. You can prove that your fish come from the right source. - Now this is the safety store. Here in this independent laboratory, we test the food safety of the product. The data is instantly available. In the past, I had to search for data. And now it's there at the stroke of a keyboard. The data generated in this laboratory is fed up to the blockchain. It is then available to the premier restaurants and retailers in the United States. I take the responsibility very personally, I never want someone to get sick. - Here we are at the finishing plant. The last step before this fish gets to your table. What's incredible is that we track every piece of fish and we share that information and that transparency with the people who end up eating this fish. - We have our first look at the new blockchain analytics for the supplier, Let's go through and see Jafar's fish. It pulls up the amount of fish he's caught on every day, how much they weighed and how much was fair trade. - That a lot of data. - This is connected to the SAP blockchain. It's based on permissions. So only specific suppliers will give access to their specific data. - Nice. - I want to be an Indonesian fisherman forever. I am Jafar. I am proud to share my story with the world. - So I took a little gamble showing this video. I know this is dinner time and I'm showing tuna. But the key element I wanted to highlight here as blockchain based solution is not all about blockchain. On the technology side, you saw the IoT when used to scan and try the fish information. Blockchain is not all about just technology either, it's all about also creating new business model. So, as you can see in case of Bumble Bee, they have a high quality differentiated seafood product. And yet seafood as an industry has challenges that they have to battle to prove the authenticity of product that they are packaging as a product that they are labeling what it is. So it also adds more credibility to Bumble Bee's quality. There is also big impact on the social aspects of things. For example, in seafood industry, there are many regulations and certification someone has to go through, for example, you didn't catch any dolphins, for example. And also you saw the fishermen in the community often times, when they come back home with the catch, the whole village celebrates. So there is a whole community aspect to providing the right data and visibility to the scanning of these catching the fisherman community that you can provide an access to, for example, a non doorman organization by having the data captured in the blockchain network. So when we took the technology found out the right way to apply and get your mind the right domain, and the right way of applying it, what you now have is a full end to end solution and a business model, where blockchain is making a true difference to Bumble Bee as a business owner, to us as consumers. Now we have the full traceability of the product we are buying, as well as to the fisherman community, along with everybody else in the supply chain along the way. Now, this is how we can take a journey of understanding how you kind of put your mind where to place the bets in the technology and within the technology, how you place the bet and also how you bring to the market. So, this was done, the past couple of years. And once you incubate it, how does it scale from there? Then you need to have critical factors coming in from the market awareness and maturity standpoint. So, in case of blockchain, people were reading materials on how it takes the energy consumed by a household for a whole year to mine one bitcoin and they had wrong connotation of what the technology actually means. But with the enterprise, the way we apply blockchain, it doesn't have any of those performance limitations. So we prove that this technology is stable, and it's cost effective and it works. We also kind of found out the niche where to apply blockchain. It doesn't completely replace any existing system. But if you apply it in a smart way, it basically helps you bring multiple parties together, and create trust. And finally, you need to have a compelling mechanism. So we thought, going into the seafood traceability that there may be some requirements on the FDA side to have and require manufacturers to comply with a greater food safety standards. And, these expectations came out to be true. For example, the FDA statement that you see on the right here, this just came out this week. So FDA, on the food side, is encouraging application of new technology. They don't go to an extent of saying you have to use blockchain. But they encourage you to use new technology. And in this case, blockchain is as great and right spec. And what they also encourage is using new business models around these technologies that will basically launch the Food and Drug side to a transformative growth stage. So hopefully this kind of gives you a perspective of how you go with one technology on a full cycle basis. I'll just pause here if there are any quick questions on this topic. I don't see anything on the forum. So feel free to drop them. But I did notice one of the participants asked, why are we seeing growth in blockchain more on behind the scenes versus in other tech, the other areas like IoT and big data, it's more pronounced, and it's in the front and center. Well, my perspectives on that would be for one, this is not an easy technology to apply, as you can see with this example, that it's not only enough that we have a viable technology in this case we do. We also need an ecosystem of technology providers who will support interoperable networks so that anybody can join a blockchain network. So not everybody needs to be an SAP customer or a non-SAP customer or associated with a particular lender. If there are 60 offers in this call and each of us decide to go with completely different lenders, we should have that freedom of choice from the technology standpoint. That takes time. Another important factor is it is a network game. So, here for example, Bumble Bee is sharing the data of the fish traceability to those who is required to be on the blockchain network. This type of data visibility upstream and downstream in the supply chain, but just not how the industry operates today. There is a paradigm shift that the industry needs to take through so that they can share the information that normally they weren't sharing before. So that takes time. And finally, the industry can accelerate whenever there is a compelling event. For example, in case of Food and Drug Safety. FDA has come up with regulations that are more incentivizing, applying a blockchain based technology. You could also have a scenario that we are going through right now with COVID-19. And there are a lot of talks around how you can improve the contact tracing by using a blockchain network. And that is another example. So, if you are like me, looking at the county level dashboard, you could get that. If you are like me, again, looking at John Hopkins national level dashboard, you can also get that and also if you wanna look at a monthly level dashboard on a global level, you can also get back. So you don't really need a blockchain based network to share real time data around how the cases are progressing. But there may be some more audit and traceability requirements for example, did people change their test results? Did people mark a COVID category to be a non-corelation, non-correlate to COVID and does it have an impact on the policy and management of the pandemic. So you may not wanna track all the data, but maybe the governance of how the data itself would capture, maybe a good thing to be stored on a blockchain. So it's immutable and there is more trust. And also, for example, who can create a worldwide blockchain network that schemes, all the personal data and the countries are not trusting each other on the pandemic cases that they are recording, this could be a very viable solution that you currently don't have in the market. So these are some of the key differentiation specific to blockchain on what it takes to come up with a successful business model right around blockchain. I saw some traffic here. So one of the question here is, how do you decide or do you have a process around deciding what goes on in your buzzword board. We do, and I want to highlight on that towards the end of my conversation here. So just hold on to that thought for a second. The second thing I wanted to share from a topic standpoint is okay with blockchain, we have shown how it's done on a full cycle. But what if you are currently working on something that could be a similar buzzword and has a big hype and expectation on what it could entail in the future? So the second topic I wanna talk about is in terms of automation. So now, this picture of the Bloomberg terminal, probably creates a lot of good memory and reaction to those of you who enjoy spending time and turn on the Bloomberg terminal during your time on campus. But try to look at it from a slightly different perspective. I mean, you have mobile devices, tablets, cloud (mumbles) fancy looking consumer grade applications. And, try to show this screen to someone who is for example, entering new into the industry or technology, They're gonna ask, this is so complex. This is not user friendly. But we know fully that there is a purpose behind why the Bloomberg terminal is set up this way. This is not an app where you can casually use. This is really a technology on steroids that highly expedites and specialized traders look at to make very important decisions around how they allocate and trade and manage their portfolios investments. You can also think about similar scenario in any number of widely placed grade applications, whether you're an airline agent working with the reservation system. It could be same as your purchasing managers, warehouse operators, accounts receivable, accounts payable shared services, you can name any number of core enterprise users. They also have similar pertubation when when it comes to interacting with enterprise applications. A lot of these applications are platform 20 30 years ago. And they are very purpose built. It's kind of like you wanna build an Excel model, and you are a pro user and you could do an entire business model with just keystroke without even touching the mouse. And now somebody is coming and saying, can you interchange the Excel and you have to go through a whole bunch of clicks to build that business model. It just doesn't go well in terms of managing the change when it comes to releasing a new application. On the other hand, just look at how much advancements have gone into things like natural language processing, machine learning, and artificial intelligence. So one could take a look at this Bloomberg terminal example and say, the algorithm can do the trading. A lot of information that you see here and the way you use it, you're not really using the core human characteristics such as empathy or compassion. Why wouldn't we have a more automated way of getting things done? And by display of the next topic of automation comes an equal element of how we can take this experience to the next level would be, for example, from the perspective of a bank loan manager. Let's say you apply for a bank loan. So let's say you are in a business of making bank loans and somebody asked for $100,000 loan and your customer profile screen says, you're gonna offer let's say two and a half percent to this customer, but you don't know how competitive you are compared to other banks in the region. So at first the bank loan representative could potentially take it, take your information. You know kind of your income level, credit history, I can manually go to a different bank's websites and their loan calculators and see what interest rates they are offering, and then provide our reaction back to you around what we can offer. So now applying automation, what we're gonna show you here is this purple icon that says, competitive loans. So you click that button, automatically, you're triggering a bot. The bot is configured to look at five different loan websites. Go Pro, go to their loan calculator, punch in the customer's information, take the results that it's providing, and present it to you in a way where you can make the decision on whether the loan that you're offering at 4.55% is it better or worse than your competitor? And if it is worse, do you want to match the offer and send out a mail letter or communication to the customer so you can serve that person. So now this is an example where if you're applying automation as a way to improve the tasks associated with a specific business process. And this is one of the areas where there is a lot of activity from a technology perspective because the algorithms have gotten better. And you're able to work with a wide variety of applications and tools that you were unable to previously do. And do so in a skill where it's not one of execution of automation bots more of an organizational capability. Now, it also triggers another set of innovation. For example, let's say you are the owner of this department, and you have say 30 representatives making these loans. How do you know one person is not looking at any competitor while the other person is spending the whole day looking at 20 different competitors. What is the best practice? So by having a bot do this task for your team, you have now KPIs that you didn't have access to before that he can say, Yep, I looked at my competitors, there is a systematic trend of what is working and what is not working. And it is a piece of important operation piece of metric that you didn't have access to before. So as we look at kind of automation, and the art of the possible of what it could do, the key trend that we see here is the companies have made investment and technology that has outpaced and has not kept with kind of the people on the progress element. And there has to be a lead balance, where you're really working on product excellence, that takes the automation to the next level. What would that look like? For us, it's really a convergence of multiple technologies. For example, we looked at things like robotic product automation for a very specific task, like in the video that I showed. We also looked at other related disciplines, for example, you can understand how the user is interacting with your application. So we call that user behavior mining, because it gives you new insights around your application that you didn't have access before. And you can also apply things like natural language processing and data mining, to really create an end to end process automation beyond just the band aid aspect of automating a task. So what would something like that look like? So we have a little bit of a visual around how you could take these technology to the next level. For example, in this case, we're gonna be looking at for example, you take the use case of a purchasing organization. What they do day in and day out, is work with their suppliers and purchase orders, collect the material, the supplier sends an invoice and then you pay the invoice and then the supplier returns that invoice. If you take this very simple process, it can be really complex it especially if you're a manufacturer and you're spending two thirds of your money with the direct procurement. So what we have done here is to show how from a canvas standpoint, you can take the user behavior mining, you can get the analytics and commentary from various applications in your landscape and build an end to end visibility into your process that you never had before. For example, as a purchase organization, you can have a full length set of metrics around what metrics you care about, how they are performing and this could be your daily go to dashboard. But then there is nothing new with this compared to what you can do with analytics and dashboard today. What is unique about the vision in this dashboard is, if you go down to the bottom of this, we are showing, for example, there is a step in your process called escalation management. And, it is about the normal of what you have experienced in the past and most importantly, what your peers in the industry are experiencing. So one of the key advantage to this solution would be to have real time visibility into how your team is performing versus other teams within your organization's as well as the rest of your industry peers. So here, for example, you're saying it takes longer to resolve any escalations. And the reason is because, you're spending a lot of efforts manually, and it allows you to drill down to understand that you have basically gliding away from your best practice level of three to five to almost double your manual efforts to resolve the issue. So now how do we apply automation in this scenario? So this is what we call a citizen developer priority low code, or no code technology, which is very popular buzzword these days. So in this example, we are launching an application called Ruum that was built by SAP. And what Ruum is the look and feel of this application is gonna be very much like your Microsoft Word. But it's basically a business scan work that understands the natural language, and it allows anybody with an understanding of the underlying business process to basically create a really powerful solution. So here as a process owner for the procure to pay, I want to resolve the manual escalation timeframe. And this is how I am going to resolve it. I'm gonna create a process, saying I first need to investigate the reason behind it and then I need to come up with a solution. And then I'm going to apply automation to solve it. In order to investigate, I'm gonna call upon my experts, who are my co colleagues and coworkers. So I'm going to pull up persons from accounts payable, and the purchasing and legal. And the best part about this is now you're not spending a lot of time on the collaboration system of action. By that what I mean is, if you were to normally launch a project like this, you need assemble a team, you need to look at their calendars, set up a kickoff meeting, go through the whole set of defining what this team will do and also have ongoing cadence. By the time you are done with this, couple of weeks later, you have emails flying around, SharePoint created, documents going all over the place, but here we are bringing it all together. And once you assemble the team in this collaborative environment, you can start assigning how you would go about doing the investigation. So here for example, we are drilling deeper into the process expertise and the process expert says that these are the information you need and approval from legal before you can completely resolve a manual escalation. So now you have determined and investigated. Now, you can go through set up approvals to make sure the stakeholders have been on board. And once you get the approval, Madeleine, now you can automatically trigger automation bot similar to the bot we saw in the banking example, the bot is gonna run in the background, the whole process of accelerating the manual escalation process. So you are defining your collaboration mechanism, defining a process, calling on automation. And now when you're able to publish this process, this is basically running pervasively in your environment. And as a result, you're able to get feedback on how quickly you are able to resolve all these manual escalations. So, the reason this end to end scenario is possible, again to recap is you're applying canvas states, no code, low code environment. We are applying the robotic process automation, you have the metrics coming in from the business, from the user behavior mining standpoint, as well as telemetry from application standpoint. Now, either way, you could describe this as an advanced use case on machine learning, as well as big data. I wouldn't say this is artificial intelligence just yet because you do need help from a product expert to define what needs to be done. But outside of that is really converging multiple discipline to create an end to end scenario. This is what Gartner calls hyper automation. So for those of you who are following Gartner's. I wanna show you real quick. Will Zoom let me do it? So Gartner publishes some of the top 10 technology trends to follow. And the trend number one is hyper automation. And it gives you a little description about how they view hyper automation for a while. And hopefully I gave you a little flavor about how we take trends like this and apply it within the context of SAP to really take an idea from us who are to actually implementing a viable business model. So, just take a pause here to see if there are any questions. There is one here from the blockchain side, I will address that, but let me just wrap up the points I wanted to make on the automation. So this is how we basically take any given technology. Understand where it is likely to apply and bring it to the market. The question on the blockchain side was, are we doing it ourselves or are we collaborating with others? I'll be happy to share more information on that. But the way I would summarize it is, blockchain is a team sport. One person won't be able to do it all on their own. So we have an ecosystem of partnerships, both with big technology vendors like Microsoft, Amazon, IBM, as well as all the way down to startups in our accelerators, and funding mechanisms that we have in place. And through these partnerships, we build out an ecosystem and bring out these emerging technologies. On the same talk, I wanna also kind of quickly highlight how we are actually bringing out these innovation. So from a my organization standpoint on the new ventures and technologies, we kind of look at the horizon in three steps. What is now, what is next, and what is new. And the new is something I would characterize is something that is around 12 to 18 months out from now. So we will rely as an organization on the product teams and the lines of business to managing innovation around the now, because this is an active roadmap item that they will be working on. And then we partner with the lines of businesses on the things that we have integrated, such as blockchain, such as automation, to make it pervasively available in a mature product. And that is what I would call the next. Where we focus wise, we know a large amount of hour, energy is on the new topics where the lines of businesses doesn't think it is relevant now, or big enough for to focus on those topics. And we want to collect these new topics. We also have a view like this could turn into a viable business model. So there are no science experiments in horizon three that we do, we look at the type product market fit to how we, bring it on board into our customer base. And that is how we can make an investment decision to go forward. Now, that methodology alone is not enough. We think for anything that we incubate, there has to be an organizational culture that is ingrained to take what we build and take it to scale. I kind of look at it as innovation and as an organ transplant. It is good for your body, like, everybody knows that. But if you don't do it the right way, the body's gonna reject the transplant. So how do we bring that culture? So we have kind of three different models that we take the entire organization through. On the left hand side, it's more technology heavy with the Innovation Center network. On the right hand side it is a more business model, product savvy with sap.io. And in between is our intrapreneurship model, where we try to in a company has about 100,000 people, we try to reach at least 10%, which is a very big number. 10% of the employees go through some version of this product where they have part of an idea, they have come across an idea and they wanted to understand what it is to be a entrepreneur, to see that idea to the finish line. So we have the intrapreneurship program that brings more of the startup culture into as many employees as possible. On the left hand side we have our global network of innovation centers that are tapping into the local ecosystem of technologies, startups and domain experts to understand what are the key technologies that should be in our Horizon and the radar. And the way we kind of make decision around that is, SAP again publishes several thought leadership. So one of the things is, for example, is what we call our technology radar. So here, for example, we are publishing on an ongoing basis, some of the key topics that we are interested in and we are pursuing. And this is one way for us to engage with ecosystem of both partners as well as customers of any size to build out these innovation on a collaborative basis. And finally, on the investment side to do an outside and innovation, SAP also has SAP.iO Venture which is more of your traditional venture capitalist model that is set up outside of the SAP product organization. But within the SAP product organization, we also have this model called SAP.iO which really looks at identifying interesting ideas both internally and externally to SAP either in terms of actually providing funding to help with teams, or startups to build out their ideas, as well as providing kind of an incubator type model to provide mentoring and coaching and advisory to make sure the companies that are well funded, still have their strategy and the customers feedback, fine tuned in conjunction by working with SAP. So the way we kind of think about engaging the ecosystem is also publishing our thought leadership, for example, the horizons by SAP kind of goes back to the three horizons that I discussed before, and there is actually not an SAP's own material, we actually work collaboratively with a lot of thought leaders from the industry to understand outside of SAP what are some of the things that companies are looking at. So, this is basically what I wanted to share in terms of how we have done with the example of couple of technologies, how we are doing with one of the heart technology trend and what we are doing in terms of organizationally bringing out these capabilities in a scalable length. So, just to summarize, right, so I have to summarize it in Chicago way, and there is no right answer to the secret to success on how you can grow innovation. In my personal perspective, the phase in which you can grow a business, either as an investor you're making a decision on placing bets to grow with the technology, or as a product owner like me, looking at serving a new end market, or as a technologist making investment to adapt a technology, I think the way things are evolving, is that you're gonna build a set of platform capabilities on the left here, that will rely on the maturity of the technology you're working with, making sure you have the right talent that can apply the technology. And also mature the technology outside of the technology and the talent, you have the right innovative culture in place that will nurture kind of do fail, fail fast and innovate in jail format, as well as an investment methodology that has the right trade off between risk and reward, and can make decisions in a timely fashion. Once you have these four combinations set up as a platform it works really as an organizational capability. And for each one of these technology domains, then it's just a matter of applying that technology to a specific use case, for example, we have done that with cloud chain, with supply chain and very specifically food safety in seafood, and that gives you a use case number one. We have another one on the drug side that ensures that the drugs when they are returned, can be solved to other customer. And that is a solution that's based on blockchain. So we built a foundation and we have a number of use cases that leverages that foundation. And once you have these use cases, you scale back with a ecosystem of partners. And the partners can really play a role to exponentially grow your business. So this is kind of like my minuscule way of characterizing what I thought worked very well in the past five years or so of bringing out new technologies and products and growing at new business for SAP. I hope this was in helpful perspective. So I would love to take any other questions that you may have. And also, I will look forward to continuing the conversation and connect, as well as reconnect with many of you through LinkedIn. So let me just take a look at the question here. Does SAP use hype cycles to determine which technology to focus or is it purely market survey driven? What problems are people trying to solve? So there is no one answer. So as I showed, there are multiple teams looking at innovation and there are also multiple organizations and the product team themselves, looking at what could be next in their roadmap. On top of that, we have very good customer advisory council, in addition to being engaged in the analyst community, as well as the investment community. So it's really a matter of tapping into a lot of these different stakeholders. Not to mention the academy as well. So we are really tapping into, five or six of these really unique ecosystem of thought leaders and partners along with something like an analyst would put out like Gartner hype cycle to really inform and come up with a market back view of what are the right things to go after. So, with that, Leanne and Paul, I do not see any more questions on the chat. If there are ones from the pre submitted one that you think I should answer, I will be happy to take them. If not, I return it back to you Paul. - Fantastic. Very information packed. So my brain is still only catching up myself. I've got to go through these slides and think about it some more. But I think that's one question that I think the slides can be available. Reach out to Sathya on that. Anyone who's on the call also Leanne is, the way this works is the YouTube video has to be reviewed, and the sub captioning, subtitles have to be added so that it will be available in the future for those who have that question. But also, there's a new, a new question popped up Sathya, so maybe you can cover that. Did you see it there in the chat? - [Sathya] Sure, I actually did. Can you comment on how your approach can be accommodated in a small company not the size and scope of SAP? So a quick answer would be partner with someone that is a mutual set and that is aligned with your growth objectives. If you for example, take the case that I showed on Bumble Bee. Pun intended, they are a small fish in the big seafood and larger food industry ecosystem. But we were able to strike the right partnership where they had the good business model and the quality product and they wanted someone who can arm them with the technology. And that was a great fit. So likewise, depending on what role you play in the ecosystem, either as an investor, or a technology vendor, or as a end user of adopting the technology. I think just as SAP has a lot of other companies on the application side as well as from a ecosystem standpoint, have similar programs. And you may be able to leverage some of these capabilities that is, suitable for you based on your strategy on who the right partner may be. And you could also do a condones version of these best practices. For example, having a intrapreneurship drive where you kind of understand who are the leading innovators working on cutting edge technology, who have released new products, and then showcase their stories around organization. That's one way, you could start building out an innovation culture. You can also invite guest speakers from the technology vendors or anybody who is kind of like in an evangelical mode, who is interested in sharing their perspective on new technology. There are some things like this you may be able to do if you are constrained on budget, and also take it all the way through more of the strategic partnership discussion with on what's your appetite to invest and grow with new innovation really, So a lot of different options. - One last question here. How does SAP manage to stay focused and what happens to innovative ideas that don't really fit within SAP's core business area? - [Sathya] So there is an investment decision that we all go through and we take a hard look. In our case, specifically the things that we are working on the new ventures and technologies organization, I will give a little shout out to our chief innovation officer who is a former VC himself. So a lot of decisions that we make are on what we call a zero based budgeting decision. So the for example, the hyper automation vision I showed you, it is only a vision at this point. So we are looking and understanding how we would turn this into a viable market opportunity. So when the product finally comes out, it may or may not look exactly like the way I've showed you in the vision. And those are the decisions and investment decisions and discussions that we go through internally to ensure that are we hitting our key customer adoption milestones, that is show the product market spec, and most importantly, the company of the size, that SAP is in and these innovation needs to at the end of the day move the needle for us forward all in a meaningful way. And there are so many ideas who can amount to multimillion dollar new business for SAP. So there are a lot of things that do drop out. And by using kind of a VC type methodology and zero based budgeting is some of the gates that we use to kind of determine what makes sense to be progressed. And if it doesn't, are there partners who are seeing viability and interest in making their own investment and taking that to the market. Or is just it's been a great experience and it is not viable because this is not an interesting topic for customers on SAP and those have to be completely sincere. So we go through that decision on a periodic basis. - Okay, but we have time for one more question. If someone's out there who has a question they haven't asked yet, I think we've got a minute or two to get that in. - And as Paul said the recording will be on the Chicago Booth YouTube channel after it has been closed captioned. So please stay tuned for that if you'd like to watch the recording. - Good, we're all set. Sathya, thank you very much for giving us this session. A lot of information like I said, my brain needs time to absorb and watch that video again. And really spot on, I think with respect to what we're shooting for, and addressing and thinking about what the Bay Area is unique and what your strengths are. So big, big thank you for that. And thank you, Leanne, for working with us to organize this. And I would say to those who are still on the line, if there are ideas for speakers or sessions, send them to me and them to Leanne. We can work to- Part of our focus and goal is to increase engagement and bring relevant events and subjects together for the Booth community to get together around. So I'll stop there Leanne, and you wrap it up. - Yeah, I was just gonna say it. Paul makes a great point. If anybody has any ideas for future speaking sessions that you're curious to learn about, and you just wanna let us know, I've chatted my email address to everyone on the call. So feel free to ping us and Sathya, thank you so much. This was really brilliant. We really appreciated as do all of the beautiful gratitude that's coming through on the chat. So everybody have a- - [Sathya] Thanks for having me. It was great to be engaged. - Cheers. - [Paul] Everybody have a good evening. - [Sathya] Bye now - Take care - [Leanne] Bye bye - Bye. 