 Good evening as Kelleann said I'm Eliza Pennypacker and head of the department landscape architecture it's great to see you all here I'm delighted to share the reason that I am up here which is it's all about practice so our Bracken lecture series was endowed with a generosity of our longtime head John R Bracken who led our department, amazingly in my opinion, from the 1920s to the 1950s. In his estate, Dr. Bracken graciously provided us an endowment to enrich our students experiences. So we began the Bracken experience so we begin the Bracken lecture series in 1982 and each year we choose one fellow a professional whose inspirational work is at the highest level and that individual is awarded the Bracken fellowship the highest honor that our department bestows and this year I'm very proud to say in case you haven't figured this out yet the Jack Dangermond is our 2019 Bracken fellow. The Bracken fellow receives a medal you see it right there designed by Penn State medallion artist, John Cook. The front shows the corona of the mountain laurel, which is Pennsylvania's official state flower. It's presence representing out commitment to our native landscape, and our commonwealth. Now, it's a good thing it's projected up there because ya'll can't see the real deal, which is right here. With this medal, Jack, you join some illustrious company, we talked about some of them last night: Ian McHarg, Jamie Jackson, Stuart Udall, Fritz Steiner, Ann Spirn, David Orr, and of course, Garret Ekbo. We are delighted that you are here, and we look forward to your talk. Thank you. First off, I am deeply honored I really am and to join this distinguished crowd of people Garret Ekpo I knew quite personally my family knew him quite well and he and I knew I guess everybody explained well what I guess I want to do is say that GIS and Geodesign how many of you think of yourself affiliated with this concept of Geodesign some of you here in the audience one third. My sense have never been so important so I'm going to talk about three things first give you some evidence of this that has never been so important and show what people are doing with these disciplines outside of the traditional domain and I'll do that really quickly. Second I'll lay out a kind of concept of where I think this technology is going and it's a big it's a big idea. And third I'll share a bit about the technology that my colleagues and I are developing. Is that okay these three things? Whichever you like. Okay of the three which one would you rather do? Examples or the theory and vision or the technology so you get to vote one two three so examples of what other people are doing. okay then vision of where it's going. okay. and then the fundamental technology and what's going there. well I got it wrong I did it the other way around but that's okay it's going to be interesting. well first let me share with you applications and give you some evidence that this is an important technology. basically these slides that I'm about to show you are examples of people's work from all over the world that are applying the concepts of applied geography and GIS to different problems. and they fall in different categories. we'll start with environmental modeling and assessment. these examples show what researchers or planners or users or environmentalists are doing at some times the global scale. they're looking at for example deforestation in Brazil. they're looking at sea level rise in its impacts. they're looking at pedantic things like noise modeling and Switzerland. they're very worried about biomass assessments and on and on. others are looking at natural resources oil and gas reserves solar forestry. they're looking at ecological dimensions of our of our world. they're doing mining. they're exploiting the world. they're managing natural resources and using it as best they can and sometimes these two different sets of applications are obviously in conflict conservation environment and extraction and development. they're both using the same information. others are managing land information parcels who owns what. this is a kind of foundation for the civil society property ownerships. we take it for granted in this country but more than half of the world has no land cadastre or ownership boundaries. as a result rule of law is in trouble there's disputes. so this technology is used in defining ownership and understanding ownership some of it is just making the parcel Maps which is sort of what you would think but look at these other examples looking at appraisal. looking at history. and in Singapore they're building the land cadastre underground because they've run out of room. so it's a its effect that's a foundational data set. in the urban design and urban planning space people are creating new towns like this one extending in Abu Dhabi in both 2d and 3d forms. they're doing regional and in urban planning like in London. they're doing redevelopment planning in Korea. and just traditional zoning and transactional planning like in Southern California. others are doing conservation planning. they're looking at those hotspots that need protection. they're laying out plans. they're designing habitat corridors and they're looking at all the fabric of geography modeling it coming up with plans. and yet others are going in the direction of putting into GIS buildings or campuses or cities for visualization for space management for finding your way for finding your way through a campus, something I probably would have needed this morning if I were here alone. and these examples show the application of this technology and utilities and telecommunication. and some of it is definitely managing the assets where are the wires where are the power poles where as the distribution networks located. but other ones are giving us insights into real-time what's going on and in the area area of 5g a line of sight modeling is very important. so in the upper left hand corner you see people designing a network which is invisible physically but yet is based on the ability to see around buildings or with buildings. and in the lower right a our augmented reality is letting engineers see underground using the digital twin of utilities. is this about the right speed are you following me what I'm saying? I could go faster. you'd be in trouble but I could. and in business people are using GIS to get the geographic advantage for their business. why people like Starbucks or Walmart or Walgreens or UPS optimizing routing. people are seeing big visions and the private sector for how to develop planscapes. just like there are people that are trying to conserve it. in public health and in demographics GIS is foundational. for example the 2020 census next year. geography, the new director says, is foundational to everything that they do. a collection the enumeration the aggregation of data so that people make decisions from it. it's really fantastic in terms of spatial visual decision-making. in public health some of you I know are in public health are looking to public health, is literally changing our understanding of disease spreads epidemics and shutting down major major epidemics like polio Ebola measles. see things spatially changes our perspective. so GIS is credited with shutting down Ebola in West Africa a few years ago because they were able to set up quarantine areas and see as disease was breaking out how to put it into a box. our world our cities are safer because people can now see not only where crime is happening but also address it with real time crime density. with predictive analytics like in that Center thing where will crime possibly breakout. it's not perfect but it gives some indication. and little Sri Lanka over off of India is showing real-time spatial temporal patterns of crime and it's just changed how they do policing. over in the left hand corner down at the bottom you'll see the city of Philadelphia is looking at all the parameters that are necessary to figure out where to invest in more protection or more policing or more infrastructure. again it's a decision support kind of map. I'll come back to these because in some ways these are all examples of spatial thinking and supporting decision-making like where to locate where to address, like that. we are seeing in our planet increasing need for preparing for and responding to disasters. these are examples of for example migrant rescue in the Mediterranean. fires in my state we see the states burning down. and our governor Newsom perhaps some of you have read about him, he's amazing, he came and spent a day with me to figure out how he can get fires in a box. Isn't that interesting? to me either I'm totally amazed that a man at that stature would do this. and homeless how do we get homeless in a box. how do we deal with these substantive issues of hurricanes and disasters and respond to them. Now an interesting thing is happening I have millions of users. it's a huge responsibility. they buy little tools from me they set up systems they do work and one of the big trends I'm seeing is these people are all opening up their data. they're put putting it on the internet with trends of open data portals. but typically open data is not enough I mean open data was a person normal person to do with open data. you know but open services like open maps that tell stories are increasingly becoming prominent. billions of maps are being made every day not just the Google Maps fly around like Superman but I'm talking about maps that engage people. so citizen engagement through mapping is coming alive and sometimes within organizations complex organizations like cities we're seeing the serving of maps from one department to another. so they can mash them up and see the whole. one of the big promises of of Geographic thinking and GIS is this idea of putting all the pieces together again. so it complex organizations portals and open data and this set of apps that engage people is one of the big trends. well that's sort of enough of a profile. you get what this is about? I mean it is it is becoming pervasive. it's virtually touching every major challenge that we as a species are dealing with from climate change to to little things like where to locate Starbucks. fun! the second thing I'm gonna talk about is what's next. no this is a perplexing question and for each of you it's gonna be different. so I'll simply ask these questions what's next for you as a person? what's next for your personal career? what's next for tomorrow? but what's next for next year? have you got it wired? what's next for you during your career? and some people when I ask this question what's next they'll say well what's next for my family? or what's next for those friends that I'm closest to? and another way to think about what's next is what's next for Penn State? or the little city here? or what's next for Pennsylvania? or what's next for the United States? or what's next for the planet? don't these ideas go in your head a lot? like every day you open the paper oh my god that's gonna what's what he said was you know sort of things. so it's provocative question, what's next. so coming from where I have come I thought about what's next is that it needs to be more guided and so the vision I want to share with you is the idea that that GIS can be a kind of intelligent nervous system for our planet. now most of you know what a nervous system is you all have one they're humans. and they of course do stimulus response. you see something you respond, but they're far more than stimulus response. central nervous systems, meaning your brain, take in lots of information they integrate data from many sources. what you see what you hear what you read and then you integrate this data somehow. that integration process we don't know exactly how to explain it but we do it. and then we think about it, we use logic reasoning, sometimes emotions, sometimes ethics, and then and then we respond. but we don't respond just stimulus response it's not just one thing. we do coordinated response. don't you? well most of us do. except sometimes you do stimulus response. but the process is intriguing to me and the world that you and I live in is it resembles a kind of living organism. it's full of life. it's complex it's a kind of ecosystem. things are interconnected, and they also it's all about self-healing our natural environment heals itself as it gets into trouble sometimes. and we would say resilient it's a common theme that people like to use these days. it'll be resilient. that living organisms also always changing and you and I are a big part of it these days. people describe it that were a huge part of it. now thinking about digital technology which I do a lot of thinking about it's if we look back in the last 25 or 50 years it's it's literally transforming our world. it's co-evolving with us as humans. now technology has always had this role you invent technology humans adapt to it or embrace it and humans evolved. but with digital technology it's accelerating really fast I mean it is really accelerating fast. and that has been fantastic for for the privileged for you and me. we live in a enriched world and this is incredible what we have, medicine, literacy, access, to the world's knowledge, advancing civilization on all fronts and well it's lovely to live at this particular point in history. except that our little human footprint is creating massive challenges. its we're overpopulated. some people say by about well several times we are consuming the natural resources at a rate that's overextended. some say about 1.7 consumption of the sustainable natural resources. and we see the evidence in this and climate change. we see the evidence centered in rapid decline of certain species. we see it in the evidence and the evidence and social conflicts and political debate. we see the evidence and inequality socially globally. all these things people write about and talk about on evening news every day. not good. and frankly it's not sustainable. all the arrows are going in the wrong bloody friggin direction. I'd use other words but people would not like that. not good. our friend Dave cinema would use other words. you would have, not good so... this is a dilemma. so each of you I suppose contemplate this in your personal lives whether you have a family or not. it's a sort of like doom and gloom dismal future. from us perspective I believe that the world needs a kind of nervous system less like the ones in our body. an intelligent and responsive platform that senses, creates understanding, enables not just single response but collaborative response, much like we do with our body. and in action and for me the science of geography is essential for this. and people have talked about a nervous system of the planet for decades with the advent of the Internet, oh that's the nervous system for the planet but, shit... it's full crap you know you search something there's not any way there's no way to bring it together. but geography is a way to organize things it's the science of our world. and here I'm not talking about geography the discipline, like I'm not a geographer or I'm not on the geography department or like that I'm talking about the broader context of geography the science of our world. it provides content and a way to organize all of the content across the different sciences and across different organizations. I would say it provides a common reference system. it helps us see complexity. it helps us see the patterns and relationships and Association. it kind of brings it all together for me. and when I first saw that about 52 years ago I was like amazed. I could hardly believe it. I mean each of you probably have had moments in your life when you all of a sudden saw things that you didn't see before and at that moment for me I thought ...oh my gosh it brings it all together. I could fly in an airplane and I could see context and content. I could model it in my minds and it was it was a critical moment for me. and it also helps us understand and with the advent of this new discipline of Geodesign it helps us intelligently respond. we bring all of our design thinking, more about that later, into a framework that allows us to make action. so the diagram that seems like my entire life I've been remaking is this: that in these six steps we measure geography, we visualize it, with maps or look at it in real time now with IOT, we do analytics model, model processes, model suitability, model or interpret our measurements. we then make designs and take actions. we make decisions based on that fabric. it's like having it all brought together. and if we go back to the mind thing here it's about sensing, and understanding, and then systematically responding. bringing it all together. so geodesign provides us a framework and a process step 1 step 2 step 3. a kind of foundation for this nervous system that I'm trying to sell you on. do you like this idea? I need some feedback you guys are asleep. is it for me? I think it is. ,,,I can see all of them. and I will give you a test later. by the way you sitting on the ground you can sit up here. there's a dozen chairs up here. unless you want to do that. it's okay. look when in most of my career I've worked on this thing called geographic information systems and this supported doing little projects on a desktop or in a mainframe computer. it involved doing the creation of systems these are systems of Records, like a system for utilities, or a system for land ownership. these are like other IT systems they're transactionally updated and maintained. they're like money systems or personnel systems there are Geographic systems and systems of record are a fabric for not just administrative work but also for science itself. we are in we're learning how to do survey measurements as a transaction on a database that other people going to use instantly. the third step which is what excites me most at this point in my career is that these systems are starting to get tied together into a system of systems. this is done with web services and a portal which references the different distributed systems so that I can ask a question that can go out and pull data together for me and weave it together using location to do the integration. this is a broad concept that I'm going to come back to again and again. so GIS is actually already creating geospatial infrastructure for cities. little projects little systems are being woven together creating a nervous system for cities. I'll show you a few examples in a minute. connecting everybody and everything in the city, and applying this science the geographic science to behavior or work in the organizations. GIS is also beginning and this is just beginning but there are millions of people doing it are also contributing to global geospatial infrastructure. so look at the diagram little projects are being shared with cloud into cloud machines with internet connections and little systems that run inside of a city or in a county or the Forest Service or a BLM or like that are being referenced into portals that can be searched and connecting the information we can bring it together. this is sort of almost invisibly happening. so what is this actually? geospatial infrastructure you can look at the icon the thing in the center and it shows a lot of distributed little computers. what it is is GIS at scale. it's the same concept of overlaying different Maps but now the maps are living all over the place. and I can dynamically search and gnash up data from distributed systems of record or little research projects that might be done by a graduate student here or you know designing something like that. and that collective that collective body of knowledge can be searched and accessed by an individual or a team. people in different locations can begin to team sort of collaborative use of data and sharing it. and also this platform is starting to open up and connect with communities. so through the power of mapping something I spoke to some of you students this morning about, mapping is becoming a common language. so that people can understand what's going on in government. they can look not only at charts  and graphs but they can see the patterns where the investments are going on so. this whole thing is is going at lightning speed. what does it provide us? geospatial infrastructure it means me sitting at a workstation or in a browser. I can connect with distributed distributed capabilities on other people's machines. I can say I want some AI done let me just set it over there and connect and get the results back. or I can bring the data from different distributed machines into my machine and connect it ....it's like I I have a hard time describing this... anybody have an iPhone here? yes, some people do ...so I was always intrigued why Steve introduced this in a technical way. he described it as this is a it's got a cool camera in it, it's got I can do my email o,n it I can you know listen to music on. it all that stuff. he never got up and you know if I were him thinking about Christmas I would have got up and so on the stage.... ladies and gentlemen I just invented something that will allow you to look at the entire Library of Congress in your hand. you can get out access every piece of music every piece of knowledge that has ever existed through this little device. what a difference. and this isn't nowhere near that impactful or maybe it is. what I'm saying is that distributed geographic knowledge can now be accessed through this web services and brought together as maps and models assembling dynamically the geographic knowledge of of millions. I'll come back to this a few times this morning... this afternoon. and there's some building blocks to this how does this happen? the first concept is you know there's an acceleration of data collection. so on the web now I can read in BIM models. I can read in LIDAR. I can read in 3d data. I can bring in topographic maps. I can read in imagery. I can read in unstructured data. I can bring it all in by leaving the data on the machine where it lives. if it's in Australia just leave it there. but I can view it through an abstraction. now that required the ability to do dynamic abstraction that's a cool thing. some of you will understand this some of you won't it's alright just get the concept of it that I could actually bring to my fingertips data on every machine and no matter what the data format is I can turn it into a map layer and I can overlay these map layers to look at relationships and patterns. so that's kind of the technical way that it's done. in other words I harmonized dynamically the data. some of the data can be real-time like where are all the busses right now or all the uber cars. those are sort of examples of single you know a fuse of maps, but imagine I could do that in software that allows me to integrate all of that and mash it up. it can integrate different kinds of models landscape models, city models, or sims could integrate zoning models Zim's or bim's. I just made this up last night ...I hope you like it... then send Zim's and bim's I got sick of the architects owning the show here. not that they're bad, it's just you know different kinds of models. so I could dynamically integrate this data from many sources. and through that integration I can feed apps for many kinds of individuals. I can look at doing GIS projects like I did 50 years ago. I can look at doing geo design work sketching. I can do data visualization. I can build dashboards. I can do data science. I can view this assembly of distributed data dynamically and put it into an app and disseminate that out to everyone. now again those of you not in software engineering cannot grasp probably what this has taken integrate all data harmonize it and then be able to support in a simplified form access through any device anywhere anytime. and so this is just beginning its the idea is not beginning the engineering is done but the implementation of it will steadily roll out and more comments about that in a moment. one element of that is that maps will become pervasive not the Google map thing fly around like Superman who gives a damn I'm talking about the real rich map related information that's authored by people that tell stories. and at that language that generation of language will mean a new generation of email. I would call it Gmail but Google already did that. A kind of geography mail or map mail. it'll also mean that people can grab different datasets and explore them for their own community for their own life. they can do simplified spatial analysis for for just hunting of relationships. what's the what's the relationship between breast cancer and the toxics off of Long Island? just for fun let's take a look is there anything there. I know there was be amateurs like what's happening in the Astronomy community with amateur telescopes. just imagine opening up all of the geographic knowledge to normal people and making it simple enough to do mashups and connections. it will revolutionize the way people think .and adding to that but why not bring in all the new earth observations the hundreds of satellites and different resolutions and why don't we add to that rich modeling for forecasting like these flood models that are starting to emerge and make that available through powerful visualization displays that everybody can understand. well and why not also use that power that thrust of available geographic data as the platform for doing geodesign. that's what this is all about I mean you know measuring the data making apps doing models that's all the science side. but turning it in the hands of designers so they can design more intelligent cities referencing the real-time data or design landscapes in various ways. it's gonna be very powerful. that will be for you all this work has been done. speaking to those of you who are doing geodesign as a profession all this engineering work has been done for you and it's just beginning. we will see the ability to have geospatial green infrastructure defined here for the whole country or the whole world. Ed Wilson is one of my good friends at Harvard, biodiversity person and I are teamed up to map biodiversity for the whole planet. it's taking about four years. it's gonna be powerful. this is a mere beginning of green infrastructure the one of my colleagues Hugh Keegan I think shared here a few months ago. and he showed how this green infrastructure framework could be used for regional planning, local planning, urban planning, not just the technologies or the data but the concept of it will be there. so geospatial infrastructure is not about just your work it's also about sharing your work and engaging communities bringing people together so what we're seeing is the ability to take geospatial infrastructure and put it out through maps and apps that are engaging to people. oh that's kind of fun it's like playing in games. it's like playing pokeman-go except with real live data underneath it. so I see this is just just beginning. so that instead of urban governments run by bureaucrats it'll be urban governments that that promote that make available Geographic data for for citizens and they get involved they get involved in their town. in the same way that social media is evolving everyone geo-social media will involve everyone constructively. citizens academics participating in you know the whole the whole deal. so that's out now. one last idea this geospatial infrastructure and a concept of it with distributed data that's geo-referenced and integrated dynamically will mean that different stovepipes of data different separate databases can be dynamically integrated and interconnected in real time. some of you will understand the application of these this others won't. okay let's take the university. do you work well with all of the other research departments on the university or doing work or do you keep your data quietly to yourself? I'm talking to some of the researchers here... do you actually openly share it or do you work on your research and then maybe maybe you'll give it away later? but imagine a world on the campus here that through the library which had a strong portal which actually would reference everybody's work every students work every researchers work the history of the collections of PhD theses that were here and one could search and dynamically bring out the data together to see in near real time how location could integrate data. in cities we're already seeing this the idea that different different departments are sharing their information through portals. they're saying the police department the fire departments the planning department the zoning apartments that etc is making available their information as web services. and both across the government and also with the public they are making that data available. this is happening with a hundred and thirty seven departments in Abu Dhabi right now it's one of the most interesting cities I've ever worked in. but it's also happening in a small city in South Carolina of 7,000 people. it's happening in Raleigh North Carolina. is happening in Los Angeles. it's happening in lots of cities. in abu-dhabi they're not only bringing the data together but they're supporting the executive council with management information geospatial management information so that in real time transactions are made and responses are available. in Los Angeles the mayor there set up this hub for citizen engagement. and communities instead of meeting in one big hall and then everybody getting confused or organizing their engagements with the city through meetings through maps and and initiatives. I'll come back to this in a moment. in New York City they're wiring up the city as they're doing in Dubai and Singapore and Hong Kong where virtually everything that moves and changes can be observed and mashed up. so it isn't just the static geology maps no it's real-time sensors that are watching the traffic and watching people move. and in the UK under the direction of the Ordnance Survey they're wiring up the whole country so that as cars or driven objects are observed put into feature databases and accessible through the services and orchestration of this amazing organization. what we're talking about is creating a responsive infrastructure that looks at changes in real time and allows integration in real time of the information. now not all of it is running fast but some of it is. a couple weeks ago I was in Indonesia the little slide in the upper left is showing all in real-time all the ships that are moving off the coast. and you can funny see that funny in the yellow line that's because of the when is it some miles out fishing boundaries ...so you can see it. and floods. and then in the lower right the UN for their sustainability work the SDGs are wiring up all the different countries reporting their different indicators for the world and serving those through this portal. so we can see a map of how we're doing, how we're doing with inequality, how we're doing with vegetation loss, how we're doing with agriculture. so this is is these are just amazing beginnings. so the second I'll conclude my second part. look the geospatial revolution, and somebody asked me about this earlier today, is it where are we. and where are we with respect to geodesign this concept of linking science to to design. how it simply a circut just barely beginning. and this nervous system and the work that emerges out of it will, I think, represents say this work represents one of the very few things that I see going in the positive direction. it's creating the vision that one can have actually have sustainable prosperity. a big notion is this... is this gonna just happen? no it's not going to happen, it's it's the technology that enables it but people like yourselves and more specifically you if you're serious about this if you're wanting a life that actually matters will get into it. you'll start to creatively think about it. you'll envision what's possible from it creating a more sustainable world. you'll share with each other. you won't be holdup academics. you will collaborate you will engage with communities. you'll you'll need a passion for driving us it won't just show up. this excites you if this is is something that inspires you then go all in. I'll come back to that a little bit later. the third thing I'll talk about which most of you didn't show very much interest so I'll go pretty fast... is my work or my colleagues worked actually every year we spend about 350 million dollars on software development. that's a huge responsibility because we get all the money from our users around the world you have to spend it wisely. and every year I give them a kind of what do you call it a report on where we're spending their money. so I'm gonna give you that report now or I could skip it we could just talk here ...what would you like? are you sure thing how many would like to stop now? you're just doing that to be nice I can tell... okay look my my my colleagues work is wrapped up in technology and there's lots of technologies take Google's the technology. Microsoft's technology this is GIS technology so it's sort of an inside track of some of the work we're doing some of you who like it some of you really don't care. but let me share what it is. it's building a system it's actually three systems in one system. one aspect of the system is record-keeping. it's like financial record keeping but it's Geographic record-keeping. a building is built a building is torn down it's a transaction. simple right? a land is subdivided this is a record-keeping system they call that a system of record. vineyards are planted vineyards are torn out grapes are harvest you know it's like database transactions. and geospatial data transactions are complicated they're hard to do. so there's a lot of engineering that goes into that. a second one is systems of insight. these are analytics or spatial analytics like overlaying maps and seeing the relationships and making predictive models. and that's interesting all by itself. spatial statistics come out of that and others. and the last one is this idea of systems of engagement where maps and apps can be used to engage people. and so wrapped into this one thing we try to bring all of those three kinds of systems together so that you can actually engage people based on the system of record. or you can do analytics on the system of record or you can do analytics and share it with people and systems of engagement. and it's just really rich. complicating it is this little thing here in the center called real time which means you know you've got to do all of this record-keeping and analytics but you got to now do it you know in 3d rotating in real time. it's it's really crazy. so this is to describe the engineering of this fabric is not for the light hearted and there's all kinds of replicas of pieces of it. but what we work on is pushing the envelope with respect to keeping this thing all high-performance at the same time. and we make mistakes. I mean we try this we try that they go a little further and then we don't and it's kind of a messy process. these 50 years have been messy and part of the reason why we've been successful is that we listen carefully to our users and we have a total focus on helping our users do their work. those two combinations really have given us some success. so this system because I'm a landscape architect because I got started doing this top thing of gathering all this data and really wanting to do design. this is my passion is this little can we link on top of all of this amazing tech design tools that allow us to sketch and evaluate alternative designs. that's so that's kind of I mean the people who pay for our work is the stuff down below and we sort of want one with a passion to do geodesign apps. okay so lots of capabilities are advancing in this... you can glance through them and find your favorite. it starts with content so in the last ten years we've collected in the range of 10 billion dollars of data other people's data and put it together into a cloud system. there are now over 25 million data sets that have been organized just for you. some of them are living Atlas layers for the whole planet. imagery for the whole planet. elevation for the whole planet. not in great enough detail for most of your work but quite a bit of good sciences going on. and then there are millions of maps that have been shared in this cloud by our users they'll make a cool map and they'll say all I'm going to share with others. I've just loaded up in the cloud. so if you want to find data it's you can do it in the normal way but the digital discovery aspect of this for today's professional is pretty astounding. and we keep adding to it. this year we added the ability to OpenStreetMap in about nine seconds so after somebody updates the OpenStreetMap it's available to people quickly because our emergency responders wanted the new national geographic base map, new imagery, new demographics, all of these seem to be coming along just about as fast as we can get them ready. they're consumed by someone. in the tools area we've invented a lot of tools that do smart mapping these are using machine learning tools to replicate what a great cartographer would do. there's no no offense here to those of you or cryptography in the room. better work that you do but machines are catching up. I mean color ramps, being able to visualize things in 3d, and like that a lot of progress is being made. story maps are a kind of new language I just got a note from my colleague Alan Carroll who invented this technology. they're making millions and millions and millions and millions and millions of story maps every day. and they went over the threshold of making story in the cloud over a million map stories. so in a year from now I think it'll be 10 million or maybe a hundred million as consumers learn this technology and we just released a new generation of it. people will build story maps of everything, their vacation. it'll become like like a like an email story maps. 3d visualization is very powerful that keeps advancing and with the integration of geodatabases into gaming engines and into AR and VR. we'll see the ability to engage people or more fully. spatial analytics this is the combination of data or analytics of spatial data. new forms of charting new spatial temporal tools. new raster functions. improved big data handling. and what seems to be on everybody's mind the world of of of AI and machine learning to do feature extraction off of imagery, to do pattern recognition, to do incident predictions. we're seeing a lot of that now in the user community. and the integration of engineering tools with GIS. things like civil 3d or Revit or BIM modeling accessing and pulling into design engineering tools. it means that the engineering and construction and build community will be enabled with the geographic knowledge that their colleagues and science have built. so lots of solutions here. and more real-time operations dashboards are now there's just hundreds of thousands of these are reporting on on virtually everything, room temperatures, where the enemies, are where the where the where or what's the progress on the race, what's that what's the traffic, what's that situation. used to be that you'd buy one of these big multi-million dollar rooms and watch you know like the president watches something. these are now commonplace even on iPhones you can see see in real time what's going on. and speaking about that this is an example of the kinds of apps that are being used across the community not only the dashboards which are in the lower-left watching people in the field but also location tracking and field data collection, survey 123 and it's corollaries are being used in the 2020 census here in the united states. the census that's going on in the philippines they're carrying one of these they're doing the census dynamically. or polio immunization and Baghdad recently they were immunizing kids for polio and doing this transaction was going into the cloud. and with a dashboard at W-H-O in geneva, they were seeing the progress of the immunization.. isn't that cool? so this is what i was talking about, transformation do integration and transformation of organizations and work. so all in real time. and that's just beginning in the area of imagery likewise energy is coming in being served dynamically, analyzed, visualized. orthophotos are becoming almost there. that's a joke for some insiders.. and and analytics especially deep learning feature extraction, watching what's going on and it's becoming all real time. Sensor networks the IOT vehicles assets the environment all of that's being wired up and rolled into real time Maps. there are no longer geology maps there are real-time maps. we're used to this with traffic but this notion of smart city means everything gets connected and is useful to the to the geodesigner or to the decision maker of various types. all right so the big challenging work for my colleagues is to take these research concepts and technologies and wrap them into products. and we do that it's called ArcGIS it supports GIS markets. and supports the online mapping markets. it's supporting location analytics markets. and most recently we've taken a huge interest in developers so making lifting up the hood of everything we do open sourcing a big piece of it and open API is to access and allow a sort of startup community to have access and start messing around with our tools. that's the arcgis world that we live in. about three years ago we also started building a new kind of system, it's not a GIS system, that's a geo-enabled system and there'll be many of them built but it's built with the content that's built with GIS. but they are geo enabled systems for land-use planning. you know a lot of land use planners don't want, landscape architects don't want to know, they don't want to know GIS. it's too damn much work. and it is work i mean you have to know this and you have to know that they just want to do urban planning. so we have invented a new system called urban to do that. and one for indoors and some others. but lets going back to ArcGIS, there's ArcGIS online this massive system with with millions of users. there's ArcGIS Pro which is a desktop tool that does project-based work 2d and 3d. there's enterprise systems these are big servers that allow you to pour data in and connect with other servers. and support for an organization than happening in analytics across an organization. those are the three big anchors they all kind of work together. is it still interesting? I'm always nervous... so this is architecture is GIS and one of my colleagues said gee Jack you keep putting more raisins in the muffin for here. and we have to learn it and we have to use it and it keeps evolving along. when is the the muffin gonna get too large? I don't think it will I think it's what makes it interesting is it's just new innovation and keeps making that happen. but not everybody wants to learn all the raisins or the muffin. even the culture is different. they want to do land-use planning or they want to do indoor space management or they want to do real-time response or they want to do citizen engagement. so this got us going in this idea of building not only opening our platform for developers but also ourselves doing a couple of examples of what I think will happen on top of geospatial infrastructure as it evolves. we call them geo-enable systems one is for urban and I think even this little community here is going to play around with it. this is the idea of putting in projects into a database in the sky and seeing it in reference to the urban 3d model of the city. and then also planners putting in plans, zoning plans, land-use plans, and and letting it be seen not only by the planners but by everybody in the city. so up in the upper right-hand diagram you can see I think it's San Francisco these different colors on buildings. those represent different statuses of every building, of every lot. so it's going to revolutionize real time urban planning. because every builder will be able to test their building every architect will test their building. they'll see the impaction on traffic or or noise or view sheds in reference to the urban frame. a second corollary and related technology is hub. this is where the city can open up its data both as open data but also as as maps with initiatives to say for example the mayor might want to stop traffic death or might want to address homeless. but they don't have enough staff to do it. so they want to get all the citizens engaged in it like you would in a community meeting. and so it's a technology to organize communities with digital media leveraging everything that you can imagine. and the third idea is for taking the concepts of GIS to the indoor space. in talking with your president here this morning I suggested that you should really do this on campus to find your way around. that's not a criticism of just wayfinding or space organization or operations management. and some of you might find this interesting is just to push the envelope and take the very tools that you already have here and have you know indoor positioning so you can walk in the door and little green dog follows you and you can find your way to to somebody's office easily. or there's a new well whatever... you guys like this idea? ... you're not laughing at my jokes. I'm really getting nervous. so I've covered what GIS users are doing around the planet. and there a lot of them and they're ambitious and they're growing this field. I've talked a bit about the vision that we are moving from GIS to geospatial infrastructure a new kind of platform in that space. I've hinted that geodesign is as an important ingredient. and then I've shared with you some of the glimmers of what we work on in in in our in our development labs to try to push the envelope. most of what I've shared here is already technology in that's out. and so now we're looking at what's next for ourselves and engineering. I I won't really share that but I will share this the ESRI who's been around now for 50 years continues to take about a well about a third of our revenue and pours it into pushing the envelope on R&D. that's basically our commitment to to our users. some of you from business backgrounds asked me earlier this morning what is one of the ingredients of our success. I think it has been taking on this idea of serving our users so our big ambition is to build great tools that help our users do their work better. so we take all their money and we spend it... it's an amazing organization. and in the process of serving them we also have the ambition to make a difference with our organization to address some of the greater challenges at at the same time. so I've covered this idea that GIS is is evolving into a new stage, is no longer individual projects or systems, it's becoming an infrastructure that is powerful and it will become a responsive nervous system. and this is going to change things and it's my only shot at making something big really matter. I think this will happen. it'll reshape how people think, how they do their work. it'll make people smarter because they see content and context of what's happening from climate change down to you know grading the backyard of somebody's farm. this could be quite impactful. and so as geodesign professionals, or I might say just as professionals, for those of you not involved in geodesign this means the work of individual scientists, individual workers, adding up, connecting, sharing information, become something something larger. it means that your content and your collaboration can influence the future. and in many ways that's what we all yearn to do isn't it? to make a difference in our lives. whether it's your children or grandchildren or kids or saving this or working on that. it's my experience that people really want to make a difference on the future. and I think you now have, unlike me when I started at your age, you have technical means to create more sustainable solutions. I think managing the human footprint those very slides I shared could be done conserving nature can be done. protecting our environment can be done. but it requires clever people that can think and design that into being. so to realize this kind of future it's kind of a sustainable future. because right now it you know the bad new is.. right now it ain't sustainable. no kidding. you know I hate to be a jerk about this but nothing none of my colleagues in the Academy or in science around the world believe that this is sustainable. it ain't going to happen so to realize a sustainable future is going to take more than simply you know GIS technology. that ain't going to do it. It will require all of our best thinking. mobilizing getting our friends to understand it. you know cutting population in about half. saving nature wherever we can possibly do it. it'll take our moral strength, it'll take all of our best to have ethics. and it's just going to also take a lot of damn hard work to be honest. it's not comfortable work. and so going all-in is the way I describe this. it's the message I want to leave you. and I can't convince you about this this has got to be only you can do that. you can you can think about it you know playing it a hundred percent I've said that a few times today. I think we all have to play a hundred percent. you have to go all-in. and and I'm repeating myself now. but anyway ladies gentlemen thank you very much for this distinguished honor and I'll treasure this thank you for them. but more importantly I want to just leave you with you are playing here at this university with something as magical and Geodesign, what you're investing in, your your president is on board. students that I've met thank you very much for sharing what you're doing today. you have you have a real shot at playing playing this way. and I mean the motto of this landscape architecture department somebody told me on the way here... what is it again.... "inspired work grounded in environmental and social work"... sounds like geodesign to me. really anyway thank you very much 