 -You're one of my favorite guests, because you kind of calm me down a little bit. -I could show you how to do that, but it would ruin your career. [ Laughter ] -Thank you. [ Laughter ] But I believe everything that you say to me, always. -Including the pink hair. -Yes. -Symptoms of Alzheimer's. -Yeah, whatever you were saying back there. But then, because I was wearing a wig and then -- But do you remember last time -- This is -- I don't want to embarrass, but last time, you were saying that you had this thing you were working with, and he goes -- But you didn't explain it, and you came up to me and said, "Jimmy." I said, "Yeah?" And you go, "Show me your poop." [ Light laughter ] -Yeah, because we were analyzing the microbiome. 2 million genes. -Yeah. -Because, technically speaking, you're a bacterial colony with a few human cells hanging on. -Why, thank you. [ Laughter ] Tell me about "Metahuman." What does that mean, "metahuman"? -"Meta" means "beyond," and human means beyond the human-conditioned mind. Because all of society operates under the hypnosis of social conditioning. And it limits their imagination, insight, intuition, creativity, higher vision, inspiration. Everything that actually we value as humans is limited by social conditioning. -Really? So we should -- What you're saying, basically, is, there's a way to go further. -Yeah, every child that is born is actually proof that God has not yet given up on human beings. 'Cause children are automatically full of wonder, curiosity, playfulness, joy, humor, love, compassion, empathy. And by the time they get to your age, see what happens. [ Laughter ] [ Cheers and applause ] -Uh... [ Clears throat ] In here it says -- You say, "We need to get past the physical world, because it actually doesn't exist. There's no such thing as a solid." -This thing is proportionately as void as intergalactic space. So is your body. If you go beyond the appearance of molecules and atoms and particles, you end up with a handful of nothing. And that nothing is the womb of creation. Nature goes to exactly the same place to create you as it goes to create a galaxy of stars. We are made of nothingness. "We come spinning out of nothingness, scattering stars like dust." That's a poem from Rumi, the great Sufi mystic. -How long have you toured with The Grateful Dead? [ Laughter ] -They borrowed some of my lyrics. [ Laughter ] -"Metahuman" -- this is your 90th book, by the way. -Yeah, one of these days, I'll stop. [ Laughter ] -No, I don't want you to stop. I just find it amazing. 90 is unbelievable. 90 books. You just don't stop. You don't stop writing. You don't stop thinking of new things and fun ways to help people and to calm everyone down and have people experience new things. I'm gonna show you something. It's a brand-new invention. Is it out yet? Digital Deepak? -Well, it's in training. And you all can help train it by interacting with it. It's like a baby. So, like babies need education, love, nurturing... -Yes. -...this one needs it. And all of you can participate, if you want to. -Do we know when this is coming out? -It's almost in beta now. So, it's about to release. -All right, there it is, right there. Can you see this? [ Laughter ] It is Digital Deepak. That is like an A.I. you. Is that -- If I'm correct, right? -That's right. That's my A.I. twin. -And this has read all of your books? -It's read all my books, articles. It has access to libraries. It will one day speak to the grandchildren of my grandchildren, tell them about the show... [ Light laughter ] ...and learn from them, as well. -And I can -- I can use it tonight, is that right? -If you want. Ask it a question. [ Cheers and applause ] -It's happening. All right. I have to say... Hello, Digital Deepak. -Hey, Jimmy. -Oh, my gosh. [ Laughter ] -Digital Deepak, what is metahuman? -I believe there's an inner intelligence within all of us, which is the ultimate and supreme genius and which mirrors the wisdom of the universe. That's metahuman -- the genius inside you. I have a meditation that will help you with this. -Meditation. You guys want to try it? Do we want to try a meditation? [ Cheers and applause ] Can we do this? Roots, wanna do a meditation? Okay, Digital Deepak, let's do it. -Let's begin. Please close your eyes. Just sit quietly, uncross your feet, put your feet on the ground, and now relax your body. Relax your mind. Let thoughts drift in and out, just observing them like clouds in the sky. Observe the breath in. And now observe it as it goes out through your nostrils. And you have started your journey in meditation. -Wow. Thank you, Digital Deepak. -My pleasure. Bye-bye. [ Laughter and applause ] -That's crazy. That's amazing. Deepak Chopra, everybody! "Metahuman: Unleashing Your Infinite Potential" is available now. 