 - [Narrator] Water. Earth. Fire. (upbeat music) - Today we're gonna make the Miata shoot fire, one way or another. So to do that, we need to understand how cars shoot fire, why they do it, and then will figure out how to make it happen on the Miata. I'm Zack, this is Snake pit. Let's play with some fire baby. (thunder crashing) you know this week, I wanted to put some sway bars on the car, but Addy had this great idea that it will make a sweet video if we made the Miata shoot fire, and everybody agreed with Addy, so today we're gonna the Miata shoot fire. All right before we go get too far a hear of ourselves, let's take a look on the internet and get some inspiration for what kind of fire balls we're gonna be able to shoot with Miata. (keyboard typing) Car shoot fire. All right so he's heating up his exhaust right now by revving it. Basically, this is I think fire on D cell. The ECU is sending a bunch of fuel into the exhaust while the car's decelerating, normally there's no fuel there, that super hot exhaust ignites the excess fuel that's in the exhaust, right? And you get this nice long flames. Okay, we got a Evo in Japan. (car revving sound) That's sweet, so that's what you call pops and bangs, you can hear them when you shifts, when you lets all the gas, probably you hear that (backfire sound) like crackles and pops. That's basically what anti lag is. Basically blowing up fuel in the exhaust manifold which forces your turbo to spin. Now when I think about tail pipe shooing flames, I think about like this Evo spitting fire, so the first thing I think about is controlling a stand-alone and getting a specific map made or maybe just reprogramming the ECU with a flash tune, but the problem I can't do either of those things on the Miata, they doesn't have a stand-alone, and there's no flash tune software for the Miata out there, we gonna have to figure something else up. That said we still do wanna talk about this way to shoot fireballs because it is awesome. I thought hey my roommate got a new car that you can do this stuff on so I head up RK-Tunes, they make a bunch of BMW tunes, they send us some files that we loaded on this old computer, and now we're gonna put them on the ECU. I guess the process for this really started yesterday RK-Tunes sent us a cable and we downloaded some software, and yesterday we came out with that cable, we plugged it in the OBD tool port in the car, and into the computer, and then the software allows us to pull the stock information basically off the computer, and we sent it back over to RK-Tunes, now they know what we're working with and what files to send us back. So we sent over our files yesterday, told them we wanted some flames, and this morning got an email full of files, and now it's time to hack into the main frame and put the flame files on the ECU, let's get into it. (upbeat music) (snoring) (message alert) All right the car is running so we gonna let it worm up before we go driving and try to make fire. Now I'm not exactly positive, exactly what RK-Tunes change to give us fire, but i have a good idea (door slams) I'm sure that fires gonna happen on deceleration, and normally when you're driving your car on deceleration your fuel injector shut off completely, and there's no fuel entering your engine on D cell. Now, when you want fire and you want pops and bangs in any lagging stuff like that, you turn your fuel injector back on during D cell, they're shooting a little bit of fuel into your engine while you decelerating, even though you don't need any, then they'll change your ignition timing so your spark occurs way later than it normally would, after you pressed on R then goes to top dead center and it's already on its way back down then the spark fires. There's only enough combustion happening in the combustion chamber, in the cylinder, just a barely keep the car running. Most that combustion is now happening in the exhaust manifold, because of how late that ignition timing is happening. The flame map that we just put on here will almost certainly dump some fuel on D cell and retard ignition timing, and I think that's how we're gonna see fire. There is nothing left to it but to do it. Will let the car worm up right now , then we're gonna hit the streets and make some fire. (car engine backfire) we did it. (car engine backfire) we got Saronno's car to shoot flames, I know it was kinda hard to see cause it's daytime out, but fast foreword to some night-time footage. (car backfire) (laughing) (car revving) That's the fire I'm talking about. Now I'm fully inspired to get the Miata to shoot flames, it's time to do what we need to do, I think I've got all the parts I need and we're gonna make some flames, one way or another. Let's do it. - [ Addy] lets do it. (upbeat music) what it boils down to that you need unburned fuel in the exhaust, and you need a way to ignite that unburned fuel. Now a lot of car like super cars and stuff, the way they ignite the fuel is by running really hard, and having an exhaust that is just super hot, and that super hot exhaust ignites the unburned fuel. I'm not gonna just set in here and rev the Miata until the exhaust is hot enough to ignite unburned fuel, so wee need to figure out how to ignite unburned fuel in the exhaust in different way, I went to Home Depot and got a grill igniter, like you would use a potato cannon, basically in here there's little piece of cords and when you smack it with the clicker (clicking noise) it create voltage, and I don't know if you can see it (clicking noise) but there is a spark jumping right there. Now we've got our ignition sorted out, now we just need to figure out the unburned fuel, for that I've got a few ideas. (clicking noise) (laughing) we got spark in the exhaust, we might as well see if there's enough unburned fuel already in there to make fire, probably not but it's worth a shot. (car engine roaring) I do smell some unburned fuel. I think this is gonna work. - [Addy] Man I think you just became the most popular guy in the neighborhood. - I'm already the most popular guy in the neighborhood. So the just revving it thing didn't work , which means we need to get more unburned fuel into the exhaust. My next move is pull a spark plug wire. The ECU still thinks we're running on four cylinder here, each of these cylinders is getting fuel, right? But now number four doesn't have a spark, so, 25% of the fuel that goes in this engine is now be coming out the exhaust unburned, hopefully that's enough for that grill igniter to catch on fire. Car engine revving) okay, so That didn't work either. I wanna check and make sure that the ignition source isn't our issue, we're gonna forget the grill igniter for just a second and we're just gonna hold it torched to the tale pipe while we're rev it, just to see if there's enough unburned fuel there to catch on fire, if there's already fire present. (car engine revving) okay, so pulling a spark plug wire didn't work either, apparently we still don't have enough unburned fuel in the exhaust. One of the ways that you make flames is by retarding ignition timing on D cell, I can't control ignition timing just on D cell but I can control it entirely and that might allow us to get more of that unburned fuel into the exhaust and maybe see some flames, I kinda doubt it, but we're trying everything. Will turn the sensor, will retard the timing and we'll see if that makes fire. (engine noise) All right, you can tell by how bad the engine is running that our timing is now retarded. Time to grab the spark, give it a rev , see if we make any fire, if she'll even rev. (car engine roaring) sorry. All right, so retarding the timing by itself didn't seem to be enough, we're gonna put two of my brilliant ideas together and we're gonna pull a spark plug with the timing, Imply is not even gonna run now, but may we'll make fire. (car engine roaring) okay, so that didn't work either. Addy. (car engine roaring) you look like you got hurt. - Startling. (laughing) - Will non of that stuff worked, so what we're gonna do? I have one more idea. (upbeat music) I went online earlier this week and I bought a bunch of odds and ends and amongst of them I think we'll be able to make this thing shoot flames. We're gonna hook the propane tank to a 12 volt solenoid that it'll be able to control the switch which will let the propane flow into the exhaust and then we'll head our sparker, right? And its simple as that, and then we should have some big ass flames. Right here we've got a little bung for one of those barms pre portly welded in by yours truly not too good to welding it, okay.now see. (gentle music) All right, now be our propane. Okay, now from there I guess it's solenoid. It runs on 12 volt, see that, its closed, but you run a 12 volt to it, flip the switch she opens up, lets some propane through, you make some flames. I don't think we're gonna need hose clamps on these ends but it could be wrong. Now we got to get from this to this, I'll run this thing into here, to the reducer, perfect. (gentle music) I'm starting to think about this whole week when I've been like oh yes it's gonna be no big deal, we'll just hook up some propane and some switches and some stuff and we'll make fire. Okay, so that's our propane line finished basically we're ready to screw this onto the propane tank but when I gonna do that until we have the switch wired up and ready to go, lets do that really quick. For that, last night I printed a little switch panel the head unit it go here, then this will be our propane switch and then our grill igniter button it'll go right there, so, you know finish. All right, we just gonna do this quick and dirty, so for ground I'm just gonna wrap this copper wire around this a little bow and put it in there, now this is not like correct way to officially round something, but you know it works. So now, if that grounded, our batteries right here, when I click this to the positive since that grounded, our switch should click, let's find out. (clicking sound) you hear that, that's a solenoid opening. She has a way on let propane through. Okay, so that works, now I just need to run the switch up front. You can see light right through there, all the way back to trunk, we use that whole to run our wire through there, run up and under into the Sorona console, and up to the switch panel, like we planned it. We got the wire going back to solenoid, now we need to find power up here to send back to it, now we could've rounded wire up from the battery but that just seem silly, when we've got all this here, I probably just strip some of this back, and just kinda tie into it for now. Okay, that's the ground for the switch light, okay, this is power, once this is plugged in, the switch should work, ready? - [Addy] Yup. (cheering) - We're in business folks, we're in business, and then we're just gonna stuff these wires in there for now, cause look what we're doing. (laughs) And that's as good as it's gonna get. Okay, now what we gonna do is hook up the propane tank. And we are ready to shoot flames, I think. Are you ready for this? - [Addy] I am. - Do you think it's gonna work? - [Addy] A 100%. - Yeah me too, are you concerned at all? - [Addy] Not at all, no I might have some. (laughs) yeah, I've got a touch of concern, flaring up but best thing to do in those kinda situations is.. screw the tank in. Okay, guys you ready? Propane on, (clicking sound) - [Addy] Are you sure the propane is on? - I don't smell it. - [Addy] Ya its clicking. - Well, this is clicking, this was pressurized, that's all straight through, flow goes that way. (car engine roaring) - [Addy] is that propane coming off? - Is my solenoid busted? All right, so doesn't seem why we get enough propane out of the exhaust, I think we need to haggle this out, one way or another we need to improve flow through our adaptor, lets take it a part, see what we can do. Deep in there's a little ball, you can hear it, I think its job is just to restrict flow to make things a little more safe, in our case that's the exact opposite of what we want, what do you know? I gonna figure how to get that ball outta there. (noise) I see you ball, I will get you. (noise) I don't know if we spend enough time saying this, but don't do this at home. (noise) you ready to see a ball, I hope. (cheering) We got max flow now, lets see if it blows up, (laughs) excuse me that wellies. (air swishing) found a leak. Found several leaks, sweat. Okay, so the problem we're having now is the pressure side, what I mean by the pressure side is everything between the propane tank and the solenoid, the two bung basically that's gonna be under pressure all the time leaks at every single joint, and I guess if we're being honest we probably could seen that coming. I got to tighten this stuff up we're gonna maybe add some J-B weld into here, we need to make it so this can hold whatever the pressure on that tank is, I think like a 150 pounds. (air whooshing) Where is that? Okay, I see you. You guys saw what happened, we hot a leak there, now we're gonna add some J-B weld there, and I guess we're at it, we should do the bottom too. I don't wanna do this again. See we fix anything. - [Addy] That Work? - I think she's sealed, its not leaking, its time to try this shit. (laughs) - [Addy] I'm really scared body. - So am I honestly at this point. - [Addy] Tell me worst case now, what might happen here? - Burn down the house, burn down the Miata, burn down us. The house is right here. (laughs) All right guys if it's gonna work, this is gonna be it, if this doesn't make fire, we're gonna back to the drawing board. (upbeat music) now I'm gonna start the car so doesn't go backwards into the exhaust. (car engin revving) guys ready? - [Addy] Yeah (car engine revving) You that's gonna be huge. - [Man] That's like a lot. - [Addy] So much (beep) propane. - [Man] Dude yeah I don't know about that. - All right, so you guys saw how much propane came out the exhaust tip, more than I was expecting I'll tell you that, what we're gonna do is put the car on the ground, move it a little further a way from the house, and then try again. - [Addy] You got that hose's ready. - It's the moment of truth. - [Addy] It works or we die. (clicking noise) - okay so we decided to turn the engine off cause I think the exhaust might be deleting the propane to the point that it won't fire, and that's not acceptable (clicking noise) (upbeat music) what the hell? (upbeat music) (faintly speaking) - I can still here it. (faintly speaking) - [Addy] You gonna squark little Shaun there, Zack then you (noise drown out speaker) so it's not gonna catch you any more and then you run, and then we ignite it - And then you do it. - [Addy] Yeah oh shit. - Wow! - [Man] The car's On fire. (laughing) - [Addy] Saw your butt bro. (laughing) All right our ignition system seems be the issue, we're talking about tap in a torch to the bumper, we got the go pro set up to end our go burst setup here, it's gonna hold the torch over here where hopefully won't get extinguished by the exhaust. So lets see if we got it all worked up. (upbeat music) (car engine revving (upbeat music) (car revving sound) (laughing) (car engine revving) (laughing) that's how you make fire with the Mazda Miata. That's basically any land, I think. (car revving) (upbeat music) well, what did we learn toady folks, we made a couple different types of fire, we had a lot of fun and I think really ultimately we learned that if you wanna make fire with your car you gotta do it the right way, you gotta go the install an ECU or tune on your ECU because what we do to the Miata did not work out too well, but the flames coming out that two series are some of the coolest things I've ever seen. Please do me a favor and hit the light button, subscribe, hit the notification bell, follow me on Instagram, add Zach jobe, follow Donut media and we'll see you guys next week when we are doing one of my ideas, not Addy's. This was a day man. (laughs) 