Business —Government Regulation for more information. In the U.S. and many other jurisdictions, we have historically set default interchange reimbursement fees. Even though we generally do not receive any revenue related to interchange reimbursement fees in a purchase transaction (those fees are paid by the acquirers to the issuers), interchange reimbursement fees are a factor on which we compete with other payments providers and are therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process. Consequently, changes to these fees, whether voluntarily or by mandate, can substantially affect our overall payments volumes and revenues.Interchange reimbursement fees, certain operating rules and related practices continue to be subject to increased government regulation globally, and regulatory authorities and central banks in a number of jurisdictions have reviewed or are reviewing these fees, rules and practices. For example, in 2011, in accordance with the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act, the U.S. Federal Reserve capped the maximum U.S. debit interchange reimbursement rate received by large financial institutions at 21 cents plus 5 basis points, plus a possible fraud adjustment of 1 cent. This amounted to a significant reduction in the average system-wide interchange reimbursement fees received by large issuers. The Dodd-Frank Act also limited issuers' and our ability to adopt network exclusivity and preferred routing in the debit and prepaid area, which also impacted our business. In 2015, the E.U.’s IFR placed an effective cap on consumer credit and consumer debit interchange fees for both domestic and cross border transactions (30 basis points and 20 basis points, respectively), significantly reducing the fees received by E.U. issuers. E.U. Member States have the ability to further restrict these interchange levels within their territories. More recently, in September 2016, Argentina's Senate approved a bill to reduce existing caps on the merchant discount rate charged by acquirers to 1.5% for credit transactions and zero for debit transactions.In addition to the regulation of interchange reimbursement fees, a number of regulators impose restrictions on other aspects of our payments business. For example, government regulations or pressure may require or allow other networks to be supported by Visa products or services or to have the other network's functionality or brand marks on our products. As innovations in payment technology have enabled us to expand into new products and services, they have  also expanded the potential scope of regulatory influence. In addition, the E.U.’s requirement to separate scheme and processing adds costs and could impact the efficient integration of Visa Europe; the execution of our commercial, innovation and product strategies; our ability to provide effective customer service; and the amount of data available for use in fraud and risk systems and loyalty services.We are also subject to central bank oversight in the U.K. and the E.U. This oversight could result in new governance, reporting, licensing, cybersecurity, processing infrastructure, capital or credit risk management requirements. We could also be required to adopt policies and practices designed to mitigate settlement and liquidity risks, including increased requirements to maintain sufficient levels of capital and financial resources locally. Increased central bank oversight could also lead to new or different criteria for financial institution participation in, and access to our payments system. Additionally, regulators in other jurisdictions are considering or adopting approaches based on similar regulatory principles.Regulators around the world increasingly take note of each other’s approaches to regulating the payments industry. Consequently, a development in one jurisdiction may influence regulatory approaches in another. The risks created by a new law or regulation in one jurisdiction have the potential to be replicated and to negatively affect our business in another jurisdiction or in other product offerings. The U.S. Dodd-Frank Act and the E.U. IFR are developments with such potential, as are approaches taken by regulators in Australia, Canada and other countries. See Note 20—Legal Matters of this report. Similarly, new regulations involving one product offering may prompt regulators to extend the regulations to other product offerings. For example, credit payments could become subject to the same regulation as debit payments. Additionally, regulation in an individual country could continue and expand. For example, in Australia the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) initially capped credit interchange, but subsequently capped debit interchange as well.When we cannot set default interchange reimbursement rates at optimal levels, issuers and acquirers may find our payments system less attractive. This may increase the attractiveness of other payments systems, such as our competitors' closed-loop payments systems with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. We believe some issuers may react to such regulations by charging new or higher fees to consumers, making our products less appealing to consumers. Some acquirers may elect to charge higher merchant discount rates regardless of the Visa interchange reimbursement rate, causing merchants not to accept our products or to steer customers to alternate  15Table of Contentspayments systems or forms of payment. In addition, in an effort to reduce the expense of their card programs, some issuers and acquirers have obtained, and may continue to obtain, incentives from us and reductions in the fees that we charge, which may directly impact our revenues. For these reasons, increased global regulation of the payments industry may make our products less desirable, diminish our ability to compete, reduce our transaction volumes and harm our business.Government-imposed restrictions on payment systems may prevent us from competing against providers in certain countries. Governments in various jurisdictions, such as in Asia and the Gulf Cooperation Countries in the Middle East, protect certain domestic payment card networks, brands and processors. These governments may impose regulatory requirements that favor domestic providers or that mandate domestic payments processing be done entirely in that country, which would prevent us from overseeing the end-to-end processing of certain transactions. In China, for example, UnionPay continues to enjoy advantages over other international networks, remains the sole processor of domestic payment card transactions and operates the sole domestic acceptance mark. Though the Chinese State Council has announced that international schemes, such as Visa would be able to participate in the domestic market and be eligible to apply for a license to operate a Bank Card Clearing Institution (BCCI) in China, the full implementation guidelines for BCCI’s have yet to be finalized. In Russia, legislation has effectively prevented us from processing in the domestic market and mandated that we migrate our domestic processing business to the state-owned NSPK (or national payment card system), which is the only entity allowed to process domestically.Due to our inability to oversee the end-to-end processing of transactions for cards carrying our brands in these countries, we depend on our close working relationships with our clients or third party processors in these regions to ensure transactions involving our products are processed effectively. National laws that protect domestic processing may increase our costs, decrease the number of Visa products issued or processed, impede us from utilizing our global processing capabilities and control the quality of the services supporting our brands, restrict our activities, force us to leave countries or prevent us from entering new markets, all of which could harm our ability to operate our business, maintain or increase our revenues globally and extend our global brands.We are subject to complex and evolving global regulations that could harm our business and financial results. As a global payments technology company, we are subject to complex and evolving regulations that govern our operations. See Item 1—Business—Government Regulation for more information on the most significant areas of regulation that affect our business. The impact of these regulations on us (and on our clients and other third parties) could limit our ability to enforce our payments system rules or require us to adopt new rules or change existing rules, and it may increase our compliance costs and reduce our revenue opportunities. We may face differing rules and regulations in matters like interchange reimbursement rates, preferred routing, domestic processing requirements, currency conversion, point-of-sale transaction rules and practices, privacy, data use or protection and associated product technology. As a result, the Visa Rules and our other contractual commitments may differ from country to country or by product offering. Complying with these and other regulations increases our costs and can reduce our revenue opportunities. Further, as regulations change, they may affect our existing contractual arrangements.If widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty rapidly adjusting our product offerings, services and fees, and other important aspects of our business in the various regions where we operate. Our compliance programs and policies are designed to support our compliance with a wide array of regulations and laws, and we continually enhance our compliance programs as regulations evolve. However, we cannot guarantee that our practices will be deemed compliant by all applicable regulatory authorities. In the event our controls should fail or we are found to be out of compliance for other reasons, we could be subject to monetary damages, civil and criminal penalties, litigation and damage to our global brands and reputation. Furthermore, the evolving and increased regulatory focus on the payments industry could reduce the number of Visa products our clients issue, the volume of payments we process and our revenue; negatively impact our brands and our competitive positioning; and limit the types of products and services that we offer, the countries in which our products are used and the types of customers and merchants who can obtain or accept our products, all of which could harm our business.We may be subject to tax examinations or disputes, or changes in the tax laws. 16Table of ContentsWe exercise significant judgment in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, many factors may limit their accuracy. We are currently under examination by, or in disputes with, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, the U.K.’s HM Revenue & Customs as well as tax authorities in other jurisdictions, and we may be subject to additional examinations or disputes in the future. Relevant tax authorities may disagree with our tax treatment of certain material items and thereby increase our tax liability. Failure to sustain our position in these matters could harm our cash flow and financial position. In addition, changes in existing laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental U.S. and international tax reform or those resulting from the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) project being conducted by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, may also increase our effective tax rate. A substantial increase in our tax payments could have a material, adverse effect on our financial results. See also Note 19—Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.Litigation RisksWe may be adversely affected by the outcome of litigation or investigations, despite certain protections that are in place. We are involved in numerous civil actions and government investigations alleging violations of competition and antitrust law, consumer protection law and intellectual property law, among others. Details of the claims and the status of those proceedings are described more fully in Note 20—Legal Matters. Legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations are inherently uncertain, expensive and disruptive to our operations. In the event we are found liable in any material litigation, proceedings or investigations, particularly in a large class action lawsuit or an antitrust claim entitling the plaintiff to treble damages, we may be required to pay significant awards or settlements. In addition, settlement terms, judgments or pressures resulting from legal proceedings or investigations may require us, to modify the default interchange reimbursement rates we set, revise the Visa Rules or the way in which we enforce our rules, modify our fees or pricing, or modify the way we do business, which may harm our business. Finally, we are required by some of our commercial agreements to indemnify other entities for litigation asserted against them, even if Visa is not a defendant.For certain litigation matters like the U.S. covered litigation and the VE territory covered litigation, which are described in Note 3—U.S. and Europe Retrospective Responsibility Plans and Note 20—Legal Matters, we have certain protections provided for in the respective retrospective responsibility plans. The two retrospective responsibility plans are different in the protections they provide and the mechanisms by which we are able to either fund the settlements and judgments in the case of the U.S. covered litigation or recoup covered losses in the case of the VE territory covered litigation. The failure of one or both of the retrospective responsibility plans to adequately insulate us from the impact of such settlements, judgments, losses or liabilities could materially harm our financial condition or cash flows, or even cause us to become insolvent.Business RisksWe face intense competition in our industry. The global payments space is intensely competitive. As technology evolves, new competitors emerge and existing clients and competitors assume different roles. Our products compete with cash, checks, electronic funds, virtual currency payments, global or multi-regional networks, other closed-loop payments systems, and alternative payment providers primarily focused on enabling payments through ecommerce and mobile channels. As the global payments space becomes more complex, we face increasing competition from our clients, emerging payment providers and other digital and technology companies. Many of these providers have developed payments systems enabled through online activity in ecommerce and mobile channels, and are seeking to expand into other channels that compete with or replace our products and services.Additionally, some of our competitors may develop substantially better technology, more widely adopted delivery channels or have greater financial resources. They may offer a wider range of programs, products and services, including some that are more innovative. They may use advertising and marketing strategies that are more effective than ours, achieving broader brand recognition, and greater issuance and merchant acceptance. They may also develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements.Certain of our competitors operate with different business models, have different cost structures or participate in different market segments. Those business models may ultimately prove more successful or more adaptable to  17Table of Contentsregulatory, technological and other developments. In some cases, these competitors have the support of government mandates that prohibit, limit or otherwise hinder our ability to compete for transactions within certain countries and regions.Some of our competitors, including American Express, Discover, private-label card networks, virtual currency providers, technology companies that enable the exchange of digital assets and certain alternate payments systems, operate closed-loop payments systems, with direct connections to both merchants and consumers. Government actions or initiatives such as the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act or the U.S. Federal Reserve’s Faster Payments initiatives may provide them with increased opportunities to derive competitive advantages from these business models. Similarly, regulation in Europe under PSD2 and in the U.K. through the PSR may require us to open up access to, and allow participation in, our network to additional participants, and reduce the infrastructure investment and regulatory burden on potential competitors. We also run the risk of disintermediation due to factors such as emerging technologies, including mobile payments, alternate payment credentials, other ledger technologies or payment forms, and by virtue of increasing bilateral agreements between entities that prefer not to use our payments network for processing payments. For example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly with issuers and acquirers.We expect the competitive landscape to continue to shift and evolve. For example:•competitors, clients and others are developing alternative payment networks or products that could disintermediate us from the transaction processing or the value-added services we provide to support such processing. Examples include initiatives like The Clearing House, an ACH-based payment system comprised of large financial institutions, and EWS, an alternative to an ACH payment system that provides faster funds or real-time payments across P2P, corporate and government disbursement, bill pay and deposit check transactions;•similarly, multiple countries are developing or promoting ACH-based real-time payment systems or mandating local networks with clients that also present a risk of disintermediation to our business;•parties that process our transactions may try to minimize or eliminate our position in the payments value chain;•parties that access our payment credentials, tokens and technologies, including clients, technology solution providers or others might be able to migrate account holders and other clients to alternate payment methods or utilize our payment credentials, tokens and technologies to establish or help bolster alternate payment methods and platforms;•competitors, clients and others may develop methods to use our payment credentials, tokens and technologies to compete with, impair or replace digital payment products that use and support our network and processing over our network; •we may need to adjust our local rules and practices to remain competitive amidst evolving regulatory landscapes and competitors’ practices;•we may be asked to develop or customize certain aspects of our payment services for use by our customers, processors or other third parties, thereby increasing operational costs;•we may need to agree to business arrangements with terms less protective of Visa’s proprietary technology and interests in order to compete with others, including those with issuers and with competing networks;•participants in the payments industry may merge, form joint ventures or enable or enter into other business combinations that strengthen their existing business propositions or create new, competing payment services;•competition may increase from alternate types of payment services, such as mobile payment services, ecommerce payment services, P2P payment services, faster payment initiatives and payment services that permit ACH payments or direct debit of consumer checking accounts; 18Table of Contents•new players and intermediaries in the payments value chain may redirect transactions or steer participants away from our network; •we may face increasing risk of others asserting their intellectual property rights and potential litigation, as market entrants include technology companies and companies from industries where patent rights are actively asserted; •as this landscape is quickly evolving, we may not be able to foresee or respond sufficiently to emerging risks associated with new business, products, services and practices; or•new or revised industry standards related to EMV-chip payment technology, cloud-based payments, tokenization or other technologies set by organizations such as the International Organization for Standardization, American National Standards Institute and EMVCo may result in additional costs and expenses for Visa and its clients, or otherwise negatively impact the functionality and competitiveness of our products and services.Our failure to compete effectively in light of any such developments could harm our business and prospects for future growth.Our revenues and profits are dependent on our client and merchant base, which may be costly to win, retain and maintain. Our financial institution clients and merchants can reassess their commitments to us at any time or develop their own competitive services. While we have certain contractual protections, our clients, including some of our largest clients, generally have flexibility to issue non-Visa products. Further, in certain circumstances, our financial institution clients may decide to terminate our contractual relationship on relatively short notice without paying significant early termination fees. Because a significant portion of our operating revenues is concentrated among our largest clients, the loss of business from any one of these larger clients could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.In order to stay competitive, we offer incentives to our clients to increase payments volume, enter new market segments and expand their use and acceptance of Visa products and services. These include up-front cash payments, fee discounts and rebates, credits, performance-based incentives, marketing and other support payments that impact our revenues and profitability. In addition, we offer incentives to certain merchants or acquirers to win routing preference in situations where other network functionality is enabled on our products and there is a choice of network routing options. Market pressures on providing incentives, fee discounts and rebates could moderate our growth. If we are not able to implement cost containment and productivity initiatives in other areas of our business or increase our volumes in other ways to offset the financial impact of these incentives, fee discounts and rebates, it may harm our net revenues and profits.In addition, it may be difficult or costly for us to acquire or conduct business with financial institutions or merchants that have longstanding exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors. These financial institutions or merchants may be more successful and may grow more quickly than our existing clients or merchants. In addition, if there is a consolidation or acquisition of one or more of our largest clients or co-brand partners by a financial institution client or merchant with a strong relationship with one of our competitors, it could result in our business shifting to a competitor, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and harm our business.Merchants' and processors' continued push to lower acceptance costs and challenge industry practices could harm our business. We rely in part on merchants and their relationships with our clients to maintain and expand the acceptance of Visa products. Certain large retail merchants have been exercising their influence in the global payments system to attempt to lower their acceptance costs by lobbying for new legislation, seeking regulatory enforcement, filing lawsuits and in some cases, refusing to accept Visa products. If they are successful in their efforts, we may face increased compliance and litigation expenses and issuers may decrease their issuance of our products. In the U.S., the cost of payment card acceptance has emerged in the context of payment security. A number of merchant trade associations claim that EMV cards without PIN cardholder verification are not worth the investment. The October 2015 liability shift and ongoing transition to EMV resulted in calls for a PIN verification mandate. More recently, U.S. merchant-affiliated groups and processors have expressed concerns regarding the EMV certification process. Some  19Table of Contentspolicymakers have called upon U.S. competition authorities to consider potential concerns arising from the roles of industry bodies such as EMVCo and the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council. Additionally, some merchants and processors have pushed for changes to industry practices and our requirements for Visa acceptance at the point of sale, including the ability for merchants to accept only certain types of Visa products, to mandate only PIN authenticated transaction, to differentiate or steer among Visa product types issued by different financial institutions, and to impose surcharges on customers presenting Visa products as their form of payment. If successful, these efforts could adversely impact consumers' usage of our products, lead to regulatory enforcement and/or litigation, increase our compliance and litigation expenses, and harm our business.We depend on relationships with our financial institution clients, acquirers, merchants and other third parties. We depend significantly on relationships with our financial institution clients and on their relationships with customers and merchants to support our programs and services and thereby compete effectively in the marketplace. Our relationships with industry participants are complex and require us to balance the interests of multiple third parties. For example, in the U.S., the EMV migration has been resisted by certain merchants, leading to conflicts and litigation concerning the timing and scope of the liability shift, chargebacks and debit routing, among others.We engage in discussions with merchants, acquirers and processors to provide incentives to promote routing preference and acceptance growth. We engage in many payment card co-branding efforts with merchants, who receive incentives from us. As these and other relationships become more prevalent and take on a greater importance to our business, our success will increasingly depend on our ability to continue to engage in these discussions in order to sustain and grow these relationships.In addition, we depend on third parties, including suppliers, and our financial institution clients to provide various services associated with our payments network, on our behalf. To the extent that such parties fail to perform or deliver adequate services, our business and reputation could be harmed.If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brands, if events occur that damage our reputation or brands or we experience brand disintermediation, it could harm our business.Our brands are globally recognized and are key assets of our business. We believe that our clients and customers associate our brands with acceptance, security, convenience and universality. Our success depends in large part on our ability to maintain the value of our brands and reputation of our products and services in the payments ecosystem, elevate the brand through new and existing products, services and partnerships, and uphold our corporate reputation. The increased use or popularity of products that we have developed in partnership with large technology and financial institution companies could result in consumer confusion or brand disintermediation and decrease the value of our brand. In addition, our brands and reputation may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including data security breaches, compliance failures, negative perception of our industry or the industries of our clients, actions by clients or other third parties, such as sponsorship partners, that do not reflect our views or are inconsistent with our own business practices, and fraudulent or other illegal activity using our payment products. If we are unable to maintain our reputation, or if events occur that damage our reputation, the value of our brands may be impaired, which could harm our relationships with clients, customers and the public, as well as impact our business.Global economic, political, market and social events or conditions may harm our business. Our revenues are dependent on the volume and number of payment transactions made by customers, governments and businesses, whose spending patterns may be affected by prevailing economic conditions. In addition, almost half of our operating revenues are earned outside the U.S. International transaction revenues represent a significant part of our revenue and are an important part of our growth strategy. Therefore, adverse macroeconomic conditions, including recessions, inflation, high unemployment, currency fluctuations, actual or anticipated large-scale defaults or failures, or slowdown of global trade, could decrease consumer and corporate confidence and reduce consumer, government and corporate spending, which have a direct impact on our revenues. In addition, outbreaks of illnesses, pandemics or other local or global health issues like the Zika virus, political uncertainties like Brexit, international hostilities, armed conflict, or unrest, and natural disasters could impact our operations, our clients and our activities in a particular location. These events could also reduce cross-border travel and spend, which impacts our international transaction revenues, which are generated by processing cross-border payments and cash volume transactions, as well as from foreign currency exchange transactions. Any  20Table of Contentssuch decline in cross-border activity could impact the number of cross-border transactions we process and our foreign currency exchange activities, and in turn reduce our revenues.A decline in economic conditions could impact our clients as well, and their decisions to reduce the number of cards, accounts and credit lines of their account holders, which ultimately impact our revenues. They may also implement cost-reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate marketing budgets, and decrease spending on optional or enhanced, value-added services from us.Any events or conditions that impair the functioning of the financial markets, tighten the credit market or lead to a downgrade of our current credit rating could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access the capital and credit markets on favorable terms, which could affect our liquidity and capital resources, or significantly increase our cost of capital. If clients default on their settlement obligations, it may also impact our liquidity. Any of these events could adversely affect the growth of our volumes and revenue.Our indemnification obligation to fund settlement losses of our clients exposes us to significant risk of loss and may reduce our liquidity. We indemnify issuers and acquirers for any settlement loss they suffer due to the failure of another issuer or acquirer to honor its settlement obligations in accordance with the Visa Rules. In certain instances, we may indemnify issuers or acquirers even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. This indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the difference in timing between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. Our indemnification exposure is generally limited to the amount of unsettled Visa payment transactions at any point in time. Concurrent settlement failures involving more than one of our largest clients, several of our smaller clients or systemic operational failures lasting more than a single day could cause us to exceed our available financial resources, which could negatively impact our financial position. Even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may be unable to recover the amount of such payment. This could expose us to significant losses and harm our business. See Note 11—Settlement Guarantee Management to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.The United Kingdom’s proposed withdrawal from the European Union could harm our business and financial results. In June 2016, a referendum was held in the United Kingdom to determine whether the country should remain a member of the E.U., with voters approving withdrawal from the E.U. (commonly referred to as Brexit). The U.K. government is working towards triggering Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, which will commence the official E.U. withdrawal process. Unce