BusinessGeneral Business DevelopmentsVisa Inc., which we refer to as Visa or the Company, is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, financial institutions and governments in more than 200 countries and territories to fast, secure and reliable electronic payments. We operate one of the world's most advanced processing networks —VisaNet — which facilitates authorization, clearing and settlement of payment transactions worldwide. It also offers fraud protection for account holders and rapid payment for merchants. Visa is not a bank and does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for account holders on Visa-branded cards and payment products. In most cases, account holder and merchant relationships belong to, and are managed by, our financial institution clients.Visa Inc. was incorporated in the State of Delaware in May 2007. In October 2007, we undertook a reorganization in which Visa U.S.A. Inc., Visa International Service Association, Visa Canada Corporation and Inovant LLC became direct or indirect subsidiaries of Visa Inc. Visa Europe Limited remains owned and governed by its European member financial institutions and is not a subsidiary of Visa Inc. Visa Inc. completed its initial public offering ("IPO") in March 2008.General business developments in fiscal 2015 included the following:•Product innovation. Visa’s fundamental approach to innovation focuses on: (i) supporting an evolving payments ecosystem; (ii) enhancing payment system security through innovation; and (iii) developing new platforms, products and services. i.Evolving payments ecosystem. By providing new and existing clients and partners greater access to Visa’s network and payment capabilities, Visa is contributing to the evolving payments ecosystem. Through Visa's new developer center, financial institutions, software, cloud computing and other technology companies and new entrants will be able to more easily access Visa payment capabilities through programing interfaces and software developer kits beginning in 2016. The Visa Ready program also is intended to enable our partners to quickly deploy devices, software and services to consumers that meet Visa's standards, with a goal of significantly accelerating the pace of innovation in payments. ii.Enhancing payment system security through innovation. During 2015, Visa continued to make strides to enhance the security of the broader payments ecosystem with the following programs:a.Tokenization: Tokenization replaces account numbers with digital tokens for online and mobile payments. This benefits merchants and our financial institution clients by removing sensitive account information from online and mobile payments and has the potential to reduce fraud risk. Visa has been working with several partners, including Apple, Google and Samsung, who are using our tokenization service to offer mobile payment solutions.b.EMV chip payment technology: Visa is addressing fraud at the physical point-of-sale by working with merchants and our financial institution clients in the U.S. to introduce EMV-chip payment technology.c.Fraud and data analytics: As an industry leader in payment security, we enhanced our real-time data analytics capabilities. When combined with Visa’s centralized network structure, these capabilities help our financial institution clients and merchants identify and address fraud. iii.New platforms, products and services. Visa continues to develop new platforms, products and services to benefit clients, merchants, consumers and other partners.a.Bangalore Technology Center: We are investing in internal technology resources and have recently opened a new technology development center in Bangalore, India that will play a central role in the Company’s efforts to accelerate digital commerce globally. The new technology center, a combination of office and collaboration space for more than 1,000 Visa developers, is Visa’s largest outside the U.S.  5Table of Contentsb.Visa Checkout: Visa Checkout is a fast, simple and intuitive payment experience that allows consumers to pay for goods online on a smartphone, tablet, laptop or desktop, in just a few clicks. This service is presently available for eCommerce merchants and financial institutions in 16 countries around the world including Australia, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, and the U.S.c.Visa payWave: With Visa payWave technology, consumers are able to pay for products and services via smart phone or other devices, and by using their contactless cards at physical retailers.d.Visa Direct: Visa Direct provides a fast, secure and convenient solution for Visa’s ecosystem of clients and partners. It enables customers to send and receive person-to-person payments and funds disbursements, and facilitates business to business settlements directly to eligible Visa account holders quickly and securely.e.mVisa: In August 2015, Visa and several banks in India launched a pilot program testing mVisa, a mobile application, in India. The service extends the utility of existing Visa accounts by linking a consumer’s Visa debit, credit or prepaid accounts to the mVisa mobile application that enables purchases in store, online and person-to-person through his or her mobile device. •U.S. Regulation. Rules were implemented in the U.S. during 2011 and 2012 with respect to debit products under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), which regulates, among other things, debit interchange reimbursements rates, the availability of debit networks on a debit card and merchant transaction routing choice. The Federal Reserve's interpretation of the debit interchange provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act was upheld in March 2014 by the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. After the Supreme Court declined to review the ruling, the Federal Reserve on August 10, 2015 confirmed its position on the sole remaining issue related to the interchange cost calculation, leaving the debit interchange rules in effect as originally adopted. See Government Regulation below.•Fiscal 2015 developments in Russia. In response to U.S. and EU sanctions targeting Russia's financial sector, the Russian government modified its National Payments Systems laws to require that all payment transactions in the Russian Federation be processed within the country. We agreed in February 2015 to transfer processing of Russian domestic transactions to the government-owned processor. Additionally, a new Russian law requiring all personal data of its citizens to be stored in Russia went into effect on September 1, 2015. Authorities have also indicated that Russia will issue a new national payment card called the "MIR" card. See Government Regulation—Government-imposed market participation influences and restrictions below.On November 2, 2015, the Company and Visa Europe entered into a transaction agreement pursuant to which the Company agreed to acquire Visa Europe. Closing of the acquisition is subject to various conditions including regulatory approvals, and is expected to occur in the fiscal third quarter of 2016. See Note 2—Visa Europe to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.Nature of OperationsVisa's mission is to accelerate the electronification of commerce. We operate an open-loop payments network, VisaNet, through which Visa connects and manages the exchange of information and value between: (i) issuers — financial institutions that issue Visa-branded cards or payment products to account holders, and (ii) acquirers — financial institutions that contract with merchants to accept Visa-branded cards or payment products. We do not earn revenues from, or bear credit risk with respect to, interest or fees paid by account holders on Visa-branded cards or payment products. The issuers have the responsibility for issuing cards and other payment products, and determining the interest rates and fees paid by the account holders.Interchange reimbursement fees represent a transfer of value between the financial institutions participating in our open-loop payments network. On purchase transactions, interchange reimbursement fees are paid by the acquirers to the issuers. We generally do not receive any revenue related to interchange reimbursement fees. In addition, we generally do not earn any revenue from the fees that merchants are charged for acceptance by the acquirers, including the merchant discount rate. The acquirers are typically responsible for soliciting merchants, and establishing and earning these fees.A typical Visa transaction begins when the account holder presents his or her Visa-branded card or payment product to a merchant as payment for goods or services. The transaction information is then transmitted  6Table of Contentselectronically to the acquirer and routed through VisaNet to the issuer for authorization. Following authorization, a clearing file containing the final transaction data is submitted from the acquirer and processed for final settlement between the issuer and acquirer. The following diagram illustrates the processing steps involved in a typical transaction on VisaNet.Our operating revenues are principally comprised of service revenues, data processing revenues and international transaction revenues, and are reduced by costs incurred under client incentive arrangements. The Company has one reportable segment, Payment Services.•Service revenues consist of revenues earned for providing financial institution clients with support services for the delivery of Visa-branded payment products and solutions. Service revenues are primarily generated from payments volume on Visa-branded cards and payment products for purchased goods and services.•Data processing revenues consist of revenues earned for authorization, clearing, settlement, network access and other maintenance and support services that facilitate transaction and information processing among our clients globally and with Visa Europe. Data processing revenues are primarily generated from the number of transactions we process.•International transaction revenues consist of revenues earned for cross-border transaction processing and currency conversion activities. Cross-border transactions arise when the country of origin of the issuer is different from that of the merchant. International transaction revenues are primarily generated by cross-border payments and cash volume.•Client incentives consist of long-term contracts with financial institution clients and other business partners for various programs designed to build payments volume, increase Visa-branded card and product acceptance and win merchant routing transactions over our network. These incentives are primarily accounted for as reductions to operating revenues.U.S. dollar settlements with our financial institution clients are typically settled within the same day and do not result in a receivable or payable balance. Settlement in currencies other than the U.S. dollar generally remain outstanding for one to two business days, resulting in amounts due from and to financial institution clients. These amounts are presented as settlement receivable and settlement payable on our consolidated balance sheets, respectively. 7Table of ContentsIn order to maintain the integrity of and minimize disruptions to our payments network, we indemnify our financial institution clients for settlement losses suffered due to the failure of any other client to fund its settlement obligations in accordance with our operating regulations. The settlement indemnification applies to the amount of Visa payment transactions that have occurred, but have not yet settled. We maintain and regularly review global settlement risk policies and procedures to manage settlement exposure, which may require clients to post collateral if certain credit standards are not met. Cash equivalents collateral is reflected in customer collateral on our consolidated balance sheets as it is held in escrow in our name. All other collateral is excluded from the consolidated balance sheets. We have incurred no material loss related to settlement risk in recent years.Core Products and ServicesVisa provides a wide variety of payment solutions that support payment products that issuers can offer to their account holders: (i) pay now with debit; (ii) pay ahead with prepaid; or (iii) pay later with credit products. Visa also offers a growing suite of innovative digital, eCommerce, person-to-person payments and mobile products and services. These services facilitate transactions on our network among account holders, merchants, financial institutions and governments in mature and emerging markets globally.•Debit. Our debit payment solutions support issuers' payment products that draw on demand deposit accounts, such as checking accounts.•Prepaid. Our prepaid payment solutions support issuers' payment products that access a pre-funded amount, allowing account holders to enjoy the convenience and security of a payment card in lieu of cash or checks.•Credit. Our credit payment solutions support issuers' deferred payment and customized financing products.Our core processing services involve the routing of payment information and related data to facilitate the authorization, clearing and settlement of transactions between our issuers and acquirers. VisaNet is built on a centralized architecture, enabling us to view and analyze each authorization transaction we process in real time and to provide value-added services, including information products, such as risk scoring and loyalty applications, while the transaction data is being routed through our network.Visa's processing services continue to expand to address the needs of participants in the evolving payments ecosystem, through such offerings as our merchant gateway and Visa Debit Processing Services ("DPS"). Merchant gateway services provided through our CyberSource subsidiaries enable gateway routing and other services that make it easier for eCommerce merchants to accept, process and reconcile payments, manage fraud and safeguard payment security online. DPS provides comprehensive issuer processing services for participating issuers of Visa debit, prepaid and ATM payment products. These and other services support our issuers and acquirers and their use of our products, and promote the growth and security of our payments network.Processing InfrastructureVisaNet consists of multiple synchronized processing centers, including two data centers in the U.S. that are linked by a global telecommunications network and are engineered for redundancy. In addition, in accordance with the terms of the Framework Agreement among Visa Inc., Visa Europe Limited and others, Visa Europe's processing centers in the United Kingdom must maintain interoperability with Visa's synchronized system. Intelligent access points around the world complete the VisaNet global processing infrastructure and enable merchants and financial institution clients worldwide to access our core processing and value-added services.Visa also owns and manages additional data centers in the U.S. and internationally that enable transaction services and provide uninterrupted connectivity for account holders, our financial institution clients and our processing partners.Intellectual PropertyOur portfolio of trademarks, in particular our family of Visa marks, our PLUS mark and our Dove design mark, are important to our business. Through agreements with our issuers, we authorize the use of our trademarks in connection with their participation in our payments network. We own a number of patents and patent applications relating to payment solutions, transaction processing, security systems and other matters. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology. 8Table of ContentsSeasonalityWe generally do not experience any pronounced seasonality in our business. No individual quarter of fiscal 2015 or fiscal 2014 accounted for more than 30% of our operating revenues in those years.Working CapitalPayments settlement due to and from our financial institution clients can represent a substantial daily working capital requirement. U.S. dollar settlements are typically settled within the same day and do not result in a receivable or payable balance, while settlement in currencies other than the U.S. dollar generally remain outstanding for one to two business days, which is consistent with industry practice for such transactions.Concentration of Business and Financial Information About Geographic AreasFor more information on the concentration of our operating revenues and other financial information, see Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13—Enterprise-wide Disclosures and Concentration of Business included elsewhere in this report.CompetitionWe compete in the global payment marketplace against all forms of payment. These include:•paper-based payments, principally cash and checks;•card-based payments, including credit, charge, debit, ATM, prepaid and private-label products;•eCommerce, mobile wallets and mobile payments; and•other electronic payments, including wire transfers, electronic benefits transfers, automated clearing house ("ACH") and electronic data interchange.Based on payments volume, total volume and number of transactions, Visa is the largest retail electronic payments network used throughout the world. The following chart compares our network with those of our major competitors for calendar year 2014:Company(1) PaymentsVolume TotalVolume TotalTransactions Cards  (billions) (billions) (billions) (millions)Visa Inc.(2) $4,761 $7,360 98.4 2,402MasterCard(3) $3,281 $4,499 60.1 1,437American Express(3) $1,011 $1,023 6.7 112JCB(3) $195 $202 2.4 88Discover/Diners Club(3) $153 $164 2.4 57(1) UnionPay, which operates primarily within the Chinese domestic market, is not included in this table because Visa currently does not compete in that market under local law. Although we are uncertain how UnionPay reports certain volumes, reportedly its numbers could approach or exceed some of those listed in this chart.(2) The data presented are provided by our financial institution clients. Previously submitted information may be updated and all data are subject to review by Visa. Visa Europe data are not included.(3) MasterCard, American Express, JCB, and Discover/Diners Club data sourced from The Nilson Report issue 1060 (March 2015). Includes all consumer and commercial credit, debit and prepaid cards. Some figures are estimates and currency figures are in U.S. dollars. MasterCard excludes Maestro and Cirrus figures. American Express includes figures for third-party issuers. Discover figures consist of U.S. data only and include third-party issuers. JCB figures include third-party issuers and other payment-related products. Certain general purpose payments network competitors are more concentrated in specific geographic regions, such as JCB in Japan and Discover in the U.S. Our competitors also have leading positions in certain countries. For example, UnionPay remains the sole processor of domestic transactions and operates the sole domestic acceptance mark in China.In the global debit network market segment, our Interlink and Visa Electron brands compete with Maestro, owned by MasterCard, and various regional and country-specific debit network brands, including STAR, NYCE and PULSE in the U.S., EFTPOS in Australia, NETS in Singapore and Interac in Canada. In addition to our PLUS brand, the primary cash access card brands are Cirrus, owned by MasterCard, and many of the debit network brands referenced above. In many countries, local debit brands provide the primary network, and our brands are used  9Table of Contentsprimarily to enable cross-border transactions, which typically constitute a small portion of our overall transaction volume.The global payments industry continues to undergo dynamic change. We may face increasing competition from emerging players in the payment space, many of which are non-financial institution networks that have departed from the more traditional business model. The emergence of these potentially competitive networks has primarily been via the online channel with a focus on eCommerce and/or mobile technologies. PayPal and Alipay are examples. These providers compete with us directly in some cases, yet may also be significant partners and customers of ours. We also face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our financial institution clients. We believe our fundamental value proposition of convenience, interoperability, accessibility and security offers us a key competitive advantage. We succeed in part because we understand the needs of the individual markets in which we operate. We do so by partnering with local financial institutions, merchants, governments, non-governmental organizations and business organizations to provide tailored solutions to meet their varied needs. We believe Visa is well-positioned competitively, due to our global brand, our broad set of Visa-branded payment products and our proven track record of processing payment transactions securely and reliably through VisaNet.EmployeesAt September 30, 2015, we employed approximately 11,300 persons worldwide. We consider our relationships with our employees to be good.Government Regulation Interchange reimbursement fees. We have historically set default debit interchange reimbursement rates in the U.S. and many other geographies. During fiscal 2012, the Federal Reserve implemented new rules under the Dodd-Frank Act, setting a cap on the maximum U.S. debit interchange reimbursement fee assessed for debit products issued by large financial institutions. These rules continue to have an adverse impact on our pricing, reduce the number and volume of U.S. debit transactions we process and decrease our associated revenues. See Item 1A—Risk Factors—The Dodd-Frank Act and other regulations and developments arising from the Dodd-Frank Act may continue to harm our overall business included elsewhere in this report.Certain jurisdictions outside the U.S. also regulate or have the power to regulate debit and credit interchange reimbursement rates in their regions. For example, the Reserve Bank of Australia regulates interchange reimbursement rates and the governing authorities in India regulate the merchant discount rate. In May 2015, the EU published a regulation on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions, and interchange caps for intra-regional debit and credit card transactions will take effect on December 9, 2015. See Item 1A—Risk Factors—Additional regulation of interchange reimbursement rates may reduce our transaction volumes and harm our overall business and Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 20—Legal Matters included elsewhere in this report.Network exclusivity and routing. The Dodd-Frank Act limits the issuers' and our ability to impose rules for, or choose various forms of, network exclusivity and preferred routing in the U.S. debit and prepaid network market segments. Other jurisdictions have enacted similar limitations. U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Dodd-Frank Act created an independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) with responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws in the area of financial services and new authority with respect to consumer protection issues, including those pertaining to us to some extent. The CFPB’s future actions may make payment card or product transactions generally less attractive to issuers, acquirers, consumers and merchants by further regulating disclosures, payment card practices, fees, routing and other matters with respect to credit, debit and prepaid cards.No-surcharge rules. We have historically implemented rules that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using their Visa-branded card or payment product instead of other means. As part of the settlement reached in the interchange multidistrict litigation, however, Visa has agreed to modify our rules to permit surcharging on credit transactions under certain circumstances. See Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 20—Legal Matters included elsewhere in this report. A number of U.S. states as well as certain jurisdictions outside the U.S. have taken steps to prohibit surcharging. Following court challenges, some of these laws have been invalidated by federal courts in certain states and upheld in others.  10Table of ContentsData protection and information security. Aspects of our operations or business are subject to privacy and data protection laws in the U.S. and other jurisdictions globally. In accordance with governing law, we devote substantial resources to maintain and continually refine our information security program in order to safeguard account holder information and under certain circumstances, to provide account holder notification in the event of a security breach. In addition, the U.S. Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council periodically reviews aspects of our operations in the U.S. to examine our compliance with data integrity, security and operational requirements and standards, as well as other requirements applicable to us because of our role as a service provider to financial institutions. Regulators around the globe are considering numerous legislative and regulatory proposals concerning privacy and data protection due to the evolving nature and handling of data. The interpretation and application of these privacy and data protection laws around the globe are often uncertain and in a state of flux.Anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism and sanctioned countries. We are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act and the PATRIOT Act. In addition, we are also subject to the economic and trade sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Controls (“OFAC”) that prohibit or restrict dealings with certain countries, their governments and, in certain circumstances, their nationals, as well as with specifically-designated individuals and entities such as narcotics traffickers, terrorists and terrorist organizations. We have policies, procedures, systems and controls designed to identify and address potentially impermissible transactions.Government-imposed market participation influences and restrictions. Our market reach remains limited by certain governments' influence on their domestic payments competition and/or their protection of domestic issuers or payments network processors. Regulators in an increasing number of countries around the world have received statutory authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments systems in these countries. Regulation of Internet, mobile payment and other types of transactions. Many jurisdictions have adopted or are considering regulations that require payments system participants, including our financial institution clients and us, to monitor, identify, filter, restrict or take other specific actions with regard to certain types of payment transactions. For example, U.S. federal legislation has been enacted that requires payment system operators to implement a system that allows issuers to identify Internet gambling transactions so they have the option to decline such transaction requests. State governments have been interested in the potential blocking of Internet interstate sales of cigarettes and alcohol, or the collection of state and local sales taxes on such Internet purchases. Implementing such systems increases costs for our financial institution clients and us, and may reduce merchant acceptance of Visa-branded cards and payment products for these purchases.The U.S. Congress continues to consider regulatory initiatives in the areas of Internet prescription drug purchases, copyright and trademark infringement and privacy, among others, that could impose additional compliance burdens on our financial institution clients and us. Some U.S. states are considering a variety of similar legislation. Various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues, including mobile payment transactions, money transfer, identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security and marketing that could affect our financial institution clients directly. These new requirements and developments may affect our financial institution clients' ability to offer existing products and services, extend credit via payment cards and products, and offer new types of payment programs, which could decrease our transaction volumes and revenues.Available InformationWe are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and its rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires us to file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Copies of these reports, proxy statements and other information can be viewed at http://www.sec.gov or at the SEC Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.Our corporate website is accessible at http://corporate.visa.com. We make available, free of charge, on our investor relations website at http://investor.visa.com our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We also may include supplemental financial information on our investor relations website at http://investor.visa.com and may use this website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor such portions of our investor relations website, in addition to following SEC  11Table of Contentsfilings and publicly available conference calls. The information contained on our corporate website, including the information contained on our investor relations website, is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.