 Even in a benign AI scenario,  we will be left behind. Neuralink is Elon Musk's answer to the threat  he believes artificial intelligence poses to   the human race. In many ways, we're like  cyborgs anyway because our smartphone is   like an extension of us, like a limb. The  problem is the communication bandwidth to   the phone is too slow. It's a speed issue.  We're getting the information to our brains   too slowly and not sending it out fast enough.  You need something artificial in your brain to   help with this process. Neuralink connects human  brains to computers through a chip smaller than a   penny. You insert it by drilling a small hole in  the skull although this could be as simple as a   LASIK procedure in the future. A robot implants  the device to ensure extreme precision. The   chip is connected to the brain through 1,000 tiny  wires that are ten times thinner than human hair.   The company says these wires are flexible enough  not to damage brain tissue. This is key because   other BMIs such as deep brain stimulation  which is used to treat Parkinson's insert   much larger wires which carry more risks such as  strokes. So how does the Neuralink device work,   how does it enhance your brain? Your brain is made  up of neurons. 100 billion neurons. The neurons   come together to form a large network through  synapses. At these connection points, neurons   talk to each other using chemical signals called  neurotransmitters. Everything you see, hear,  taste, smell, feel - these are just neurons firing  or what's called an action potential. This is   where the Neuralink chip comes in. The wires on  the chip carry electrodes. The electrodes record   the signals produced by the action potential and  send them to an external device worn behind the   ear. The device is controlled by an app so the  electrodes basically read what is happening in   the brain and repair the broken circuits. The  electrodes stimulate as many neurons as possible   in orders of magnitude greater than what's ever  been done before to increase the capabilities   of our brain. This will be life-changing  for people with brain disorders. Neuralink  says it will help people who are paralyzed  move, allow those who are blind to see,   treat Alzheimer's, cure epilepsy. When Elon  appeared on Joe Rogan's podcast, he said Neuralink   could in principle fix anything that is wrong with  the brain and that the device could be implanted   into someone as part of a trial within a year. It's already been tested on monkeys. A monkey   has been able to control the  computer with his brain. Just fyi. Neuralink is building on the shoulders of  other implant technologies. Matthew Nagle,   who was paralyzed after being stabbed in the  neck, was the first person to use a brain-machine   interface in 2006 that allowed him to control  a computer cursor. Even though Neuralink is   focused on treating brain injuries for now, that  is just the starting point for the company. There   will be updated versions of Neuralink. Kind of  like a software update for your computer where   the latest version could be capable of so much  more. So what are some things you could do with   a Neuralink device in the future? Elon says humans  will be able to recall everything like a movie and   play it back. We'll have superhuman memory. If  you travel to a foreign country you'll be able   to download a program and speak in that language.  In fact, you wouldn't need to speak at all. You   could communicate with people without speaking if  you both have the implant. Elon says telepathic   communication could happen in as little as  five to ten years although making deadlines   is not his strong suit and he's admitted to this  himself. Neuralink is just one of many companies   thinking about brain-machine interfaces. Facebook  is funding research on BMIs that will allow you   to type with just your mind. Google's parent  company Alphabet has a research organization   that wants to treat diseases with an implantable  device. The ultimate goal of Neuuralink is to   achieve a symbiosis with artificial intelligence.  A symbiosis is a mutually beneficial relationship   between two parties in the natural world.  It's been used to describe the relationship   between bees and plant pollen, for example.  In this context, it describes the way humans   and AI can develop and evolve together. But  merging with AI comes with dangers. When your   computer gets hacked, that's a problem. When  it comes to your brain, that's a bigger issue.  Scientists have been urging governments to address  what data should be collected, how data will be   kept safe, how citizens can opt-out of having  their data shared as a default. Neuralink's   products will have to be approved by the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration. Approval is not   easy to get. It will take a long time and you'll  see it coming. But if and when it is approved,   it can change your lives and I don't say  that lightly. It can change our lives in   the way the internet has connected the world,  in the way airplanes have allowed us to travel,   in the way medicine has cured disease. We may  be looking at our world now and thinking that   we're lucky to live in this day and age and that  two decades ago, they couldn't have imagined what   would be possible. Yet two decades from now,  people will look at us and think about how   far behind we were. We ain't seen nothin' yet. I'm Cindy Pom. You've been watching Newsthink. 