 Welcome back to Crypto AI Profit. Today I’m going to show you how to get free AGI provided that you have a desktop or laptop with a GPU that has at least 4 gigabytes of VRAM. And this opportunity is a product of the Ethereum network congestion that was caused by defi. currently gas fees to send a single transaction or between 5 and $10 even more. So in order to turn this lemon of a situation into lemonade, I decided to start mining with my gpus on my desktop to get some free ethereum which then I can trade over to AGI to get some free tokens. In my case I'm using the Claymore dual Miner. Just as a side note why this opportunity is special is that generally you would need an application specific integrated circuit to be mining ethereum nowadays, but because the fees are high, you can do it with your regular GPU. So in this case in order to use the Claymore dual Miner, you will click on this “Download Now” and it will start downloading a zip file. When you open a zip file, you will have to enter in “claymore” as the password to unzip a file. Once you unzip the file, you will go to the epools file where you will enter in your parameters for your miner. All you need in this case is the first three Parameters: Pool, Wallet and the Password. Don't worry about strap and all pools - that's just if you're a nerd. But if you are a nerd, you can go down to the readme file, and you can check out all the parameters for yourself and mess around with them, but like I said, the first 3 are plenty enough. So if you need to figure out which parameters are good for you, in my case I’m using ethermine.org, which has a 1% fee and so you just choose the server that is closest to you and you use the port 4444, and enter that in and you also put in your wallet of course and there is no password, and you should be good to go. At which point, you save the file, and you go back and double click on this EthDCRMiner64 and you should be up in mining within seconds with your graphics card. So you may be wondering how much you can make with this. In my case, I have two graphics cards. One is a GTX 1080 TI with 11 GB of gddr5 memory and the other is a GTX 1060 with 6gb of gddr5 memory, so 17 GB cumulatively. So I'm doing just under 0.01 ETH per day which amounts to just under 0.3 ETH per month, and with my parameters, I'm making about 93 US dollars a month of profit after my power costs and my pool fee, but you can check out what this is for you on coinscalculators.io. And I will link all of these in the description so you can get through this. So let's say that you had just eight gigabytes. You had let's say a 1070ti. Well, what you could do here is 8 / 17 whatever that is - 0.47 times whatever I'm making (93), so you should be making in the ballpark of 43 u.s. dollars and once you transfer that out with say that you have about 38 US dollars left divided by the current rate on the market, you could get 730 AGI for this amount of ethereum, and to put that in perspective, if you were going to try to make 730 AGI a month with staking, you would have to stake (I believe) somewhere in the ballpark of 600,000 if my math is right…. yeah somewhere around thirty thousand US dollars or more that you would have to stake in order to get what you can get in this case just for mining. And then, if you're really cool, you could take the 730 AGI and you could stake that and you could make 0.87 AGI per month on the staking contract with that. But this is an opportunity that probably won't last for too long. It could last for the next month or two, so you could pick up a few extra hundred or thousand AGI tokens depending on what type of gpus you have. But like and subscribe, share this video, and I hope that there was some value here for you. Thanks for watching. Bye 