 The challenge today is that there are hundreds, if not thousands of sensors generating information It's beyond human cognition to be able to fuse that much information. Artificial intelligence is transforming the intel community and intelligence in general because the sheer volume of information that can be processed by machines and Booz Allen is leading and pioneering the use of these technologies today Artificial intelligence is able to basically train a computer model to decipher and pick up different patterns and data We have two eyes but we can only look at one screen at one time Well if you're working with say a team of machine learning algorithms that are trained to help an intel analyst they can scale across hundreds or even thousands of screens in parallel and then alert an analyst of where they might need to look at that moment The essence of machine learning today requires a significant amount of information to be fed into algorithms. The challenge is you don't always have that information for the type of algorithm that you want to build. So one of the key breakthroughs at Booz Allen has been implementing algorithms that generate synthetic data to provide enough examples of images to train an artificial intelligence model. We've taught a computer to recognize a helicopter without ever having seen a real one We're also looking across other mission areas like health or natural disaster recovery There's plenty of implications where artificial intelligence is going to be disruptive and transformative over the next decade Artificial intelligence is not about replacing people. It's about providing them the tools to do their job much faster, more efficiently and smarter. This is not out in the future. Our clients are using artificial intelligence capabilities that Booz Allen developed today. It positions us to be the trusted partner for those organizations in the future. We're going to continue to see innovations in this area that will fundamentally change the way our clients execute their mission. The opportunity is unparalleled 