 2019 we focused a lot on the algorithms and people understanding what AI is. I think we're past that. As we look to 2020 some of the trends I see are really about that pragmatic AI and a continued focus on transparency, ethics, and removing bias in AI systems. The trends you will see in 2020 and beyond will be specifically in how well and how accurate and how justified AI is. Determining whether a patient's were unfairly targeted in a clinical trial or whether folks were unjustly rejected for a home loan. The whole area of how machine learning is applied in everybody's lives is going to be the next wave where you're going to hear a lot of AI discussions. Three years ago, four years ago, we were sampling data and we were running old timey statistical techniques. Coming from that to running large scale predictive analytics and automating business decisions, that is incredible. It can bring a lot of choice and a lot of innovation, but controlling it and aligning it with regulations and compliance and centralizing it so that there aren't no silos, that everything is explainable and centralized. I think that's going to be the biggest trend and balancing that with giving users a choice of innovation and technology. There will be, in my opinion, a crossroads with machines making actual decisions instead of humans. The component of ethics will only evolve as we continue in trusting machines to make decisions for humans. There is so much unstructured information that is barely analyzed. Images, text files, all your files, transforming all these big data into insights is going to be a huge trend. People tend to think only the data scientists can build models, but platform like SAS actually helps to enable the people with a business domain knowledge to do analytics very easily. It's interesting because I think it's going to be geographical. It's going to be, "Where is this coming from?" We hear a lot about AIs from China. They are definitely the leader in this industry, but we're going to see a lot of other places that are going to be deploying and talking about really great AIs. It really is who has the data, that's who will be the King. 