 Hi, i am Martin from Martin's corner and Im here to show you guys our new CorEdge Line. The CorEdge line are J1900 based box pcs, designed specifically for IoT applications and POE applications. While this smaller box here is regular IoT, who has a J1900 and a lot of configurations and connectors and different ways that we can connect to the internet, we also have this guy here thats a POE. So we have 4 POE ports that you can use to power your devices. This is the CorEdge Box PC Atom J1900. This is one of our IoT devices. Its powered by an Intel Atom J1900 processor and its designed for IoT and Edge applications. It has a lot of interfaces and we are going to show some of them. If you look at the front you have the power button, in this particular configuration the system was configured to have additional 8 Ethernet ports available. This is all configurable. The back we have DC input for your power brick with a locking mechanism. So its much more hardened and several USB ports. In the back you have 3 regular USB 2.0 ports, 1 USB 3.0 port, and HDMI video port, 2 standard Ethernet ports, place for optional wifi devices, a VGA port, a COM port, and some Audio out. Either a speaker or line out or a microphone. Internally, you can see that everything was designed based on modularity. So on this particular design was done with 2 quad NIC modules. One of these modules can be replaced or even removed, replaced with a quad serial so you would have additional 4 serial ports instead of extra Ethernet ports if so desired. The board itself has a socket for memory. We can change the amount of memory thats being used. A space for a 2.5 inch hard drive or SSD, ideally SSD for the type of application that we are talking about and also has a mini PCIe and 2 PCIe connectors. One just your regular mini PCIe that you can put any type of device you want and another mini PCIe thats shared with mSATA in case you want to have a solid state mSATA device. In addition to that this system also comes with wall mount brackets that are included in the package, and also DIN rail. This is the CorEdge box PC POE offering. Its one of our new line of IoT devices or Edge devices we call it the CorEdge and is designed specifically for any application that would require local processing or IoT applications. This one specifically has AC inputs, so no power brick required. It goes straight to AC power and in the front here we have 2 USB ports, a power button, and in the back, we have 2 regular Ethernets, 3 USB 2.0 ports, 1 USB 3.0 port, audio out, optional wifi or similar, so a place for the antennas to do that and these 4 ports here are POE. The POE, this guy, is actually a marvell chipset being driven by an intel Ethernet chip. If you have any questions or anything you need to know detail wise on what can be configured and what boards are available you can always contact us as we are always here to answer any questions you may have. 