 I'm here today to talk to you about the Intelligent Edge and how that applies in your daily living... so I said to my child earlier, while discussing making this video, I said, "It's the point at which you're going (breathes) I'm going to scream... I'm going to scream (screaming) I'm going to scream!!!" That's past your intelligent edge. The intelligent edge is the point at which a pose is just challenging enough, where you're not in any danger of injuring anything, but you're pushing yourself a little beyond what you've done so far. As you start to recognize... oh, that point that I needed to withdraw was back there... when you were still dealing with the situation... and still able to cope with it, and so the point at which you recognize... mmm... this has gone too far... I've gotten beyond the point where I'm comfortable, I'm not coping with this situation any more, you need to somehow find a way to back out... Now, I know it's not that easy. It's not that... um... It's not like, Oh, I don't want to participate in this conversation any more... I'm leaving... you become more cognizant of it, and you hit that intelligent edge, you pause, and go... I'm having a problem here. Let me just pause and take a deep breath. It's easier if you're not involved in a conversation with somebody else. If it's something you're doing on your own, but a lot of us are working... we're working too many hours, we're not getting enough sleep, we're not eating properly, we're eating too much, or we're eating too little... or we're making ourselves wait too long, or we're drinking too many cups of coffee... One of those things. We're not gonna fix all of those things at once! One. Of those things... find, "Oh. The point at which this is the last sip of coffee I should have today." And put that down. "Oh. I am really hungry, and I can't make myself wait ten more minutes." Or you'll find yourself doing what I did one day... I was at a meeting that went on way too long... and I was so hungry, and it was like, an hour longer than it was supposed to be. And it was in a professional context, there was a point when I just couldn't stop myself any more, and I went, "Oh, my GOD I'm hungry." And everyone around the table went... Ithink we're done here now. Because they all were hungry too, but I was the one who cracked first. So... since we would like NOT to do things at the point of cracking, we would like to find that intelligent edge earlier in the situation... cope with it, repsond to it, I know I'm doing the opposite most people, going "just work a little bit harder..." I'm like, "Nah, you're probably being hard enough on yourself" Just back off a little bit. Alright. So, if you aren't working up to that intelligent edge, we'll talk about that a different time. Let's just assume... whoops! Sorry! Let's assume - my hand's gotten tired... I'm past my intelligent edge with my hand holding the phone. Alright. That's the end. This is Seonaid Lee... Seonaid Lee... at The Art of Yearning. And that's your Tuesday Tuneup. 