 Good day. Ben here. With inductive Automation's Ignition pre-installed on the groov box you now have many more options for connecting to popular PLC's. And one of the great things about ignition edge is it allows you to transmit data using the pub/sub architecture of the MQTT protocol. In this video I'll walk you through setting up Ignition Edge for the very first time. I'll cover starting Ignition Edge from the groov admin, logging into Ignition Edge, and changing the default username and password, and lastly how to apply a license key. Now if you haven't purchased any licenses yet remember you can run both groov View with Enterprise options and Ignition Edge in trial mode for two hours at a time. groov View with an Enterprise license allows you to connect to OPC-UA servers including the OPC-UA server built into Ignition Edge. Inductive Automation's Ignition Edge license activates Ignition Edge in the groov box and includes drivers to Allen-Bradley and Siemens PLC's, SNAP PAC controllers, and Modbus TCP devices. If you purchase the groov Enterprise license you'll receive an Edge license. So that's the quickest way to get up and running. But if you want you may also just purchase an Edge license. Okay let's set up the groov edge appliance. Open a web browser and navigate to your groov box by typing the following in your dress bar HTTP colon slash slash your groov box hostname or IP address and port 10,000. Login with your groov admin username and password, click on ignition edge menu option on the left hand side. Here this overview page will show you the status of both your groov Enterprise license and if Ignition Edge is running. If this is your first time here go ahead and select the checkbox to enable and run Ignition at startup. Click Save. Now go ahead and accept the license agreement. And Ignition Edge is now starting up and being configured to start each time. Now, once that's happened, go ahead and click back. Now that that's up and running we can go to the Gateway by clicking open Ignition Edge or direct to Edge in your browser by using the URL HTTP colon slash slash your groov box host name or the groov box IP address and colon 8043. Once you're here go ahead and sign in by clicking the sign in icon up in the top right corner. The default username and password is admin and password. The very first thing you should do is change these by clicking on configure. Then under security select users roles, click on manage users, and then go ahead and edit that user. Let's change the user name and check the box that you want to change the password. And enter the new password twice. Scroll down and click Save Changes. OK now let's log out by clicking the sign out icon up in the very top right and let's log back in with that new username and password. OK great now we can see that we're signed in with our new username. So now we can go ahead and apply that license. Go ahead and click activate Ignition up in the top right corner. If the groov box has internet access then go ahead and click on activate online. Type in your license key and click activate. That's it. That's all there is to it. Now if your groov box does not have access to the internet then you're going to need to select the activate offline option and just follow the three steps that are outlined on this page. Essentially what you're going to do is download the offline activation request file and transfer that file to a computer with internet connectivity, upload it to the URL shown, and then save the returned license file, and then transfer that file to the groove edge appliance. Now it's important to know that before you update groov admin or if you need to reset your groove edge appliance back to factory defaults for any reason you should first unactivate so that you can reactivate it after the update or the reset. You should also unactivate your license first if you need to move it to another groov box. By an unactivating and then reactivating you avoid having to contact Inductive to have the license reinstated. To activate click on the trash can icon and then click yes to unactivate. And that's it. The last thing to do is to activate the two modules that are included in Ignition Edge on the groov Box. That's MQTT and the Opto 22 SNAP PAC driver. To activate these two click on configure up in the top, then modules on the side under system, scroll down until you see the two modules at the bottom of the list. Go ahead and click on the install button next to the module that you want to add, then confirm that you want to add that module, scroll down and accept the license agreement. Next we need to check the box that we accept their security certificate and we're done go back and follow the same process for the other module. So that's it your groov box is now fully set up. Check out workshops. opto22.com for other videos that show how to connect your groov box to an Allen Bradley PLC and display its data on your mobile ready groov screen or how to send data to an MQTT broker. Till next time cheers mate.  