 Container environments provide the necessary development agility allowing businesses to create and deliver applications faster. Containerizing application workloads enable businesses to react to market stimuli more quickly and provide solution applications in order to be competitive in today's industry with rapid access to innovation. Infrastructure-as-code enables Mirantis Cloud Platform, known as MCP, to deliver the Kubernetes container orchestration environment as part of its ecosystem of cloud services. MCP delivers Kubernetes as commercial product to the enterprise where it is key to workloads from legacy to cloud native. It's no longer just about OpenStack. Kubernetes is a fast evolving but production ready framework for hosting and orchestrating container workloads, such as you create with Docker, at scale; and provides a host of services and object types for automating deployment, resource allocation, high availability and scaling for the cloud. Native or container-native and micro service based applications. Within the production ready Kubernetes environment Mirantis and Intel have developed technology previews of tooling that increases the utility of Kubernetes as a tool for dev, test and scale out operations. For example, the first technology of preview is AppCcontroller. Mirantis is working on AppController to solve the set of problems making it easier for enterprises to move existing apps into containers and onto Kubernetes without completely refactoring them. AppController handles your applications’ dependencies and the deployment order of its components. It's completely Kubernetes native using Kubernetes objects and features; you can refactor your applications to be full-blown micro services without proprietary vendor lock-in. AppController facilitates porting of legacy multi-tier applications into the Kubernetes environment.Kubernetes by default provisions resources in random order. While modern cloud native applications are suited to this way of deployment, prior applications are not. They require a specific order of dependency installation so that it can be deployed properly AppController introduces the use of a deployment graph: built with definitions and dependencies that it uses to execute a number of independent kubectl calls to create each layer of the application in the order specified. This sequence ensures the proper deployment of the application. This functionality opens us up to future capabilities of handling lifecycle management procedures automatically by pre-defining such scenarios. MCP delivers the open cloud as an overall solution with integrated SDN and commercial support provided by Mirantis with the flexibility to use other architectures like Kubernetes for MCP to provide an additional platform for businesses to innovate faster. Whether you let Mirantis manage your environment for you with Mirantis Managed OpenStack, MMO, or you manage it yourself with MCP, you can extend your business agility with Mirantis. Visit us at www.mirantis.com/mcp. We are the pure play open cloud experts. 