 - We know customers have point tool fatigue today and that's exasperated by the fact that there's a lack of cybersecurity skills, especially when it comes to cloud security. It's a relatively new domain. There aren't a lot of experts around cloud security today. And so out of necessity, a lot of organizations have had to deploy multiple point tools over time. It becomes untenable over time, though. Especially as more of your critical infrastructure is actually running in the public cloud. - The technical debt in security in every company I've ever been with or talked to is way more than any security team can manage. - The services themselves are already consuming so much of our management bandwidth. - There's actually a skills shortage in the cybersecurity realm and a lot of that is actually going to be addressed by automation and consolidation. - The fundamental reason for this consolidation is because at the end of the day, you want to move faster and so the best way to do that is to consolidate your tool chain to make it either faster, to go from code to production. - Tool consolidation is a must have in the cloud because it's the way of automation you want to automate one tool to do as much of your work as possible. (upbeat music) - If you follow the best of breed approach there's one core problem that you quickly run into and that is integration. Integration becomes incredibly complicated, security becomes incredibly complicated and the reality is you start to diminish the whole value of why you went after best of breed in the first place. - Now we're seeing, especially in the cloud, where automation is key, where flexibility is key. Best of breed is a consolidated tool set. - In a complex environment you want to be using as few tools as you can so that you can actually use them. - I think it's gonna be a thing of the past where you're gonna have this collection of 50 security tools that you're trying to manage all at once. - The more tools that you buy, the more complicated it gets to maintain and manage, which takes more time. There's a diminishing point of return. - Consolidation is absolutely necessary. It's absolutely impossible to manage a fragmented infrastructure without the appropriate tools in place. - If you are managing 20 tools just to make sure that the lights stay on that's a whole lot of time, money, and effort that is not going to making a better product or being more responsive to your customers. - There are so many companies that I know that run three or four web application scanners that do 95% of the same thing and they can't tell you why they have them all in their tool list. - While you might think that you need to have a billion different tools, each one doing one very specific job, maybe you can actually get 90% of the workload done with three or four tools. - You have to know what your tool does and what you expect out of it and why you're using it and if you can't answer those questions you probably can retire the tool. - We need to have the ability to aggregate our view of the entire cloud infrastructure, our entire cloud picture, across multiple availability zones, multiple regions, and multiples AWS accounts. - Consistency drives standardization. Without standardization you cannot monitor your security environment and that's what's key. - For us, any avenue of consolidating a bit, getting your performance monitoring to also handle logging or application performance monitoring that was a big thing for us because it simplified our model, simplified our deployment, and simplified our operations. Our staff can get to the information they need quickly without having to try to handle a million different tools. - We should be able to automate half of our jobs away at the end of the day. - Eventually tools will start to merge together or get to a relatively steep feature set to where you don't necessarily need as many tools and you'll start to see consolidation. (bright music) 