 Hello Everyone! I'm Mithun! Today I going to talk about Augmented Reality And, going to show you guys an Augmented Reality Application And an Augmented Reality Example, That I've developed What is an Augmented Reality? an Augmented Reality (AR) is a process of superimposing any kinda 3D text or Information which are in visual form with the real world video feed. To make it understand well, we can watch an example By going Youtube, if we search by "axe angles london" then you will get a commercial video like this one This is a commercial video of AXE ! By going to the link we can watch that Angles falling from the Sky at the one of london's station. at the statioin's there is a giant video screen, where Peoples are watching and experiencing an Augmented Reality Application they can watch on that screen, Angles falling from the sky!! its a great an Augmented Reality Application! we can see yaa... this is an Augmented Reality Application How would we develop an Augmented reality Application easily? Now I’m going to talk about some basic theory of Augmented reality. I’ve made a slide like image of how AR works Basically AR works by, if this is the world and This is the Input system which could be a Camera here and We would have need a Computer Vision (CV) Library OR AR Library, which we will use for tracking an object Generally called a palette! And all processing of the video feed taking from the world is done by using a 3D processing Software or another software which can manipulate or generate 3d object Controlling the Input and Output System is used It could be a software package By using a Computer Vision library it tracks a palette from the world if this is a palette Computer Vision library tracks a palette from the world CV Library tracks a palette and informs the 3D processing software Yes I’ve found a palette on the world. Then the Processing software Spawn 3d objects or 3D Text on the palette. And renders it as output we will need a 3D manipulation software which could control camera input/output system and 3d manipulation together. and a CV Library, AR library which can track a palette from the world And can informs the 3D manipulation software Here we will talk about some popular AR/CV library! I’ve a Used an open source Library named ARToolKit for my Application, Which is the world most widely used tracking library for Augmented Library. Anyone can develop augmented reality application like games, educational purpose games or storybook or can develop location based AR application. There are some new modern AR library like Vuforia, which is also popular but it has a paid version also has free version which we can also use But I’ve used ARToolkit in my application. (You can found the link on the description below) and for 3D manipulation I’ve used Unity Unity is a popular Game Engine Which I've used for 3d manipulation here for the purpose of AR app development but without unity we can also build on Windows, Mac and others using ARToolkit. augmented reality application Another 3D Manipulation software, which is processing also could be used let’s see my Augmented Reality application. I’m going to play my AR app! This is my palette named Hiro palette the camera tracks the palette by using the ARToolkit library And by tracking unity spawn a 3d objects on the palette. This is a 3D objects which is spawn on the palette the camera tracks the palette by using the ARToolkit And by tracking unity spawn a 3d objects on the palette. This character is a unity’s free character named as Unity Chan! This character “Unity-Chan” License (Derivative Works) Please see the description for more about license The song is royality free produced by Ronald Soelkner We can see that with the movement of the palette the 3d objects also moves together. We can also track two palette. This is an another palette. We can also track two palette. playing animation by clicking Now we are watching full screen mode. we can see yaa. Character moving together with the palette Thanks for watching the video :-) Please subscribe!! 