 Hey there and welcome to Life Noggin! When sci-fi writers think of the future, they tend to think of flying cars and human-like robots that do our work for us. And while we’re not quite there yet with either of those, we’re getting close to a different innovation -- self-driving cars. In fact, companies like Google and Tesla are already working on these! It’s possible that within the next ten or twenty years, these cars will become common, and our roads might even become safer. I mean, looking at the numbers, about 1.2 /million/ people die every year from traffic accidents and around 94% of those accidents are caused by human-error. So, it’s possible that well-made self-driving cars could drastically decrease that number. But also, these cars could make driving possible again for people who couldn’t drive otherwise, like the visually-impaired or elderly. And on top of all that, think of how much you could get done during your daily commute! I could finally read that Game of Thrones book everyone talks about! Or, ya know, I could just sleep more which is probably what I’d end up doing. But, I’m getting a bit ahead of myself. Let’s first figure out how these cars will even /work./ This is probably obvious, but these cars first need a GPS system to get a rough idea of where they are and where they need to go. They also have a bunch of sensors to constantly scan the area around the them, looking for any hazards -- whether that’s another car, a bicyclist, or even a rogue bird! For Google’s self-driving cars, these sensors include a camera to see, and radar and lasers to map out the area. And these are constantly monitoring 360 degrees around the car, which is much better than what a distracted driver could do. But arguably the most important -- and challenging -- facet of self-driving cars is the software that makes them run. This has to take in all the data from the sensors and GPS -- and even things like traffic and weather conditions -- and make decisions based on that. It determines how to steer, stop, and go, and everything else involved in getting you from Point A to Point B. But of course, this technology isn’t perfect and inevitably, these cars will be put in a situation where a crash is unavoidable. And in some cases, the car will have to choose between two evils -- like crashing into pedestrians or putting the car’s passengers at risk. In that case, what should it do? In a study, researchers found that most people would rather the car sacrifice the passengers for the common good. That said, these same people would rather /ride/ in a car that protected its passengers instead. So, there’s a bit of a issue here because what these people want self-driving cars to be like isn’t what they would want themselves. What would you want in that case? A lot of companies want self-driving cars to be road-ready by 2020. Will you be driving one when they come out? Let me know in the comments below. If you want to learn about another technology, check out our video on WiFi. There’s a link in the description if you’re on mobile. As always, I’m Blocko. This has been Life Noggin. Don’t forget to keep on thinking. 