 Hey, friends. Kris Krohn here and today on Limitless wealth TV. We're talking about how to invest in blockchain technology so hang tight, it's all coming your way right now. People everywhere want to know how do you actually get in on this brand-new blockchain technology because when new technology comes around, the early adopters are the ones that end up making bank, they make a lot of money, right? I mean, same thing happened was when cell phones came about, what made that possible was a tower and if you had a tower in your backyard, you could have been making millions of dollars and so when cell phones before you know, things got crazy crazy cheap, they were super super expensive. When technology is brand-new off the gate, it affords some of the biggest financial opportunities. That is true with what is happening in the blockchain world today. I just got back from Thailand speaking to thousands of people on this technology and they were asking this question, how do we make money with it? So I'm going to share with you exactly how you do that. Before I do, I want you to understand something. When we say blockchain, that's plural for blockchains because any company can launch a specific service through a custom blockchain that they built and so right now there's over 2,000 blockchains and there's a good chance of this videos a year old there could be. How do you want to guess how many block chains are going to be but you can make money with these block chains. Now by the way, the bigger each individual blockchain is and the more adopted it is, the more money that it has to pay out. Let's use as an example today Bitcoin. Okay, Bitcoin gave us blockchain technology and so since people have used that blockchain for so many other things, Bitcoin which started off at just a couple of pennies, look at what it's turned into today, it's turned into a technology where Bitcoin in and of itself is being traded at 7,000 8,000 10,000, it's penetized $22,000 so you've got this huge opportunity with investing in that and it's like, well, how would I make money with the Bitcoin blockchain? Well it's simple. The blockchain works by people all around the world plugging in their computers and there are three things that you need if you wanted to make money with that blockchain or frankly any blockchain. Number one, you need to have the right equipment. Now a lot of that equipments being sold for five, six thousand dollars, and there are some people like myself that have the suppliers that you can get the top line technology for as little as two or three or four thousand dollars, okay. The second thing that you're going to need is cheap power. When you plug in in your home, if you're paying 12 cents a kilowatt or 30 cents a kilowatt, it's going to be really expensive to draw power under your machine to have it work for you but we've secured power for two or three or four pennies and I can show you how to get your hands on some of that yourself. The third thing that you're going to need is you're going to need what's called a mining pool, this is a network that you want a big enough network so the blockchain will in its lottery system default and use you so that it can use your entire mining network to actually produce these these computations, okay. Those are the three things that you basically need, the right equipment, the right cost of power and you need the right mining network. When I got introduced this technology, it was through a man that month made ten million dollars with having sucked these massive data farms because he started by having just a handful of equipment and because it was paying him every single day, that ROI ended up being over a hundred percent a year on his money, it was one of the best investments he ever made so he just started buying more and then reinvesting him buy more and reinvesting buy more so now he's now making millions of dollars a month, well something similar happened to me. I've done all sorts of investing in the world, I love real estate investing, lots of different types of investment but I haven't really touched anything that stabili produces this kind of ROI's consistently as this technology does and so I started off by buying my first 50 pieces of equipment than hundreds and hundreds and today it's making a really exciting income for me so I hope when you're going out there and saying well, how do I make this happen? If you want to invest in this technology, first of all, you got to pick the right blockchain, you got to pick something you believe in and something you believe is going to be adapted by a lot of people all over the world because if you're playing in that kind of blockchain that's going to have a growing number of transactions, you're going to do well. Bitcoin for example it has consistently produced between two and three hundred dollars a month up to twelve hundred dollars a month if you've had a cheap cost of power and really good equipment and if you think about that, that's a really phenomenal investment so you got to pick the right blockchain and once you do, you just remember, you need the right equipment you need the right cost of power and you got to have the right network plugged in if you can line those three things up then you are golden. On one of my business travels, I was fortunate enough to meet a man that got me totally plugged into this. Ironically, I was at this convention meeting people from all over the world and yet he lives right in my backyard so I started going to his office every single day and started learning everything I could have gotten this technology and he was kind enough to get me started in the trade and what's neat is they've negotiated hundreds of megawatts, it's like massive amounts of power between two three or four pennies, they've also secured the equipment and to get it straight from the manufacturer, it's like some of the highest quality with with 14 to 16 Terra hash of computing power and then at the same time, they've got this massive network second largest network on all of Bitcoin for example and he basically plugged me in and I'm making the best money that you can make in mining right now and they're expanding their operation so if you need to get your hands on some equipment, if you want to get into the right money pool and if you want to get access to the cheap power I can give you that hookup, just head over to my website and let me show you how it works. 