 - Hi and welcome everyone to our webinar. We're gonna start shortly. We just have a couple of people who are still connecting so we'll give everyone a minute or two until we start and then I'll walk you through. In the meantime, please feel free to answer our polling that we've set up before the webinar. Okay, I think everybody who was still joining is now in the webinar. So hi and welcome everyone again who've just joined. Today's webinar is on how to optimize your cyanide control. And today's speaker is gonna be Margarita who is our Mining Solutions Specialist and myself, I'm Benedikt. I'm the founder and CEO of CyanoGuard. Just before we started, we did a quick poll to see where everybody's joining from and what your background is with our topic today which is Cyanide Control and Cyanide Monitoring. So we're gonna share these results real quick and discuss them. So, I see most attendees today are joining from both Americas, which is great but I think we have a quite well distributed across yeah, pretty much of the continents. Maybe some attendees from South America's gonna join later. It's still quite early. And our second question was whether you have personal experience of cyanide measurements, monitoring or control and most of you do have, that's real great because it's one of the main topics or one of the main challenges that we're gonna discuss today. And all of you, that's really impressive, all you are aware of the challenges of cyanide monitoring and control which is I think a very very good basis for our discussions later and for any questions that you might have. And I think with that, I would like to introduce you to our agenda today. So we're gonna start with a short recap on the roles of cyanide in gold mining and what are the most common challenges with cyanide monitoring with existing traditional technologies. Then we have prepared a short checklist for operators to understand whether you might need to review us on our testing process because that's sometimes hard to understand whether you actually need to make changes. After that we have summarized a list of five quick fixes, five quick topics that you can revisit that can help you to mitigate some of the errors immediately. And after that we're gonna introduce you to our approach, our technology which we've seen can provide for many mines a long-term and permanent solution for many of their challenges when it comes to cyanide monitoring. And after that, my colleague Margarita is gonna introduce you to our pilot project program where you can sign up and see whether it might be useful to you to try out our solutions, our technology at your mines. And at the end, so approximately in about 30 minutes or so, we've reserved the end for Q&A. So if you have any questions now or during the webinar, please feel free to submit them using the Q&A button at the bottom of your Zoom application and you submit them and we'll try to answer them at the end. So let's get started with a quick recap. As most of you know, cyanide is the most commonly used and only really industrial viable compound that they can extract gold from ores efficiently. And it's a key constraint not only due to their high consumption but also to the ever rising prices. And what we've seen is that many mines with declining ore grades require more and more cyanide and it also leads to high demand in cyanide. And actually in one of the mines that we work with, we've seen that just the cyanide purchasing costs were exceeding more than 60% of the processing costs. And that's quite a big topic for many mines looking for ways to optimize their process and reduce their cyanide consumption. The big challenge of cyanide is ready to get it right. And you see the challenge or the two alternatives on the next slide. So on the one hand, you have the possibility to just use an excess of cyanide but that's gonna be very costly due to the prices of cyanide and also to the fact that if you're discharging your solutions, you will need to detoxify cyanide and detoxification costs can be quite substantial depending on the setup of your mine. On the other hand, if you use too little cyanide, then you lose gold to the tailings and you're not able to extract all the gold that you could technically extract. And finding the balance between too little and too much cyanide and having the right amount is very difficult because it's a highly dynamic process in most gold leaching circuits. And then this is what we try to hold on the next slide. It's the high volatility or the dynamics of the process because not only does the ore quantity change but also the ore composition can change and other variables like temperature, humidity that have an influence on the cyanide consumption can affect the cyanide consumption. You need to react to it to avoid cyanide over-delivery or under-delivery. And in our experience, it was very often the case that neither manual titration nor automated analyzers provided a solution that really solved the challenge for many mines because they failed to provide either the cyanide accuracy, the reliability or the temperature result. And we quickly wanna look at two of the most commonly used methods to control or to measure cyanide in gold mining. So the first one most of you know are manual titration. Manual cyanide titrations with either a potentiometric endpoint detection or a colorimetric endpoint detection. Right now we're gonna focus in the colorimetric endpoint detection because it's the most used one. And the most obvious and the most common problem is it's non-standardized measurement. Meaning different operators will perceive the color change differently and therefore get two different results. And this is the first issue and the second issue is non-chemical nature. The silver nitrate titration is very common to interferences like copper and with these interferences, you get an artificially high result in the case of copper which then makes it impossible for you to optimize your cyanide concentration and have the right amount in the process. Something that is in theory sometimes discussed but in practice not often realized is the fact that you cannot measure cyanide with a silver nitrate titration at low concentrations due to the setup of a volumetric titration. And we had one instance where was I was in the mine and they gave me a sample of allegedly zero cyanide according to a titration, zero free cyanide and then we tested it again with our technology and we realized it was quite a substantial amount of cyanide just because of the fact that it was not known, that the titration cannot measure that long. Around 25 years ago, if we go to the next slide automated analyzers came up designed to replace the manual titration procedure but looking back at the past decades and to have failed to do so on a broad basis some mines are using them but some have quite big issues with them and reverted back to the manual titration. The biggest issue we see is that they are based on the same titration technology. Just in an automated way and still have the same interferences. While the automation was certainly very beneficial for many parts in the process. And the automation itself also created drawbacks. The analyzers, some of you might know, are capital-intensive and stationary and require regular maintenance and calibration. And these two points, maintenance and calibration, if they're not done properly, they can lead to the creation of a systematic error. So if the calibration is not done right, excuse me, if the calibration is not done right, you will have an error throughout your entire measurement process. And we've seen a couple of mines, for example the Cerro Vanguardia Mine in Argentina that have decided to abandon automatic control strategies because the automated analyzers just didn't work for them. And were too unreliable. And they were facing too much downtime because their samples, their first solution was just not working with these. And as I mentioned, and I think it's something that's also some of you might have already seen, is due to the lack of a better alternative, many mines switch back from an automated control strategy to a manual control strategy. And this is where we try to come in. Help mines with a novel technology that is not based on a titration. But before I introduced you, we might take our technology, our solution. And we prepared a short list of questions that operators and I just can go through to understand whether their cyanide testing process requires changes. Most important ones is the top line is to understand whether your cyanide consumption matches your target consumption. Where the actual cyanide consumption matches target consumption. And on the other hand, whether your gold recovery rates also match your targets. Because if that's not the case, it's very likely that there is an issue with your cyanide concentration because it's one of the most crucial factors in the gap leaching circuit. The way that we have this checklist designed to work is that if you answer one of those or more than one with no, then you should probably review your cyanide test and process, your choice of the method and how your process works. And see whether you need to make changes. If you have answered, when you go through them and you think, "Okay there's some issues with the process that we're currently employing." We have compiled a list with five topics or five quick fixes that you an apply right now as a sort of like it is an intermediate solution. Is something that we've seen that helps couple of mines, is to evaluate your choice of endpoint indicator. In most cases, rhodanine is the best choice but often depending on the concentration of metals for example copper, potassium iodide can be also a good choice. Although it's a little harder to discern the color change, it's something that is worth trying out. And the second the stage you can try to look at the possible interferences that you have in your sample, because we've seen many mines, they are not aware of the plethora of metals and instead that are present in the sample that could interfere with their measurement. And if you have a rough idea, you can roughly assess the quality of your measurement. Whether it's likely to be too high or whether like, to be too low. Something is which is quite easy but often neglected, is the fact that the sampling is not done right. And there's many questions you can ask. For example where do you sample? Do all operators take the samples at the same point? What are the sample containers that you use? Are there are they cleaned regularly? How long does it take for you, from sampling to the measurement? If you want to go back more in the lab and actually benchmark your ability or your accuracy, what you can do and what we also do for our internal lab, is that we buy cyanide standards. And they are produced by reference labs or you can buy them from chemical suppliers with a known and certified concentration of cyanide. And have them tested by your methods by your operators and see if you can recover the amount. That's the first stage. If you want to take it a step further, you can do a so-called spiking method. It's where you add two samples of your own process. You add a known amount of cyanide and you test it again. And then you see whether your are able to recover that amount. For example if you increase the concentration, let's say by 20 or 30 ppm, then you should be able to recover that. And that's on the benchmarking part. And the last one I think this is something that if anyone of you has issues right now with getting a reliable and high-quality data pool for your measurements, is to check your reagents and your glassware. We've often seen that especially the silver nitrate solution is either expired or doesn't have the right concentration. And usually it's a little better to use lower concentration silver nitrate solutions because you get a bit better accuracy and the same goes for the glassware. If you have a smaller volume burette, usually get a better resolution. And it depends of course, in watch concentration ranges or in what level of accuracy you need for your process. One last point which is quite obvious, but still see it happens very often, is that the glassware which the titration is made is not clean. So make sure that you have a straightforward process that the glassware is always clean so you don't have any carryover which might negatively influence your titration results. And all of these quick fixes, is something that we've seen help mines to take a step into the right direction. But it will not eliminate the fundamental flaws of traditional cyanide monitoring techniques. And if you are looking for a more permanent or long-term solution, I would like to introduce you to our technology which we've designed to actually address these flaws and help mines to get to better measurements and thereby improve the process. I don't want to take too on this one, but quickly explain you how that works. So you have three parts. The first is our proprietary cartridge where you have a molecule in there which changes color depending on the concentration of cyanide. And how that works is that, you take one milliliter of your sample. You press it through the cartridge. And based on the concentration of cyanide in the sample, this cartridge will change from orange, red to violet. And what you then do is you take this cartridge, insert it in our handheld analyzer. Looks like this, turn it on. And then you select the cyanide analyzer function on the device. You select your range. The ranges are of course customizable. This is just like as a demonstration so you can see how easy it is. You select the 10 to 100 ppm. Repress measure concentration. Takes a few seconds and then it displays you the result. Okay, that's 20 ppm free cyanide. You can also change the output to equivalents of sodium cyanide which is very often used if you're, you know working in a more (indistinct) environment. And what's the second thing that you don't see right now, is that this result including my user tag, the GPS location everything is transmitted to our online platform which you see on the right side of the slide where you have all your data stored and available in real time for you to analyze, to export. You can also uplink into other existing system to further some of the process control system or a laboratory information management system. And with this data make powerful decisions to optimize your cyanide process in real time. And what you also can do is, thanks to the GPS, let's say, you can visualize it on a map. so for example you can see, okay these are all the measurements that we've taken at this particular sampling locations. And you know with absolute certainty that it has been taken there and not somewhere else or there is no mix-up of samples. As I said in the previous slide, and one of our main goals when creating the solution is to address the most crucial drawbacks of existing technology. One of the most important ones for us is the high reliability and resistance against interferences and this is due to our completely novel proprietary sensor molecule that is much less susceptible to interference. For example you have no interference with chloride, with copper. We are much less susceptible to the pH of the solution and that helps the operator to get basically a much better quality data then if they would use a manual method. On the other hand, we also try to make the whole system also the device as robust as possible. For example, our devices do not require any calibration. And how do we do that? is for every measurement of a cartridge for every sign of measurement, there's a blank measurement done which compensates, for example for sensor drift and hence it does not require calibration like an automatic analyzer. So there's nothing that you can screw up within the calibration because you don't need a calibration. And since every measurement uses an extra and a single individual cartridge which are individually quality controlled there is no carryover inclusion of systematic error for example. If you would look at the electrode or reagent solution in an automated analyzer, which could have an error or a mistake and that would carry over through your whole measurement process without necessarily, without the operator necessarily being aware of it. Also our recognition pattern, our recognition algorithm actively recognizes wrong measurements or if there has been a mistake in the sample preparation and then discuss the measurement and request the operator to a new one and this is why we can actively avoid and minimize errors. And besides our chemosensors being much more sensitive and having lower limits of detection, we can guarantee a much lower variability if you for example, if you have different operators or even different samples. Something that the operators that use our device say they like a lot, is that it's very user-friendly and very straight forward to use and also they, it's safe for them. They don't need to worry about any hazardous substances or taking large amounts of high cyanide containing samples because for us we just need one millimeter. And that's also something that for us when we developed that technology was very important. And we focused very much now on the technical advantages of our solution but I quickly want to highlight touch on the economical and financial impact that our technology can have. We've seen that mines that use our technology and implement our solutions can substantially decrease their cyanide consumption through more efficient, reliable and real time cyanide monitoring. And also the consequence, the excess cyanide and the tailings is reduced leading to a lower or even zero detoxification costs depending on the detoxification process and the situation of the mine. And what's more in a couple of instances, we have been able to identify cyanide under delivery in real time in the process with our technology. And with that information, that was available real-time helps the mine to reduce the cyanide and optimize the recovery rate of gold that would have been normally lost to the tailings. These are just average percentage relative to what you've been using before. If you're interested to find out and how large your savings can be for your individual sites, I would invite you to visit our website. We're just in process of publishing our novel ROI simulator and calculator tool where you can input your own site data for example your production figures, how much cyanide used and it will give you a rough estimate of how much savings potential and performance increase potential you have for your individual site parameters. Now my colleague, Margarita, will present you our new pilot program. That is designed to help you to try out the technology and see if it works for you and Margarita is gonna tell you what's so great about it and how you can join. - Thank you, Benedikt. My dear ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining us today. As Benedikt mentioned my name is Margarita and I'm responsible for mining accounts at CyanoGuard. Today I would like to tell you about our pilot program. We've introduced it this year and it is open for registration to future participants. The objective of this program is to test and evaluate the feasibility of using CyanoGuard cyanide control solution in the production settings of the partner mines. This evaluation will be done against the predefined criteria in comparison with the current cyanide control solution used at the mine. We will send our product kit to you and it will be used there at the mine throughout the duration of the pilot which is anticipated to be around four weeks. Now I would like to tell you a bit in more detail about the stages of our pilot program. First of all, in order to qualify and setup the pilot we would need some technical inputs from your side. I think they are easy to provide because you definitely follow them. It's the cyanide testing frequency and also concentration ranges to be measured Afterwards we will establish the baseline parameters which will later be used for evaluating the project success. In particular they include simplicity of use of the cyanide control solution impact on cyanide consumption, impact on gold recovery and impact on detox reagent costs, if this is applicable to your mine. As a next step, we will send you our product kit and provide the necessary onboarding and support before and during the pilot. I would like to highlight that the onboarding is not difficult, it can be done online because as you've already seen from the demonstration, short demonstration which Benedikt conducted the solution itself is very simple and intuitive. It's very easy to use and even I would say a five-year-old kid could manage it. So no lengthy preparation is also the pilot itself does not require any lengthy preparation. After the pilot, we will conduct together conduct the evaluation of the project success and also of the performance of our product kit and make the decision regarding the feasibility of our further cooperation. Now I would like to share with you the feedback we've received so far from the mines already work with us. We've basically asked them what they liked the most about our product. And they have emphasized a number of factors. Besides the very obvious immediate positive impact on the operational efficiency and financial performance. In particular they mentioned that they really appreciate that no capital investments are required. Basically it's only cartridges and the CyanoGuard device which is rented by the mine. There is no production process changes implied whatsoever. As I have already mentioned before, we will provide all the necessary onboarding but it is neither extensive nor requires any special knowledge or professional qualification from your employees. Also the pilot agreement itself does not imply any long-term commitments so you would be able to decide upon the pilot either you would like to continue using our product or not. Either you would like to partner with us for the long run. And the results will be seen immediately and they will be 100% transparent. So at this stage I would like to encourage you to visit our website. Download some additional information or get in touch with us and if such information is required. And sign up for our pilots. So this is a exactly a good time for you to sign up for our pilots which will most of them will start in September. And now we will proceed to the Q&A session. So I would ask you to submit your questions if you didn't do so yet. We will aim to answer as many of them as possible and yeah if we don't answer all of them, We will get in touch with you on an individual basis so that your question doesn't remain unanswered. Thank you for your attention. - Thank you, Margarita. Yeah let's give it a minute or two. I see some people are still typing up questions. So that's wait a bit until everybody has had the opportunity to type in their question and we'll answer them. Okay, we received a couple of very good questions. We'll try to answer most of them if the time allows. Otherwise we'll get in touch with you afterwards. So the first question was directed towards the pilot program. And I think it's something that you can answer Margarita is whether, is there any restrictions on who can participate or can any gold mine participate in the pilot project Margarita? - Yes basically most of the mines can participate of course but there are some pretty obvious criteria which yeah, which a mine should fulfill. It should be an operating mine which has cyanide based leaching process. Ideally it should also have a mobile coverage on-site. But just in case there is no mobile coverage, we can come up with a solution. So it just wouldn't be probably the optimal case. And for the moment we are focusing on the mines which measure cyanide in the concentrations up to 500 ppm. - Thank you, Margarita. We have received a couple of more questions in the meantime. So I'm gonna start with the second one here. The question was, what is an online measurement? As far as I understand, you mean if it's in line instead of the process. So how the measurements or the current system works, is that operators take the sample and measure it directly at the point where the sample is taken with the device. We're working on an online analyzer which will be available in probably in 2021. But at the moment it still requires the operator to take a sample and push it to the cartridge. The next question was, what are the disposal considerations for spent cups? And this is a very good one because we receive that quite often. And the cartridge itself, before it comes in contact with sunlight, contains a proprietary B12 molecule which is completely non-hazardous because it's of biological origin and given the high sensitivity of our system or of the molecule, the cyanide that is contained or the cyanide that stays in the cartridge after testing is so low. It's probably lower than you know, if you would have liked a third of an almond. So it's completely safe. And for the disposal considerations is that they can be disposed with household trash or normal waste. What we offer our clients is that we take them back and we upcycle them and reuse them again. And the next question we received is... I need to scroll a bit. How long it takes to implement the solution and as far as I understand is you know how long does it take for you if you receive it and then try it. So usually an onboarding a session usually takes about one to two hours. And we can ship daily, we have everything available in our warehouse. So if you say, you know, you want to you want to start in September and start the pilot there, it's a very quick process and usually it doesn't take more than two or three days. Once it has arrived on site to get started. The next question is, can the technology only be used with gold or can it also work with silver? So it works for any, let's say liquid sample that contains cyanide. We have clients that use it for wastewater monitoring in the chemical industry here in Switzerland. Far as we know it's organic so there's no problem using it with silver. And the next question and I think this is one for Margarita is, Would a company participating in a pilot have any obligations to CyanoGuard during or after the trial? - Basically there are no obligations, except for the readiness to share the information which is relevant to our product usage during this, during the period of the pilot. So there is no obligation to enter into a separate commercial agreement, but yeah. There are high chances that you would like to do it upon the pilot. - Thank you, Margarita, we received another question. It's actually two-fold. So the first question is what are the upper limits for the testing? So we can develop custom solutions for most of the ranges that are necessary. For the pilot we would like to focus on the upper limit of 500 parts per million of free cyanide. If in a commercial implementation the mine requires custom ranges that are higher or lower. We can tailor that. That's not a huge issue for us. But it's something that we would do on a commercial basis only. And the second question is for CIP process where concentrations vary and it goes typically up to 500 ppm. Something that we can already do in a pilot project. And usually and we adapt the sensitivity of the cartridges or the detections of the cartridges and the devices they work for all different ranges. So we have cartridges for very low ranges. For example for from zero to one which have a much higher resolution, much higher accuracy than if you for example use a cartridge. This has a range from let's say a 100 to 500 ppm. But this is something that we can tailor based on the requirements of an individual mine. So let's see if we have still some open questions. I think there is still a couple of them coming in. And I think a really good one is, what are the costs for the solution? We'd love to give each one of you or, you know, a specific person who asked the question, a perfect answer. But it really depends highly on the testing frequency on the individual requirements of the mine. As we've seen, work of day can be very different from site to site. So to understand the savings and the costs for your particular site, we would be happy to provide you with a quote or you can also use the ROI calculator which gives you a rough indicator on our website. If this is of interest to you please go and visit our website where you can request the quote. And the next question, we received is could CyanoGuard also be used to sample environmental medium for example stormwater spills? And this is a very very good one. We have done the past and I know of two clients which still use it to do environmental measurements. So this is one of the advantages of our system. It works with most samples. Even if they have a very high solid content and they have a filter integrated so you don't need to pre-filter them. You could just simply press it through the cartridge and works right away. So stormwater spills even on very terrible tide with a high solid content that would work. I think we have time for one or two more questions. and one question I have personally found very interesting is about the artisanal and small-scale mining communities who, I'll just read the questions we work with artisanal and small-scale mining communities assisting them to move away from mercury amalgamation. In many cases they move to small scale cyanide leaching. And are you offering this to small-scale operations and can they help get value. This is a very very good question and actually is also something that we've been trying to in the past and to get in touch with experts in that area because our solution is very very simple and doesn't require any setup. So everything that you need basically comes with the kit. Maybe ket me show you really quick. This is like one of these cases that we ship and there's everything in there that you need for let's say a couple days of testing. And you can do it anywhere. You just basically need some kind of electricity to charge the device and I'm sure this definitely can provide value. And I think we'll get in touch afterwards to see whether there is a possibility to try this out even further. And I think this is gonna be the last question for today. Can you explain again why technology does not need to be calibrated? Also a very very very good question which we get very often. The way that our system works is that our devices have an internal calibration against a known standard. and with every measurement sort of every time the device makes a measurement, so it analyzes the color it compares that against a set of values that has been, sort of the algorithm has been created before. And from this comparison, it's done at every measurement. Excuse me. For every measurement you would be able to do it without a calibrations. So for example the concentration ranged at let's say 10 to 100 ppm that you're using, is already on the device and it's integrated and then every time you do the measurement it's compared to value that you measure against the value that has been measured in the lab. So you can compare it against that. And this also counts for sensor drift because the blank measurement that is done with every real measurement and always provides value. So if the sense of a drift you would have sensor drift on both measurements. I think that's all. Just looking at the time. If we have time for one more question. I think that was our last question for today If we didn't answer your question in this session today or we missed it, we'll make sure after the call to go through all the questions again and get in touch with you. And also if you have any further questions, please get in touch. You'll find on the next slide, you'll find our email address. And I would yeah, I would invite you to get in touch. if there are any further questions or ideas. At this point I want to thank everyone for attending and for the great questions. And we hope you found it helpful. If you have any feedback or any suggestion for further topics and that you would like to share with us, please feel free to do so and send us an email to miningsolutions@cynogard.com. and what we'll do in the next couple of days, we will share the recording of the webinar with you and the slides in the following days. We'll also put the checklist on the blog on the next day so you can have that for your materials and in the meantime, I would like to invite you to visit our website where you can, as Margarita mentioned request more information or learn about a pilot. And I hope that you'll join us again in our next webinar which will be approximately one month. And with that I wish you a great morning or afternoon depending on where you are located. And yeah, stay safe, bye. - Thank you, bye. 