 Hi I'm Gavin Smith, I''m will Tamblyn and I'm Matthew Vecchio and we're from Voxon Photonics. So I've put together this short video of 37 use cases for a Voxon VX1 display. 37. just 37 uh. You've only got about four seconds per clip and we're going to see if we can describe what we're seeing. Let's do it. Let's jump straight in. Hey I accept your challenge. All right, straight off the bat I recognise a cross-section. A two-dimensional cross-section of a skeleton which I suspect is about to become 3D! There it is, 4000 images a second all projected at the right time so that they form a truly volumetric 3D image that you can look at from any direction with any number of people and you don't have to wear anything on your head. So we have here an stl file that is actually quite clear. Watch and our operating system here so you can navigate files and just open up any 3d file type you like. And here's an obj file. So this is like stl but you can have color data in there as well and here we've got some molecule files which are dot mol files you can download them. Which one's that Matt? Do you recognize it? That's TNT I would say. Dynamite... And this is a elevation map that's streaming off a terrain server. We've added some little airplanes on there this is demview which is like google earth but for the VX1. You can see the bathymetry which is the ocean floor. This is an installation we made from a museum that shows pain pathways in the human body. That's a unity demo. Space game... Saving the universe. The skeleton again but this shows you how easy it is to navigate through 3D data. Some real-time capture as well. We can stream we can stream that over the internet. As well and a lot of museums are putting the artifacts online and scanning them so you can download stuff. So this is Graphcalc which is  visualizing mathematics. You can write in a formula and impress your friends and maths can be fun. I love this game. It's by the the people at CMU and it's a take on the traditional claw game except instead of getting inanimate objects you actually get to grab dancing people. This is a face tracker from Faceware... A kind of camera tracking for your face and this is leap motion so this is tracking the movement of a hand. And you can see the skeleton in the in the display this is a game called Voxatron by Lexaloffle. It's a fully interactive and a sandbox so with Voxatron you can actually make your own games with as well. A lot of fun. Here we are showing off Voxatron at Tokyo Game Show a few years ago. This guy was very fast. This is another game. This is a turn-based tower shooter... Turret shooter written in C. A lot of fun. Oh, baked shadows on caustic maps in 3D Studio Max. Scary spider FBX animation. I don't like that one much! People shooting a laser into the display. That's cheating a bit there. That's just a laser going through...  This is a transition from two dimensions into three dimensions like some amazing MC Escher artwork. So this is a gaming prototype proof of concept this is about spatial relationships. This one is about sword fighting. It was very realistic. It reminds me of my first sword fight actually.  Here's another game, um yeah you probably played it in the arcades, or at least your parents did. This is a game that everyone will recognize. One of the best games of all time. That's right it's Doom. No sorry, Ken's labyrinth. Exploding mind blown exploding physics in Blender. I like Blender! Lots more physics here we've got some liquid physics in an animated engine. This is a pre-Covid crowd simulation. That's what crowds used to look like ladies and gentlemen. Lots of physics. Lots of fluid simulations. More fluids. We love saturating the VX1 with fluid demos. This is downloaded from the protein data bank. That was a protein. And that's why you don't park your car in the swimming pool. And this is using the translucency as an advantage to see in the model inside. A volumetric capture from 4D views... This is pointing at point cloud data. Very meta. I love it. This is DICOM. This is a one of our best formats probably in terms of detail. You can look at medical data. You can go inside it, you can measure it,  you can do views that you can't do in any other display. Here we are looking directly down the human spine and this is us looking at the different densities of the tissue. Segmentation... in real time and this isn't DICOM data, this is an fbx animation of a human heart. This is DICOM data as well. This is a gravity map of South Australia. And this is the new format from Microsoft for volumetric capture. And here we have Gavin staring intently at the animation. Lots of detail. Here's some more detail. This is an stl file showing just how much detail you can get. This little bug is one billionth of the size of the big bug. And that is a fuzzy donut. A colorful example of hair follicles as well. So quite a diverse range of different types of data there. Yeah that was pretty fast. We got through it. Yeah we did. A lot to digest. We did all right, we didn't stumble that much. Hopefully it gives you a glimpse of some of the types of things you can do with the volumetric display for research, for visualization, for education and I suppose that really is just the things that we've come up with within the last short period of time. But I'd love to hear what you guys want to see on the display or want to put on there yourself. 