 In this video, we're gonna see, all you  need to know before starting with lumion.   If you are thinking for getting into  rendering stuffs or if you are using any   other rendering software other than lumion  and want to know if its worth switching,   then continue watching this video.  Whats going on fellas, I'm Geo and this   is Geo Creations, you can find me on Instagram  as geo_jerwin, lets jump right into the video.   Before getting into the topic,  consider joining this small   community by subscribing to the channel, for  new architectural content every wednesdays.   Alright, lets start with the  hardware requirements for your PC.   Here I'm gonna compare the stats for lumion 11  Here's the official site of lumion, showing the   approximate hadrware requirements  They even classifications for,   Minimum requirements, Recommended  requirements and High- end requirements   I'm just going through recommended settings. I've leave the link down below,   in case you want to check the whole thing In a nutshell, The recommended settings can handle   upto a part of a city with medium level details It does not guarantee to handle high end details   in a city scale but in a small scale, In can  handle prettymuch anything you throw into it.    For instance, it can be a large  home, with fully detailed interiors,   HD textures and Fine detailed vegetation. For, graphics, its demanding RTX 2070 or more with   8 gb Video Ram, or Graphics memory  I'm using Nvidia RTX 2060 With 6   GB memory , I'ts working fine for me. For CPU, they suggest intel i7 4 gen or better.   Im actually way ahed in this game.....Mine  is a core i9 9th generation processor.   Speaking of screen resolution Lumion  reccomends a 1080 p full HD screen.   And I have 2,4k displays, which is a down  side, because it says, Your screen resolution   may be higher than 1920 x 1080 however,  this will impact Lumion performance"   So far its working fine for me. If you have lower  graphics, you may need to reduce the resolution   a lil bit or you can shrink down your screen.  It suggests 32 GB ram, and I exactly have that.   You can either use hdd or ssd, dosen't matter. But  if you have your operating system running on SSD,   all your software will load faster. You should have a scratch disk for mimimum   40 GB. So, Keep you C drive as clean as possible. And they also reccomend to have your   charger plugged in while using. While starting with lumion,   it automatically checks your benchmark score. This one is my benchmark score.   Everything is slightly above recomended. except  for my cpu, which is way more advanced.    By the way....The laptop I'm using is  Asus Zenbook pro Duo...i9 variant.   Lets talk about the learning curve. Using the software is actually fun,   its almost ike playing a game. Its very user friendly, and the interface   is pretty straight forward, you don't need to  have any experience to pull out a basic render.   But the thing is, when it comes professional grade  render, there's a lot of stuffs to go through   You must need a general instinct on how things  works in real world. And if you got that,   you can swing between any rendering  software and pull out good renders.   Check out this video, if you want to  know what its like to work on Lumion.   Now lets talk about the  Live-Sync Feature of Lumion.   Unlike Normal rendering engines like  vray, and Enscape, Lumion is a stand alone   program. In case of vray its basically a plugin. So, untill the release of Lumion 8.5 There   was no way, we can sync Lumion  with our modeling software.   I'm a Lumion user since version 6.  Back then we need to double ckeck   weather everything is perfect  before exporting it to Lumion.    And there's no room for trial and error.  I had a slower PC Back then, and I had to wait   hours to import my project. And when it comes,  a lot of thing would've been missing. And   thats a real pain.  Lemme know in the   comments if you had such experiences. Lumion Live sync actualiy made life a lot   more easier. you can literally change anything  in real time and thats a no brainer,    Now the most important part,  the quality of your render.    Lumion is actually pushing hard on  each release. Renders was very basic   before version 8 and the quality of the renders  were argueably worse. but after Lumion 8,   they actually stepped up the game. And now you  can take great renders with very less effort.   And when it comes to Walkthrough animation, Lumion  is hands down, the best. The interface is pretty   simple. There's no need of prior knowledge in  animation, no tricky camera settings as like in   3ds max. And the output is really awesome. For a basic walkthrough animation, Lumion   is so far the best in my opinion.  OK lets talk about rendering time.   When it comes to real time renderers,  like lumion, Encape and Twin Motion. The   time taken for rendering is far lesser  than a conventional engine like vray.   Because a lot of the things are  pre-rendered using the power of your gpu.    If your model is fairly simple, and there is  not a lot of effects and stuffs, Lumion can   pull out a render, just in seconds.  And for an effect packed heavy scene.   It usually takes a couple of minutes  to give a single output. Based on your   system, It may even take half an hour.  And last but not least, Lumion's library.    This is so far the best asset  library in any software.    For exampple, when it comes to vegetation, you  can almost get any type of plant or trees. They   also have a seperate section for fine detailed  trees, which you can use as a foreground.   And the best part is, their material  collection. Even though mostly I make   my custom materials,.....I'm a great fan of  lumion's material library just because of   its reliability. There is a wide range  of options to choose. and each one are   carefully made to look like its real.  Other than that, you have a ton of   skies to choose, indoor objects,  outdoor objects and these things...I   really love everything in lumion execpt  for the people. I understand the fact that   its really hard to make realistic 3d  human models so I'm just nit picking at   this point. And these people are actually  not bad when they are placed far away.    I've made a seperate video, talking about  placing realistic people in renders.    You can watch that by clicking on this i button  or you can check the link in the description.   And if you are a lumion user, you can tell  about your views in the comments below. And   if you want to share any of your works with  me, you can post it on your instagram story,   and just tag me. I'll be happy to feature you.  Like, subscribe and all that good stuffs.   Signing out for now, catch you  guys in the next video... See ya. 