 Hello everybody, and today we're doing the pre-lab lecture for the exploring glassware experiment. So first, let's get into the different types of glassware that you would normally see in a chemistry lab. Normally these are all up on the shelves for you to see, but since we're virtual we'll just have to look at some pictures. Um okay so we've got the beaker, the graduated cylinder, the Erlenmeyer flask, the buret, the volumetric pipette, and volumetric flask. All these look a little bit different, they all have different uses, and that's kind of the entire point of the experiment we're doing today is figure out what they're used for, how good at doing that thing they are, and how they compare to each other. So the first thing to look at is whether they are "to contain" or "to deliver" pieces of glassware. "To contain" are specifically made to hold a certain amount of solution, so the beaker, the graduated cylinder, the erlenmeyer flask, the filtration flask, and the volumetric flask. A filtration flask just looks like an erlenmeyer flask with a little side arm that you would use for vacuum filtration. We'll actually use one later in the semester, but all of these are "to contain" pieces of glassware. The increments that they're marked off for are to hold that volume. "To deliver" are specifically intended to transfer a certain amount of solution. Graduated cylinder, the buret, and the volumetric pipette fall into this category. You'll notice the graduated cylinder falls into both categories. That happens sometimes the graduated cylinder is specified one way or the other depending on how it's made, how the increments are marked off on it, but it can usually straddle both groups and be used for lots of different things. Next thing since we're talking about glassware and putting liquids in them we need to be able to record volume measurements correctly from these pieces of glassware. There are two major pieces you need to know. First you need to be at eye level of the point you're trying to record, and the point that you're trying to record is called the meniscus. Water, any of the solutions we'll be using, uh most liquids will actually bend down slightly uh you'll see the the edges curve up like you do in this bottom right picture. You get this bowed shape that's called the meniscus, and you want to read your volume from the bottom of that meniscus, and again you want to be at eye level. So if you look at the left picture over here, if you're above it looking down, your meniscus will look higher than it actually is. If you're beneath it looking up, your meniscus will look lower than it actually is, so if you're right at eye level, meaning you might need to squat or kneel down or something to really get that measurement, that's what you have to do to get an accurate measurement from whatever glassware you're using. The next thing is to record the right numbers for your volume. And this is where significant figures will come into play and I'll get into that in just a minute. Uh this is a picture of a buret, so it's a little weird. Uh some of the pieces of glassware we would use they're numbered backwards, so zero's up at the top and whatever they go to, in this case 50, is down to the bottom. It doesn't really change how we read it though. The next thing to do is figure out where we're measuring from, so our meniscus is down there, kind of where that five is, and that's the point we're going to be looking at. Now let's see if i can draw on here. We need to figure out what each of these increment values are, so we see the 4 and the 5 that are nicely numbered for us, but then there's ten marks between four and five, so that means each of those is 0.1 milliliters. So we have 4, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 4.4, 4.5, and so on. So our meniscus is between this increment which is 4.8, and this increment right here which is 4.9. There's no more marks between that for us to really know what number it's between, so we have to estimate. We have to guess, and in this case we could guess maybe 4.86, 4.82, it'll look different to different people slightly, but somewhere around 4.85, 4.86 probably somewhere in there. So that would be the volume we write down. Now the number of decimal points you write down for that volume is limited by your glassware, so we just said this would be 4.86; it would have two decimal points. That means any volume we took from this needs to have two decimal points. So for example, if it was right on the 4.8 line it still needs two decimal points: it would be 4.80. If it was exactly on the 5 mark it would be 5 with 2 decimal points so 5.00 and those decimal points are important. Those will set up our significant figures that we'll be talking about in just a minute. So again at eye level from your meniscus, you should be estimating one decimal place further than what's marked off. So because this is marked off to 0.1 increments you need to estimate to 0.01 or to two decimal places. And so we can just write that as 4.86, and the way scientists read that is 4.86 plus or minus 0.01, so there is some error in that last digit, because you estimated it, and that error is the basis of significant figures. So what are significant figures? Well they're numbers that count from your measurements, and significant figures are any number that is not a placeholder. I'll get into what that means, but the greater number of significant figures you have, the better your precision. So for example going back to the buret 4.86 plus or minus 0.01, so we have plus or minus 0.01. That second decimal point is where our error is. If the buret was only marked off at 4, 5, 6 we could only estimate to that first decimal point, so we have plus or minus 0.1 error. If it was marked off even less than that and maybe our estimated digit is the four that means four plus or minus one, and so you can see with just the error each time, the error is getting bigger and bigger as your number of decimal points in your number of significant figures goes down. So the rules for what counts as a significant figure the first thing is any non-zero digit is significant so one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine significant always; always counts. Then we have to look at the different types of zeros, because that's where sig figs get messy. Leading zeros, any zeros before your first non-zero digit, are never significant they are only placeholders. I've got some examples of all of these. Interior or sandwich zeros are zeros between two non-zero digits. Those always count; those are always significant. Non-zero digits we talked about. Trailing zeros is again where things get messy. Anything after your last non-zero digit is a trailing zero. It's the opposite of leading zeros, however their rules are if there is a decimal point those trailing zeros are significant. If there is not a decimal point, the trailing zeros are not significant. it does not matter whether those zeros come before or after the decimal point. If there is a decimal point, those trailing zeros are significant, so let's go through some examples of that. 4.877 grams really easy four, eight, seven, seven. All of those are non-zero digits, they all count, we have four sig figs. 0.004 milliliters. Four counts it's not a zero. Those first three are leading zeros which never count period, even though there's a decimal point, even though some are after the decimal point; it doesn't matter they are leading zeros that don't count, so we only have one sig fig. 5600.044 milliliters five, six, four, four, all of those definitely count. Now we've gotta look at our zeros. Those zeros are all between non-zero digits, so even though there's a bunch of them, all three of those count, and we end up with seven significant figures. just like if it was 5604 you would have one in between; that one would still count. All of those are between non-zero digits, so all of them are interior zeros. 0.0092 kilograms looks a lot like letter b up above: those first zeros are leading zeros so they won't count, the nine and the two counts, and we have two sig figs e looks very similar, but now there's a zero at the end, so the nine counts, the two counts, the first zeros don't count, they're leading zeros, that zero the end it's a trailing zero, so it might count if there's a decimal point. There is a decimal point, so it does count, and we have three significant figures. Last one 4510 grams. four, five, one, all of those count. We've got a zero things get a little messy. It is a trailing zero, it's after our last non-zero digit, so it counts if there's a decimal point. There's no decimal point, so we're only left with three significant figures. I know this can be a little confusing if it's the first time you've dealt with it. There are lots of examples and practice online that you can look at, you can always reach out to me to get some help with those as well. I've got lots of practice with determining and using significant figures. So sometimes with significant figures we might have something or need to write something in what's called scientific notation. Scientific notation has two parts: the first part is the decimal part which will always be a number from between 1 and 9, and then the exponential part "times 10 to some number." That number tells you how the decimal point was moved. The easiest way in my opinion to write a number in scientific notation is go from normal where it's all written out to scientific notation. So move the decimal point if there's one shown, if not you should know where it is: at the end of that number, and you're going to move that decimal point until you get a number between 1 and 9. Then the number of times you moved that decimal point is the exponent for your 10, where it's 10 to the n, that n is the number of times you moved your decimal point. The last thing is whether that number is positive or negative. If you're going from normal to scientific notation, if you move the decimal point to the left, then that number is positive; if you moved it to the right, that number will be negative. I've got some examples so 635,000 there's a decimal point right here even though it's not shown. We're going to take it and move it one, two, three, four, five times because this would be 6.35, which is between one and nine, so that's how we know to stop. Before that would have been 63, 635, we go after that it's 0.6 which is less than one so this is where we stop for our scientific notation. Now our number in scientific notation needs to have the same number of significant figures as the number we used, so now already sig figs are coming back. So our first number six, three, five, those three count. Zero, zero, zero, those are trailing zeros; there's no decimal point, so they are not significant, so we have three sig figs, so we need to end with three sig figs, so our number 6.35 times ten we moved it five times and it's a positive because we moved it to the left so 6.35 times 10 to the 5. If we look at the next one we have the decimal point. We're going to move it to the right one, two, three times, so 6.35 again. Check our sig figs. these are leading zeros, they don't count. Six, three, five, three sig figs. Our answer needs to have three sig figs, and it will. We move that decimal point three times, and since we moved it to the right it is a negative 3. So these numbers look very similar now 6.35 times 10 to some number but the original numbers look very very different. That's where scientific notation and knowing how to read it comes in handy. Again if you're struggling with scientific notation let me know. There's lots of practice online, I have lots of ways to help. Okay calculations with significant figures. Again significant figures are going to keep coming up throughout this course. There are two rules when you're doing calculations with them: if you're doing addition and subtraction you care about the number of decimal places, if you're doing multiplication and division you care about the number of significant figures. Why this matters is going all the way back to measuring volume: we estimated that last digit so there's some error there, well that error compounds with every other value we use it with every time we calculate something. The error in all of those measurements comes together to form the error in that new number and that's where sig figs come into play. So if we're doing addition and subtraction we care about the fewest number of decimal places or the least accurate decimal place. If it has more decimal points than that, then we'll need to round it to truncate it at the right spot. So just like normal rounding, if the next digit is four or less it'll round down, you'll keep the number as is. If it's five or up or five or greater, you'll round up. Multiplication and division you care about the lowest number of significant figures, not of decimal places, and again you'll round if you need to. Here's some examples of calculations 0.066 milliliters plus 3.44 milliliters, especially if you're doing addition subtraction starting out I recommend writing them vertically it's really easy to see where these numbers stop. Um so mathematically we get 3.506 milliliters, but based off of our significant figures we may have to change this number. Our first number has three decimal points, even though it's only two significant figures, it's three decimal places. We care about decimal places because we're doing addition and subtraction. Our second number has two decimal places. Even though it has three significant figures, we care about the number of decimal places, so our second number has the lowest number of decimal points: two so we need to round our answer to two decimal points, so the 0.50 are our two decimal points. We need to round based on the six which will round up to 3.51 milliliters. Now if we're doing division 15.366 grams divided by 10.5 milliliters, for division and multiplication we care about the lowest number of significant figures. So our first number has five significant figures one, five, three, six, six. Our second number one, five, that zero is in interior or sandwich zero between non-zero digits, so it also counts. So we have three sig figs there. We do the division where our answer needs to have three significant figures, so we'll get 1.46. One, four, six, those are three significant figures. Make sure you include units the grams per milliliter is very important and i'll show you some examples later of why those units matter. This is also an example of the density equation. We'll be getting into density a whole lot more next week, but anytime you've got grams divided by milliliters you're dealing with density. So here's why units matter. 72.1 grams plus 0.0055 milligrams. So first and foremost, if those units are different you cannot add them together. To add or subtract they must be the same unit, so we need to convert them to the same unit, and this is where dimensional analysis comes in. So you can convert either the grams to milligrams or the milligrams to grams. I prefer going grams to milligrams in this case, so 72.1 grams, because we want to get rid of grams and it's currently on top, our conversion factor needs to have grams on the bottom. We're converting grams to milligrams so milligrams goes on top. The numbers are then based off of our metric prefixes. There are a thousand milligrams in one gram. You will definitely need to know your metric prefixes. If you're struggling with those, again reach out to me. There's lots of mnemonics, lots of tricks, lots of things I can point you to to help with those. So 72.1 times a thousand divided by one gives us seven two one zero zero milligrams that's what the calculator will tell us. We need to check our significant figures. Don't round your significant figures at every step because then your final answer gets further and further away from what it should be, but keep track of them, make a note of how many significant figures that number should have whether it's written with those significant figures or not. So our first number has seven, two, one. Three significant figures. Our next part the thousand and one is a metric conversion so it has infinite significant figures; we don't worry about it; we don't count them. So three significant figures at the beginning, we need three significant figures at the end. In this case our number does have three significant figures, but even if it didn't we would want to write how many significant figures it should have to keep track later. So 72100 milligrams plus 0.0055 milligrams. We do the math and we get this really long answer. Our top number has absolutely no decimal places, meaning our answer needs to be rounded to zero decimal places. So we have this really long answer and we're going to round it before the decimal point, so it's not allowed to have any decimal points. So this will round to 72100 milligrams. Now this might look a little strange, because that was our first number. We added something to it, but the number didn't change. What that means is our error in the first number is bigger than the amount we added to it, and you can think about it this way: if you have one dollar and you add one dollar, you have two dollars, and that's a big jump. You've got twice as much now; However if you had ten thousand dollars and add one dollar, that one dollar is not really going to make a whole lot of difference. Same thing here. Our 0.0055 is so small that we don't really see the difference, and that sometimes happens depending on the error of your calculations. Now here's why units matter. Same numbers, still 72.1 grams, but now we're adding 0.0055 kilograms instead of milligrams. Same thing. If we try and add these, they're different units. We need to convert them. I'm going to convert the kilograms to grams. Same thing. We want kilograms to cancel so it's on top, it needs to go on the bottom to cancel out. We can convert it to grams which would go on top of our conversion factor, kilograms will cancel out, we're left with grams as our unit. The numbers: there's a thousand grams in one kilogram, again this comes from metric prefixes. So 0.0055 times a thousand divided by one gives us 5.5 grams. Again make sure you note how many significant figures it should have. This is multiplication and division so we care about the number of significant figures, not the decimal places. Our original number has two significant figures: leading zero, leading zero, leading zero. None of those count. Five, five. There's our two significant figures. The next set of numbers is a conversion factor. It's a metric conversion, so we don't care about the significant figures it has. So our answer should have two significant figures, and it does. So now we can take our 72.1 grams plus our 5.5 grams that we just found and get 77.6 grams. We need to round based off of the number of decimal points since we're adding. Top number has one decimal point, bottom number has one decimal point, answer should have one decimal point. In this case it does and we don't need to round anything, and now in this case we added something and we do see a change, because the error is not bigger than the amount we added. So again this is why units are very very important with every number you write. I'll give you guys another density example. Again we'll talk about it more next week. Density is just grams over milliliters so if it has a mass of 12.8 grams and displays 4.2 milliliters; density is mass over volume. Here's why we care about it this week: significant figures. If you do the math, you get 3.04 grams per milliliter. We're doing division so we care about the number of significant figures. Our top number has one, two, eight. Three significant figures. Our bottom number has four, two, Two significant figures. Two is the smaller number of significant figures so our answer needs to have two significant figures. So three the zero is going to count, so we'll round after that get the four, so it'll round down to 3.0 and again after you round just double check your number. 3.0 three counts the zero is now a trailing zero, but there is a decimal point, so it still counts. We still have our two significant figures but always always always double check your significant figures. That is the easiest thing to miss and is what I see students miss a lot of, most of the time. So I brought this up way back at the beginning talking about measuring glassware and that the accuracy and precision of these might be different. So the accuracy is the closeness of a single number to a theoretical or tabulated value. Normally that number is the average of a bunch of data points or it's a single data point. Precision is the closeness of a set of measured values to each other, so if we look at the targets down here the green circle is the average, the black dots are the individual data points. So because the average of those data points is the green circle and that's very close to the bullseye, it is accurate. Because all of the black dots are close together it is also precise. We'll look at the next one. The average is the green dot, and the green dot's way off center so it's not accurate anymore, but all of those black dots are still close together, so it is still precise even though it's not accurate. This third target is very very hard to happen but I'll talk about it for sake of being thorough. You have all of these spread out black dots, so we know they're not precise, but if you take the average, the average is pretty close to the center. So you can have the average value be accurate even if your data is not precise, but again this is very very rare. Uh and the last option is neither accurate nor precise. If they're all of your data points are really spread out like those black dots are, they're not precise, and the average of them is nowhere near the center of the target, so it's not accurate either. So that's accuracy and precision and again that's what you'll be looking at in the experiment is the accuracy and precision of the individual pieces of glassware and comparing them together. So the ways to measure accuracy and precision. Accuracy is usually measured by percent error. Percent error is actual minus theoretical over theoretical. note that top difference, actual minus theoretical, is in absolute value bars, so your percent error will always be positive. Whatever that difference is you'll make it positive and then divide it by your theoretical times 100. So the lower that percent error is the closer your actual and theoretical were. more accurate better number. Precision is usually measured by something called standard deviation. We 100% will not ask you to calculate standard deviation in this class, because doing it by hand is a lot of work. um You can have computers do it but it's beyond the scope of what we need to cover for this course. Again random error or that estimated error values measured and calculated will almost never be exactly the same. I could take this pen and put it on a scale in lab and get some value for it, take it off put it back on, the exact same pen, the exact same conditions, and the mass would be slightly different. That's due to random error, so don't worry if not all of your numbers are exactly the same every time. if we're, especially in the post lab questions, if we're ever talking about if there is a "significant change" um between numbers or if there is a "significant difference" between this and what you were told um we're qualitatively discussing accuracy in that case, and we'll just use 20% as our threshold. If it is 20% different then it is significantly different. If it's less than 20% different it's not, it's basically the same number. The error in that case would make them about the same number. If we're asking you specifically, quantitatively about accuracy we will tell you to calculate the percent error. So you can always look at that for your accuracy and precision. So again brief overview of what we're doing, what you'll see me do in the video, is I'll have all of these different pieces of glassware, we're going to look at the incremental values that are on them to figure out how many decimal points we can record our volumes to, most glassware has the error associated with it written on it, in addition, so you can look at that, we can compare decimal point increments, we can compare the error, we'll fill it between two marks so we have to record an estimated value, and then use all of that to calculate the density of water. Again if you were in lab doing this make sure you use the right number of decimal places. Again it's a very common thing for students to miss is not using all of the right number of decimal places and it will mess up all of your calculations. The volumetric and flask and pipette you'll see in the video they only have one line marked off on them, so we will fill it exactly to that line, but that's it for the pre-lab talk. You'll watch me go through all of this in the experimental video and then make sure you get all of your lab data and post lab questions that should be uploaded to your web courses module, and that is it. 