 Hello! Today I’ll try to explain what are artificial intelligence and neural networks and how it works in 10 minutes artificial intelligence or AI – is a technique which enables machines to demonstrate human behavior ML is a subset of AI which use statistical methods to enable machines to improve with experience DL is a subset of ML which uses artificial neural networks Recently, however, it’s believed that artificial intelligence is a software or hardware-software complex that basically uses artificial neural networks. So what are artificial neural networks? Artificial neural networks are a simulation of biological neural networks. This simulation is very rough. Though these simulated neural networks capable to solve new and new human-problems. This figure shows the simplest neural network. The network consists of layers of neurons. Each neuron has many inputs from the previous layer. the input of the first layer is the input data. And the Output Layer is a desired decision of task. Thus, the network learns to approximate a function of many variables. The artificial neuron itself performs the function of weighted summation of its inputs and then performs some function of nonlinearity. For example sigmoid-function, or Relu-function. So, artificial neuron is quite simple item There are 3 fundamentally different approaches to learning neural networks: 1) Supervised learning: This is when there is a training sample consisting of inputs and desired outputs. For example, if you want to create a network that learns to distinguish cats from dogs, so a training sample will consist of photos of cats with the label that it’s a cat and photos of dogs with the label that it’s a dog. You should have a lot of data, a lot of such examples to learn the network in this case you act as a teacher. 2) Unsupervised learning. This form of learning is rarely used in pure form This task is essentially clustering task. There is only input data The network learns to divide the input data into a certain number of types. And you should be able to use information received by a network 3) Reinforcement learning This is the most interesting form of learning. In this case a network is an agent in some environment and operates in this environment. For instance, in a computer game or in the real world. In this case, a teacher is environment itself. The environment gives a response in the form of states and rewards for actions of the network. Reward can be positive or negative. The network receives observations of the environment and learns to give output leading to the maximum reward. By the way, learning algorithms for artificial neural networks have nothing to do with learning algorithms of biological neurons. We don’t know how biological neurons are trained. Perhaps, by the way, this will be the key in the future, I think People who are engaged in creation of neural network models and their training is now called Data Scientists And a field of knowledge is called Data Science Now invented a huge number of network types by its architecture. And There are 4 main of them: 1) Fully connected NN, which also called multilayer perceptron Each neuron of the next layer is connected with all neurons of the previous layer. Therefore it’s called fully connected. The Input of the first layer is the input data. Output Layer is a desired decision and in this case this is belonging to one of the classes. And inside are hidden layers This architecture is universal and can be applied to any task But it has redundancy of neural connections and its not always possible to train big networks with many hidden layers. 2) convolutional neural network (CNN) These networks are usually used for image processing or image sequences processing. The architecture uses some features of a visual cortex. This networks are base on a convolution operation. Each neuron of the next layer performs convolution with the outputs of the previous layer with the certain window size and depth of previous layer The depth of the current layer is defined by the number of such simple networks. which also called filters Last layers can be usual fully connected layers There is the example of CN result. In this slide you can see results of recognition and object detection tasks NN can recognize cars and persons and can found its positions. 3) variational autoencoder (VAE) VAE is based on the previous architecture. The Left part is convolutional NN and is named Encoder. The Right part is deconvolutional NN and it is named Decoder. The middle is the compressed internal representation of the data. NN learns to code and decode information. You can teach a VAE just by applying the same image to input and output. In this case the network learns to compress information and then it’s possible to use Encoder or Decoder separately. You can also teach VAE by applying the Image to Input and the Segmented Image to Output. In this case the network learns to perform segmentation task. These are results of segmentation task First row is input images of street roads The second row is the result of segmentation As you see network capable to split road surface, cars, Trees, Buildings, and humans. The third row is input images of interiors In The 4s row network recognizes floor, chairs, couch and so on. Next type of architecture is  4) Recurrent NN (RNN) Recurrent neural networks are used to work with sequences For instance, in problems of machine translation, speech recognition, text generation etc They are called recurrent because the output of a neural network is fed back to its input. In this picture green box F is the same neural network. And word sequence is fed to the network input. The output is other sequence which can be translation to other language or for instance same summary of the input text. This makes it possible for a network to memorize the sequence fed to it and generate output data which based not only on the current data block but on the entire sequence. This approach is used in voice assistants, language translation services, text generation and music generation, For instance The last architecture type for today is 5) Generative adversarial networks (GANs) These networks are used to generate images or video similar to real ones or to generate any other data that is indistinguishable from a given dataset. GAN is neural net architecture comprised of two nets, complete one against the other (thus the “adversarial”). Here are the steps a GAN takes: • The generator takes in random numbers and returns an image. • This generated image is fed into the discriminator alongside a stream of images taken from the actual, ground-truth dataset. • The discriminator takes in both real and fake images and returns probabilities, a number between 0 and 1, with 1 representing a prediction of real image and 0 representing fake. The generator learns to generate such images that the discriminator cannot distinguish from the real ones. And the Discriminator learns to distinguish the generated images from the real ones. Here are same results of state of the art GANs All of these people are generated by GAN. They are not existing in fact As you see it is quite realistic  And this picture shows room interiors generated by GAN And this picture shows photos of cats generated by GAN As we can see it seems real in most cases but in some cases it is clear that this is fake The success of neural networks is directly related to the explosive growth of computing abilities and particular explosive GPU power growth. GPU means Graphical Process Unit which usually used for graphic acceleration in commuter games. Now Usually neural nets are trained using GPU. So, what is artificial intelligence? Modern practice is this: AI is a software package that solves human tasks and clones human behavior and is based on neural networks and uses hardware acceleration with GPU And it can consist of many subsystems. Each subsystem can be one or more neural networks which can be trained in different ways. Conventionally, AI is divided into weak and strong AI. Weak AI is an intelligence that solves the narrow Human task. For example, face recognition systems, self-driving cars, voice assistants and in general any system which is created for today These AI systems is created for narrow human tasks and cannot be compared with the human mind. Strong AI as scientists hope is an intellect capable of learning all tasks of humans, capable to understand the world, which have its own goals, which can easily interact with our society. And while such intelligence hasn’t yet been created, of course. So can AI outperform humans? In some tasks, yes, I think it’s possible. Strong AI will replace humans in most professions. I think somewhere in 15 years there will be created humanoid robots with a strong intellect, capable of learning most tasks inherent in man. There are no contraindications for this. Should we be afraid of AI? NO, of course, but we should be ready to appearance of such AI It’s necessary to understand that AI doesn’t exists without people he serves. AI cannot develop and cannot have goals without human presence. It is like a computer Does it make sense a computer without user? It was George, and I hope it was interesting. Bye! 