 How important is your data? Every day, millions of  data are created and transmitted by human beings   from one party to another through the internet.  We send and receive messages, documents, images,   and even personal information easily with the aid  of modern technology and the internet. Statistics   have shown that there are about 2.5 quintillion  bytes of data created each day and over the last   two years alone, 90 percent of the data in the  world is generated due to the rapid growth of IoT.   This proves that data is the power in this  modern computing world that drives the success of   businesses. Customers’ trends can be predicted,  and sales can be increased by utilizing data.  However, with the current advancement of  technology that is improving day by day,   the greatest fear ever experienced by human beings  is the flaw in data security that might cause   information or privacy leakage. As technology  advances, hackers are discovering more ways to   overcome existing protection measures, which is  indeed a threat to us. Imagine that your personal   data like your addresses, bank information and  social security numbers got leaked through the   internet. This can pose great damage and a massive  loss to you as unknown persons may misuse your   personal information. Thus, data security has  become the topmost priority to human beings today   during their transactions through the  web. Protection of data and cybersecurity   measures should be accelerated and improved at  a pace that is faster than hackers cracking our   protection shields to keep our data safe. So, how to protect your data when you are   transacting on the internet? The easiest way  is…To hide it from other people! Then, it will   not attract hackers and criminals that are eyeing  on your personal information for illegal purposes.   Steganography or better known as hiding data  in images is the solution for this issue. It   is the art of hiding information in plain sight  to avoid detection. Now, what is plain sight?   This means that it is unnoticeable. By just  looking at something, you will not notice   that there is a hidden message inside. It is  almost similar to the concept of camouflage,   like how soldiers would paint themselves in the  same colour as tree leaves to avoid detection   by their enemies. In my research, secret data  will be hidden within another image such that   the presence or contents of the hidden data  cannot be noticed by someone unintended.   In other words, the secret data  will be camouflaged inside an image,   and by just looking at the image, you will  not notice that there is hidden data inside.   The processed image will look exactly the  same as its original. This is what my project   is about. I will be researching on hiding  data in images using deep neural network.  What is a deep neural network? It is an artificial  neural network (ANN) with multiple layers between   the input and output layers. The word ‘deep’  signifies the multiple layers in the network.   Let me explain what an artificial neural network  is. Like how human brains are made up of connected   networks of neurons, ANNs simulate these  networks and get computers to act like   interconnected brain cells, learn  and make decisions like human beings.   As information comes into the brain, each  neuron level will process the information,   provide insight, and pass the information to the  next higher layer. Due to its multiple layers,   deep neural networks can produce higher accuracy  results. In my research, these neural networks   will be trained to hide data inside images through  the multiple layers of ANN. Firstly, a carrier   image and a secret message, be it a secret text  or image, will be provided to the network model.   After processing them through the multiple  layers of the deep neural network, an image   that contains the secret message hidden inside  will be outputted. And as explained previously,   this processed image will look the same as its  original carrier image to avoid others’ detection.  Thus, this is the most significant feature of  steganography. Hiding data in plain sight! By   doing so, our data can be protected securely  during transmissions on the internet. Anyone who   comes across your carrier image will not know that  there are secret data hidden inside and therefore,   the data will be kept safe with only you and the  receiver being aware of it. Given its significance   in cybersecurity, I believe that steganography  has great potential in future developments to   higher levels of data security and protection.  That’s all from me and thank you for watching! 