 This is John John is a security account manager working for a large security firm He has to accomplish so many tasks every day, ranging from setup to ongoing management and support Secure premises Monitor equipment Prevent damage and loss Direct guards and organize schedules Conduct reports John needs to come across a load of work but the most complex is keeping an eye on his guards! Jack, at the bank Michael, at the store Jessica at the parking Tom, at the transport house Sam, on a countryside guard tour and Bob, all over the town So John is daily on fire! Talking on the phone producing tons of notes spending his time in meetings gathering so many and confusing reports doubting about his guards' activities and finally losing his patience listening to clients' complaints losing his reliability feeling desperate and alone feeling desperate and alone and getting into a bad feeling that his job is daily letting him down There is nothing worse John eh? Come on my friend, there is always a solution What if we told you there is a way to monitor your guards without distracting yourself from your business and manage any guard tour in real-time at any place all over the world? Oh yes, there is! And it will solve all of your problems! QR-Patrol guard tour system will do the work for you! It is a great piece of software that is going to help you manage your guards and territories offering maximum prevention and minimum workload And it's so simple to use! 6 buttons will change the way you patrol! The guard starts a guard tour An NFC, QR code or Beacon has already been placed on an asset The guard scans the NFC or QR-code tag with the QR-Patrol mobile application Our friend John receives an immediate alert which includes the guard’s position! The guard goes on his guard tour in other territories and scans other checkpoints too! He can also receive a message from the Center or send a voice message send a text message and get a photo of an incident which needs immediate action He can also add his signature and finally continue his guard tour on other locations and scan other checkpoints too. QR-Patrol is fully compatible with NFC and QR-code technology as well as advanced Beacon technology meaning that the guard can send events just being within beacon’s range It’s the only guard tour system worldwide incorporating this unique 3play technology! Every time a guard takes action John receives the incidents in real-time John can now monitor unlimited locations and assets all over the world thanks to QR-Patrol cloud technology! And we still not finished The QR-Patrol MARS application lets him manage guard tours and organize patrols from everywhere just from the smartphone! It's nice to work miles away from the office, right? Daily notes? Packs of papers? USB sticks? NO MORE! QR-Patrol will help you Manage workflow Track hours and control budget Verify guard tours and check missed patrols Relieve officers from time consuming tasks Increase your reliability level all of which means you can focus on targeting your clients automate processes and add value to your work meet any promised service for your clients and get the most out of your business by minimizing worktime and increasing efficiency We made it super easy to use Get your free QR-Patrol trial account right now and join a global network of happy clients getting your security services to the top level! 