 So Jeff, what do you tell your patients about what the goals of treatment are going to be and does remission happen and what does remission look like? I tell my patients, using an example: I'm thinking of a married woman who lost her job and this threw her into a major depression that she had had before. This was a recurring depressive episode, and I told her, for example, that we want to see her symptoms relieved completely, that's our goal. We may not be able to accomplish it 100%, but we can accomplish it mostly, and in almost all cases. And I'm confident that we can help her get great relief from the pain that she's got from the depressed mood or indecisiveness that she has because she's depressed. And that we also want to see her back at work. I told her that I expect her to be able to return to her job, and she is doing better and she now has done that - she has a new job, is working again and this is all because she has relief from her depression symptoms. So basically, the goal of treatment for major depression is to help somebody return to their level of functioning that they were at, before the depression hit? Exactly, yes. Now, we can talk about “remission”. You can have a “complete” remission where all the symptoms are gone, and the person returns to their level of functioning as well as it was before and perhaps even better, because they've gotten some counseling in the course of it. (Or maybe they were partially affected because of depression symptoms but never to the point of a major depression). If they can function better, that would be a “complete” remission. A lot of patients will get a “partial” remission which is also very good actually. We all have these nagging pains and aches emotionally or physically that are part of everyday life, but if they are mild, they are an issue, not a problem. So, if you get a “partial” remission, that’s mostly remission of the symptoms, and it's also very good too. It doesn't have to be all or nothing. Absolutely. 