 What about things like therapy or counseling, people hear about that all the time in and how can we help our patients? What would you do with your patients to help them seek out the right kind of counseling for themselves? The right kind of therapy? Well, I think that with every patient, it really is critical to understand exactly what a patient is struggling with, so that you can, you know, find the best therapist or tailor the therapy best suited to that patient. If a patient is struggling with loss and grief that patient might do much better with someone who is trained in grief counseling. For somebody who's struggling with the negative cognitions of depression and is seeing everything through the negative lens of depression; cognitive-behavioral therapy can be very helpful in terms of helping the patient reframe their “negatives” into “neutrals” or even into “positives”. For example, I've had many students who were “straight A” students and, you know, they don't get into Harvard but they get into the University of Chicago and they feel like a failure! Failure with a capital letter "F"! And yet, if you had asked them a year ago, you know, if they were smart, they would have said "Yes". But at this point in time, all they can see is that they didn't get into the school that they had wanted to get into and so they see themselves as a failure. That is a cognitive distortion that can be well addressed in cognitive-behavioral therapy. Right. It's unrealistic thinking essentially and it’s the kind of thing that can actually make someone depressed or is one of the symptoms of major depression most commonly, and then that makes the depression even worse or it makes it even harder to treat if you don't change the way you think about things. Right The other thing that I'm thinking about is that we give a lot of guidance to a lot of our patients in terms of helping them to solve problems. Essentially, being a support for them and helping them deal with situations in their lives that they are overwhelmed by, and that they are feeling incapacitated by, too impaired to be able to solve. But if they know that there is someone in their corner, like one of us, helping them to think about it, and they know we're there for them, that we don't have any ulterior motives, or any personal investment in it, they end up feeling empowered and we can help them think through things and solve problems that they haven't been able to otherwise, either individually or with family members or friends. Absolutely. 