Risk Factors” of this annual report. Reserve for Operating LossesAs a part of our direct merchant credit card and debit card processing services and check guarantee services, we experience merchant losses and check guarantee losses, which we collectively refer to as “operating losses.”  Merchant losses occur when we are unable to collect amounts from merchant customers for any charges properly reversed by the issuing bank.  Check guarantee losses occur when we are unable to collect the full amount of a guaranteed check from the checkwriter.  Please refer to the notes to consolidated financial statements for a further explanation of these operating losses.  We process credit card transactions for direct merchants and recognize revenue based on a percentage of the gross amount charged.  Our direct merchant customers have the liability for any charges properly reversed by the issuing bank.  In the event, 39however, that we are not able to collect such amount from the merchants, due to merchant fraud, insolvency, bankruptcy or any other reason, we may be liable for any such reversed charges.  We require cash deposits, guarantees, letters of credit and other types of collateral by certain merchants to minimize any such contingent liability, and we also utilize a number of systems and procedures to manage merchant risk.  We have, however, historically experienced losses due to merchant defaults.  We record reserves for our estimated liability for operating losses. This estimate of losses is comprised of estimated known losses and estimated incurred but not reported losses. Estimated known losses arise from specific instances of, for example, merchant bankruptcies, closures or fraud of which we are aware at the balance sheet date, but for which the ultimate amount of associated loss will not be determined until after the balance sheet date.  Estimated known loss accruals are recorded when it is probable that we have incurred a loss and the loss is reasonably estimable. Estimated known losses are calculated at the merchant level based on chargebacks received to date, processed volume, and historical chargeback ratios. The estimate is reduced for any collateral that we hold. Accruals for estimated known losses are evaluated periodically and adjusted as appropriate based on actual loss experience. Incurred but not reported losses result from transactions that we process before the balance sheet date for which we have not yet received chargeback notification.  We estimate incurred but not reported losses by applying historical loss ratios to our direct merchant credit card and signature debit card sales volumes processed, or processed volume.  Historically, this estimation process has been materially accurate. For the years ended May 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, our processed volume was $201.2 billion, $192.8 billion, and $180.7 billion, respectively.  For these same periods, we recorded provisions for merchant losses of $8.7 million, $9.5 million, and $8.8 million, respectively.  As a percentage of processed volume, these charges were 0.0043%, 0.0049%, and 0.0049%, respectively, during the above periods.  For these same years, we experienced actual losses of $9.3 million, $9.5 million, and $9.6 million, respectively.  We believe that our estimation process has been materially accurate on a historical basis.  A 10% increase or decrease in our provision for merchant losses as a percentage of processed volume for the year ended May 31, 2014 would have resulted in a decrease or increase in net income of $0.6 million.  Further, if our guarantee loss as a percentage of guarantee volume for our fiscal 2014 had equaled our guarantee loss as a percentage of guarantee volume of 0.0049% for the same prior year period, our net income would have decreased by $0.9 million. As of May 31, 2014 and 2013, $1.7 million and $2.3 million respectively has been recorded for guarantees associated with merchant card processing and are included in settlement processing obligations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. In our check guarantee service offering, we charge our merchants a percentage of the gross amount of the check and guarantee payment of the check to the merchant in the event the check is not honored by the checkwriter's bank.  We have the right to collect the full amount of the check from the checkwriter but have not historically recovered 100% of the guaranteed checks.  Our check guarantee loss reserve is comprised of estimated losses on returned checks and estimated incurred but not reported losses.  We estimate the loss on returned checks by applying historical collection rates to our claims receivable balance.  We estimate incurred but not reported losses by applying historical loss ratios to the face value of our guaranteed checks.  For each of the years ended May 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, we guaranteed total check face values of $2.6 billion.  For those same periods, we recorded provisions for check guarantee losses of $11.9 million, $11.7 million, and $13.4 million, respectively.  As a percentage of the total guaranteed check face value, these charges were 0.46%, 0.44%, and 0.51%, respectively.  For these same years, we experienced actual losses of $12.1 million, $12.0 million, and $13.8 million, respectively.  We believe that our estimation process has been materially accurate on a historical basis.  A 10% increase or decrease in our percentage assumption for the year ended May 31, 2014 would have resulted in a decrease or increase in net income of $0.8 million.  Further, if our guarantee loss as a percentage of guarantee volume for our fiscal 2014 had equaled our guarantee loss as a percentage of guarantee volume of 0.44% for the same prior year period, our net income would have increased by $0.2 million.  As of May 31, 2014 and 2013, we had a check guarantee reserve of $3.0 million and $3.1 million, respectively, which is included in claims receivable in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.We derive our projected loss rate assumptions primarily based on a rolling six to twelve month analysis of historic loss activity.  These assumptions, however, bear the risk of change, which may occur as a result of several qualitative factors.  For merchant losses, these factors include the following: a change in the creditworthiness of our merchant customers; a change in the levels of credit card fraud affecting our merchant customers; and a change in the effectiveness of our internal credit, risk management, and collection departments.  For check guarantee losses, these factors include a change in the levels of dishonored consumer checks presented to our guarantee service merchant customers and a change in the effectiveness of our internal check guarantee procedures, customer acceptance and retention policies, or collection protocols.  Application of our percentage assumptions involve uncertainty regarding changes in any of the factors above, especially those that are outside of our control, such as the financial health of the economies in 40the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Spain, the Asia-Pacific region and the Russian Federation at a regional or national level and the related impact on our customers.  Goodwill and Long-lived Asset ValuationsGoodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level. We test goodwill for impairment annually as of January 1st and more often if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its net carrying value. We have the option of performing a qualitative assessment of impairment to determine whether any further quantitative testing for impairment is necessary. The option of whether or not to perform a qualitative assessment is made from year-to-year and can vary by reporting unit. As of January 1, 2014, we elected to apply the qualitative goodwill impairment assessment guidance in ASC 350-20, Goodwill, for each of our reporting units. Factors we consider in the qualitative assessment include general macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, overall financial performance of our reporting units, events or changes affecting the composition or carrying value of the net assets of our reporting units, sustained decrease in our share price, and other relevant entity specific events. If we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment or if we determine, on the basis of qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying value, a two-step quantitative test is required. In the first step, the reporting unit's carrying amount, including goodwill, is compared to its fair value. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit is greater than its fair value, goodwill is considered impaired and step two must be performed. Step two measures the impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all the assets and liabilities of that unit (including unrecognized intangibles) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. The excess of the fair value over the amounts allocated to the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit is the implied fair value of the goodwill. The excess of the carrying amount over the implied fair value of the goodwill is the impairment loss.We have six reporting units: North America Merchant Services, U.K. Merchant Services, Asia-Pacific Merchant Services, Central and Eastern Europe Merchant Services, Russia Merchant Services and Spain Merchant Services. Based on our annual assessment as of January 1, 2014, we determined on the basis of qualitative factors, that the fair values of the reporting units were not more likely than not less than their respective carrying values; and therefore, a two-step quantitative test was not required. We believe that the fair values of our reporting units are substantially in excess of their carrying values.Our goodwill impairment testing involves the use of estimates and the exercise of judgment on the part of management. Our assessment of the qualitative factors discussed above involves significant judgments about expected future business performance and general market conditions.  Significant changes in our assessment of such qualitative factors could affect our assessment of the fair value of one or more of our reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period.Other intangible assets primarily represent customer-related intangible assets (such as customer lists and merchant contracts), contract-based intangible assets (such as non-compete agreements, referral agreements and processing rights), acquired technology and trademarks associated with acquisitions. Customer-related intangible assets, contract-based intangible assets and trademarks are amortized over their estimated useful lives of from 5 to 30 years. The useful lives for customer-related intangible assets are determined based primarily on forecasted cash flows, which include estimates for the revenues, expenses, and customer attrition associated with the assets. The useful lives of contract-based intangible assets are equal to the terms of the agreements.  The useful lives of amortizable trademarks are based on our plans to phase out the trademarks in the applicable markets.  Acquired technology is amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life.Amortization for most of our customer-related intangible assets is calculated using an accelerated method. In determining amortization expense under our accelerated method for any given period, we calculate the expected cash flows for that period that were used in determining the acquired value of the asset and divide that amount by the expected total cash flows over the estimated life of the asset. We multiply that percentage by the initial carrying value of the asset to arrive at the amortization expense for that period. If the cash flow patterns that we experience differ significantly from our initial estimates, we will adjust the amortization schedule accordingly. These cash flow patterns are derived using certain assumptions and cost allocations due to a significant amount of asset interdependencies that exist in our business. During fiscal 2014, we did not adjust the amortization schedules.  41We believe that our accelerated method better approximates the distribution of cash flows generated by our acquired customer relationships.  We use the straight-line method of amortization for our contract-based intangibles and amortizable trademarks.We regularly evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the carrying amount of property and equipment and finite-life intangible assets may not be recoverable.  When factors indicate that these long-lived assets should be evaluated for possible impairment, we assess the potential impairment by determining whether the carrying value of such long-lived assets will be recovered through the future undiscounted cash flows expected from use of the asset and its eventual disposition.  If the carrying amount of the asset is determined not to be recoverable, a write-down to fair value is recorded.  Fair values are determined based on quoted market prices or discounted cash flow analysis as applicable.  We regularly evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the useful lives of property and equipment and finite-life intangible assets may warrant revision.  In our opinion, the carrying values of our long-lived assets, including property and equipment and finite-life intangible assets, were not impaired at May 31, 2014 and 2013.  Capitalization of Internally Developed SoftwareWe develop software that is used in providing processing services to customers.  Capitalization of internally developed software, primarily associated with operating platforms, occurs when we have completed the preliminary project stage, management authorizes the project, management commits to funding the project, it is probable the project will be completed and the project will be used to perform the function intended.  The preliminary project stage consists of the conceptual formulation of alternatives, the evaluation of alternatives, the determination of existence of needed technology and the final selection of alternatives.  Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage are expensed as incurred.  Currently unforeseen circumstances in software development, such as a significant change in the manner in which the software is intended to be used, obsolescence or a significant reduction in revenues due to merchant attrition, could require us to implement alternative plans with respect to a particular effort, which could result in the impairment of previously capitalized software development costs. Such impairment would result in a charge to income. Total software capitalized at May 31, 2014 was $224.8 million.  Costs capitalized during fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 totaled $39.1 million, $29.2 million, and $31.3 million, respectively.  Internally developed software has an amortization period of 5 to 10 years.  Internally developed software assets are placed into service when they are ready for their intended use.As of May 31, 2014, we have placed into service $96.7 million of hardware and software associated with our authorization platform, $6.1 million of which was placed in service during fiscal 2014.  The vision for this platform is to serve as a front-end operating environment for merchant processing and is intended to replace a number of legacy platforms that have higher cost structures.  Depreciation and amortization associated with these costs is calculated based on transactions expected to be processed over the life of the platform.  We believe that this method is more representative of the platform's use than the straight-line method.  We are currently processing transactions on this authorization platform in nine markets in our Asia-Pacific region and for a limited number of U.S. merchants.  As these markets represent a small percentage of our overall transactions, depreciation and amortization related to  this platform for fiscal 2014 was not significant.  Depreciation and amortization expense will increase as we complete migrations of other merchants to this authorization platform.  Income TaxesThe determination of our provision for income taxes requires management's judgment in the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws.  Judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items.  We believe our tax return positions are fully supportable; however, we establish liabilities for material tax exposures relating to deductions, transactions and other matters involving some uncertainty as to the proper tax treatment of the item.  Issues raised by a tax authority may be finally resolved at an amount different than the related liability.  When facts and circumstances change (including a resolution of an issue or statute of limitations expiration), these liabilities are adjusted through the provision for income taxes in the period of change.  Judgment is required to determine whether or not some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized.  To the extent we determine that we will not realize the benefit of some or all of our deferred tax assets, then these deferred tax assets are adjusted through our provision for income taxes in the period in which this determination is made.  At May 31, 2014, our consolidated balance sheet includes net deferred tax assets associated with our United Kingdom business of $96.7 million.  Our assessment of the recoverability of these deferred tax assets is based, in part, on our projections of future business performance and viable tax planning strategies.  If future business performance fails to meet projections, we may determine that some or all of these deferred tax assets 42will not be realized.  In the event of such a determination, we would record a valuation allowance for the amount deemed unrecoverable with a corresponding charge to the provision for income taxes.New Accounting PronouncementsFrom time-to-time, new accounting pronouncements are issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") or other standards setting bodies that are adopted by us as of the specified effective date. Unless otherwise discussed, our management believes that the impact of recently issued standards that are not yet effective will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption.In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers(Topic 606)." The core principle of the ASU is that an entity should recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount that it expects to be entitled to receive for those goods or services. The ASU requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments. The amendments are effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that reporting period. Early application is not permitted. We are evaluating the impact of this ASU on our consolidated financial statements.In April 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-08, "Presentation of Financial Statements (Topic 205) and Property, Plant, and Equipment (Topic 360) Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity." The amendments in ASU 2014-11change the requirements for reporting discontinued operations in ASC 205-20. The amendments change the definition of discontinued operations by limiting discontinued operations reporting to disposals of components of an entity that represent strategic shifts that have (or will have) a major effect on an entity’s operations and financial results. The amendments require expanded disclosures for discontinued operations and are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2014. Early adoption is permitted, but only for disposals (or classifications as "held for sale") that have not been reported in financial statements previously issued or available for issuance. In July 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-11, "Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists" ("ASU 2013-11"). The amendments in ASU 2013-11 require an entity to present an unrecognized tax benefit in the financial statements as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss ("NOL") carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward except when: (1) A NOL carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward is not available as of the reporting date under the governing tax law to settle taxes that would result from the disallowance of the tax position; or (2) the entity does not intend to use the deferred tax asset for this purpose (provided that the tax law permits a choice). If either of these conditions exists, an entity should present an unrecognized tax benefit in the financial statements as a liability and should not net the unrecognized tax benefit with a deferred tax asset. The amendment does not affect the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions under ASC 740-5. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2013. The amendments should be applied prospectively to all unrecognized tax benefits that exist at the effective date. Retrospective application is permitted. In March 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-05, "Foreign Currency Matters" ("ASU 2013-05"). The amendments in ASU 2013-05 resolve the diversity in practice about whether current literature applies to the release of the cumulative translation adjustment into net income when a parent either sells a part or all of its investment in a foreign entity or no longer holds a controlling financial interest in a subsidiary or group of assets that is a nonprofit activity or a business within a foreign entity. In addition, the amendments in ASU 2013-05 resolve the diversity in practice for the treatment of business combinations achieved in stages (sometimes also referred to as step acquisitions) involving a foreign entity. ASU 2013-05 is effective prospectively for fiscal years and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2013. 43Table of Contents