Risk Factors" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. GoodwillWe have historically performed our annual goodwill impairment test as of January 1. As a result of the change in our fiscal year end from May 31 to December 31, we elected to change our annual goodwill impairment test date from January 1 to October 1 to give us sufficient time to complete our assessment in conjunction with our year-end reporting. We performed an annual goodwill impairment test on January 1, 2017 and on October 1, 2017. 44Table of ContentsWe test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually and more often if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. We have the option of performing a qualitative assessment of impairment to determine whether any further quantitative testing for impairment is necessary. The option of whether or not to perform a qualitative assessment is made annually and may vary by reporting unit.Factors we consider in the qualitative assessment include general macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, overall financial performance of our reporting units, events or changes affecting the composition or carrying amount of the net assets of our reporting units, sustained decrease in our share price, and other relevant entity-specific events. If we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment or if we determine, on the basis of qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, a quantitative test would be required. During the first quarter of 2017, we revised our reporting unit structure within our North America segment to reflect changes made in connection with the integration of Heartland. Under the revised reporting unit structure, we operate two reporting units in our North America segment: (i) Payments and (ii) Integrated Solutions and Vertical Markets. We reassigned the goodwill previously allocated to North America merchant services and Heartland to the two new reporting units using a relative fair value approach. As a result of the change in reporting units, we performed goodwill impairment tests immediately before and after this change in reporting units and determined that there was no impairment. Following the revision described above, we now have seven reporting units: North America Payments, North America Integrated Solutions and Vertical Markets, U.K. merchant services, Asia-Pacific merchant services, Central and Eastern Europe merchant services, Russia merchant services and Spain merchant services. As of October 1, 2017, we elected to perform a qualitative assessment of impairment for each of our reporting units. We determined on the basis of qualitative factors that the fair value of each reporting unit was not more likely than not less than the respective carrying amounts. We believe that the fair value of each of our reporting units is substantially in excess of its carrying amount. Intangible and Long-lived AssetsOther intangible assets include customer-related intangible assets (such as customer lists and merchant contracts), contract-based intangible assets (such as non-compete agreements, referral agreements and processing rights), acquired technology and trademarks associated with acquisitions. These assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. The useful lives for customer-related intangible assets are determined based primarily on forecasted cash flows, which include estimates for the revenues, expenses, and customer attrition associated with the assets. The useful lives of contract-based intangible assets are equal to the terms of the agreements.  The useful lives of amortizable trademarks and trade names are based on our plans to phase out the trademarks and trade names in the applicable markets. Acquired technology is amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life.Amortization for most of our customer-related intangible assets is calculated using an accelerated method. In determining amortization expense under our accelerated method for any given period, we calculate the expected cash flows for that period that were used in determining the acquired value of the asset and divide that amount by the expected total cash flows over the estimated life of the asset. We multiply that percentage by the initial carrying amount of the asset to arrive at the amortization expense for that period. If the cash flow patterns that we experience differ significantly from our initial estimates, we adjust the amortization schedule prospectively. These cash flow patterns are derived using certain assumptions and cost allocations due to a significant amount of asset interdependencies that exist in our business. We did not make any significant adjustments to the amortization schedules of our intangible assets during the year ended December 31, 2017.We believe that our accelerated method better approximates the expected distribution of cash flows generated by our acquired customer relationships.  We use the straight-line method of amortization for our contract-based intangibles and amortizable trademarks.We regularly evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the carrying amount of property and equipment and finite-life intangible assets may not be recoverable.  When factors indicate that these long-lived assets should be evaluated for possible impairment, we assess the potential impairment by determining whether the carrying amount of such long-lived assets will be recovered through the future undiscounted cash flows expected from use of the asset and its eventual disposition.  If the carrying amount of the asset is determined not to be recoverable and exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recorded, measured as the difference between the fair value and the carrying amount. Fair values are determined based on quoted market prices 45Table of Contentsor discounted cash flow analysis as applicable.  We regularly evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the useful lives of property and equipment and finite-life intangible assets may warrant revision. Capitalization of Internal-Use SoftwareWe develop software that is used in providing services to customers.  Capitalization of internal-use software, primarily associated with operating platforms, occurs when we have completed the preliminary project stage, management authorizes the project, management commits to funding the project, it is probable the project will be completed and the project will be used to perform the function intended.  The preliminary project stage consists of the conceptual formulation of alternatives, the evaluation of alternatives, the determination of existence of needed technology and the final selection of alternatives.  Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage are expensed as incurred. Currently unforeseen circumstances in software development, such as a significant change in the manner in which the software is intended to be used, obsolescence or a significant reduction in revenues due to merchant attrition, could require us to implement alternative plans with respect to a particular effort, which could result in the impairment of previously capitalized software development costs. The carrying amount of internal-use software, including work in progress, at December 31, 2017 was $327.2 million. Costs capitalized during the year ended December 31, 2017, the 2016 fiscal transition period and the years ended May 31, 2016 and 2015 totaled $79.3 million, $37.7 million, $36.5 million and $35.1 million, respectively.  Internal-use software is amortized over its estimated useful life, which is typically 2 to 10 years, in a manner that best reflects the pattern of economic use of the assets.Income TaxesWe determine our provision for income taxes using management's judgments, estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.  Judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 740, "Income Taxes" ("ASC 740") requires companies to recognize the effect of tax law changes in the period of enactment. To address the application of GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the 2017 U.S. Tax Act, which was enacted on December 22, 2017, the SEC staff issued SAB 118. SAB 118 provides guidance for registrants regarding the application of ASC Topic 740 in the reporting period that includes December 22, 2017, including reporting provisional amounts for those specific income tax effects of the 2017 U.S. Tax Act for which the accounting is incomplete but a reasonable estimate can be determined. In addition, SAB 118 requires provisional amounts or adjustments to provisional amounts identified in the measurement period, as defined, to be included as an adjustment to tax expense or benefit from continuing operations in the period the amounts are determined.As a result of the enactment of the 2017 U.S. Tax Act, our income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2017 included a net benefit of $158.7 million, reflecting provisional amounts for specific income tax effects as a result of the enactment of the 2017 U.S. Tax Act for which our accounting is incomplete but could be reasonably estimated as of December 31, 2017. We are in the process of determining the actual effect of the 2017 U.S. Tax Act. Our reasonable estimates are based on provisional amounts that may be adjusted upon obtaining, preparing or analyzing additional information. We could make adjustments to the provisional amounts of the tax effects during subsequent periods in 2018.SAB 118 provides that the measurement period is complete when a company's accounting is complete and in no circumstances should the measurement period extend beyond one year from the enactment date. Due to the timing of enactment of this new tax legislation, certain details of the 2017 U.S. Tax Act may not be fully understood or operationalized by the time we issue this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Further guidance could be forthcoming from the U.S. Treasury, the SEC or the accounting profession that could give rise to further effects of the 2017 U.S. Tax Act on our consolidated financial statements in future periods. The effect of the 2017 U.S. Tax Act on our consolidated financial statements and the status of our accounting for its effects is further described along with other disclosures required by SAB 118 in "Note 9—Income Taxes" of the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. We believe our tax return positions are fully supportable; however, we recognize the benefit for tax positions only when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained based on its technical merits. Issues raised by a tax authority may be resolved at an amount different than the related benefit recognized. When facts and circumstances change (including an effective settlement 46Table of Contentsof an issue or statute of limitations expiration), the effect is recognized in the period of change. A portion of the unrecognized tax benefits that exist at December 31, 2017 would affect our provision for income taxes in the future if recognized. Judgment is required to determine whether or not some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized.  To the extent we determine that we will not realize the benefit of some or all of our deferred tax assets, then these deferred tax assets are adjusted through our provision for income taxes in the period in which this determination is made. Effect of New Accounting Pronouncements - Recently Issued Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted As more fully described in "Note 1—Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, effective January 1, 2018, we will adopt a new revenue accounting standard that will change the presentation of certain fees that we pay to third parties and currently present as an operating expense. Effective January 1, 2018, our revenues will be presented net of such payments, including payment network fees, which represented approximately 23% of our total consolidated revenues in 2017. We expect a similar amount of payment network fees in 2018. This change in presentation of fees paid to third parties will reduce our reported revenues and operating expenses by the same amount and will have no effect on operating income. The application of the new standard will also change the amount and timing of revenue and expenses to be recognized under certain of our customer arrangements for periods after December 31, 2017. Further, we will also be required to capitalize additional costs to obtain contracts with customers, as well as certain implementation and set-up costs, and in some cases, will be required to amortize these costs and costs that we currently capitalize (such as capitalized customer acquisition costs) over a longer time period. We currently estimate that the net effect of applying the provision of the new accounting standard will be an increase of less than 1% of our operating income in 2018. Refer to "Note 1—Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information on other recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted.