Risk Factors” of this annual report. Reserve for operating lossesAs a part of our direct merchant credit card and debit card processing services and check guarantee services we experience merchant losses and check guarantee losses, which we collectively refer to as “operating losses.”  Merchant losses occur when we are unable to collect amounts from merchant customers for any charges properly reversed by the cardholder.  Check guarantee losses occur when we are unable to collect the full amount of a guaranteed check from the checkwriter.  Please refer to the notes to consolidated financial statements for a further explanation of these operating losses.  We process credit card transactions for direct merchants and recognize revenue based on a percentage of the gross amount charged.  Our direct merchant customers have the liability for any charges properly reversed by the cardholder.  In the event, however, that we are not able to collect such amount from the merchants, due to merchant fraud, insolvency, bankruptcy or any other reason, 42we may be liable for any such reversed charges.  We require cash deposits, guarantees, letters of credit and other types of collateral by certain merchants to minimize any such contingent liability, and we also utilize a number of systems and procedures to manage merchant risk.  We have, however, historically experienced losses due to merchant defaults.  We account for our potential liability for the full amount of the operating losses discussed above as guarantees.  We estimate the fair value of these guarantees by adding a fair value margin to our estimate of losses. This estimate of losses is comprised of estimated known losses and estimated incurred but not reported losses. Estimated known losses arise from specific instances of, for example, merchant bankruptcies, closures or fraud of which we are aware at the balance sheet date, but for which the ultimate amount of associated loss will not be determined until after the balance sheet date.  Estimated known loss accruals are recorded when it is probable that we have incurred a loss and the loss is reasonably estimable. Estimated known losses are calculated at the merchant level based on chargebacks received to date, processed volume, and historical chargeback ratios. The estimate is reduced for any collateral that we hold. Accruals for estimated known losses are evaluated periodically and adjusted as appropriate based on actual loss experience. Incurred but not reported losses result from transactions that we process before the balance sheet date for which we have not yet received chargeback notification.  We estimate incurred but not reported losses by applying historical loss ratios to our direct merchant credit card and signature debit card sales volumes processed, or processed volume.  Historically, this estimation process has been materially accurate. For the years ended May 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, our processed volume was $192.8 billion, $180.7 billion, and $167.3 billion, respectively.  For these same periods, we recorded provisions for merchant losses of $9.5 million, $8.8 million, and $6.0 million, respectively.  As a percentage of processed volume, these charges were 0.0049%, 0.0049%, and 0.0036%, respectively, during the above periods.  For these same years, we experienced actual losses of $9.9 million, $9.6 million, and $8.7 million, respectively.  We believe that our estimation process has been materially accurate on a historical basis.  A 10% increase or decrease in our provision for merchant losses as a percentage of processed volume for the year ended May 31, 2013 would have resulted in a decrease or increase in net income of $0.6 million.  As of May 31, 2013 and 2012, $2.3 million has been recorded for guarantees associated with merchant card processing and are included in settlement processing obligations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. In our check guarantee service offering, we charge our merchants a percentage of the gross amount of the check and guarantee payment of the check to the merchant in the event the check is not honored by the checkwriter's bank.  We have the right to collect the full amount of the check from the checkwriter but have not historically recovered 100% of the guaranteed checks.  Our check guarantee loss reserve is comprised of estimated losses on returned checks and estimated incurred but not reported losses.  We estimate the loss on returned checks by applying historical collection rates to our claims receivable balance.  We estimate incurred but not reported losses by applying historical loss ratios to the face value of our guaranteed checks.  For each of the years ended May 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, we guaranteed total check face values of $2.6 billion.  For those same periods, we recorded provisions for check guarantee losses of $11.7 million, $13.4 million, and $14.2 million, respectively.  As a percentage of the total guaranteed check face value, these charges were 0.44%, 0.51%, and 0.55%, respectively.  For these same years, we experienced actual losses of $12.0 million, $13.8 million, and $14.5 million, respectively.  We believe that our estimation process has been materially accurate on a historical basis.  A 10% increase or decrease in our percentage assumption for the year ended May 31, 2013 would have resulted in a decrease or increase in net income of $0.8 million.  Further, if our guarantee loss as a percentage of guarantee volume for our fiscal 2013 had equaled our guarantee loss as a percentage of guarantee volume of 0.51% for the same prior year period, our net income would have decreased by $1.1 million.  As of May 31, 2013 and 2012, we had a check guarantee reserve of $3.1 million and $3.4 million, respectively, which is included in claims receivable, net, in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.We derive our projected loss rate assumptions primarily based on a rolling six to twelve month analysis of historic loss activity.  These assumptions, however, bear the risk of change, which may occur as a result of several qualitative factors.  For merchant losses, these factors include the following: a change in the creditworthiness of our merchant customers; a change in the levels of credit card fraud affecting our merchant customers; and a change in the effectiveness of our internal credit, risk management, and collection departments.  For check guarantee losses, these factors include a change in the levels of dishonored consumer checks presented to our guarantee service merchant customers and a change in the effectiveness of our internal check guarantee procedures, customer acceptance and retention policies, or collection protocols.  Application of our percentage assumptions involve uncertainty regarding changes in any of the factors above, especially those that are outside of our control, such as the financial health of the economies in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Spain, the Asia-Pacific region, and the Russian Federation at a regional or national level and the related impact on our customers.  Goodwill and long-lived asset valuationsWe regularly evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the carrying amounts of goodwill, property and equipment, and other intangible assets may warrant revision or may not be recoverable.  Goodwill is evaluated for impairment annually by applying a fair value based test.  Property and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment when facts and circumstances indicate the carrying values of such assets may exceed their fair values.  When factors indicate that these assets should be evaluated for possible impairment, we assess the potential impairment of their carrying values by determining whether the carrying value of such long-lived assets will be recovered through the future undiscounted cash flows expected from use of the asset and its eventual disposition.  We completed our most recent annual goodwill and indefinite-life intangible asset impairment test as of January 1, 2013.  Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, and the impairment test consists of two steps.  In the first step the reporting unit's carrying amount, including goodwill, is compared to its fair value which is measured based upon, among other factors, a discounted cash flow analysis as well as market multiples for comparable companies.  If the carrying amount of the reporting unit is greater than its fair value, goodwill is considered impaired and step two must be performed.  Step two measures the impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.  The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all the assets and liabilities of that unit (including unrecognized intangibles) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination.  The excess of fair value over the amounts allocated to the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit is the implied fair value of goodwill.  The excess of the carrying amount over the implied fair value is the impairment loss.  We have six reporting units: North America Merchant Services, U.K. Merchant Services, Asia-Pacific Merchant Services, Central and Eastern Europe Merchant Services, Russia Merchant Services and Spain Merchant Services.  We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a combination of the income approach and the market approach.  The income approach utilizes a discounted cash flow model incorporating management's expectations for future revenue, operating expenses, EBITDA, capital expenditures and an anticipated tax rate.  We discount the related cash flow forecasts using our estimated weighted-average cost of capital for each reporting unit at the date of valuation.  The market approach utilizes comparative market multiples in the valuation estimate. Multiples are derived by relating the value of guideline companies, based on either the market price of publicly traded shares or the prices of companies being acquired in the marketplace, to various measures of their earnings and cash flow.  Such multiples are then applied to the historical and projected earnings and cash flow of the reporting unit in developing the valuation estimate.  Preparation of forecasts and the selection of the discount rates involve significant judgments about expected future business performance and general market conditions.  Significant changes in our forecasts, the discount rates selected or the weighting of the income and market approach could affect the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period.At May 31, 2013, we had goodwill of $1,044.2 million recorded on our consolidated balance sheet.  We completed our most recent annual goodwill impairment test on January 1, 2013 and determined that the fair value of each of our reporting units is substantially in excess of the carrying value.  No events or changes in circumstances have occurred since the date of our most recent annual impairment test that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount.Other intangible assets primarily represent customer-related intangible assets (such as customer lists and merchant contracts), contract-based intangible assets (such as non-compete agreements, referral agreements and processing rights), and trademarks associated with acquisitions.  Customer-related intangible assets, contract-based intangible assets and certain trademarks are amortized over their estimated useful lives of up to 30 years.  The useful lives for customer-related intangible assets are determined based primarily on forecasted cash flows, which include estimates for the revenues, expenses, and customer attrition associated with the assets.  The useful lives of contract-based intangible assets are equal to the terms of the agreements.  The useful lives of amortizable trademarks are based on our plans to phase out the trademarks in the applicable markets.  We use the accelerated method of amortization for most our customer-related intangible assets.  In determining amortization expense under our accelerated method for any given period, we calculate expected cash flows for that period that were used in determining the acquired value of the asset and divide that amount by the expected total cash flows over the estimated life of the asset.  We multiply that percentage by the initial carrying value of the asset to arrive at the amortization expense for that period.  In addition, if the cash flow patterns that we experience differ significantly than our initial estimates, we will adjust the amortization schedule accordingly.  These cash flow patterns are derived using certain assumptions and cost allocations due to a significant amount of asset interdependencies that exist in our business.  During fiscal 2013, we did not adjust the amortization schedules.  We believe that our accelerated method better approximates the distribution of cash flows generated by our acquired customer relationships.  We use the straight-line method of amortization for our contract-based intangibles and amortizable trademarks.Capitalization of Internally Developed Software We develop software that is used in providing processing services to customers.  Capitalization of internally developed software, primarily associated with operating platforms, occurs when we have completed the preliminary project stage, management authorizes the project, management commits to funding the project, it is probable the project will be completed and the project will be used to perform the function intended.  The preliminary project stage consists of the conceptual formulation of alternatives, the evaluation of alternatives, the determination of existence of needed technology and the final selection of alternatives.  Costs incurred prior to the preliminary project stage are expensed as incurred.  Currently unforeseen circumstances in software development, such as a significant change in the manner in which the software is intended to be used, obsolescence or a significant reduction in revenues due to merchant attrition, could require us to implement alternative plans with respect to a particular effort, which could result in the impairment of previously capitalized software development costs. Such impairment would result in a charge to income. Total software capitalized at May 31, 2013 was $167.1 million.  Costs capitalized during fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011 totaled $29.2 million, $31.3 million, and $26.3 million, respectively.  Internally developed software has an amortization period of 5 to 10 years.  Internally developed software assets are placed into service when they are ready for their intended use.As of May 31, 2013, we have placed into service $92.2 million of hardware and software associated with our technology processing platform, referred to as G2; $5.7 million of which was placed in service during fiscal 2013.  The vision for this platform is to serve as a front-end operating environment for merchant processing and is intended to replace a number of legacy platforms that have higher cost structures.  Depreciation and amortization associated with these costs is calculated based on transactions expected to be processed over the life of the platform.  We believe that this method is more representative of the platform's use than the straight-line method.  We are currently processing transactions on our G2 platform in eight markets in our Asia-Pacific region and for a limited number of U.S. merchants.  As these markets represent a small percentage of our overall transactions, depreciation and amortization related to our G2 platform for fiscal 2013 was not significant.  Depreciation and amortization expense will increase as we complete migrations of other merchants to the G2 platform.  Income TaxesThe determination of our provision for income taxes requires management's judgment in the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws.  Judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items.  We believe our tax return positions are fully supportable; however, we establish liabilities for material tax exposures relating to deductions, transactions and other matters involving some uncertainty as to the proper tax treatment of the item.  Issues raised by a tax authority may be finally resolved at an amount different than the related liability.  When facts and circumstances change (including a resolution of an issue or statute of limitations expiration), these liabilities are adjusted through the provision for income taxes in the period of change.  Judgment will be required to determine whether or not some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized.  To the extent we determine that we will not realize the benefit of some or all of our deferred tax assets, then these deferred tax assets will be adjusted through our provision for income taxes in the period in which this determination is made.  At May 31, 2013, our consolidated balance sheet includes net deferred tax assets associated with our United Kingdom business of $90.7 million.  Our assessment of the recoverability of these deferred tax assets is based, in part, on our projections of future business performance and viable tax planning strategies.  If future business performance fails to meet projections, we may determine that some or all of these deferred tax assets will not be realized.  In the event of such a determination, we would record a valuation allowance for the amount deemed unrecoverable with a corresponding charge to the provision for income taxes.New Accounting Pronouncements From time-to-time, new accounting pronouncements are issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) or other standards setting bodies that are adopted by us as of the specified effective date. Unless otherwise discussed, our management believes that the impact of recently issued standards that are not yet effective will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption.In March 2013, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2013-05, "Foreign Currency Matters" ("ASU 2013-05"). The amendments in ASU 2013-05 resolve the diversity in practice about whether current literature applies to the release of the cumulative translation adjustment into net income when a parent either sells a part or all of its investment in a foreign entity or no longer holds a controlling financial interest in a subsidiary or group of assets that is a nonprofit activity or a business within a foreign entity. In addition, the amendments in ASU 2013-05 resolve the diversity in practice for the treatment of business combinations achieved in stages (sometimes also referred to as step acquisitions) involving a foreign entity. ASU 2013-05 is effective prospectively for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2013 . This standard is effective for us beginning June 1, 2014 . We are currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2013-05 on our consolidated financial statements.In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-11, "Disclosures About Offsetting Assets and Liabilities" ("ASU 2011-11"). The amendments in ASU 2011-11 require entities to disclose information about offsetting and related arrangements to enable users of financial statements to understand the effect of those arrangements on an entity's financial position.  The amendments require enhanced disclosures by requiring improved information about financial instruments and derivative instruments that are either (i) offset in accordance with current literature or (ii) subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement, irrespective of whether they are offset in accordance with current literature. ASU 2011-11 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning on or after January 1, 2013. This standard will become effective for us beginning June 2013.   The disclosures required by ASU 2011-11 will be applied retrospectively for all comparative periods presented.  Table of Contents