Risk Factors" of this Annual Report. Reserve for Operating LossesWe experience losses in our card processing services when we are unable to collect amounts from merchant customers for any charges properly reversed by the card issuing bank. When we are not able to collect these amounts from the merchants due to merchant fraud, insolvency, bankruptcy or any other reason, we may be liable for the reversed charges.  We have historically experienced losses due to merchant defaults. We require cash deposits, guarantees, letters of credit and other types of collateral by certain merchants 39to minimize any such contingent liability, and we also utilize a number of systems and procedures to manage merchant risk. We experience check guarantee losses when we are unable to collect the full amount of a guaranteed check from the checkwriter. We refer to both merchant credit losses and check guarantee losses collectively as "operating losses." Please refer to "Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a further explanation of these operating losses.  We record reserves for our estimated liability for operating losses. This estimate of losses is comprised of estimated known losses and estimated incurred but not reported losses. Estimated known losses arise from specific instances of, for example, merchant bankruptcies, closures or fraud of which we are aware at the balance sheet date, but for which the ultimate amount of associated loss will not be determined until after the balance sheet date.  Estimated known loss accruals are recorded when it is probable that we have incurred a loss and the loss is reasonably estimable. Estimated known losses are calculated at the merchant level based on chargebacks received to date, processed volume, and historical chargeback ratios. The estimate is reduced for any collateral that we hold. Accruals for estimated known losses are evaluated periodically and adjusted as appropriate based on actual loss experience. Incurred but not reported losses result from transactions that we process before the balance sheet date for which we have not yet received chargeback notification.  We estimate incurred but not reported losses by applying historical loss ratios to our direct merchant credit card and signature debit card sales volumes processed, or processed volume. Historically, this estimation process has been materially accurate. For the years ended May 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, our processed volume for direct merchant acquiring was $207.2 billion, $201.2 billion, and $192.8 billion, respectively. For these same periods, the provision for merchant losses was $4.9 million, $8.7 million, and $9.5 million, respectively. As a percentage of processed volume, these charges were 0.0024%, 0.0043%, and 0.0049%, respectively, during the corresponding periods. For these same years, we experienced actual losses of $5.4 million, $9.3 million, and $9.5 million, respectively. We believe that our estimation process has been materially accurate on a historical basis.  A 10% increase or decrease in our provision for merchant losses as a percentage of processed volume for the year ended May 31, 2015 would have resulted in a decrease or increase in pretax income of $0.5 million.  Further, if our provision for merchant losses as a percentage of processed volume for fiscal 2015 had equaled our actual merchant losses as a percentage of processed volume of 0.0043% for the same prior year period, our income before income taxes would have decreased by $4.0 million. As of May 31, 2015 and 2014, $1.3 million and $1.7 million, respectively, were recorded for merchant losses and were included in settlement processing obligations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. In our check guarantee service offering, we charge our merchants a percentage of the gross amount of the check and guarantee payment of the check to the merchant in the event the check is not honored by the checkwriter's bank.  We have the right to collect the full amount of the check from the checkwriter, but have not historically recovered 100% of the guaranteed checks.  Our check guarantee loss reserve is comprised of estimated losses on returned checks and estimated incurred but not reported losses.  We estimate the loss on returned checks by applying historical collection rates to our claims receivable balance.  We estimate incurred but not reported losses by applying historical loss ratios to the face value of our guaranteed checks.  For the years ended May 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we guaranteed total check face values of $2.5 billion, $2.6 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively. For those same periods, we recorded provisions for check guarantee losses of $9.6 million, $11.9 million, and $11.7 million, respectively.  As a percentage of the total guaranteed check face value, these charges were 0.38%, 0.46%, and 0.44%, respectively.  For these same years, we experienced actual losses of $9.9 million, $12.1 million, and $12.0 million, respectively.  We believe that our estimation process has been materially accurate on a historical basis.  A 10% increase in our projected loss rate for the year ended May 31, 2015 would have resulted in a decrease in income before income taxes of $1.0 million.  Further, if our guarantee loss as a percentage of guarantee volume for fiscal 2015 had equaled our guarantee loss as a percentage of guarantee volume of 0.46% for the same prior year period, our income before income taxes would have decreased by $2.0 million.  As of May 31, 2015 and 2014, we had a check guarantee reserve of $2.7 million and $3.0 million, respectively, which is included as a valuation allowance against claims receivable in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.We derive our projected loss rate assumptions primarily based on a rolling six to twelve month analysis of historic loss activity. These assumptions, however, bear the risk of change, which may occur as a result of several qualitative factors.  For merchant losses, these factors include the following: a change in the creditworthiness of our merchant customers; a change in the levels of credit card fraud affecting our merchant customers; and a change in the effectiveness of our internal credit, risk management, and collection departments.  For check guarantee losses, these factors include a change in the levels of dishonored consumer checks presented to our guarantee service merchant customers and a change in the effectiveness of our internal check guarantee procedures, customer acceptance and retention policies, or collection protocols.  Application of our percentage assumptions involve uncertainty regarding 40changes in any of the factors above, especially those that are outside of our control, such as the financial health of the economies in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Spain, the Asia-Pacific region and the Russian Federation at a regional or national level and the related impact on our customers.  GoodwillGoodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level. We test goodwill for impairment annually as of January 1 and more often if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. We have the option of performing a qualitative assessment of impairment to determine whether any further quantitative testing for impairment is necessary. The option of whether or not to perform a qualitative assessment is made annually and may vary by reporting unit. Factors we consider in the qualitative assessment include general macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, overall financial performance of our reporting units, events or changes affecting the composition or carrying amount of the net assets of our reporting units, sustained decrease in our share price, and other relevant entity-specific events. If we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment or if we determine, on the basis of qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying value, a two-step quantitative test is required. In the first step, the reporting unit's carrying amount, including goodwill, is compared to its fair value. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit is greater than its fair value, step two must be performed. Step two measures the impairment loss, if any, by comparing the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by assigning the fair value of the reporting unit to all the assets and liabilities of that unit (including unrecognized intangibles) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. The excess of the fair value over the amounts assigned to the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit is the implied fair value of the goodwill. The excess of the carrying amount over the implied fair value of the goodwill is the impairment loss.Our assessment of qualitative factors involves significant judgments about expected future business performance and general market conditions.  In a quantitative assessment, we estimate the fair value of the reporting unit using a combination of the income approach and the market approach. This requires various assumptions about a reporting unit’s future financial results and cost of capital including discount rates.We have six reporting units: North America Merchant Services, U.K. Merchant Services, Asia-Pacific Merchant Services, Central and Eastern Europe Merchant Services, Russia Merchant Services and Spain Merchant Services. As of January 1, 2015, we performed a qualitative goodwill assessment for each of our reporting units, except Russia merchant services for which we performed a quantitative assessment. Based on our annual test as of January 1, 2015, we determined on the basis of qualitative factors that the fair values of the reporting units for which we performed a qualitative assessment were not more likely than not less than their respective carrying amounts. Based on a quantitative assessment, we determined that the goodwill of our Russia merchant services unit was not impaired. We believe that the fair values of our reporting units are substantially in excess of their carrying amounts.Intangible and Long-lived AssetsOther intangible assets primarily represent customer-related intangible assets (such as customer lists and merchant contracts), contract-based intangible assets (such as non-compete agreements, referral agreements and processing rights), acquired technology and trademarks associated with acquisitions. Customer-related intangible assets, contract-based intangible assets and trademarks are amortized over their estimated useful lives ranging from 2 to 26 years. The useful lives for customer-related intangible assets are determined based primarily on forecasted cash flows, which include estimates for the revenues, expenses, and customer attrition associated with the assets. The useful lives of contract-based intangible assets are equal to the terms of the agreements.  The useful lives of amortizable trademarks are based on our plans to phase out the trademarks in the applicable markets.  Acquired technology is amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life.Amortization for most of our customer-related intangible assets is calculated using an accelerated method. In determining amortization expense under our accelerated method for any given period, we calculate the expected cash flows for that period that were used in determining the acquired value of the asset and divide that amount by the expected total cash flows over the estimated life of the asset. We multiply that percentage by the initial carrying amount of the asset to arrive at the amortization expense for that period. If the cash flow patterns that we experience differ significantly from our initial estimates, we adjust the amortization schedule 41prospectively. These cash flow patterns are derived using certain assumptions and cost allocations due to a significant amount of asset interdependencies that exist in our business. During fiscal 2015, we did not adjust the amortization schedules.  We believe that our accelerated method better approximates the distribution of cash flows generated by our acquired customer relationships.  We use the straight-line method of amortization for our contract-based intangibles and amortizable trademarks.We regularly evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the carrying amount of property and equipment and finite-life intangible assets may not be recoverable.  When factors indicate that these long-lived assets should be evaluated for possible impairment, we assess the potential impairment by determining whether the carrying amount of such long-lived assets will be recovered through the future undiscounted cash flows expected from use of the asset and its eventual disposition.  If the carrying amount of the asset is determined not to be recoverable and exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recorded, measured as the difference between the fair value and the carrying amount. Fair values are determined based on quoted market prices or discounted cash flow analysis as applicable.  We regularly evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred that indicate the useful lives of property and equipment and finite-life intangible assets may warrant revision. Capitalization of Internally Developed SoftwareWe develop software that is used in providing processing services to customers.  Capitalization of internally developed software, primarily associated with operating platforms, occurs when we have completed the preliminary project stage, management authorizes the project, management commits to funding the project, it is probable the project will be completed and the project will be used to perform the function intended.  The preliminary project stage consists of the conceptual formulation of alternatives, the evaluation of alternatives, the determination of existence of needed technology and the final selection of alternatives.  Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage are expensed as incurred. Currently unforeseen circumstances in software development, such as a significant change in the manner in which the software is intended to be used, obsolescence or a significant reduction in revenues due to merchant attrition, could require us to implement alternative plans with respect to a particular effort, which could result in the impairment of previously capitalized software development costs. The carrying amount of internally developed software, including work in progress, at May 31, 2015 was $181.3 million.  Costs capitalized during fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013 totaled $35.1 million, $39.1 million, and $29.2 million, respectively.  Internally developed software is amortized over its estimated useful life, which is typically 2 to 10 years. Our most recently developed front-end merchant authorization processing platform, which was placed into service in fiscal 2010, is replacing several legacy platforms. As of May 31, 2015, we have placed into service $101.0 million of hardware and software associated with our authorization platform, $4.5 million of which was placed in service during fiscal 2015. Depreciation and amortization associated with these costs is calculated based on transactions processed during the period as a percentage of the transactions expected to be processed over the life of the platform. We believe that this method is more representative of the platform's use than the straight-line method.  We are currently processing transactions on this authorization platform in nine markets in our Asia-Pacific region and for a limited number of U.S. merchants.  As these markets represent a small percentage of our overall transactions, depreciation and amortization related to this platform for fiscal 2015 was not significant.  Depreciation and amortization expense will increase as we complete migrations of other merchants to this authorization platform.  Income TaxesWe determine our provision for income taxes using management's judgments, estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.  Judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. We believe our tax return positions are fully supportable; however, we recognize the benefit for tax positions only when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained based on its technical merits. Issues raised by a tax authority may be resolved at an amount different than the related benefit recognized. When facts and circumstances change (including an effective settlement of an issue or statute of limitations expiration), the effect is recognized in the period of change. A portion of the unrecognized tax benefits that exist at May 31, 2015 would affect our provision for income taxes in the future if recognized. Judgment is required to determine whether or not some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized.  To the extent we determine that we will not realize the benefit of some or all of our deferred tax assets, then these deferred tax assets are adjusted through our provision for income taxes in the period in which this determination is made. 42As a result of events that occurred in the fourth quarter of the year ended May 31, 2015, management concluded that it was more likely than not that the tax positions in a foreign jurisdiction, for which we had recorded estimated liabilities of $65.6 million in other noncurrent liabilities on our accompanying consolidated balance sheet, would be sustained on their technical merits based on information available as of May 31, 2015. Therefore, the liability and corresponding deferred tax assets were eliminated as of May 31, 2015. The uncertain tax positions have been subject to an ongoing examination in that foreign jurisdiction by the tax authority. Discussions and correspondence between the tax authority and us during the fourth quarter indicated that the likelihood of the positions being sustained had increased. Subsequent to May 31, 2015, we received a final closure notice regarding the examination resulting in no adjustments to taxable income related to this matter for the tax returns filed for the periods ended May 31, 2010 through May 31, 2013. The unrecognized tax benefits were effectively settled with this final closure notice.Effect of New Accounting Pronouncements - Recently Issued Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted From time-to-time, new accounting pronouncements are issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standards setting bodies that are adopted by us as of the specified effective date. See "Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the notes to our accompanying consolidated financial statements for new accounting guidance.43Table of Contents