 Basically a couple years ago the concept of smart architecture was born and the premise was ultimately, we realized that if you're going to put a Level 4, Level 5 vehicle on the road that drives itself, you need to make sure that the system is fail-operational. Smart Vehicle Architecture is really the umbrella Underneath it, we decided to split it into the three logical groups. Aptiv is one of the very few companies in the world that covers the complete holistic system of the of the cars. We have the computing platforms We have the sensors for perception. We have the power and data network. We have the components to set up the complete electrical electronic architecture. So let's start with compute. The computer fails. And it's a critical failure. It drops out completely what happens to an automated car? It has to be brought to a safe haven So there has to be certain amount of redundant compute that allows that vehicle for a certain period of time to reach a safe haven. That's the first layer on compute. The network needs to be failed operational as well. And so we need here the affordable redundancy where we have limited vectors packaging room in the car So we have a ring topology and that means whatever segment of the ring is broken or not working we can move the data the other way round and that gives us a very efficient way of redundancy. And redundancy is key with two redundant links if one link goes down, I still have a resilient network that can survive. Everything needs to be supplied by power all the sensors the compute platform on the safety and comfort systems and we can't rely on one battery as we have it today. So we have we need to have two independent power supplies. Where we ended up with a very intelligent dual power supply with smart fusing. Completely unique, and will give us the again the affordable redundancy we need on power and the dual supply that we need for all the critical components. We are in a very unique environment here. We have very unique skillsets tackling a very unique problem. Unique, unique, unique, equals innovation. 