BUSINESSFounded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of software and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing and engaging with compelling content and experiences across multiple operating systems, devices and media. We market and license our software directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We also distribute our products through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (“VARs”), systems integrators, independent software vendors (“ISVs”), retailers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. We offer some of our products via a Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) model (also known as a hosted or “cloud-based” model) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. Our software runs on personal computers (“PCs”) and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”) and Asia-Pacific (“APAC”). See Note 18 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further geographical information.Adobe was originally incorporated in California in October 1983 and was reincorporated in Delaware in May 1997. We maintain executive offices and principal facilities at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000. We maintain a website at www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the SEC website at www.sec.gov. The information posted to our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.BUSINESS OVERVIEW For 30 years, innovation in Adobe software and technologies has transformed how individuals, businesses and governments communicate and interact with their constituents. Across the markets we serve, Adobe helps its customers create and deliver the most compelling content and interactive experiences in a streamlined workflow, and optimize those experiences and marketing activities for greater return on investment. Our solutions turn ordinary interactions into compelling and valuable digital experiences, across media and devices, anywhere, anytime.While we continue to market and license a broad portfolio of products and solutions, we focus our greatest business investment in two strategic growth areas:Digital Media—providing tools, services and solutions that enable individuals, small businesses and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their content anywhere. Our customers include traditional content creators, web designers, app developers and digital media professionals, as well as their management in marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. This is the core of what we have delivered for over 20 years, but we are evolving rapidly to provide these customers with a more complete and integrated workflow across the variety of new devices, formats and business models that continue to emerge. Digital Marketing—providing solutions and services for how digital advertising and marketing campaigns are created, managed, executed, measured and optimized. Our customers include digital marketers, advertisers, publishers, merchandisers, web analysts, chief marketing officers and chief revenue officers. We process over a trillion web transactions a quarter via SaaS, providing our customers with analytics, social, targeting, media optimization and experience management solutions This 3Table of Contentscomplements our digital media franchise, bringing together the art of creating content with monetization and the science of measuring and optimizing it, enabling our customers to achieve optimal business outcomes.To capitalize on the potential in these two market areas, we made several significant changes in key areas of our business during the past two years. We have made investments to increase the deployment of some of our products through new SaaS models, and to offer a new subscription model for our creative products. We believe these business model changes allow us to target new users, as well as increase the amount of recurring revenue we generate as a percent of our total revenue, thus creating the potential for our business to be more predictable.We have also invested in the development of new products that address emerging customer needs in these two market areas and represent new revenue sources. In addition, we made several acquisitions during the past two years to broaden the scope of our solutions. We believe the new products we are bringing to market, combined with products and technologies we have acquired, will make our Digital Media and Digital Marketing solutions more compelling to our customers.While we have increased our investments in certain products areas, we have also reduced our focus on certain products. The cost savings resulting from the reduced focus on certain product areas has been redeployed as we continue to invest into research and development and sales and marketing to drive higher growth potential in our two focus areas.Because of this transformation we have undertaken, as we enter fiscal year 2013 we believe we are uniquely positioned to be a leader in both the Digital Media and Digital Marketing categories where our mission to change the world through digital experiences resonates well with customers.PRODUCTS AND SERVICES OVERVIEWThis overview is organized by our three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Marketing, and Print and Publishing. For each segment, we provide an explanation of our market opportunities, a review of our segment results, and a discussion of our strategies to address our market opportunities in fiscal 2013 and beyond. See Note 18 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further segment information.Digital Media SegmentDigital Media OpportunityWe believe we are at a key inflection point in the history of digital communications. A convergence of major trends is occurring, which in turn is driving changes in consumer behavior and expectations. These trends include the rise in use of smartphones and tablets, increased internet access speeds, new business models driven by online commerce and app stores, the increase in media and entertainment made available online, the impact of online social communities, and software delivery transitioning from prior PC delivery models to cloud-based services. These trends and changes are having a profound impact on our customers, who are interacting with content on a daily basis and want to regularly share and collaborate with colleagues and clients. Adobe customers, large and small, are rethinking their online presence, addressing concerns such as how to make a site more dynamic, how to manage visitors from both PCs and mobile devices, whether to invest in web browser-based applications or create individual mobile apps, and how to transition from legacy content delivery methods to new models which offer new revenue streams. For our customers, these challenges create a great deal of complexity in their workflows and cost structures. For Adobe, these challenges and complexities our customers face are expanding the size of the markets we can target. We realigned our company entering fiscal 2012 and created our Digital Media business unit to address these opportunities as we believed these market conditions presented significant opportunities for Adobe to rapidly deliver product innovation, access new market segments, increase engagement with our customers, transition our business to promote a recurring revenue model, and accelerate our revenue growth. Our goal is to be the leading provider of tools and services that allow individuals, small businesses and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their content anywhere.The flagship of our Digital Media business is Adobe Creative Cloud, which is an ongoing membership service that lets our customers download and install the latest version of any of our Adobe Creative Suite desktop products, and other creative software like Adobe Photoshop Lightroom and new HTML version 5 (“HTML5”) based products and services. Creative Cloud members also get online services to sync, store, and share files, participate in creative communities, receive product training, as well as publish digital magazines to the iPad, develop mobile applications, and create and manage websites. We believe Creative Cloud is redefining the creative process and becoming a destination place where our creative customers can obtain everything they need to create, collaborate on and deliver engaging digital content.4Table of ContentsThe cornerstone of Creative Cloud is our Creative Suite family of products. Consisting of sixteen individual products and four suites that contain different combinations of these products, we focus on the needs of creative professional customers, which include graphic designers, production artists, web designers and developers, user interface designers, writers, videographers, motion graphic artists, prepress professionals, video game developers, mobile application developers, students and administrators. They use and rely on our solutions for publishing, web design and development, video and animation production, mobile app and gaming development and document creation and collaboration. They work in businesses ranging from large publishers, media companies and global enterprises, to smaller design agencies, small and medium-sized businesses and individual freelancers.Our creative products are used by creative professionals to create much of the printed and on-line information people see, read and interact with every day, including newspapers, magazines, websites, mobile apps, catalogs, advertisements, brochures, product documentation, books, memos, reports and banners. Our tools are also used to create and enhance visually rich content, including video, animation and mobile content, that is created by multimedia, film, television, audio and video producers who work in advertising, web design, music, entertainment, corporate and marketing communications, product design, user interface design, sales training, printing, architecture and fine arts. Knowledge workers, educators, hobbyists and high end consumers also use our creative products to create and deliver content that is of professional level quality.We believe the innovation we deliver in the tools and solutions our customers use enables the future of digital media. Our creative solutions are mission-critical to customers such as publishers, advertisers and media companies; they rely on Adobe tools and technologies to create highly compelling content, deliver it across diverse media and devices, and then optimize it through systematic targeting and measurement. For example:•Publishers around the world are striving to embrace the digital age to build distinctive brands, develop sustainable business strategies, achieve greater profitability, and deliver optimized content to fragmented audiences on an expanding array of smartphones, tablets, e-readers, and other devices. Their audiences seek compelling, media-rich experiences, wherever they go, using their preferred devices. The advent of app stores is enabling publishers to reach these audiences in easy, more effective and affordable ways, through the delivery of apps and content via online subscription services to their readers and customers. •Advertisers face an ever-shifting media landscape. Traditional media are giving way to the emergence of new digital channels such as mobile devices and social networks. Customers have greater choice in where they go for their preferred brands, making it harder for marketers to keep audiences engaged. Successful advertising increasingly requires compelling content and greater focus on data and analytics than ever before in order to optimize advertising for improved targeting and higher returns. The challenges facing customers such as these not only exist in how they create and deliver their content, but also in how they manage, measure and optimize their content. Adobe's value proposition extends beyond our historical focus on content creation to other critical aspects of our customers' workflow, with how we can integrate the capabilities of our analytics and web optimization solutions, as well as our other digital marketing solutions. These are discussed later in the “Digital Marketing Opportunity” section.In the second quarter of  fiscal 2011, we released CS5.5. At that time we also introduced a monthly subscription offering. This lower upfront fee, as opposed to the higher upfront perpetual license fee, provides cost-sensitive new users access to our products, as well as enabled users of older versions of our products to migrate to the latest versions at a lower upfront cost. The subscription offering also enabled users to have immediate access to software updates and new innovations that we implemented in our creative products in between release dates of the products. Given our success in attracting new and existing customers to our initial subscription offering, combined with our offering of cloud-based services as a means to deliver more value to our users, we announced Creative Cloud in October 2011 and in the second quarter of fiscal 2012, we delivered the initial release of our new Creative Cloud subscription offering. As part of Creative Cloud, we also delivered Creative Suite 6 (“CS6”), which is the newest release of our creative toolset. CS6 provides numerous feature enhancements, particularly in the areas of mobile device content creation, website development with new HTML5 capabilities, digital imaging, digital publishing for tablets and product performance. Customers obtained CS6 capabilities through both our historical perpetual licensing model as well as through our new subscription-based model.A key benefit of our Creative Cloud offering is the rapid delivery of additional products and product updates to subscribers as soon as these products and updates become available. Examples of additional value provided to customers through Creative Cloud since its initial release included the delivery of new features for Adobe Illustrator users, new enhancements for web designers and an updated version of Adobe Acrobat. In addition, new products and capabilities were made available to Creative Cloud subscribers that were not made available to licensees of the perpetual products. Adobe Lightroom, our popular image editing and photo management tool, was delivered as an additional enhancement to Creative Cloud subscribers in the summer of 2012, and new HTML5 content creation capabilities were delivered through the release of our new Adobe Edge Animate product and related 5Table of ContentsEdge Tools & Services to subscribers in September. These additional capabilities demonstrate our commitment to deliver ongoing value and capabilities as they become available and are needed by our customers.We believe our Creative Cloud offering, marketed as a subscription model with attractive monthly pricing, will be a catalyst for revenue growth in the coming years. By increasing the value we provide to our core creative customers with Creative Cloud services, we anticipate we can grow our revenue per customer over time as they begin to use additional features available to them in the offering. We also believe the monthly pricing model will be attractive to users of older versions of our products who desire to use our latest releases and services, but who have not been willing to upgrade to newer versions due to their price sensitivity, and, therefore, will increase our revenue potential with them. Similarly, we anticipate we can drive significant new user adoption of our creative tools business over the next several years outside of our core creative professional targeted market because of the attractive monthly subscription pricing combined with the strong brand of our creative tools and the broad value proposition provided by our Creative Cloud offering.In addition to a monthly subscription price that provides access to use of all of our latest creative tools and services, we also offer subscription pricing for Creative Cloud for some of our key point products, as well as for users in the education market. Similarly, we offer Creative Cloud for team and enterprise users. We believe the mix of these offerings will drive new user acquisition and increase our revenue over time.The impact of this business model shift based on the product offering and the subscription pricing will affect the revenue and cash flow to Adobe. As customers make a shift from paying upfront for the use of our software in the perpetual model to the new subscription model where they pay over time, reported revenue and cash flow will be lower in the short term when compared to the historical perpetual model. However, over time we expect this business model transition will significantly increase our long-term revenue growth rate by (1) attracting new users, (2) keeping our user base current and (3) thereby driving higher average revenue per user. Additionally, our shift to a subscription model will increase the amount of our recurring revenue that is ratably reported, driven by broader Creative Cloud adoption over the next several years.In addition to the shifts in how we develop, market and license our creative tools to our customers, we have also implemented several initiatives to create and drive new revenue streams in our Digital Media business. These initiatives include delivering advanced publishing services, enhancing the capabilities of our solutions to utilize new innovations in HTML5, delivering new touch-based apps to expand our content creation user base to mobile device owners, enhancing our video solutions and addressing the needs of the knowledge worker.Adobe Digital Publishing Suite (“DPS”) is an online, hosted publishing solution that enables magazine and newspaper publishers to deliver engaging, branded reading experiences of their publications to an extensive array of mobile and tablet devices. Our Digital Publishing solution utilizes flexible e-commerce models to sell single issues and subscriptions directly to consumers through mobile marketplaces and app stores. Our customers can create and enhance content through integration with our CS6 tools to enable a complete workflow for the creation and delivery of content via our Content Viewer technology, which is utilized by users on tablets and smartphones. Analytics capabilities are built into these apps and are based on our Digital Marketing products. The analytics features enable publishers to measure and understand the use of the digital editions they deliver with our solutions, and more effectively monetize their digital edition apps with more relevant advertising.In addition to the Enterprise version that publishers and large media companies use, we also offer Digital Publishing Single Edition, which can be used by other customers who want to publish their content as apps in app stores on an individual and ad hoc basis. Single Edition can be used by individuals to publish any type of publication to app stores, including research reports, catalogs, marketing materials and even more specific consumer-related content such as wedding photo albums. The combination of our different DPS offerings significantly increases our market opportunity to target anyone wanting to deliver a digital publication via app stores.Adobe has long been an innovator in helping drive the HTML standards process and then delivering the best tools in the market to create content based on web standards. The ongoing evolution of new standards, including HTML5, and their adoption in popular browsers, become significant catalysts for revenue growth in our solutions. To address this opportunity, we are innovating across the spectrum of content creation, content delivery, and content display in browsers and mobile apps. Our innovation includes adding new capabilities to web standards such as HTML and CSS, contributing technology to open source projects such as jQuery (an HTML and JavaScript library to assist with creating websites) and Webkit (the open source foundation for many popular web browsers such as Apple Safari and Google Chrome), and adding new features to products such as Adobe InDesign, Adobe Dreamweaver and the new Edge Tools & Services to enable our customers to utilize these innovations occurring in web browsers.Our innovation with web standards also includes the creation and delivery of brand new products built on top of web standards to help our customers create engaging content leveraging the latest innovations in web browsers on PC and non-PC devices. In the fall of 2012 we announced the availability of Adobe Edge Tools & Services, including Adobe Edge Animate, Adobe 6Table of ContentsEdge Inspect (formerly codenamed “Shadow”), Adobe PhoneGap Build and Adobe Edge Web Fonts. We also previewed Adobe Edge Code and Adobe Edge Reflow. These powerful tools enable web designers and developers to build cutting-edge websites, digital content and mobile apps. For website development, we also provide Adobe Muse, which allows designers to design and publish websites without having to learn and write HTML5 code. Muse integrates with other Adobe tools and enables designers to easily publish their websites using our Business Catalyst web hosting service or any other hosting provider.While we increase our investments in our solutions utilizing web standards, we also continue to innovate in our Adobe Flash technologies, including the Adobe Flash Player for PC-based browsers and Adobe AIR for packaging standalone applications for PCs and mobile devices. The broad reach and adoption of the newest versions of our Flash technologies on personal computers and for use with mobile devices allow our customers to deliver new and more engaging experiences using our tools and services. Going forward, we are primarily focused on enhancing the gaming and premium video delivery aspects of our Flash technology-based solutions.Just as AIR and our Flash tools enable Flash technology-based applications to be packaged for mobile devices, PhoneGap and PhoneGap Build provide similar capabilities for applications built using web standards. Based on the open source PhoneGap framework, PhoneGap Build enables users to build cross-platform mobile applications using HTML5, CSS and JavaScript that run on popular mobile operating systems such as Android, iOS and BlackBerry OS.As millions of web developers and website designers look to build mobile apps to increase engagement with their constituents, we believe our AIR and PhoneGap solutions enable them to build cross-platform apps as well as reuse their existing browser-based content to deliver standalone apps on popular smartphones and tablets.In 2011 we began delivering a series of content creation tools which run on tablets such as the Apple iPad. These apps and their features are discussed later in the “Digital Media—Touch App Products” section. The Adobe touch apps integrate with Creative Cloud enabling subscribers to move between the apps and Creative Suite software, and to view, access, share, and present creative work from anywhere.Over the past several years, as consumers and advertisers demand more professional video online and on devices, media companies have an unprecedented opportunity to monetize their content and expand the reach of broadcast advertising. Because of this trend and the general explosion of video being created and delivered over the web, new opportunities have emerged for Adobe to significantly expand its market opportunity in areas such as video content creation, delivery, authentication and monetization.Our products addressing these opportunities span across our Digital Media and Digital Marketing business segments. In Digital Media, our video content creation solutions are centered around our Adobe Premiere Pro and Adobe After Effects products, and the Creative Suite Production Premium that contains these products plus other capabilities. With our increased focus on these solutions over the past several years, we believe we are the leader in the market for providing video and special effects editing for creative professionals and professional videographers. We have invested resources to improve the performance and capabilities of our video authoring solutions, and as a result, have significantly grown our market share over the past several years in the professional video editing market.With our growing leadership position in video authoring, we have worked closely with our customers to build a more complete workflow to meet their additional needs for delivering, measuring and monetizing their video assets. To enable collaborative video authoring environments, we also offer Adobe Anywhere for video. Adobe Anywhere allows customers to bring teams together, enabling them to better collaborate and create productions from virtually any location where there is network connectivity. With Adobe Anywhere, editors, visual effects artists, and other video professionals can use local or remote networks to simultaneously access, stream, and work with remotely stored media. Its collaborative capabilities are embedded directly in Adobe Premiere Pro, After Effects, and Adobe Prelude software, eliminating the need for team members to learn additional video software tools.Our video content delivery, authentication and monetization opportunities, and our solutions which address them, are centered around an initiative we announced in 2012 called Project Primetime, and are discussed later in in the section titled “Digital Marketing Opportunity.”As part of our Digital Media focus, we also address the needs of knowledge worker customers: people working in document intensive industries, focused on creating and disseminating high-value information as part of their job on a regular basis. Knowledge workers include a wide variety of job functions such as accountants, attorneys, architects, educators, engineers, graphic designers, insurance underwriters and stock analysts. These jobs typically require the sharing of information either as a static, published document or as a collaborative, interactive document.7Table of ContentsKnowledge workers must create information and content from a variety of sources and software applications, and be able to exchange this information within a reliable format that ensures coworkers and constituents can reliably and securely access the information. When appropriate, this information often needs to be protected, authenticated, or securely managed and controlled.Document-based collaboration among knowledge workers can occur through face-to-face meetings, via phone calls, through e-mail or through web conferencing technologies. Knowledge workers who participate in collaborations with their colleagues may be located in offices next door to each other, or in different parts of the world. These team members may change with every project and either be part of an organization's employee base, or be an external consultant or third-party partner. We believe there is a significant opportunity to provide solutions which enable knowledge workers to communicate and collaborate across technical, geographical and social boundaries, both inside and outside of their companies. We believe that with such solutions, users can collaborate and efficiently manage feedback from their colleagues in both real time and on-demand, and control how, when and by whom information is accessed.Since the early 1990s, our Acrobat family of products has provided for the reliable creation and exchange of electronic documents, regardless of platform or application source type. Users can collaborate on documents with electronic comments and tailor the security of a file in order to distribute reliable Adobe PDF documents that can be viewed, printed or interacted with utilizing the free Adobe Reader. Available in different versions which target a variety of user needs, Acrobat provides essential electronic document capabilities and services to help knowledge workers accomplish a wide range of ad hoc tasks involving digital documents ranging from simple publications to forms to mission critical engineering and architectural plans. Although Acrobat has achieved strong market adoption in document-intensive industries such as government, financial services, pharmaceutical, legal, aerospace, insurance and technical publishing, we believe there are tens of millions of users who need capabilities such as those provided by Acrobat who have not yet licensed an Acrobat solution.For several years, we have offered additional cloud-based Acrobat services to supplement the features of Acrobat and provide knowledge workers with centralized online file sharing and storage capabilities, as well as simple PDF creation and converting PDF to other file formats. With our new Acrobat XI software and its innovative cloud services that were released in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we've significantly extended the capabilities of our solution. With Acrobat cloud services, users can take advantage of electronic document signing with Adobe EchoSign, complete form management with Adobe FormsCentral, and utilize other features such as Adobe SendNow and Acrobat.com.With Adobe EchoSign, companies can expedite document and web contract approvals. Users of EchoSign can send an electronic document to others for signing, keep track of who's signed it, and store their signed contracts online. This enables faster, more efficient and cost-effective customer interaction. Our FormsCentral cloud service enables companies to create, distribute, and analyze forms without writing code. Templates can be used to build new forms, or users can design forms from scratch. Our FormsCentral solution collects all responses and helps customers share real-time results with their colleagues. SendNow enables customers to share large files more easily rather than using email attachments. Acrobat.com provides services to customers so they can store their documents online and have access to them from virtually anywhere using a computer or mobile device.Combined, Acrobat and Acrobat cloud services increasingly provide more value to knowledge workers. The cloud services serve as additional value to Acrobat customers, thereby further entrenching the use of Acrobat and PDF as part of our customers' day-to-day businesses.Digital Media Business SummaryIn the second quarter of fiscal 2012, we delivered CS6, the newest release of our creative toolset. CS6 provided numerous feature enhancements, particularly in the areas of mobile device content creation, website development with new HTML5 capabilities, digital imaging, digital publishing for tablets and product performance.The launch of CS6 was also the cornerstone of our new Creative Cloud subscription offering, which was also delivered in the second quarter of fiscal 2012. Adoption of Creative Cloud subscriptions in the launch quarter exceeded our expectation as we believe the value of the new offering was attractive to both existing and new users of our creative tools. We also believe the low monthly payment options with Creative Cloud, as opposed to paying for perpetual licenses up front, has attracted more price-sensitive customers to license our creative products, as well as migrate existing users to the newest release. In the subsequent third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2012, we achieved accelerated adoption of Creative Cloud. In each of these three quarters, the success of Creative Cloud subscription adoption adversely affected reported revenue as we recognize revenue associated with our subscription offerings ratably whereas revenue associated with our perpetual licenses is generally recognized at the time of initially licensing the products. Our DPS solution achieved strong growth in fiscal 2012 based on broad adoption by magazine and newspaper publishers to deliver engaging, branded reading experiences of their publications to mobile and tablet devices. During the year, we continued 8Table of Contentsto innovate with DPS, leveraging new innovations in CS6 products such as Adobe 