BUSINESSFounded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals including photographers, video editors, designers and developers; communicators including content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers; businesses of all sizes; and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (“VARs”), systems integrators (“SIs”), independent software vendors (“ISVs”), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”); and Asia-Pacific (“APAC”).Adobe was originally incorporated in California in October 1983 and was reincorporated in Delaware in May 1997. Our executive offices and principal facilities are located at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000 and our website is www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the SEC website at www.sec.gov. The information posted to our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.BUSINESS OVERVIEWFor over 35 years, Adobe’s innovations have transformed how individuals, teams, businesses and governments engage and interact with their constituents in print and online. We help our customers create and deliver the most compelling experiences in streamlined workflows and optimize those experiences for greater return on investment. Our solutions turn ordinary interactions into valuable digital experiences, across media and devices, anytime, anywhere.While we continue to offer a broad portfolio of products, services and solutions, we focus our investments in two strategic growth areas:Digital Media – providing products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere and accelerate their productivity by modernizing how they view, share and engage with documents and creative content. Our customers include creative professionals like photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers, and app and game developers; communicators like content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content; and consumers. This is the core of what we have delivered for decades, and we have evolved our business model to provide our customers with a range of 3Table of Contentsflexible solutions that allow them to reach their full creative potential anytime, anywhere, on any device, and on projects of all types.Digital Experience – providing a comprehensive and integrated platform and set of applications and services through Adobe Experience Cloud that enable brands and businesses of all sizes to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer experiences that span from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers, marketing executives, information management and technology executives, product development executives and sales and support executives. Underpinning Adobe Experience Cloud is our Adobe Experience Platform, which provides businesses and brands with an open and extensible platform for customer experience management that transforms customer data into real-time robust customer profiles and uses insights driven by artificial intelligence (“AI”) to enable the delivery of personalized digital experiences in milliseconds. By combining the creativity of our Digital Media business with the science of our Digital Experience offerings, we help our customers more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across channels and devices with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop.We believe we are uniquely positioned to be a leader in both the Digital Media and Digital Experience markets, where our mission to change the world through digital experiences has never been more relevant, as people seek new ways to communicate, learn and conduct business virtually. By integrating products from each of these areas, our customers are able to utilize a comprehensive suite of solutions and services that no other company currently offers. In addition, our ability to deliver innovation and productivity improvements across customer workflows involving the creation, management, delivery, measurement and optimization of engaging content favorably positions Adobe as our customers continue to invest in delivering digital experiences.SEGMENTSOur business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience and Publishing and Advertising. These segments provide Adobe’s senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities further described below, placing our Publishing and Advertising business in a third segment that contains some of our legacy products and solutions.In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we moved our Adobe Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into our Publishing and Advertising segment in order to more closely align our Digital Experience business with our strategic growth priorities.MARKET OVERVIEWThis overview provides an explanation of our markets and a discussion of strategic opportunities in fiscal 2021 and beyond for each of our segments. See “Results of Operations” within Part II, Item 7 titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 2 of Part II, Item 8 titled “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further segment information.Digital MediaDigital Media OpportunityRecent technology trends in digital communications continue to provide a significant market opportunity for Adobe in digital media. Everyone has a story to tell — from creative professionals, to communicators, to consumers — and with content creation and consumption exploding across every type of device, they need the tools to tell those stories on an ever-increasing number of canvasses. In today’s world where the velocity of creation and consumption of digital content is constantly growing, design and creativity have never been more relevant and customers are looking for a way to meet demand with engaging online experiences. Adobe is in a strong position to capitalize on this opportunity with innovation that will accelerate the creative process across all platforms and devices, deepen engagement with communities and accelerate long-term revenue growth by focusing on cloud-based offerings, which are licensed on a subscription basis.The flagship of our Digital Media business is Adobe Creative Cloud — a subscription service that allows members to use Adobe’s creative products integrated with cloud-delivered services across desktop, web and mobile devices. Creative Cloud addresses the needs of creative professionals such as artists, designers, developers, students and administrators, as well as knowledge workers, marketers, educators, hobbyists, communicators and consumers, all of whom use our products to create and deliver content. Our customers rely on our products for content creation, design, video and animation production, mobile app and gaming development, and document creation and collaboration. End users of our creative products work in businesses of all sizes ranging from large publishers, media companies and global enterprises, to smaller design agencies and individual freelancers. Moreover, our creative products are used to create much of the printed and online information people see, read and 4Table of Contentsinteract with every day, including video, animation, mobile and advertising content. We have introduced new products, features and services to address emerging categories of content creation, such as voice-based prototyping, refined content creation tools, 3D, augmented reality (“AR”), virtual reality and user experience design across devices and platforms. Digital content creation has transcended the desktop and so we continue to expand our footprint on tablets and mobile devices with touch-first and stylus-first apps like Photoshop for iPad, Illustrator for iPad, Adobe Fresco, Adobe Spark, Adobe Aero, Premiere Rush, Photoshop Express and Photoshop Camera. Creative Cloud members can download and access the latest versions of our creative products such as Photoshop, Illustrator, Adobe Premiere Pro, Lightroom, InDesign, Adobe XD and many more creative applications. To expand our reach and improve the way we serve the needs of our customers, we create different combinations of these services, including our applications with free and paid tiers such as Adobe XD and Adobe Fresco, that have brought new customers into our franchise. In addition, members can access built-in templates and presets created by the Adobe user community to jumpstart designs and step-by-step interactive tutorials to sharpen their skills and get up to speed quickly. Through Creative Cloud, members can access online services to sync, store and share files across users’ devices, access marketplace, social and community-based features within our Adobe Stock and Behance services, and create apps and websites, all at affordable subscription pricing. New projects announced and solutions offered include Illustrator on iPad and Adobe Fresco on iPhone, both of which will enable a seamless content creation experience across devices and help us continue to attract a tablet- and mobile-centric audience.Adobe continues to redefine the creative process with Creative Cloud so that our customers can obtain everything they need to create, collaborate and be inspired. One part of our strategy is Adobe Sensei, a proprietary framework and set of intelligent services for dramatically improving the design and delivery of digital experiences. Adobe Sensei leverages Adobe’s massive content and data assets, as well as its deep domain expertise in the creative, marketing and document segments, within a unified AI and machine learning framework to help customers discover hidden opportunities, reduce tedious processes and offer relevant experiences to every customer.Adobe’s Digital Media segment includes our Document Cloud business, built around our Acrobat family of products and a unified, cloud-based document services platform, which includes Acrobat, Adobe Sign and Adobe Scan. Digital documents have a mission-critical role in powering modern businesses with tens of millions of communicators worldwide interacting with documents every day. Across industries and across the world, business processes from contracting to invoicing to employee onboarding are making the change from paper to digital documents, a trend that has accelerated as businesses of all sizes shifted to remote work as a result of the pandemic. Cloud services and mobile devices are reshaping how we work, enabling greater flexibility and collaboration across global, dispersed teams. For over 25 years, Acrobat has provided for the reliable creation and exchange of digital documents, regardless of platform or application source type. Users can collaborate on documents with comments and tailor the security of a file in order to distribute reliable Adobe PDF documents that can be viewed, printed or filled out utilizing our free Acrobat Reader app on any device. Acrobat provides essential digital document capabilities and services across desktop, mobile devices and the web to help knowledge workers and communicators accomplish a wide variety of tasks ranging from simple publications and forms to mission-critical engineering documentation and architectural plans. With our Acrobat product family and its innovative cloud services, we have extended the capabilities of our Sensei-powered document actions, from view and create, to edit, secure, scan, review, embed, share and sign. Users can create a PDF with just the camera on their phone with Adobe Scan, easily read and edit PDFs on tablets and mobile devices with the Acrobat Reader app on iOS and Android, and turn slow, manual signing processes into automated experiences by collecting signatures with Adobe Sign.  Digital Media StrategyOur goal is to be the leading platform for creativity where we offer a range of products and services that allow individuals, small and medium businesses, enterprises and government institutions, and both professionals and enthusiasts, to design and deliver amazing digital content.We believe there is significant opportunity for growth across all customer segments and expect Adobe Creative Cloud will drive sustained long-term revenue growth through a continued expansion of our customer base by using our products to enable everyone to create and tell their stories on a variety of surfaces and platforms, expanding into new categories and technologies like immersive 3D and AR, making the creative process more iterative and collaborative with seamless cloud-enabled collaboration and workflows, delivering intelligent, time-saving features with Adobe Sensei’s artificial intelligence and machine learning capabilities, and acquiring new users by engaging with the creative community with live tutorials and our social communities like Behance. We will continue to deepen our relationship with existing users through data-driven customer engagement, meeting their needs holistically and delivering additional features and increased value, by offering products and features powered by AI and machine learning through Adobe Sensei. We continue to develop more applications and features like Creative Cloud Libraries that enable collaboration and allow our customers to seamlessly share and access their assets in the cloud. With solutions like 5Table of ContentsAdobe Fresco for iPhone, Illustrator for iPad, and “Liquid Mode”, a breakthrough reading experience for PDFs on Acrobat for mobile devices, our customers can use our tools wherever inspiration strikes, whether on mobile, tablet, desktop or web. We are embracing new frontiers in technology and creativity such as immersive 3D and AR experiences with Adobe Aero and our Substance suite of products. We are pursuing new ways to engage and inspire our community and help our customers develop creative skills such as allowing creators to live-stream their creative process on Behance directly from native Creative Cloud applications and allowing users to learn with step-by-step, in-app, interactive tutorials from experienced creators. With our Adobe Stock and Adobe Fonts services, we offer marketplaces that are built into our Creative Cloud products for Creative Cloud subscribers to purchase stock content and fonts.As appropriate, we plan to optimize our pricing strategy and move our customers to higher-priced and better-value offerings and continue to employ targeted promotions that attract past customers and potential users to try out and ultimately subscribe to Adobe Creative Cloud. To target new customers and better address the needs of our existing customers, we will continue to invest in driving innovation to maintain the leadership position that we have established. As part of our Creative Cloud strategy, we utilize a data-driven operating model and our Adobe Experience Cloud solutions to drive and optimize customer awareness, engagement and licensing of our creative products and services at every stop of the customer journey through our website and across other channels. Adobe.com is the central destination where we engage individual and small business customers to sign up for and renew Creative Cloud subscriptions. We offer free apps and trials, as well as our mobile and tablet apps, to attract new customers and use our data-driven operating model to optimize conversion of these customers to paid subscribers. Our collaboration services also help us expand our universe of business customers beyond creative professionals, as other stakeholders use our products for review purposes, copywriting or leveraging templates for social media marketing. We utilize channel partners to target mid-size creative customers with our Creative Cloud for teams offering. Our direct sales force is focused on building relationships with our largest customers and driving adoption of our Creative Cloud for enterprise offering. Overall, our strategy with Creative Cloud is designed to enable us to increase our revenue with users, attract more new customers, and grow a recurring and predictable revenue stream that is recognized ratably.We offer many of the products included in Creative Cloud on a standalone basis, including subscriptions to the Creative Cloud version of certain point products. We also offer a range of other creative tools and services, including our hobbyist products such as Photoshop Elements and Premiere Elements, libraries of creative assets like Adobe Stock and Adobe Fonts and tailored, mobile-first apps such as Photoshop Camera, Adobe Aero, Adobe Capture, Adobe Fresco for iPhone, Premiere Rush and Adobe Spark that allow creators to capture, create, enhance and share content within seconds. Further descriptions of our Digital Media products are included below under “Principal Products and Services.”In our Adobe Document Cloud business, Adobe Acrobat has achieved strong market adoption and a leadership position in document-intensive industries such as government, financial services, pharmaceutical, legal, aerospace, insurance and technical publishing. Trillions of PDF documents are created every year, which reflects the growing role PDF plays across practically every segment of the economy, and we believe there remain hundreds of millions of users in industries that engage with PDF files on a daily basis like legal, financial services or publishing, as well as a broader array of communicators and Acrobat Reader users, who need the capabilities provided by our Acrobat applications and the document services platform found in Document Cloud. As digital documents and processes become central to business continuity in today’s remote work environment, the paper-to-digital transformation is accelerating and we’re accelerating document productivity in turn with Adobe Document Cloud, enabling individuals and businesses to operate successfully. We expect to drive sustained long-term revenue growth in Document Cloud through a continued expansion of our customer base by delivering the best PDF experience on every platform and across platforms, expanding the number of actions and features in Acrobat, using Adobe Sensei across our document products and services to make both new and legacy documents more intelligent and responsive, and investing in embedded document services such as integrating Acrobat and Adobe Sign functionality in third-party applications.  As with our Creative Cloud strategy, we utilize a data-driven operating model to market our Document Cloud solutions and optimize our subscription-based pricing for individuals as well as small and medium-sized businesses, large enterprises and government institutions around the world. We aim to increase our seat penetration in our key markets through the utilization of our corporate and volume licensing programs. We also intend to increase our focus on marketing and licensing Acrobat in targeted vertical markets such as education, financial services, telecommunications and government, as well as on expanding into emerging markets. We will continue to engage in strategic partnerships to help drive the enterprise business, including our partnerships with Microsoft, Workday, ServiceNow and Notarize. Our Document Cloud customers increasingly expect business processes to be seamless across desktop, web and mobile devices. Acrobat Reader on mobile devices can be used to create, edit, export, combine, collaborate on and share PDFs on the go and the new “Liquid Mode” feature automatically reformats text, images and tables for quick navigation and consumption on smaller screens. The Adobe Scan app for mobile devices can be used to capture paper documents as images and transform them into full-featured PDFs via Document Cloud services that can be shared immediately, essentially putting scanning 6Table of Contentscapabilities in the pocket of every person with a mobile device. We are delivering quick access to PDF document services on the web, allowing users to create, edit, convert and compress PDFs on Adobe.com. Our Adobe Sign service also provides a green alternative to costly paper-based solutions, and is a more modern and convenient way for customers to digitally manage their documents, processes and contract workflows. We believe that by growing the awareness of electronic signatures in the broader contract delivery and signing market, utilizing Adobe Sensei to enhance customer experiences through machine learning and AI, and continuing to add new capabilities to our Acrobat, Adobe Scan and Adobe Sign offerings, we can help our customers migrate away from paper-based express mailing and adopt our solution to modernize and digitize document experiences, growing our revenue with this business in the process. Digital ExperienceDigital Experience OpportunityDigital transformation is a macro trend that affects every business, government and educational institution today – making every business a digital business. Consumers today buy experiences, not just products, and they demand compelling and personalized experiences in their digital interactions that are well-designed, context-aware, seamless and secure across channels and devices. Enterprises and brands recognize that customers have more choices and lower switching costs than ever before. In this new hyper-connected digital environment, it is the customer experience that differentiates brands and ultimately determines customer loyalty. As a result, businesses must determine how to best attract, engage, acquire and retain customers in a digital world where the reach and quality of experiences directly impact success. Business customers are consumers too, and they increasingly have the same expectations, which are driving business-to-business (“B2B”) companies to deliver business-to-consumer (“B2C”) experiences with a “business-to-everyone” (“B2E”) strategy. Delivering the best experience to a consumer at a given moment requires the right combination of data, insights and content across multiple channels in real time. To deliver these multi-channel experiences that are personalized to every customer, executives are increasingly demanding solutions that optimize their consumers’ experiences in real time and deliver the greatest return on marketing and IT spend so they can demonstrate the business impact of their programs using objective metrics. For the past decade, Adobe Experience Cloud has helped businesses provide exceptional experiences to their customers via a comprehensive suite of solutions. We continue to believe that addressing the challenges of customer experience management is a large and growing opportunity and we are in position to help our customers digitally transform their businesses. The world’s leading brands are increasingly steering their marketing, advertising and development budgets toward digital experiences. As more and more enterprises continue this move to digital, our opportunity is accelerating as brands seek vendors to help them navigate this transition. Enterprises have a mandate to deliver meaningful experiences to their consumers across digital channels where consumers expect experiences to be consistent and personalized.Our Adobe Experience Cloud business targets this large and growing opportunity to help companies deliver the most engaging customer experiences by providing an integrated, comprehensive set of solutions for customer experience management. Together, our applications, services and platforms provide real-time data and insights, deliver personalized content and commerce at scale, enable customer journey management and provide a powerful platform for work management. Our solutions address analytics, personalization, digital experience management, marketing automation and engagement, cross-channel campaign management, content management, creative asset management, audience management, digital commerce, order management, predictive intelligence and monetization. Collectively, these comprehensive solutions enable marketers to measure, personalize and optimize digital experiences across all channels and touch points to drive stronger business performance throughout the customer journey.We believe the market for Adobe Experience Cloud is large and rapidly growing as more businesses and enterprises invest in solutions that aid their goals to transform how they engage with their customers and constituents digitally.Digital Experience StrategyOur goal is to be the leading provider of cloud-based solutions for delivering digital experiences and enabling digital transformation. The Adobe Experience Cloud applications and services are designed to manage customer journeys, enable shoppable experiences and deliver intelligence for businesses of any size in any industry. Our differentiation and competitive advantage is strengthened by our ability to use the Adobe Experience Platform to connect our comprehensive set of solutions.Adobe Experience Cloud delivers the following sets of solutions for our customers:•Customer data and insights. Our solutions deliver real-time customer profiles and intelligence across the customer journey. Adobe Analytics provides an experience system of intelligence for real-time cross-channel data, insights and activations across every channel. Adobe Audience Manager, our data management platform, helps digital publishers build unique audience profiles to identify the most valuable segments and use them across any digital 7Table of Contentschannel. Adobe Experience Platform ingests, processes and stitches data across sources, channels and customer interactions in real time to create robust unified customer profiles. Adobe’s Real-time Customer Data Platform service, built on Adobe Experience Platform, delivers real-time personalization at scale to enable brands to bring together known and unknown customer data to activate customer profiles across channels and leverage intelligent decision making throughout the customer journey. Our Customer Journey Analytics service brings a powerful set of analytics tools to omnichannel data in Adobe Experience Platform, providing brands viewing data across channels an easy, interactive way to dig deeper and uncover new insights, while making analytics more accessible across their organization.•Content and commerce. We offer solutions to help customers manage, deliver, test, target and optimize content delivery and enable shopping experiences that scale from mid-market to enterprise businesses. Our leading digital experience management solution, Adobe Experience Manager, helps customers organize, create, manage and deliver creative assets and other content across digital marketing channels, including web, mobile, email, communities and video, enabling customers to improve their market and brand perception and provide a personalized experience to their consumers. Adobe Target is a personalization engine that lets our customers test, target and optimize content using machine learning across multiple apps and the web. Adobe Commerce, which integrates with Adobe Experience Manager, enables our customers to create content and promotions for storefronts on every platform and provides a highly customizable and scalable end-to-end platform to manage, personalize and optimize the commerce experience across every touchpoint by bringing together digital commerce, order management and predictive intelligence to enable engaging shopping experiences across B2C and B2B. •Customer journey management. Our solutions help businesses manage, personalize and orchestrate campaigns and customer journeys across B2E use cases. Adobe Campaign enables marketers to manage the B2C customer journey and use rich customer data to create, coordinate and deliver dynamic, personalized experiences that are synchronized across multiple channels and determined by each consumer’s behaviors and preferences. Marketo Engage is a complete customer experience management solution optimized for B2B, cross-channel campaigns requiring lead management, account-based marketing and revenue attribution technology by bringing together planning, engagement and measurement capabilities into an integrated marketing platform. Our Journey Orchestration service, built on Adobe Experience Platform, enables businesses to tailor individual journeys for every customer based on their previous behavior and preferences. •Work management. Our work management solution is powered by Workfront, a leading work management platform for marketers. Workfront helps customers orchestrate content creation and campaign workflows across marketing and creative teams.Adobe acquired Workfront, Inc. on December 7, 2020 and began integrating its work management platform into the Adobe Experience Cloud. Workfront is a configurable cloud platform for enterprise work management that gives teams one central platform to share ideas, create content and manage complex processes. During the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we began to discontinue our transaction-driven Advertising Cloud offerings, allowing us to focus our investment on strategic growth initiatives. We continue to offer our Advertising Cloud software solutions, but they are not expected to be areas of revenue growth. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we moved our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into our Publishing and Advertising segment, in order to more closely align our Digital Experience business with the strategic growth opportunity.We believe the AI and machine learning framework enabled by our strategy with Adobe Sensei enhances the delivery of digital experiences. Adobe Experience Cloud offers domain-specific AI services powered by Adobe Sensei that work with Adobe Experience Platform to augment existing Experience Cloud product offerings. These AI services help provide domain-specific intelligence in areas such as attribution and automated insights, customer journey management, lead management, sentiment analysis, one-click personalization, enhanced anomaly detection and more. By building on existing features and these AI-powered services, we believe Adobe Sensei will increase the value we provide our customers and create a competitive differentiation in the market.Adobe Experience Cloud also offers an open platform and ecosystem through its multi-cloud foundation, the Adobe Experience Platform, AI services powered by Adobe Sensei and developer services through Adobe I/O. Adobe Experience Platform provides the underlying infrastructure to make customer experience management possible by standardizing data into an easily sharable format consumable by Adobe Sensei and provides an open and extensible cloud infrastructure for Adobe Experience Cloud that allows data to flow freely within the Adobe Experience Platform and between Adobe Experience Cloud solutions and third-party software. This open architecture offers scalability with a wide variety of supporting products and 8Table of Contentsservices, empowers users to quickly develop innovative applications to interact with consumers, and enables a broad industry ecosystem.To drive growth of Adobe Experience Cloud, we are focused on delivering the best customer experience management solutions 