BUSINESSFounded in 1982, Adobe Inc. is one of the largest and most diversified software companies in the world. We offer a line of products and services used by creative professionals, marketers, knowledge workers, students, application developers, enterprises and consumers for creating, managing, delivering, measuring, optimizing, engaging and transacting with compelling content and experiences across personal computers, devices and media. We market our products and services directly to enterprise customers through our sales force and local field offices. We license our products to end users through app stores and our own website at www.adobe.com. We offer many of our products via a Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) model or a managed services model (both of which are referred to as hosted or cloud-based) as well as through term subscription and pay-per-use models. We also distribute certain products and services through a network of distributors, value-added resellers (“VARs”), systems integrators (“SIs”), independent software vendors (“ISVs”), retailers, software developers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”). In addition, we license our technology to hardware manufacturers, software developers and service providers for use in their products and solutions. Our products run on personal and server-based computers, as well as on smartphones, tablets and other devices, depending on the product. We have operations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”), and Asia-Pacific (“APAC”).Adobe was originally incorporated in California in October 1983 and was reincorporated in Delaware in May 1997. Our executive offices and principal facilities are located at 345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California 95110-2704. Our telephone number is 408-536-6000 and our website is www.adobe.com. Investors can obtain copies of our SEC filings from this site free of charge, as well as from the SEC website at www.sec.gov. The information posted to our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.BUSINESS OVERVIEWFor over 35 years, Adobe’s innovations have transformed how individuals, teams, businesses and governments engage and interact with their constituents in print and online. We help our customers create and deliver the most compelling experiences in a streamlined workflow and optimize those experiences for greater return on investment. Our solutions turn ordinary interactions into valuable digital experiences, across media and devices, anytime, anywhere.While we continue to offer a broad portfolio of products, services and solutions, we focus our investments in two strategic growth areas:Digital Media – providing products, services and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish and promote their content anywhere. Our customers include creative professionals like photographers, video editors, graphic and experience designers, and application and game developers; communicators like content creators, students, marketers and knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content; and consumers. This is the core of what we have delivered for decades, and we have evolved our business model to provide our customers with a range of flexible solutions that allow them to reach their full creative potential anytime, anywhere, on any device on projects of all types.Digital Experience – providing a comprehensive and integrated platform and set of applications and services through Adobe Experience Cloud that enables businesses and brands to create, manage, execute, measure, monetize and optimize customer  3Table of Contentsexperiences that span from advertising to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers, marketing executives, information management and technology executives, product development executives and sales and support executives. Underpinning Adobe Experience Cloud is our Adobe Experience Platform, which provides businesses and brands with an open and extensible platform for customer experience management with real-time customer profiles that enable deep customer insights and the delivery of personalized digital experiences in milliseconds. By combining the creativity of our Digital Media business with the science of our Digital Experience offerings, we help our customers more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across channels and devices with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop.We believe we are uniquely positioned to be a leader in both the Digital Media and Digital Experience markets, where our mission is to change the world through digital experiences. By integrating products from each of these areas, our customers are able to utilize a comprehensive suite of solutions and services that no other company currently offers. In addition, our ability to deliver innovation and productivity improvements across customer workflows involving the creation, management, delivery, measurement and optimization of engaging content favorably positions Adobe as our customers continue to invest in delivering digital experiences.SEGMENTSOur business is organized into three reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience and Publishing. These segments provide Adobe’s senior management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. Our segments are aligned around our two strategic growth opportunities described above, placing our Publishing business in a third segment that contains some of our mature products and solutions.MARKET OVERVIEWThis overview provides an explanation of our markets and a discussion of strategic opportunities in fiscal 2020 and beyond for each of our segments. See “Results of Operations” within Part II, Item 7 titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 2 of Part II, Item 8 titled “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further segment information.Digital MediaDigital Media OpportunityRecent technology trends in digital communications continue to provide a significant market opportunity for Adobe in digital media. Everyone has a story to tell — from creative professionals, to students and knowledge workers, to immersive content and experience designers — and they need to tell those stories on an ever-increasing number of canvasses. In today’s world where the velocity of creation and consumption of digital content is constantly growing, design and creativity have never been more relevant and customers are looking for a way to meet demand with engaging online experiences. Adobe is in a strong position to capitalize on this opportunity with innovation that will accelerate the creative process across all platforms and devices, deepen engagement with communities and accelerate long-term revenue growth by focusing on cloud-based offerings, which are licensed on a subscription basis.The flagship of our Digital Media business is Adobe Creative Cloud — a subscription service that allows members to use Adobe’s creative products integrated with cloud-delivered services across desktop, web and mobile devices. Creative Cloud members can download and access the latest versions of our creative products such as Photoshop, Illustrator, Premiere Pro, Lightroom, InDesign, Adobe XD and many more creative applications. To expand our reach and improve the way we serve the needs of our customers, we create different combinations of these services, including our applications with free and paid tiers such as Adobe Lightroom Mobile that have brought new customers into our franchise and increased our footprint on mobile devices.  In addition, members can access built-in templates and presets created by the Adobe user community to jumpstart designs and step-by-step interactive tutorials to sharpen their skills and get up to speed quickly. Through Creative Cloud, members can access online services to sync, store and share files across users’ devices, access marketplace, social and community-based features within our Adobe Stock and Behance services, and create apps and websites, all at affordable subscription pricing.Adobe continues to redefine the creative process with Adobe Creative Cloud so that our customers can obtain everything they need to create, collaborate and be inspired. One part of our strategy is Adobe Sensei, a proprietary framework and set of intelligent services for dramatically improving the design and delivery of digital experiences. Adobe Sensei leverages Adobe’s massive content and data assets, as well as its deep domain expertise in the creative, marketing and document segments, within a unified artificial intelligence (“AI”) and machine learning framework to help customers discover hidden opportunities, reduce tedious processes and offer relevant experiences to every customer. 4Table of ContentsAdobe Creative Cloud addresses the needs of creative professionals such as artists, designers, developers, students and administrators, as well as knowledge workers, marketers, educators, hobbyists and consumers, who also use our products to create and deliver content. Our customers rely on our products for content creation, design, video and animation production, mobile app and gaming development and document creation and collaboration. End users of our creative products work in businesses of all sizes ranging from large publishers, media companies and global enterprises, to smaller design agencies and individual freelancers. Moreover, our creative products are used to create much of the printed and online information people see, read and interact with every day, including video, animation, mobile and advertising content. We have introduced new products, features and services to address emerging categories of content creation across devices and platforms, such as voice-based prototyping, refined content creation tools, 3D, augmented reality, virtual reality and user experience design. New projects announced and solutions offered include: Substance, a suite of applications for creating, mixing and applying textures and materials for 3D creations; Adobe Fresco, a mobile drawing and painting application, featuring live brushes that mimic natural media like oil paint and watercolors in amazingly lifelike ways; Adobe Aero, a free iOS application for viewing, building and sharing immersive and interactive augmented reality experiences; Photoshop Camera, an AI-driven mobile camera application launching in 2020 powered by Adobe Sensei featuring unique Photoshop lenses and camera effects right inside the camera; and both Illustrator on iPad, which will be available in 2020, and Photoshop on iPad to enable a seamless content creation experience across devices and attract a new, mobile-centric audience.Adobe’s Digital Media segment includes our Adobe Document Cloud business, built around our Acrobat family of products, including Adobe Acrobat and Adobe Acrobat Reader, and a set of integrated, cloud-based document services, including Adobe Sign and Adobe Scan. Tens of millions of knowledge workers worldwide interact with documents daily. Across industries and across the world, business processes from contracting to invoicing to employee onboarding are making the change from paper to electronic documents. Cloud services and mobile devices are reshaping how we work in ways that are more ad hoc, collaborative, unstructured and on the go. For over 25 years, Acrobat has provided for the reliable creation and exchange of electronic documents, regardless of platform or application source type. Users can collaborate on documents with electronic comments and tailor the security of a file in order to distribute reliable Adobe PDF documents that can be viewed, printed or filled out utilizing our free Acrobat Reader on any device. Acrobat provides essential electronic document capabilities and services across desktop, mobile devices and the web to help knowledge workers accomplish a wide variety of tasks ranging from simple publications and forms to mission-critical engineering documentation and architectural plans. With our Acrobat product and its innovative cloud services, we have extended the capabilities of our document solutions, from view and create, to edit, secure, scan, review, embed, share and sign. Users can create a PDF with just the camera on their phone with Adobe Scan, edit PDFs on the go with Acrobat on iOS and Android, and turn slow, manual signing processes into automated experiences and collect signatures with Adobe Sign.  Digital Media StrategyOur goal is to be the leading platform for creativity where we offer a range of products and services that allow individuals, teams and enterprises, and both professionals and enthusiasts, to design and deliver amazing digital content.We believe there is significant opportunity for growth across all customer segments and expect Adobe Creative Cloud will drive sustained long-term revenue growth through a continued expansion of our customer base by using our products to enable everyone to create and tell their stories, expanding into new categories and technologies like immersive 3D and augmented reality, making the creative process more productive with cloud-enabled collaboration and workflows, delivering intelligent, time-saving features with Adobe Sensei’s artificial intelligence and machine learning capabilities, and acquiring new users by engaging with the creative community. We will continue to deepen our relationship with existing users through meeting their needs holistically and delivering additional features and increased value, including through data-driven customer engagement, AI and machine learning through Adobe Sensei, and offering a true “multi-surface platform” that provides our customers with the ability to use our tools for creation wherever inspiration strikes, by enabling them to seamlessly access their assets in the cloud and work across mobile, tablet and desktop with new applications like Adobe Fresco and Photoshop for iPad. We are embracing new frontiers in technology and creativity such as immersive 3D and augmented reality (“AR”) experiences with Adobe Aero and our Substance suite of products. We are pursuing new ways to help our customers develop creative skills such as allowing creators to live-stream their creative process on Behance and allowing users to learn with step-by-step, in-app, interactive tutorials from experienced creators. As appropriate, we plan to optimize our pricing strategy and move our customers to higher priced and better value offerings and continue to employ targeted promotions that attract past customers and potential users to try out and ultimately subscribe to Adobe Creative Cloud. To target new customers and better address the needs of our existing customers, we will continue to invest in driving innovation to maintain the leadership position that we have established. We offer a marketplace for Creative Cloud subscribers to enable the delivery and purchase of stock content in our Adobe Stock service. Overall, our strategy with Creative Cloud is designed to enable us to increase our revenue with users, attract more new customers and grow a recurring and predictable revenue stream that is recognized ratably. 5Table of ContentsAs part of our Adobe Creative Cloud strategy, we utilize a data-driven operating model and our Adobe Experience Cloud solutions to drive and optimize customer awareness, engagement and licensing of our creative products and services at every stop of the customer journey through our website and across other channels. Adobe.com is increasingly becoming the destination site where we engage individual and small business customers to sign up for and renew Creative Cloud subscriptions. We offer free apps and trials to attract new customers and through a data-driven model, we optimize conversion of these trialists to paid subscribers. We utilize channel partners to target mid-size creative customers with our Creative Cloud for teams offering. Our direct sales force is focused on building relationships with our largest customers and driving adoption of our Creative Cloud for enterprise offering.We offer many of the products included in Adobe Creative Cloud on a standalone basis, including subscriptions to the Creative Cloud version of certain point products. We also offer a range of other creative tools and services, including our hobbyist products such as Photoshop Elements and Premiere Elements, Adobe Fonts and mobile apps such as Photoshop Express, Photoshop Sketch, Adobe Capture, Premiere Rush and Adobe Spark. Further descriptions of our Digital Media products are included below under “Principal Products and Services.”In our Adobe Document Cloud business, Adobe Acrobat has achieved strong market adoption and a leadership position in document-intensive industries such as government, financial services, pharmaceutical, legal, aerospace, insurance and technical publishing. Trillions of PDF documents are created every year and we believe there remain hundreds of millions of users in industries that engage with PDF files on a daily basis like legal, financial services or publishing, as well as a broader array of communicators, knowledge workers and Acrobat Reader users, who need the capabilities provided by our Acrobat applications and the document services platform found in Document Cloud. We expect to drive sustained long-term revenue growth in Adobe Document Cloud through a continued expansion of our customer base by delivering the best PDF experience on every platform and across platforms, expanding the number of actions and features in Acrobat, using Adobe Sensei to make both new and legacy documents more intelligent and responsive, and investing in embedded document services such as integrating Adobe Sign in third-party applications.  As with our Adobe Creative Cloud strategy, we utilize a data-driven operating model to market our Document Cloud solutions to and optimize our subscription-based pricing for individuals as well as small and medium-sized businesses, large enterprises and government institutions around the world. We aim to increase our seat penetration in our key markets through the utilization of our corporate and volume licensing programs. We also intend to increase our focus on marketing and licensing Acrobat in targeted vertical markets such as education, financial services, telecommunications and government, as well as on expanding into emerging markets. We will continue to engage in strategic partnerships to help drive the enterprise business, including our partnership with Microsoft. Our Document Cloud customers increasingly expect business processes to be seamless across desktop, web and mobile devices. Acrobat on mobile devices can be used to create, edit, export, combine, collaborate on and share PDFs on the go and the Adobe Scan app for mobile devices can be used to capture paper documents as images and transform them into full-featured PDFs via Document Cloud services that can be shared immediately, essentially putting scanning capabilities in the pocket of every person. We are delivering PDF document services on the web, such as allowing users to create, convert and compress PDFs on Adobe.com. Our Adobe Sign service also provides a green alternative to costly paper-based solutions, and is a more modern and convenient way for customers to digitally manage their documents, processes and contract workflows. We believe that by growing the awareness of electronic signatures in the broader contract delivery and signing market, utilizing Adobe Sensei to enhance customer experiences through machine learning and AI, and continuing to add new capabilities to our Adobe Scan and Adobe Sign offerings, we can help our customers migrate away from paper-based express mailing and adopt our solution to modernize and digitize document experiences, growing our revenue with this business in the process. Digital ExperienceDigital Experience OpportunityDigital transformation is a macro trend that affects every business, government and educational institution today - making every business a digital business. Consumers today buy experiences, not just products, and they demand compelling experiences in their digital interactions that are seamless across channels and devices. Enterprises and brands recognize that customers have more choices and lower switching costs than ever before. In this new hyper-connected digital environment, it is the customer experience that differentiates brands and ultimately determines customer loyalty. As a result, businesses must determine how to best attract, engage, acquire and retain customers in a digital world where the reach and quality of experiences directly impact success. Business customers are consumers too, and they increasingly have the same expectations, which are driving business-to-business (“B2B”) companies to deliver business-to-consumer (“B2C”) experiences with a “business-to-everyone” (“B2E”) strategy. Delivering the best experience to a consumer at a given moment requires the right combination of data, insights and content across multiple channels in real time. To deliver these multi-channel experiences that are personalized to every customer, executives are increasingly demanding solutions that optimize their consumers’ experiences in real time and deliver the greatest return on marketing and IT spend so they can demonstrate the business impact of their programs using objective metrics.  6Table of ContentsFor the past decade, Adobe Experience Cloud has helped businesses provide exceptional experiences to their customers via a comprehensive suite of solutions. We believe there is now a significant opportunity to address these challenges of customer experience management and help our customers transform their businesses into “Experience Businesses.” The world’s leading brands are increasingly steering their marketing, advertising and development budgets toward digital experiences. As enterprises make this move to digital, our opportunity is accelerating as brands seek vendors to help them navigate this transition. Enterprises have a mandate to deliver meaningful experiences to their consumers across digital channels and in areas such as sales, support and product interactions where consumers expect experiences to be consistent and personalized.Our Adobe Experience Cloud business targets this large and growing opportunity to help companies deliver the most engaging customer experiences by providing an integrated, comprehensive set of solutions for customer experience management. Together, our applications, services and platforms provide real-time data and insights, deliver content and personalization, enable customer journey management and provide platforms for commerce and advertising management. Our solutions address analytics, targeting, advertising optimization, digital experience management, marketing automation and engagement, cross-channel campaign management, content management, creative asset management, audience management, digital commerce enablement, order management, predictive intelligence and monetization. Collectively, these comprehensive solutions enable marketers to measure, personalize and optimize digital experiences across all channels and touch points to drive stronger business performance throughout the customer journey.We believe the market for Adobe Experience Cloud is large and rapidly growing as more businesses and enterprises invest in solutions that aid their goals to transform how they engage with their customers and constituents digitally.Digital Experience StrategyOur goal is to be the leading provider of cloud-based solutions for delivering digital experiences and enabling digital transformation. The Adobe Experience Cloud applications, services and platform are designed to manage customer journeys, enable shoppable experiences and deliver intelligence for businesses of any size in any industry. Our differentiation and competitive advantage is strengthened by our ability to use the Adobe Experience Platform to connect our comprehensive set of solutions.Adobe Experience Cloud delivers the following sets of solutions for our customers:•Data and insights. Our solutions deliver real-time customer profiles and intelligence across the customer journey. Adobe Analytics provides an experience system of intelligence for real-time cross-channel data, insights and activations across every channel. Adobe Audience Manager, our data management platform, helps digital publishers build unique audience profiles to identify the most valuable segments and use them across any digital channel. Adobe Experience Platform ingests, processes and stitches data across sources, channels and customer interactions in real time to create unified customer profiles. Adobe’s Real-time Customer Data Platform service, built on Adobe Experience Platform, enables brands to bring together known and unknown customer data, to activate customer profiles across channels and leverage intelligent decision-making throughout the customer journey. Our Customer Journey Analytics service brings a powerful set of analytics tools to omnichannel data in Adobe Experience Platform, providing brands viewing data across channels an easy, interactive way to dig deeper and uncover new insights, while making analytics more accessible across their organization.•Content and commerce. We offer solutions to help customers manage, deliver, test, target and optimize content delivery and enable shopping experiences that scale from mid-market to enterprise businesses. Our leading digital experience management solution, Adobe Experience Manager, helps customers organize, create, manage and deliver creative assets and other content across digital marketing channels, including web, mobile, email, communities and video, enabling customers to improve their market and brand perception and provide a personalized experience to their consumers. Adobe Target is a personalization engine that lets our customers test, target and optimize content using machine learning across multiple apps and the web. Magento Commerce, which integrates with Adobe Experience Manager, enables our customers to create content and promotions for storefronts on every platform and provides a highly customizable and scalable end-to-end platform to manage, personalize and optimize the commerce experience across every touchpoint by bringing together digital commerce, order management and predictive intelligence to enable engaging shopping experiences. •Customer journey management. Our solutions help businesses manage, personalize and orchestrate campaigns and customer journeys across B2E use cases. Adobe Campaign enables marketers to manage the B2C customer journey and use rich customer data to create, coordinate and deliver dynamic, personalized experiences that are synchronized across multiple channels and determined by each consumer’s behaviors and preferences. Marketo Engage is a complete customer experience management solution optimized for B2B, cross-channel campaigns requiring lead management, account-based marketing and revenue attribution technology by bringing together planning, engagement and measurement capabilities into an integrated marketing platform. Our Journey Orchestration service, built on Adobe  7Table of ContentsExperience Platform, enables businesses to design, orchestrate and measure event-driven, customer-led journeys across the entire customer lifecycle at the individual level to intelligently anticipate every individual’s needs across their personal journey. •Advertising. Adobe Advertising Cloud delivers an end-to-end platform for managing advertising across traditional TV and digital formats, and simplifies the delivery of video, display and search advertising across channels and screens. Adobe Sensei enables machine learning and predictive intelligence and helps automate digital media buying to traditional TV advertising as well as ad creation. Adobe Advertising Cloud integrates with Adobe Creative Cloud products and combines capabilities from the Adobe Advertising Cloud Demand-Side Platform, Adobe Advertising Cloud Search, Adobe Advertising Cloud TV and Adobe Advertising Cloud Creative offerings.We believe the AI and machine learning framework enabled by our strategy with Adobe Sensei enhances the delivery of digital experiences.  Adobe Experience Cloud offers domain-specific AI services powered by Adobe Sensei that work with Adobe Experience Platform to augment existing Experience Cloud product offerings. These AI services help provide domain-specific intelligence in areas such as attribution and automated insights, customer journey management, lead management, sentiment analysis, one-click personalization, enhanced anomaly detection and more. By building on existing features and these AI-powered services, we believe Adobe Sensei will increase the value we provide our customers and create a competitive differentiation in the market.Adobe Experience Cloud also offers an open platform and ecosystem through its multi-cloud foundation, the Adobe Experience Platform, AI services powered by Adobe Sensei, and developer services through Adobe I/O. Adobe Experience Platform standardizes data into an easily sharable format consumable by Adobe Sensei and provides an open and extensible cloud infrastructure for Adobe Experience Cloud that allows data to flow freely within the Adobe Experience Platform and between Adobe Experience Cloud solutions and third-party software. This open architecture offers scalability with a wide variety of supporting products and services, empowers users to quickly develop innovative applications to interact with consumers, and enables a broad industry ecosystem through our Open Data Initiative, an open alliance among Adobe, Microsoft, SAP and others.To drive growth of Adobe Experience Cloud, we are focused on delivering the best customer experience management solutions for B2E, enterprise and mid-market through our applications, services and platform. We also intend to focus on customer engagement, growing within existing customer accounts, and product differentiation. We are expanding our customers to include Chief Information Officers and continuing to invest in Adobe Experience Platform integrations with Adobe Analytics and Adobe Audience Manager, as well as new services such as Customer Journey Analytics and our Real-time Customer Data Platform, to create a truly comprehensive customer data and insights offering. To give our customers increased flexibility and expand our reach, we are also delivering new functionality through additional services delivered on the Adobe Experience Platform such as Journey Orchestration. We utilize a direct sales force to market and license our Experience Cloud solutions, as well as an extensive ecosystem of partners, including marketing agencies, SIs and ISVs that help license and deploy our solutions to their customers. Strategic partnerships, such as the one we have formed with Microsoft, continue to increase our market reach. We have made significant investments to broaden the scale and size of all of these routes to market and believe these investments will result in continued growth in revenue in our Digital Experience segment in fiscal 2020 and beyond.PublishingOur Publishing segment contains legacy products and services that address diverse market opportunities including eLearning solutions, technical document publishing, web conferencing, document and forms platform, web application development and high-end printing. Graphics professionals and professional publishers continue to require quality, reliability and efficiency in production printing, and our Adobe PostScript and Adobe PDF printing technologies provide advanced functionality to meet the sophisticated requirements of this marketplace. As high-end printing systems evolve and transition to fully digital, composite workflows, we believe we are well positioned to be a supplier of software and technology based on the Adobe PostScript and Adobe PDF standards for use by this industry.We generate revenue by licensing our technology to OEMs that manufacture workflow software, printers and other output devices. In fiscal 2019, we maintained a relatively consistent annual revenue run-rate with the mature products we market and license in our Publishing business. 8Table of ContentsCOMPETITIONThe markets for our products and services are characterized by intense competition, new industry standards, evolvin