 Good morning everyone, it's Kevin from Amdahl Hearing. You'll notice that I'm not in one of the offices today, I'm actually at home getting ready to head down to Starkey World Headquarters. Now some of you may know that Starkey is one of the leading manufacturers of hearing aids in this country. Less of you will know that last year, 2019, Starkey was given an award as one of Time Magazine's Top 100 inventions of the year now the question comes up why would a hearing aid company get one of these awards for one of the best inventions of the year? And what happened is, they decided, at Starkey, to look at the hearing aid is more than just a communication device. Now building research is showing that not only is hearing a communication problem, but it's actually an overall health problem. Starkey has looked at addressing that problem through a product they call Starkey Livio AI, and this year they've bumped up the game even again by releasing something called Livio Edge AI and it's proving to be something even more promising than the original AI. So let's head down to Eden Prairie and see if we can learn something. (intro music) Ok gang, so as promised I am here with one of the experts at Starkey on some of the new products. Now as we know Starkey makes some of the best hearing aids in the world, but we're also going a different direction this time with Starkey (Livio) Edge AI, which is proving to not only be the greatest hearing aid in the world but also to, to look at something from or, look at hearing from an entirely new viewpoint. I have with me today Dr. Sarah Lewandowski, and Dr. Sarah what do you do at Starkey? -I am part of the regional education and training team so I am based in Denver Colorado, I've been working with Starkey for seven years and I love my job! -That's awesome. And so tell me we know again that Starkey makes some really really good hearing aids but what differentiates AI from you know a traditional hearing aid? -Yeah, so what's gonna make AI different is that there are actually inertial sensors embedded directly into the hearing aid itself so we're not relying on the phone to track lots of the data, so we can measure our patient steps, we can measure your brain health by tracking through the data log, and then beyond that, we can also detect if a patient has fallen and alert the approved contacts that they have if they've taken a fall which is really next level AI thinking from the hearing aid itself. -So really this is a hearing aid not just help you with communication, but to help you with your overall health? -Yeah 'cause at Starkey we truly believe that if you hear about her you live better.  -That's amazing so I appreciate your talking to us today if you guys want any other information on Starkey AI, go to www.starkey.com or check us out at www.amdahlhearing.com. Appreciate your joining us today and we look forward to seeing you again! 