 Running a profitable farm today is harder than ever we invest huge amounts of time and energy into our fields but still about 30 percent of our crop goes to waste. With my farm covering many hectares it's really difficult to spot a problem before it's too late. You keep hearing about world hunger, global warming chemical leakages. The farming industry faces enormous challenges to cope with these issues along with the increasing world population. Instead of being discouraged by these problems we decided to build the technology to actually address them. Taranis is a precision agriculture intelligence platform. We use artificial intelligence to provide farmers with reports based on super high-resolution images up to the leaf level so they can intervene earlier in a more targeted way using fewer chemicals. As we began setting up our infrastructure we had two main challenges the first was how do we upload large volumes of image files from remote places all over the world; the second was how do we create a scalable infrastructure powerful enough to test complex machine learning models and train those models to identify diseases and pests before they spread Google Cloud Platform provided the answer. We started by uploading around 700,000 photographs to Google Cloud and our team of agronomists tagged about 100 million distinct features. That's how we trained our models. Now we apply our model to the millions of photos we get from our customers every day. Both the data storage needs and the data query volumes are really significant. Google Cloud allowed us to manage these large-scale volumes. We have come to a point in which Taranis machine learning has learned to identify a healthy or damaged leaf so the farmer can take action. When we help Taranies implement GCP solutions we looked for ways in which they could continuously improve the accuracy of the model. BigTable and BigQuery allows them to ingest, manage, and analyze both the historical and new data. We also help them integrate Google Maps API so they can pinpoint the exact area that needs to be treated and run comparisons over time. By using this technology I can prevent losses, produce healthier plants and increase my yield with less effort. We're aiming to transform agriculture and solve big global problems. We couldn't do that without Google Cloud [Music] you 