 One of the things that counting fish at the bottom of the Atlantic shows you is - - how easy it is to access and deploy this technology. The fact you can just couple - the waterproof camera up to the cloud and use a routine that sits in the cloud - - to make some intelligent decision about what's swimming past the lens. It just - - points to the fact that how easy it is to access and then translate that technology into a value at the end of the day. So, I mean the perfect storm is the thing that's accelerating the power and the growth of AI and those - - four forces that I talked about they're the compute power that's now accessible - - the algorithms that were then running on that compute power, the data through - - which we're fueling and training the models that we develop with AI and then - - that connectivity and scalability that we get through the cloud they are things - - that have only come together in the last few years and they're now exponentially - - ramping up the just the power of AI but the the application of AI and the - - translation of that AI into value for society. Well, I mean ultimately we would want individuals to own that power, to own - - their data and one of the things that Microsoft is very very strong in its - - advocacy of is greater regulation around the world that enable individuals to - - have greater power over their data. I talked about this basic digital contract - - of data for utility the more that we can get everybody in society able to - - understand that transaction between what data that the value of the data that - - they're giving away and then the return that they're getting in terms of utility - - that will enable us to navigate most of these challenges that are - - presented by these applications more proficiently. Yeah, I mean there's something in the power and the coding associated with AI that makes it - - very easy to lose perspective of where you're really going with it. It encourages you down little-little funnels of investigation and - - application and we know from experience that without humility we're not being - - able to step back and examine what we're really doing in these spaces. That can - - sometimes lead us into challenging areas. So, what we take great lengths to - - do is to make sure that in all of our development processes but also our - - supervision processes that exist once these routines are released into the - - wild that we are building that broader perspective that broader humility not - - settling on you know some recognition of you know success in order to make sure - - that we broaden our view and identify those problems early. I think it's still incredibly simplistic to say that machines are ripping through - - great sways of human creative behavior. When you look a little bit deeper you're - - probably finding that some of those more routine eyes tasks that are part of your - - creative tool set are being automated but there's still plenty of opportunity - - for that beautiful irrational brain that you have to appear. Not more widely when - - you think about the impact of AI in terms of automation and its displacement - - of work generally in society when we've been doing this ever since we moved from - - an agrarian economy into the Industrial Revolution we stopped doing things and - - allowed machines to do those things and we've moved to spaces that we never - - anticipated in a sense. I don't underestimate some of the challenges - - that will happen in that transition but generally I am confident as a society - - that there's sufficient space for human beings alongside machines. Absolutely. Absolutely, our perspective and much of what I was - - talking about in my talk was Microsoft's editorial view on what AI is - - and we are very, very exercised about considering AI from its role in - - augmenting humans not replacing, not supplanting humans but we recognize that - - the value of AI occurs when you connect it with human beings and I think that's - - that's going to enable society to grow as much benefit as it should - - get out of this wonderful technology. So, the three I's that I left as my little takeaway at the end of the talk were firstly intelligence and I - - use intelligence as being the representation of the technology does it - - say that that creation of cognitive horsepower that sits there in the heart - - of AI accessing that and understanding how you access that through the cloud is - - a really key first step for organizations the second bit is - - recognizing that actually you'll only be able to connect that in that raw - - horsepower into successful outcomes by coupling it with irrational human - - ingenuity and ingenuity is my second I and then the final bit which is - - something that maybe isn't so obvious but is something that's really important - - to us as a company is inclusivity because when we look at the challenges - - facing ourselves with bias and ethics and trust in AI what we've - - learned is that the most diverse and inclusive that you can possibly get will - - be your great defense against exposing yourself to those risks so that's - - intelligence, ingenuity and inclusivity putting those three together they're - - the key enablers of success with AI. No Terminator, no Skynet, no nothing. 