 The New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO) is promoting innovative technology development and demonstration toward the realization of a sustainable society. A new society and future that will be connected. Introducing NEDO's IoT technology implemented in society.  Research and development of evolutionary low power consumption AI edge LSI. With the advent of the IoT society, the amount of data is explosively increasing, and in order to promote the advanced utilization of such data, not only the processing by the conventional cloud server but also the terminal (edge) side of the network is low. There is a need to establish "edge computing technology" that performs advanced information processing with power consumption. However, AI image recognition processing on edge devices has a heavy processing load, so power consumption, cost, and real-time performance are issues in processing by general-purpose CPUs and GPUs, which are currently the mainstream. NEDO, SOCIONEXT Inc., ArchiTek Corporation,and Toyota Industries Corporation are using hybrid quantization deep neural network (DNN) technology to perform AI recognition processing with high accuracy and low power in order to solve these problems of edge device processing. , We have developed an advanced virtual engine architecture technology (aIPE) that can execute various image processing in parallel at high speed, and a real-time SLAM processing library that can operate in parallel on aIPE. As a result of prototyping and evaluating an evolved, low-power AI edge LSI that incorporates these technologies, we have succeeded in improving the power efficiency of AI recognition processing and image processing by more than 10 times compared to general-purpose GPUs. In the self-position estimation processing of the real-time SLAM of the autonomous driving trolley, the processing time has been shortened by 1/20 compared to the general-purpose CPU. These technologies have made it possible to achieve both low power consumption, low cost, and real-time performance in AI image recognition processing at the edge. Toyota Industries Corporation has developed an in-vehicle ECU equipped with a prototype AI edge LSI and implemented a real-time SLAM library that operates in parallel on aIPE. We have realized highly accurate self-position estimation of autonomous mobile robots that operate at high speed. We will show you a video of the autonomous mobile robot "Air-T" that is being evaluated for operation and equipped with the developed ECU. With high-precision self-position estimation, it can freely slip through narrow spaces. Since you always know its position accurately, it can automatically drive to the shipping site from anywhere. By applying AI edge LSI, it is possible to build an edge computing system that meets the requirements of low power consumption, low latency, and low cost, and productivity can be improved by logistics robots and autonomous driving vehicles, so the labor force Solve the shortage. By applying it to the store monitoring system, it is possible to prevent shoplifting and analyze customer flow lines. Furthermore, we will contribute to the realization of the upcoming Society 5.0, such as the problem of labor shortages in a super-aging society such as 24-hour monitoring at nursing care sites, and support for autonomous driving infrastructure systems. Research and development of evolutionary low power consumption AI edge LSI. Please check here for inquiries regarding this technology. NEDO aims to solve social issues as an "innovation accelerator" that develops and demonstrates innovative technologies and promotes the social implementation of results. 