 Welcome to Microsoft Unboxed. [MUSIC]  I'm one of your hosts Sonia Dara, and I'm joined by my colleague, Colleen O'Brien.  Hey world.  We are just two best friends who come together every week to share great technology stories coming out of Microsoft and talking about the awesome people behind each one of those awesome stories. That was a lot of awesomes. We each have a secret story that we'll share with one another. So the first time I'm hearing Colleen's story is literally on air and vice versa. Today's topic is, you ready? Actually, drum it. AI for Earth. Nature here is just absolutely amazing. I know in Atlanta where I grew up, wasn't a lot of that. You just go out and [inaudible].  Yeah, you're doing a lot of running outside, a lot of camping, a lot of hiking. I'm walking to the bus in the morning.  Was it the weirdest thing you've ever done in that bus?  For some reason, I can't stop thinking about like picnicking or like watching a movie outside.  That's just physically being outside. I guess I'm thinking in the woods in the forest. I think the weirdest thing that happened is I became a self-sufficient backpacker, I don't know but I've gotten go checkout, I sling in Patagonia and getting to actually walk on glaciers.  To be honest, I'm more of a city girl when I got my sleeping bag, my mom was like, "Who are you?" So, I wish I could say like, "Hunting for mushrooms or"  I've done that.  Really.  A friend of my boyfriend's is a mushroom forager and so we went down near Olympia got like eight different types of mushrooms of course, we didn't eat any of them because we didn't trust them.  You didn't trust this person?  No, we trusted him so we went and bust or bought mushrooms after his mid-dinner.  Sorry for not having more outdoors.  So to get back on topic a little bit where we we're talking about AI for Earth. It's a program actually at Microsoft where we are offering grants to programs that are focused on bettering the Earth. So we'll give them Cloud computing opportunities and tools that basically help solve these global environmental challenges. There's four areas of focus for projects that you can apply for. So, the first area of focus is agriculture. How can we create more food with lower environmental impact, how can we create climate-resilient agriculture things that actually survive in the changing climate. The second area of focus is biodiversity, habitat protection and restoration, pollution control. Third area of focus is climate change showing how AI can help with climate resilience, extreme weather modeling. Imagine if you can actually predict and now where droughts are, extreme cold droughts or anything like that which leads to the fourth area which is water. So in the next two decades, demand for freshwater will actually outpace the supply which is really concerning. So AI can help with water supply, quality sanitation, efficiency and obviously the oceans. How can we make healthier oceans. Programs or projects that are focused on these can apply for a grant. Some of the latest recipients for the grants, one is eye tracking Antarctic penguin populations. Yeah, they have like different IoT devices and how they would actually track migrations.  It's like Internet of Penguin instead of of Internet of Things.  So, another one is understanding melting glaciers which is something very near and dear for me because I've gotten to see some glaciers around the world. Two, that I know that Microsoft is helping in-house with right now is Project Premonition is basically helping them track outbreaks before they happen using drone traps again to gather mosquitoes and basically they're monitoring the infectious diseases onsite.  So they'll be the first to know about the Zombie outbreak.  Yes, they'll be the first ones to know and hopefully prevent it. There's this Microsoft FarmBeats program. So beats are like beats and not beat doesn't mean vegetable. They're using drones to go over all the different farmlands so instead of manually having to walk. Actually, it sends data from ground-based sensors, tractors, cameras to a camera that's basically sitting on the farm using TV white space. The TV white space is in between where WiFi might not be readily available and radio signal. So basically, using Azure IoT Edge which delivers Cloud intelligence locally, they are able to send all this data to the Cloud.  I have met Ranveer Chandra who is the creator of FarmBeats, he grew up going to India during the summer and participating in the agriculture and he hated it, how hot it was, how much work there was. He took that experience, learned a ton about computer science and became a researcher and started figuring out how do we make this a better situation. One of my favorite used cases for FarmBeats is how they're tracking livestock. So they have this camera in a barn of sorts and they're using artificial intelligence to see how the cows are moving into the-  Happy cow.  Yeah, he always makes a joke because that drone footage will show where the cows are pooping, and that he's doing deep learning on cow poop.  Smells great.  We're going to talk about this non-profit called Wild Me this initiative that brings AI and citizen scientists together to fight extinction.  That's awesome.  They are using AI and Cloud technology to identify animal species that are on the verge of extinction and then using computer vision and deep learning to power Wildbook, Facebook for animals.  What?  Photos get uploaded to this system and algorithm identifies not only the species but like the individual animal.  What?  Yeah.  Like each one has a name like Harriet The Bobcat.  That's correct.  Like Willie The Whale.  The system can recognize distinctive markings on the animal.  Wow!  So you can see how they are breeding, what their social structures might be like, if there are two animals who are friends and they're like spending a lot of time.  So they can change their status to being like into a relationship on Wildbook?  It's also indicative of climate change like it is tracking their migration patterns that sort of thing.  Is it accessible to the public or like-  Yeah, citizen scientists are encouraged to upload photos from any animals that they see in the wild. One of the issues with social media culture is that-  One.  One we are just going to talk about one today, is that we're only uploading the best photos of an animal that we have maybe seen in the wild. This artificial intelligence requires that they have a lot of data to assess. Maybe you're only posting your coolest photo on Instagram but head over to Wildbook and upload all of the photos because they need that information to do accurate assessments of how animals are moving around living-  That one is better.  - interacting with each other. The system is also taking a look at YouTube where we are now. They had a whale shark YouTube scanner that went through all the videos that had a tag for whale shark, cataloging that information as well. The reason why Wildbook is so important is it condenses all of this work that would take a human years to conduct into a matter of weeks.  How we stock maybe an ex they can stock their prey. Your muscles are looking particularly pretty today.  Or during mating season.  Everyone's pea-cocking and literally a peacock is there. AI for Earth, it's pretty awesome for anyone who might have a project and looking for funding absolutely apply online. Are you ready for our favorite segment of our show?  Yes.  Outside the box. What this is a box full of questions that you guys have all been submitting, their random questions, we don't know what they are. If we can get 30 seconds on the clock back there please. What is the weirdest thing you've ever eaten for breakfast that is not a breakfast food?  The weirdest thing I've ever eaten for breakfast, fried rice.  I normally have raw [inaudible]  I love that. I wish that there say like bugs or something, but I don't need a lot of weird stuff.  I think we've established that you're not the [inaudible].  Sonia, are you ready for this?  Okay. I'm ready.  If you could have any celebrity be your best friend-  Emma Stone.  You don't even need to think about it, why?  She is just super cool and likable. I don't know they're just like our age and cool down to earth.  What's your favorite MSN movie?  EZA. But still it's like her first one.  It's a really good movie.  It's so funny. He goes, "I got a packet, I got a packet, I got a packet full of sunshine like that's I was like to be her friend but then I also really like La La Land sorry, I only like to after the last five minutes of movie.  You stuck with it?  I did.  That's a controversial for you. La La Land.  Yeah, but it's not my favorite, EZA is definitely my favorite.  Good answer. All right.  Was that awkward? Make sure you submit questions for our Outside the Box segment to the e-mail address below or you can comment.  And please remember to subscribe to our channel to get the latest episode next week. We'll see you then.  Bye. [MUSIC]  Hey everyone, if you can't get enough of us, I would highly recommend subscribing to our podcast: Women in Business and Technology available right here.  You can follow us on Twitter and Instagram at our social handles right here. [MUSIC] 