 Good morning and welcome everyone. I'm Joanne Arbuckle, and I am Deputy to the President of FIT for Industry Partnerships and Collaborative Programs. That is a very long title. The only reason I mention it is because in that role, I have the opportunity to interact with a wide cross-section of the creative industries, particularly those that are of special interest at FIT with our wide variety of degree programs in business and design. When it comes to sustainability and innovation, FIT believes that the creative industry should lead the way, technologically, ethically, and socially. In my role, I have been very impressed with some of the exciting ideas, products, and experiments I've witnessed. So today, four very inventive, thoughtful leaders in various sections of the industry are here to discuss all of that. Our first speaker, Megan Marsden, is co-founder of Veil Intimates, a bra company dedicated to customization and comfort. I am sure many of you joined me in being all for that. She is a born entrepreneur with a background in health care, logistics, and real estate who formed several of her own companies by her mid-twenties. Sustainability has been a driving force in all of her endeavors. FIT faculty have collaborated with Veil as members of their RnD team. Please join me in welcoming Megan. [APPLAUSE] Hi everyone. My name is Megan Marsden. As Joanne said, I am co-founder of Veil Intimates. I'm honored to be here speaking with you today to talk about our company, Veil; what we've been working on; how we utilize sustainable practices as the core of our business; how we integrate biomimicry, technology, and data science to change how intimates are formed; and what is also happening in the intimates markets in the form of disruption. Veil Intimates is an innovation technology company that partners with brands to create a unique support system inside of bra cups and bras. We are predominantly focused on intimates' traditional foundations, sports wear and swim wear. We are honored to be here to speak to you about how we got here, our story, and how we're integrating into brands today. So Veil Intimates, we aren't from the fashion industry. We are women in business. We had this amazing idea that started as friends, as many founders have ideas that start in this way. We were shopping at a lingerie store, spending far too much money at the summer slide block sale and buying too many things and realizing, "How can we spend so much money, and why are our bras are still so uncomfortable?" [LAUGHTER] Yes. Exactly. [LAUGHTER] From that, we said, "Well, how hard could it be to change how bras are made?" If you're not laughing at that, you should be, because bras are a feat of physics. They are one of the most complex garments to make. But we had this spark, this cash, and this idea of why not and how. So as we were continuing in our careers, our entrepreneurship journey was on the weekends and going to trade shows. So we started learning how we could make garments; how is a bra even made; what is two-way and four stretch fabric. I mean some very simple things that many people in the industry already knew. We took the time. We walked around LA's garment district, talked to sources domestically and internationally, and built our story on understanding and knowledge. It became very apparent that our reality and our spark was more like this. We were way over our heads. So this amazing dream, this spark we had, we would soon realize that we really needed to understand and build our team who was much more aware, competent, and knowledgeable about the industry. So we had built an advisory team of really successful business owners that were in different industries. Some of the best advice we got was to make the call to the best possible partner or institution that can help fill the void of your knowledge. With that, we cold-called FIT. We got a meeting with Joanne Arbuckle. Joanne took our meeting, and we talked to her about our vision and our idea of creating a more comfortable piece of apparel that women had to wear everyday but didn't compromise on the aesthetic. From there, we put together this phenomenal team to help guide our research and development and fill in our gaps with knowledge. We very much were competent in business and how to build a business and how to grow a business, but what that meant in the intimates industry, what that meant in the apparel industry, and how to create validated science behind it was a whole another ball game. So thankfully FIT gave us professors to help build out our team, as well as external partners in design and engineering and chemistry. So from that, we were able to move forward into this amazing space of the bra renaissance. As we began working, we've been doing this for a few years, we've been building our knowledge, and all these other amazing entrepreneurs are surfacing in that apparel market; in athletic wear and in intimates. The venture capital firm started pouring money into the space and building this amazing renaissance for the bra market. There are startups happening. Finally, female founders are part of the conversation in intimates. Companies are exploding all over the place, as well as how consumers are buying intimates. The roll-up market was growing extensively, as well as a reduction in the underwire market, because consumers were desiring comfort, just like we were. So all of this is happening at the same time. The bra renaissance was happening, we're educating ourselves over the last few years, creating our partnership with FIT, and really learning more about how intimates work as an industry and how they work as a garment. So then we spent time saying, "We know how to do this in our gut. We know how to do this in prototyping. But how do we actually validate that this is going to change a marketplace? What's the science and data behind it? How do we address that?" So we live in Colorado, a phenomenal place that has access to aerospace, automotive. Lockheed Martin is a large part of our community. So we started using this amazing system called ANSYS that is predominantly used in building rocket ships and automotive, and we created [inaudible] , which is a female form inside of a physics modeling system. From that, we've gained as much data as we could on the science of movement and understanding when a woman stands, what's happening; when a woman walks, what's happening; and when she jogs, what's happening. So really capturing all those things, not in a single size form, but in every size. So really understanding what the impacts are of different sizing and the support needs for each size. So we weren't scientists, obviously, when we began, but now I definitely feel like we're scientists. We didn't understand that deformation, strain and stress really meant pain, discomfort, and bouts. So from there it was really essential for validating our vision to bring science and data into that space and really understand the amount of force that we were working with with different sized women; and how we needed to combat that to give a woman the shape she desires without pain and discomfort. So we measured those things just as a woman is naturally, as well in different forms of a pair up, whether it be an underwire or sports bra or a bralette. Once we had the science down, we really started seeking out nature and nature's forms of strength. So there is nature all around us, that it's showing us already how to be strong in different aspects in geometry. How do tree branches hold leaves? How do honeycombs hold honey, and how do spider webs hold spiders with such a thin strand? So we really saw and spent about eight months of time understanding biomimicry, and how we can mimic geometry that we have seen in nature into the geometry of our support system inside across. So we spent time prototyping a lot in this season and we work to understand it better and better. Leveraging the time tensile learnings, grilling the catalog of products that we see in nature. Because we're in Colorado, it's not too far to get some inspiration. So the key to the science gun, and the geometry, and biomimicry was how do you integrate these scientific datasets, the engineering and design behind it, into a functional prototype that you can actually get wear feedback on. Because everything sounds really great in a spreadsheet until its action on the female form and she's living her life and wearing it for 12 hours a day. So we went and started working with a designer to build prototyping, to get it on bodies, to get wear feedback and really it was test, adapt, repeat, and repeat, and repeat. So really understanding what women were desiring and comfort how to adjust the geometry to support each woman, how to adjust the bra in general aspects. Maybe the traditional forms of the bras can make it more comfortable, and how to continue to process forward an understanding to create an actual wearable piece of apparel that was actually providing more comfortable approach while still giving a person what she desired. So what does this all mean in regards to supply chain and sustainability and how to support our business? So obviously we are from Colorado, so we have a deep seated passion for nature and environment and really the core of our business. We may have a spark of the idea. It was very much about creating customized apparel. We had this amazing dream and vision to say support should be inclusive and it should be able to figure out how to support each woman based on her size and activity level and what she wants out of the products. That has been a large part of our understanding working and prototyping and additive manufacturing and 3D printing. We've been able to rap the prototype and adjust the support system for women and look at garments and products and be able to change very quickly. So we've always had this really deep seeded desire to assess inventory and how the impacts of business. Being someone that works and supply chain and logistics for a long time, almost a sex given industry as lingerie. It just was absolutely necessary and apparent that inventory is a huge burden for brands. How do we especially [inaudible] 70 plus students? How do we impact that while still creating access to larger sizes for women and how do we get something that women actually want to wear. So that was a huge piece of our spark at the very beginning is this desire to create garments for women that really works by reducing inventory. Part of that also as we see is sustainability is creating garments that actually fit, have a longer life cycle. So it's not stretching out as quickly because it's not fitting in correctly. So really focusing on quality fit and creating longevity for that woman but also the matter aspects of actually being able to find your size. Not showing up to brick-and-mortar and being put in something else when really your size is something else. So having this partnership with brands to help create a vision for a piece of a parallel actually fits and is fitting for all women that she isn't as excited to take off, that she's more excited to put it on. So as we understand this, the change in consumers shifting. So as brick-and-mortar is continuing to change and experience in brick-and-mortar is changing online is continuing to grow. Consumers are really demanding this product and we agree. We started the company on the thought that we don't have to choose. We didn't have to choose comfort or aesthetic but that we actually got to have both. So where are our vision and our alignment supply chain and how to actually make this word is to create on-demand products for brands, for their needs. As things begin to shift and new brands and begin to evolve, we're going to see the use of software systems that will help create patterns before garments are actually manufactured, people will be pre-buying those patterns from imaging, like CLO, for example, is an amazing software system where you can create a pattern look, you can put it online and it looks like a garment that you would have started in manufacturing. So we're looking into the future and the vision of supply chain and being able to create on-demand inventories for those people, for those grams. Obviously on-demand means less waste. So if a brand needs 76 of something, how will you make 76 and not have have minimums. Really that's through additive manufacturing and being able to create a just-in-time modeling of inventory. So our partnerships when we first began were and still are additive manufacturing. We have a deep-seated desire to continue to press on more sustainable materials in regards to the raw material for realize in additive manufacturing and there's definitely headway there. There's large corporations for help pushing and requiring these additive companies to really find products that are recyclable and that is our vision for the future and our hopes with those partnerships. But having a predominant focus on just-in-time inventories and being able to be nimble on our design work. Through additive is very much part of our story and very much has it been since the beginning. Obviously women know bras aren't the most comfortable thing. No one's rejoicing and sparking joy for putting on a bra in the morning, maybe some of you are but most of us aren't. So how do we address the fact that we don't love this piece of art that we have to wear every day. I think that's a big part of sustainability in regards to the human sustainability initiatives about mental health and women accepting advice as they are and creating size and minutes actually viral free and aesthetically still stunning. So that's part of the factors will be always part of our brand DNA and what we work to create and from our initial spark truly of our hosts were creating something that would be really great putting on. It was very comfortable, it was stunningly aesthetic, and always tie that into how we can help women be happier with the garment that they have to wear. So in closing, I'd just like to say I'm so honored and thankful that I get to be here and to talk to you about our company, how we created it, and our vision for the future as well as I just would like to challenge you that for us when we decided to start, it was because of why are bras so uncomfortable and why has not been done anything about it. Instead of just looking at each other and having the coffee and moving on with our day. We decided to keep talking and to spend time to figure out how we can fix it. I never thought I would be on this stage talking to you all about how to fix bras as a woman who had nothing to do with the apparel industry. So I would challenge you that if you have something in your mind that you have a why on that you will continue to seek knowledge on how to fix the how. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Thank you, Megan. Before I turn this over to you to see if you have some questions, I have a question. I know you've talked about this, and I think it's very appropriate to this group. I have heard you say, that innovation is collaborative not competitive. So could you expand upon that a little? Yes, absolutely. I think sometimes in the marketplace, we're concerned about competition and sharing ideas, but I've found and we have found inter- culture [NOISE] collaboration by bringing on team members who had a greater set of knowledge than us, and really rising up to that knowledge. So every time we brought on someone or worked with the partner, we always ask her somebody who would raise the bar where we worked with. As leaders, whether you're actually leading an organization by role or you're in an organization, you are a leader, and your role really is to help bring collaboration and growth into that environment, I think the more collaborative we can be in a space, the faster things happen. Any other questions? There's microphones out in the audience if you have questions. Hi, thank you for your time. I'm curious to know a little bit more about the biomimicry strategy that you apply. Yeah, absolutely. We have this phenomenal Bio-scientist on our team that actually is 3D printing heart valves. So part of our strategy was recognizing that there is strength in nature and how do we create in different sections other support structure, different attributes to move and to stretch, and how do we seek those things in nature? So we were looking at spider webs, honeycombs, palm leaves, and looking at how can something stretch one way and be stiff another way. So creating a nimble approach for geometry of getting the field that we wanted while still holding a woman's tissue in place. So it was a lot of guessing, truly, to be very transparent, and loss of iteration to really understand what was working or what wasn't working. Because we have access to 3D printing, we could 3D print 10 ideas, try all them out, and see this geometry is working, this geometry isn't working, and really seeking the shapes, strength, the nature. I think there's different shapes that have really strong attributes that you see in nature, whether being a spider or rather a honeycomb or a palm leaf. We married everything together, and really got microscopic in different aspects, so where abroad cup needs the strength. Traditionally, under wires that are hitting right at the rib cage and how can you move it out, maybe further into the cup to create a support system? So looking at movement in tissue where the deformation was happening, and then marrying the geometry of strength found in nature into those locations inside of the cup. So that's how we do that, but a lot of trial and error for sure. Thank you. [OVERLAPPING] I can talk really loud. There's the camera. [OVERLAPPING] unless you repeat it. I can hear. I have two questions. The first question is about your sizing, I know you mentioned that there's the sizing [NOISE] the apparel industry [NOISE] everybody, right? How do you guys leverage in your specific designs? I will say, so she asked if the sizing and the apparel industry is varied and it's not always reaching everyone who it needs to reach, and how are we addressing aspects on our line. So because we work with brands, there's emerging brands that have a keen interest in growing the skue account and really catering to all the sizes possible and growing bands as well as cup sizes. How we cater to that specifically working with brands is to look at the support structure to marry the weight of the tissue of that cup or those sizes, and create support systems for that specific size. I think what's happening is there's this desire to create more sizing. There's just that how I do this without increasing my inventory by two times, and then not selling. I think it's a balance of business, and how do we create the inventories? Is there a way that work with the manufacturing community to create on-demand manufacturing. From us specifically, it's about being thoughtful in the support structure to be very focused on that woman size and her activity level, and what support she needs based on that. That brings me to my second question. Is about inventory which you mentioned before also. You're right this is a huge problem in this industry for everybody. But if you're selling direct, it's obvious you're easy to control all [inaudible] that you have. What do you do for selling to other stores, because the guy in charge of designing because he cannot produce orders designs as fast? She asked how you handle if you're selling direct. If an online direct brand versus if you are selling into stores and they have inventory that we're trying to have access on the buyers are buying various skues and maybe eliminating skues. How do you handle that? So a lot of that is up to our brand partners, we're not a brand ourselves, but we partner with brands. Part of that is the conversation I think the shift of consumer and other purchase in bras. We're seeing these emerging brands that are predominantly direct brands that are taking away from traditional brick and mortar. What does that mean for the future? I don't know exactly, but I do think that there, I mean if I knew that, I would probably buy a lottery ticket and then be on an island. I think who knows what inventory is going to be impacted in regards to the traditional brick and mortar department stores, and what that looks like for the future. I think there is definitely a retailer's trying a future approach of reduction and inventory and more of an experiential type experience at a brick and mortar store, which would change what the inventory situation is based on what's at the store. I think for customization purposes, blend of online mixed with experiential brick and mortar might be the difference of you get a bra created for you. You don't leave with the broad specifically, and it's created for you, or delivered to your home. Who knows? Please join me in thanking Megan for that great [APPLAUSE] Now, I'd like to introduce our next two guests, Francisco Costa and Anastasia Khoo. Francisco Costa, I'm proud to say is one of ours. FIT alum, an acclaimed award winning fashion designer who was for 13 years Creative Director of women's wear division at Calvin Klein Collection. He left the company three years ago, went south to his native Brazil, and returned in another sector of the creative industries beauty. He found it Costa Brazil, a sustainable beauty brand that we'll be learning about in a few minutes. Anastasia Khoo is Chief Marketing Officer of Conservation International, a non-profit organization whose daunting mission is to protect nature throughout the world. She's a celebrated communications and marketing pro who has won numerous awards from her peers. For 17 years, she headed the human rights campaigns, highly influential marketing efforts, and became a much sought after commentator on marketing and digital media issues. Please join me in welcoming Francisco and Anastasia. [APPLAUSE] Thank you, FIT. Once again, for having the perfect media. Honestly, being an alumni it's more than an honor and seeing how FIT is taking the whole sustainability work out here is just really inspiring. Precisely, that's coming after 14 years, a very long journey, which I did not think was very sustainable no more. It was a very tasking time. A very, very complicated, and very exhausting quite honestly. Some cases looking for something that really meant something. I really thought that the Brazil it's my step one and my roots and what can I bring to the world and it's quite meaningful, and they're someone honest. I took a couple trips into the Amazon, where it's just as it could actually happen when I left Calvin. So I just decided to go to the very East Coast of the Amazon. It was an insane trip. It woke me up to the beauty which is out there, and richness of all the ingredients that one could find. That's how Costa Brazil really started. Why beauty? Why the world needed another beauty brand? My question was. It came to realize that there's nothing out there that really attracted me to clean bill in that sense. The purest ingredients you can possibly find. It was a journey, we just launched 90 days ago. We're very excited about the prospects of the collection today. I think the inspiration, of course, is in Brazil for sustainability in terms of longevity. This is a branch that we praise to be carefully conceptualized, and we take our time. This is like, the packaging was designed with longevity, again, in mind. Even like investors we re-utilized, re-used. We created batches, they're very small, because most of the ingredients that we found within the Amazon that we guys were all testing and picking there, okay it's small, we can't get much profit. So we are basically engaging ourselves. It's to create a project that will change from batch to batch. It has to be looked at as a real special beautiful thing. You can't find any markets it's very polluted with not knowing very much about the business, the building business. I think this is the same journey of searching for the right labs and taking some time to create a product that was substantially different. I think that the engagement here, where the consumer would have to be one of very mature understanding that our product is substantially different. Our Ingredients are just really special. On my first trip, I found this one resin which comes from the [inaudible] tree, which is this gigantic tree. This beautiful resin gets released out of the tree, and Incas used that all day. Basically, burning it all day, all night. It was used as a mosquito repellent with opposite thermal properties. So I brought it to levers, the root's oil, and we made it to an oil. A very beautiful oil which was basically, our first ingredient. The second ingredient was cactii, which actually we sourced through Conservation International which is a beautiful seed high in protein which has really changed the whole face of this community that you can actually buy the ingredient from them which is great. Conservation International has done an amazing job on creating that in a sustainable way of working with communities which I came to realize I couldn't do it on my own. You know, by looking at so many villages with people and how they would source all the ingredients, but that felt very secure and they pinned up and through Conservation International which is running the whole project, which is really great. So here we got in this journey, and yet this is sustainable, it's clean, it's pure. But also we're learning. For me it's so new with the hope building industry and also how to activate something that's essentially very substantial in a significant way. So it's a new process that we engaging ourselves into finding the right people and the right partners. We're very close to having it here. Without Conservation International today I wouldn't be as secure to be talking about the brand, and knowing that we are on the right path here. So thank you. Thank you. [LAUGHTER] Thank you, Francisco and Costa Brazil and certainly FIT for inviting Conservation International to participate in this conversation. We're working together in the Amazon and I just wanted to ground people embed in what we're talking about. When people think of the Amazon and they probably think of trees, and there are quite a lot of them. It's actually the world's largest tropical rainforest. It's close to, I think, up to a million different kinds of species, and it's really a very diverse large area. But it's also really important from a climate perspective, because it is the world's largest tropical forest. It stores, the trees and the soil actually store an immense amount of carbon. So in the least scientific way of [LAUGHTER] explaining, you cut down the trees the carbons is released, when they stay planted the carbon is absorbed. In addition to reducing emissions around the world, which is fundamentally critical. Switching to renewables, nature has a really important role to play in the fight on climate change. It's really up to 30 percent of the solution. From our perspective from Conservation International as an organization, protecting areas like the Amazon rainforest are fundamentally critical for human survival. Now, one of the other things, and Francisco mentioned this, is that the Amazon is also home to 30 million people. People live in the Amazon, indigenous people and tribes, over 200 actually. For us, not only are they the purveyors of a lot of traditional knowledge of medicines and other pieces of knowledge that they can pass on to us, but they are really the stewards of the land. At Conservation International, we really believe strongly that you can't work in absence of people. This is their land and we want to help them continue to protect that. But like everyone around the world, they're concerned with how are they going to feed their kids. Can they send their kids to school? Are they making enough money to survive? Do they have access to clean water? Those are independent. What we're really trying to do is find a way. Can we make conservation pay? Can we make sure that people and the place can survive together in the same place? So working with companies like Costa Brazil, who are helping them to source materials that are indigenous to those lands helps provides funds to those communities. It really is like a circular effect and so many ways that they can save the land, the trees can sustain us. Because as you also know, the Amazon provides 20 percent of our world's oxygen, but that these communities can really thrive in the place that they want to be and where their ancestors had been for hundreds of years. It's a critical component to the work that we do. But we also know that the Amazon is threatened. Certainly, at a tipping point. It is a challenge at the moment when deforestation rates continue to grow. In fact, the recent presidential election, during that time period, a three month time period, deforestation actually went up by 50 percent. We're really at a critical time and we know that it can be a solution, and particularly around climate change. It can fundamentally not just rely on protecting forests and that is absolutely important and a chief component of our work. But we also have to think about reforesting these areas. So we have engaged in one of the world's largest, if not the largest, reforestation project to essentially plant 73 million trees in this area where it's pointed at the headwaters of the state of Mato Grosso to help reforest that area. Now, we're not talking about planting evergreen pine trees there. We're using native seeds and native trees to help bring that, what we hope, will bring this back to its original state eventually. But 73 million trees is a lot of trees. It's actually the equivalent of 30 thousand soccer fields, and it's 30 thousand hectares, 30 thousand soccer fields in your mind. It looks like a small piece, but it's actually quite substantial. This is really important, because we know last year the IPCC came out with a report, essentially 91 scientist from 40 countries examined more than 6,000 pieces of science. They essentially said we've got about 10 to 12 years to get this right before we reach a tipping point, in terms of the climate. In some ways it's a challenge, because what we're talking about to not reach the warming that we essentially can't come back from, which they've estimated at 2.7 degrees Fahrenheit. We need to make some radical changes. It's daunting. But on the other hand, it's an opportunity because we've never before had a timeline to get this right. We believe strongly that, from protecting in place, from really creating sustainable models where people in place can thrive. That also for reforestation efforts like this, we can help change the conversation in addition to those other components. I think that's what's exciting about working with Costa Brazil. It's we need models of businesses stepping up. Because it's not good enough anymore to say, "Do no harm." It's fundamentally; how are you leaving the world in a better place? I think that we all have that collective responsibility, whether its individuals, as consumers, as citizens, businesses and governments to actually make real change. I loved Francisco's quote about, essentially, beauty. I think that is fundamentally what FIT teaches. How to create and make the world more beautiful. For us at Conservation International, we certainly believe [NOISE] that nature can thrive with people in a thoughtful and respectful way. That we all have to be a partner in doing that. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You are so kind. Yeah. We had launched on December 16, and the 21st begins our campaign via social media. They managed to collaboratively plant 6000 trees in three days. Which is [NOISE] really remarkable because we had a very small following at the time, but we created this campaign which we coordinated to enable just a percentage through our friends and followers. That's how we see this cooperation being long-term ready, and just people really working together, and joining in. Yeah. It's been amazing to see that sort of interest. Especially when it just really took off. It was no small feat to do 6,000 trees. That's really substantial. We do what we can in small- It's very exciting. Thank You. [APPLAUSE] Thank you so much, and now we would like to open floor to questions [NOISE]. There's microphones that'll go around so please raise your hand. Hi. My name is Simone. Actually, I'm with my mom up here as well and I love the fashion. Mass market fashion in the streets and to come here and see how it can be more sustainable in my work. So I wanted to congratulate you first for everything that you're doing. I think it's amazing. Especially, I know there's a lot of really significant indigenous tribes that haven't even had contact with modern world in Brazil. So sustaining that as well, especially in you mentioned the presidential election, and I heard that neo-liberal president is going to eradicate a lot of the rain forest, and that's what he campaigned on. But from what I know about Brazil, the biggest thing that is endangering the rain forced is cutting down wood to grow soya for our meat industry, industrial meat farming. That seems to me be the biggest threat. So coming up with business models like this that actually value the rain forest in its state that is in a natural state, to offset that other demand of industrial meat, that's amazing. I'm really interested to hear more about that and then maybe if you're doing any collaboration with other companies. With sourcing and support. I think The Body Shop does a lot of natural products and eye sight product. So we're talking about collaboration. Well, actually, my second trip into the Amazon was with the CEO of IFF and a couple of executives from Natura. Natura is one of the largest beauty companies in Brazil. So I got to understand that as I was visiting communities and what have you, it felt quite monopolized in a way. It felt to me that obviously those crops were doing really well, in the area, supporting the communities. But my personal view is that I could not even engage myself into any business discussions because it was already taken. So that's how again how Conservation International helped me in another way through that. But I think what's really important to understand is that the Indians they really hold and the natives they hold the key to the Amazon. So protecting them then you protect the everything and what's going on in Amazon right now is that they want to take all their rights again. My first gig on my first visit I went to the Xanenawa tribe which is actually in the State of Acre and it was such an amazing incredible experience because they had just received all their land back. Major state is basically giving back to this community, to this ethnicity, which was great. So they had invited us, 50 people from all places abroad to actually go and understand the culture and their beliefs and how they actually operate. So seeing that how the government now is putting everything in danger is really complicated. It's really tough. Yeah so we need to be more there engaged throughout. I think I will just add. You're exactly right like deforestation to soy and essentially for meat is one of the prime drivers. I think the president has indicated that he would like to open the Amazon up significantly and that's really you know certainly a frightening prospect for all of us. I think one of the easiest solutions as a consumer, certainly we encourage on the small acts on very individual level if you asked me, to working with multinationals to help change their sourcing. Help change all of the aspects of business to help make it more sustainable. So there are certainly individual actions that you can take, but businesses also have a responsibility there too. Hi. I'm an alumni as well but because of the over-consumption of fashion I switched into digital and philanthropy. Thank you so much for speaking today. It's incredibly informative. When you talk about your packaging and being thoughtful about it being reusable. I'd love to know more, about your packaging and what you've done and working with the communities and work with recyclables etc. Then just looking at your price point glance at your site it seems elevated almost in the luxury space. I understand that that possibly is so that you can have again donate to plant trees and everything. Then does that also feed into limited supply so that you're not interested in, if the demand increases and you're going to figure out how to get more of that loyal or that note. It's a matter of no this is how much they have. This is how much we're going to use and we're going to keep it at this level so that you don't end up in the same place with a lot of brands ended up. Well, I think that's a very exciting part of the brand. It's so small and taking a lot of time and actually really build it in such a way. For instance, when we discovered the seed called Kaya. It's this indigenous tree. Brazil indigenous tree. There is this pod it is prehistorical and we challenged this lab to create an oil for us which they did and it was super powerful and has 50 percent more value than all our fragrances. So it's within supplement is extraordinary. But it crops once a year which is November and it crops 600 kilos a year. So it's very limited. So we already purchased last year's crop again. So you're going to have to deal with this scarcity and I think that's the beauty of the brand and that that's how it separates us from anybody else. You have the real organic decent product and really makes a difference. When it comes to the source and we really believe that. Then we created this jungle oil complex which really is a name that we're able to increase or decrease certain ingredients based upon. We have already found so many other ingredients so it's just incredible. There will be adding to it as we go along. So it's a very untapped world very obviously. We know just how easily known this and that but it turned around and if you did that to a task it actually does well. You're going to find amazing things which we have to break ground. When it comes to packaging, to me it was the most challenging. Why? Because obviously they've been very visual and I wanted things to be done with certain standards in mind. All of the packing is really customized twice. So it's very expensive. It's very expensive. Its very time consuming. I couldn't for instance do it anywhere else but in China which I question very much. But again, as we go along we are finding ways of going about it. For instance, we are unveiling this programs that we have that is special, a hotel chain in Brazil and hopefully they'll invest as well. We're using a plastic that is derivative of sugar cane. So it's a precedent. Hopefully, we are again partnering with this one company that we're talking to that they will take all the bottles back. So we're creating this full cycle. Although most of the packaging that we are doing is just so beautiful that you feel like you need to reuse them. You feel like you need to collect them. But when it comes to bath and body you might have plastic there, which is a little unfortunate. But again, it's a learning curve maybe and with very new fragrances and we've been doing our diligence. Hi Francisco, I'm Rosa from Brazil. I'm an alumni of FIT [OVERLAPPING]. Nice. I understand your disenchantment with the fashion industry and to the point that drove you towards the cosmetic industry. I'd like to know if there is any findings on your research on the textile industry for sustainability. Well, I have various agencies a lot. There are so many when you talk about sustainability. It's also how can you be appropriate. I think there's so much waste out there and a perfect example is going to high quilt. It's just a way of being sustainable, creating something new out of something else. So I haven't really gone in depth into the textile world, but I did find in this area out of Acre region in Brazil this leather that's a rubber, made out of rubber. So it has basically a cloth. It's a rubberized cloth which looks exactly like leather. I understand that they may have tapped into it in the past trying to utilize, more heavier. But initially, it was a little complicated. So I'm talking to this one supplier. In other words this one community who actually does it very very simply and trying to improve that so we can use that for accessories actually to support the line. You're talking about an amenities programs where there's types probably using that, which is very interesting. It's very good. Everyone please join me in thanking Francisco [APPLAUSE] I'd like you now to join me in welcoming Jamie Bartholomai who is in international sales and marketing and is the Manager for Stoll American Knitting Machinery. Jamie is a marketing professional who has worked for fashion startups, licensing and intellectual property ownership firms. Her experience includes PR, digital marketing, industry relations and communications. Stoll technology is an important component of FIT's impressive knitwear program. Please join me in welcoming Jamie. [APPLAUSE] Thank you so much Joanne and I also want to say a big thank you to FIT on the behalf of all Stoll, not only as university relationships what we're all about at this company, but we also want to make sure that we're constantly educating the new industry leaders of tomorrow. So I wanted to start off today by asking everybody who here by show of hands is familiar with knitting on Stoll. Oh, wow you're making my life a lot easier. [LAUGHTER] So for those of you that don't know, Stoll is a world renowned OEM of [inaudible] and machinery. Now, we have been around for 145 years to this date, it was founded actually on 1873 by Henry Stoll himself and currently to this day we have 900 employees worldwide with six subsidiaries and we are represented in over 50 different countries. Now, each year, one of the reasons that we're known as a global innovator is because of the fact that we have sold over a 100 thousand CMS machines from 1873 to this day with six thousand machines sold in a year and over a hundred issued patents. So, without going through the complete tabloid for you, one of the most interesting facts about Stoll is the technological advances that we've made with our machines. Some of which started off with a simple handcrafted machines that you may see at either FIT or even at Stoll America in New York, all the way to the original two system machine and the original CMS machines, and now we have today our high performance machines and our ADF technology along with our software solution of knitelligence. Now, at Stoll, even though our bottom-line is selling machines, we need services that cater to such, and we have two departments that would fulfill those needs, one of which is our fashion and technology department. At fashion technology via fashion centers all over the world, one of the most well-known is Stoll America here in New York. At these fashion centers we work and consult with large brands, small brands, designers alike, in order to provide them with the knitting know-how that they may need to construct new garments. We also provide different patterning techniques, and a lot of different depending know how that might not be as common. Every year, our head of fashion technology [inaudible] , launches a new trend collection, and what is really phenomenal about these collections, not just aesthetically speaking, is the fact that it is almost impossible to actually knit these pieces in the production type setting. This is because of the fact that the pieces are so complex. It actually is meant to inspire designers, and basically what they'll see is they'll say, "Okay, so I want to take this structure and incorporate it into this hoodie that I'm making", for example and our knit specialists will help them, guide them through that process of how they can make it feasible. Another department that we have that'll cater to our bottom-line is our technical textiles department. For technical textiles, this is taking a step back from fashion for a moment, because the industries that we cater to are industries that you would never expect that would be interested in knitting or incorporate it into their products. These industries are represented in what we call our TT clusters which is a fancy way of saying RTT divisions, and the most popular of these are TT mobility which is the automotive industry for knitted automotive interiors and car seats. Also we have TT Med, which is for healthcare such as compression bandages for people with diabetes and arthritis, as well as knee braces. We also have TT Home which is for home interior and also for office furniture, and last but not least, our most popular would be TT Sport. Now, TT Sport is what you may know from our famous shoe apparels and before it's a pair of pieces. And also TT Department, before I stop with this section, they are also very well-known for a incorporating nanotechnology, [inaudible] elements, neuro-fiber filaments and they really help these industries that do not know how to incorporate knitting, how they can actually get no material limitations with 3-D knitting in complex shapes. Now that you know a little bit more about Stoll, if you didn't know about them already, innovation and sustainability for why we're here today, is the market challenges that we face in manufacturing. Every day we talk with customers that deal with these challenges and they can account for yarn and fabric waste consumption, the integration of smart textiles, manpower, also it can be price pressure of the knitted goods, and automation and digitization, the fast copying culture and e-commerce and then also we have target market and create your own or customization. Now, for Stoll, as a constant innovator of our technology how we are able to actually be more sustainable year-to-year can be actually summarized in either our knitwear technology and machines, our ADF machinery and as well as knitelligence, which we'll dive into in further slides. Before I go into explaining the knitwear for those of you who might not be familiar with it, some companies we'll call it whole garment or seamless knitting. It's good to understand the basics of knitting technologies. So we have cut and sew which is in essence, the machine will knit full yardage and then you cut out the patterns and assemble them together. This is unfortunately the most cost effective solution for companies, and it's probably the most used, I would say, and as such it actually is the least sustainable just because of the waste and the fabric consumption that it takes. Fully fashion is a fine medium, it's literally where you will knit off, let's say a sleeve of a sweater, a front, a back and then you will finish it together to create the garment. Then knit wear, what I love about this is it's simplicity, it's you knit and wear it, you literally have a full sweater off of the machine. For knit wear, the key takeaway is, it's very idyllic for repeat orders, and this is a machine that is very much preferred in the production environment. It has the reduction of manpower just because of the fact that there's very little to no waste, no finishing or linking is really required, unless of course you want to add a specific trimmer color to a sweater, and you can still do some unique shapes as well. Now, with every technology that somebody uses, even if we think of your iPhone and every time you need to update an application, there are always some limitations, which we are always working on year to year to make better, and for knit and wear currently, what we have is the fact that it's more simpler styles that are being that often these machines just because of the fact that complex structure such as a turner or double layers, it's not as easy to do this off of these machines, and the biggest limitation of the machine flip cells is the fact that to do a full knit and wear garment takes a lot of knitting time. So it makes it very expensive. So, if you're a brand and you want to invest in a machine and you're thinking about knit and wear just from the sustainability reasons, which is amazing, you also have to make in terms of your consumer right? You have to think, "Is my consumer actually going to go to a store and see two sweaters that look very similar to one another and one maybe a $100 one maybe $50. The only difference is that one is seamless, will they really care that one has seams or not". So, that's something that brands need to really ask themselves. So another solution that we have for sustainability is our ADF Family of machines. Now, the ADF machines are best known for their flexibility, their diversity, and their efficiency. Now, for those of you that are not machinery fans in the audience, the one thing you can take away from this machine is that the yarn carriers move independently from the carriage, and this is huge. The reason for this, is that our typical CMS machine, computerized machine, one yarn carrier essentially equals one structure. So what that means is with the ADF machine, and the ability for one carrier to be independent from the carriage, you can go from a very complex structure to a basic structure within one order, and all of this creates an optimize knitting time, and knitting sequences making your time shorter. It's very convenient for designers, and for manufacturers. Now, where knit and wear was more popular for production setting, the ADF machines are more popular for people that are interested in R&D development because of the freedom that you really have with this machine to do all sorts of crazy different products, and you can incorporate very complex techniques such as intarsia and one of our favorites is the sole weaving for which you can actually knit a fabric, that's as tight as a woven. Another factor that can make the ADF machines very interesting is the fact that you can knit conductive wires such as copper throughout the knitted garment, and is not apparent on the outer [NOISE] surface at all. So this is a very big machine for a lot of technical textiles customers. Now, without going through every single machine component for you, just so you can get a layout. You can see the yarn carriers up here, and how they can build up down left to right. You can also see here the lever device, the take down system, and just some of the components that are not shown. Now, for my favorite part of this presentation is really encompassing how STOLL's at global workforce of the future. Now, you can see where we represented you all over the globe, but now it's in a very advanced digital sense. This is done through STOLL's Knitelligence platform. So knitelligence, the easiest way to explain this to everybody is, it's a modular system for which all of our software solutions are combined. So when you have every single software system of knitelligence, you are having a completely automated production system, which means you are having a completely sustainable manufacturing environment. Knitelligence will take you all the way from design, and pattern creation, to the creation of shapes, and grading, to IP protection, production planning, all the way through to manufacturing at scale. So the first software tool that I want to discuss with you today is STOLL-artwork. This is our knitting software that we released last year, and STOLL-artwork is actually the Adobe Photoshop extension, and it's used to better communicate between designers, and technicians. Now, the reason that this is important is because we'll have at our fashion centers that we discussed previously. Designers will come in, and they'll show us either their take ups, their design, their sketches, and the programmers what they're knitting know-how will take that information, and they will input that in the M1plus program. Now, when this happens, there's always some kind of miscommunication that can take place for instance, which could lead to a deformation of the pattern just because the simple know-how between the two. Now, when you have STOLL-artwork, what this does is the designer can actually input their design into Photoshop, and Photoshop can recognize certain errors that can take place from knitting on the machine due to the machines capabilities. Once all of that is done, we can actually import this file into the M1plus program, so that way it makes the programmer's life easier, and there's a very little possibility of any deformation happening. So the next one that we have is STOLL-autocreate. STOLL-autocreate goes into the customization challenge that I discussed earlier. It enables full automation of the pattern generation process. How this is done, is you have different variations on when you're a designer of a brand, you might want different shapes, different color waves, different sizes. Autocreate makes it possible for a creator own experience because the software again, can connect to the M1plus, and then knit it off machine right away. Then you have M1plus which we've been talking about a little bit. M1plus is actually a complete necessity for a programmer. If you have the machine, this is actually something that is required in a package when you buy a machine. This is because it is the tool of that programmers use a completely create the knitting program. You can't knit without this. It also enables the technicians to intervene at any point in time to for any knitting techniques, any issues that the machine could have. It's a great power tool. Now, for GKS, this is more for the technical designer. It allows the creation, the modifications, the optimization, and the importation, or upgrading file with one pattern. So let's say that you have one techpack table, where you have all your sides for a bust ways 10 measurements, but you just have it for one pattern. This system can take for this one pattern all of that data, and it can also be imported into M1plus program, and knitted off the machines. So orders can just keep going continuously. It saves about 80 percent of the time for the tech designers to the programmers. Then, we have SIN which is our central crypto infrastructure. Now, what's interesting about this program is that going into fashion business, any program that you have as a brand is going to be an extremely valuable piece of intellectual property. Given the fast copying culture challenge that we mentioned for the market, it's very easy for somebody to hack, and get this information which can be extremely detrimental for the brand. With the SIN system, we actually make a completely protected program for you, and the way that we're able to control this, is we have the programs can only knit on certain machines, during a specific time frames, and then also it is completely eligible to the human eye. So whether you are knitting off of your own machine here in the US, or if you send your program for mass production overseas, you're completely protected. Sorry. [NOISE] There we go. So for PPS, this is our production planning system. What's great about this system, is the fact that you can literally plan out your knitting process. It has complete optimization for production, and it'll make you more competitive as a business. Also, it can link to any of our software tools, and machinery from M1Plus, to ERP, to the OKCRE case systems of different machinery. The key takeaway from having PPS is the fact that you can have reduced rejection rates. You can have a shorter reaction time. You're able to deploy your manpower more efficiently. Automation, and digitization is possible. Also on top of that, you can count and keep track of your yarn inventory a lot easier. So APM. This is the last one that we have for knitiligence, and this is actually my personal favorite because as intriguing as it is, it's also a little bit freaky. APM is a fully automated system, for which let say you have a machine, and you have your own factory. Every machine has this long red lever that is the start, and stop function. So let's say that at this factory that you own, you also have the PPS system, and it's after hours everyone's gone for the facility, but you still have multiple orders that you need to take care of. With PPS, and APM, what will happen is, you schedule the new order, and instead of having a human interface to physically start, and stop this machine, once an order comes down for the machine and it's already finish, the APM automatically starts this lever almost like a ghost factory, which is pretty interesting. So the benefits at a glance from knitelligence after going through all of the individual software components is that it really tackles every market challenge that we discussed. You have complete automation and digitization. You're able to protect yourself against the fast copying culture. You're able to have complete create your own customization purposes. The time to market is increased, reduce the manpower, and it's very limited waste. So with all three sustainability options that STOLL can provide that we discussed with STOLL knit and wear, ADF machines, and then knitelligence. If you are able as a customer to have all three components in your factory, mill, or even to invest in this overseas for your production, you are already one step ahead of the game because you have a complete sustainable process, and you already entered into advanced manufacturing as we know it today. That's it. [APPLAUSE] 