 Ace It is a collaboration between London College of Communication and London Southbank University and it's a funded project where we are coming together to share our expertise with SMEs who are interested in using immersive technology in London. We're here with a number of companies from London for our one-day innovation sprint where we're going to work with these companies to get their projects off the ground, begin to identify challenges they face and identify opportunities for us to support them in an academic or tech capacity. I got to talk to some of the other attendees and that was extremely interesting because everyone's doing very different things. I work in the mental health and tech space, so using technology to empower people's ability to express their emotions. Just being here and being around people for me it's really nice because these are all people who are doing really creative beautiful things with technology. Everybody's got their own little niche activity but it's just great to kind of talk and share and network. When there's other people that are starting businesses that have got more experience than me and they're like look apply funding here and I'm like this is just great knowing all of this information so it's been really helpful. The session is about design thinking it's a really good process I believe for our business especially startups like ours to figure out how do we produce a product or a service that is really connected to our consumers. My professional experience to date has all been about making films. I run a small media production company with my husband. I'm the creative director and founder of my own creative technology company. How do I reach them to deliver the things that they want? From idea to reality. We're touching on roadmaps now and I'm primarily a creative person and I tend to think of things intuitively so the discipline, the rigor of planning and scheduling and creating milestones absolutely important. I've made a lot of contacts today, exchanged a lot of emails, taken a lot away from today. It's basically given me a structure, I didn't have structure, to have a timeline, to know the people that are going to be involved to help me develop a project. I don't necessarily understand the technical aspects of a lot these technologies but I think this course has maybe allowed me to think about how then I can go find out that information. To know the people that are going to be involved to help me develop the project where before originally I was just thinking I'll do Unity and I'll do it all myself and really you can get a team of people to help you develop your dream vision. Because you know I I know that I can't do everything so it's about you know finding those teams. It's been a really good experience today working with these companies it's great to have such a vibrant mix of ideas come into the room so this was just the first of these one day innovation sprint, so we're really excited to meet new companies for our next round of innovation sprints that will start in January 2020. 