 Many experts believe that we are now in the early stages of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, an era blurring the lines between digital, physical, and biological systems in a way never seen before. It is marked by emerging technological breakthroughs in a number of fields, including robotics, artificial intelligence, nanotechnology, quantum computing, biotechnology, the Internet of Things, fifth-generation wireless technologies (5G), additive manufacturing and 3D printing and fully autonomous vehicles. Emerging technologies are changing the way that we live and work and the rapid pace of change is quickly disrupting almost every industry globally. For students equipped with the correct skills, the opportunities will be endless, but the challenge for schools is how to prepare them well. We recognize there is a growing global demand from both private and public schools to provide proper resources and teacher training in order to deliver a meaningful technology education to students. Coding, robotics, animation and computer science are now all within reach of even our youngest learners. Teachers will benefit from access to new resources that enable an earlier introduction of these subjects, previously made available to students only in high school or university. Digital Media Academy | Certified Schools provides a global, affordable, whole- school solution to integrate technology and innovation within the existing framework of the public and private k-12 education sectors - practical tools for educators to integrate technology into other areas of the curriculum and remove obstacles to implementation. Teachers and students can access a full range of grade-specific courses that meet international curriculum standards; up-to-date instructional materials that align with current technological research, trends, and applications. Easy to follow training videos, teaching guides, lesson-ready resources and an online help desk remove barriers to the introduction of these topics. Courses are designed so teachers can easily adapt them to the needs of their students, their schedules, and their local curriculum. Students will get the opportunities to harness their creative potential in technology and practice real-world problem-solving through six learning pathways: Digital Storytelling, Game Design, Modeling and Design, Programming and Computer Science, Robotics, AI and Machine Learning and Electronic Music. Instructional Materials are media-rich, age appropriate and timely to engage students in transformative learning experiences covering a broad range of discussion topics, activities and projects to foster group collaboration, creative experimentation and interest-based learning. Prepare your students with future-ready skills so they can fully take advantage of the new opportunities brought about by the Fourth Industrial Revolution. As the World Economic Forum states "Education is our deepest source of hope - we must plant the seeds now for a better future tomorrow." Begin your certification process now through the contact information on this page. Embark on a guided implementation journey for transformative learning! 