  Okay, so next up, we have a folding package design tool. This is really cool, in essence, being able to print and really be creative with printing content. It's kind of hard to explain, but it's really cool to check out, and, luckily, we have Amanda Ghassaei to show us Fantastic Fold. -Thank you. -Hey. (applause) All right, so let's say that I'm a packaging designer and I've been given this dieline that folds up into a box and I want to create some artwork for it. So, I'll show you a design I'm working on. Kind of keeping with tonight's theme and making a little '90s time capsule box. But you can see that there's a lot of places in this design where I had to duplicate my graphics across multiple panels of the box, and I had to figure out how to line everything up so that it all comes together when the box is folded. But getting this right can be really tricky, and so I did a little test print to see if I was on the right track, but you can see that a lot of my graphics are really misaligned and, actually, all of this is completely upside down. And, then, the top of my box here, it's supposed to say, "Crazy cool time capsule," but when it comes together, it actually just says "crapsule." (laughing) -Crapsule. -Crapsule. Crapsule! Crapsule. Oh, God. So, these are the types of problems that packaging designers run into every day, so we're working on some new tools to not only avoid these types of mistakes but also to allow you guys to get even more creative with your ideas. So, our tool called "Project Fantastic Fold" takes your 2D dielines, figures out how they fold up, and provides you with a 3D preview. (cheering) (applause) Thanks. So, let's say we want to add a design to the side of this box here. So, I can select these panels in 3D and then I can use our smart unwrapping tool to lay out the panels that I selected in 2D in an orientation that matches how they're going to come together when the box is folded. So, this way, I can just take my design and I can just drag it across all three panels in a single step. (applause) And at the same time, I get this really nice 3D visualization so I can be really sure that everything is going to line up exactly how I'm expecting and it's all going to work out. So, when I'm happy with this, I can switch out of smart unwrapping view and back into the fully flattened view, and you can see that the tool has automatically taken our design, applied it to all three of the panels, applied clipping masks, figured out all of the rotations and offsets for us. So, we can keep adding our graphics this way, and I'm just going to load up a design that I finished a little earlier. Let's see. We end up with something that looks like this. (chuckles) Cool. (applause) And, so, once we're happy with this, we can export it as a 3D model and we can bring it into Adobe Dimension to produce a photo-realistic rendering. (cheering and applause) So, just starting from our 2D design, we've automatically created these beautiful 3D assets. And, of course, we can get our box printed, and I have a little version right here for you. Beautiful. (applause) So, there's a whole class of packaging dielines that we can edit and simulate in similar ways. But I'm going to push the envelope a little bit more with an example with some really complicated folds. So... Let's see here. So, this is a little origami pattern that I bet a lot of you have actually folded. Let's see what it is. So, Paul designed... (applause) So, Paul designed these really cool kind of pterodactyl skeletons to wrap around the outside of this crane, but obviously figuring out how to mask this and apply it to the black crease pattern is going to be really tricky. So, what we're going to do instead is we're going to select all the panels that make up the body of the crane, and then I'm going to use smart unwrapping. So, I can just drag this design on top. (applause) Oh, that's cool. (applause) And we can do the same thing with the wings. I can just select the wings, drag this on top. And, then, when I'm happy with that, I can switch out of smart unwrapping back to our full flattened view, and you can see that the tool has done all the hard work for us. Wow. (applause) (cheering) She already printed one out. 