 Hi, my name is Aaron Martínez. I'm a Mexican product designer and illustrator. I continue to work with big advertising agencies in Mexico and Europe. I'm also focused on my personal projects, that are creating 3D characters, illustration, and riding my bike around Mexico City. What I enjoy most when it comes time to do a project is experimenting, whether it be with a software, color palettes, texture. it doesn't matter is it's a 3D character, an illustration or a gadget. Having the ability to model is having the ability to create new things, from creating a character used in a campaign to a machine that can save lives. I've focused on working for startups like Luuna, dedicated themselves to the innovation of rest; Miroculus is a machine that detects kinds of cancer with a blood test; and Luv.it is a platform where you can buy clothing with a mobile app. In this Domestika course I will teach you to create incredible things with simple techniques. We will do three projects: the first is a still life, the second is a futuristic gadget, and the third is an animated thing. In this course we will know the tools we will use throught the course: Illustrator and Cinema 4D. We will understand a bit about them, how are they related and how we can export elements from Illustrator to Cinema 4D. In the first project we will create a still life. We will model its parts, make a composition, we will make materials, lighting, we will configure the camera and its lenses. We will create a render scene and we will roll out different digital means. For our second project we will create a gadget. First we will see some references, then we will create a sketch, and we will move it to Cinema 4D to model it. We will make some textures to configure the camera with other lenses, we will light it up, and we will make a render scene. We will roll out different means to sell them in the best way. In this last project we will fuse Illustrator with Cinema 4D. We will trace it in Illustrator, export to Cinema 4D, give it volume, color, and texture, add lighting, we will see cameras, render scenes, and then we will roll out Photoshop to give it some final touches. You will need to have a basic understanding of modeling in Cinema 4D and vectorizing in Illustrator. The materials you will need are: a computer with Cinema 4D and Illustrator installed, pencils and felt-tip pens, and sketch paper. This course is aimed at illustrators, graphic and industrial designers, architechs, and any person who's interested in making product displays in Cinema 4D. Prototypes and Product Viewing in Cinema 4D A course by Aaron Martínez Sign up at Domestika.org Create. Share. Learn. 