 Additive manufacturing provides ample opportunity to fabricate customized parts with complex geometries things like implants and orthotics. They're customized per patient per injury also they have complex geometries, so additive is a true means for fabricating those types of products. So what we're aiming here is to use this technology to fabricate customized biomedical implants and orthotics. This Presidential Award for Interdisciplinary Research is very important for us, this project helped us to add a dimension to the excellence of NCAME and hopefully bring us to the front end of biomedical research so there we can also be a lead in that area so it's very important not only for us as faculty for region also for state. What we hope to gain through this PAIR research is to really look into using 3D printing and additive manufacturing to make next-generation biomedical implants that we can put into patients with specific injuries and specific anatomy. With additive we have this ability to conform these implants so they fit the patient better there's less pain involved and it could be cheaper because now we can reduce the amount of material and implant. We're also looking into orthotics which is kind of externally worn devices that help musculoskeletal injuries. We're looking at that to help make more conformal shoe inserts to help the warfighter and to help veterans and to also just help the general public with more specific treatments for like foot injuries. And with the vet school we're also looking at customized orthotics for horses so that way we can recover a horse after surgery a lot quicker by instead of just a one-size-fits-all horse shoe we have something that is actually designed for that specific horses size and it's weight distribution. So we're excited that we have biomedical implants and orthotics in this project and both of those are very important to humans and animals alike. I think the best way to impact people's life are through either education or health so this project nails both of them so not only we're training the next generation of engineers and scientists in the area of additive manufacturing and biomedical engineering but also we're helping the public health by fabricating more customized more efficient more durable bio implants with drug delivery systems so I think this project has direct impact on the public. 