 Alright y'all, I have a funny story. So, the caption box... It goes swinging like this during the movies. More swinging. Come on. Enough. It doesn't work. It's not stable. It's not fair that we have to go through this shit while the hearing people gets to sit back, relax, and just watch the movie. They see our stupid swinging caption box but they're able to continue watch the movie in peace. Alright. Ready? We have a loooong discussion on this. Even though we have caption today, we deaf people still struggle a lot anyways. We still don't have access to everything. We can't enjoy movies as much as y'all do. Going to the movies usually is very frustrating. We have a caption box that looks like this. It's a big bulky thing that we stick in the cup holder that has a upright bendy pole with a box at the top. And then the captions are supposed to show on the box during the movie. Recently, my boyfriend and I went to the theater to watch the Black Panther. We had a terrible experience. We both had caption boxes but his didn't work so he watched from mine during the entire movie. You know.... He was in my space bubble. Uncomfortable. Oh, also, during the middle of movie Mine stopped working later. It went on and off. Just blinking. Not cool. Oh, and we also have caption glasses but but how are we supposed to wear 3D glasses and caption glasses at the same time? How? Yes! It's so frustrating! Oh, and of course when we happen to have Open Caption on rare occasions, people's big heads blocks our caption. I usually imagine doing this. Sawing their heads off. Ah, better view now. One thing I hate so much is when people doesn't want the caption on and claims that it's "too distracting" for the movie and all that. Commmonnnnnn. Other struggle is watching movies with delay in the captions. Often my grandmother would be like "OMG. Did you hear that??" I have to tell her to wait, wait, wait and 20 seconds later I finally know what she's talking about. Really? We want open captions on all screens everywhere NOW. Have fun in the cold. Bye. Get yourself some food. Hope you enjoyed this. 