 Hello everyone and welcome I'm Stephane  from Gemalto. I would like to share with you some insights on the 4th Industrial Revolution also known as Smart Manufacturing and why it is so important to bring trust to this ecosystem. Did you know that manufacturing represents 11 trillion dollars or 60% of the world GDP today and is forecast to almost triple by 2025 and did you know that IoT can add an additional value of 3 trillion dollars by the same time. Meaning an additional 10% extra value. So this is the impressive impact of what we call the 4th industrial revolution. After using water steam then electricity to pour on machines and move to mass production after adding automation to improve productivity, quality and safety the Internet of Things and other technological breakthroughs like the data, like the clouds, like artificial intelligence allowed to create cyber physical systems that will bring an impressive level of productivity and flexibility. This is going to reshape deeply the manufacturing sector on the planet by creating new opportunities for manufacturers to optimize their operations and offer new value to their customers. The heart of this transformation is the flow of data between machines, tools, people, products and business partners. The ecosystem becomes more interconnected and dynamic interactions occur between participants than are form a value network rather than a traditional value chain. But the downside of this evolution is that extending the digital world into the physical one has worrying consequences in terms of safety and business continuity. Stuxnet, Petya, Dragonfly are just a few examples of tags that took advantage of this interconnectedness to disrupt production to still intellectual property or even damaged infrastructure. Manufacturers tend to slow down their IoT project at the pilot stage until they make sure that these issues are under control. Therefore bringing trust to the manufacturing ecosystem is essential to go full-scale and to reap the benefits of IoT. At Gemalto we are leveraging our IoT and digital security expertise to help manufacturers move to the next stage, our experts are ready to support the digital transformation of your business. Thank you for watching and don't forget to subscribe to Gemalto's YouTube channel to find out more! 