 Greetings everyone. Welcome. My name is Sarah Zeller Berkman and I'm the Academic Director of the Youth Studies Program here at CUNY SPS. So I have the pleasure tonight of introducing Dr. Bishop but, before I do, I just want to tell you a little bit about our program here. So we have a master's, a 30 credit masters in Youth Studies and a 12 credit advanced certificate in Youth Studies. And this is really a degree for Youth workers. So people that are direct service practitioners, people that are supervisors, people that are multi-site supervisors, and it's also something for people that are coming through other parts of CUNY and have done undergraduate youth studies programs and really kind of want a higher level of education in Youth Studies. So there are five things that make our program unique and number one is that we always combine theory and practice. So this happens within each class and also across the curriculum. Two, we give a sense of socio-historical context but also really current promising practices in our field. Three, we have an explicit commitment to social justice. So this is really about a youth development not to fit young people into structures or programs or things that aren't working for them but really a social justice -- we are aiming to shift status quo in partnership with young people. And we have an intersectional approach. So we look at race, class, gender, sexuality, immigrant status, disability, and how that impacts young people's development but also how they're perceived, etc. And, lastly, we have a participatory and kind of strength based approach. So you can see from our commitments that it has everything to do about why we're so excited to have Dr. Bishop here sharing her book about becoming activists and and also why she's a perfect fit as a professor in our program. So she's teaching the Youth Action Agency class as well as Research Methods. And she is beloved, admired in our program, and she is, you know, somebody that works the hyphen of activist, scholar, practitioner, and kind of works all of those positionalities to push youth participation and also educate youth workers about how to make that happen in a quality way. So I'm gonna give a brief overview of her accomplishments because there are many, many, many. So I'm just gonna give you the quick and dirty. Dr. Bishop currently serves as Director of Curriculum and outcomes evaluation and Supervisor of Digital Leadership and Learning at Global Kids; an amazing organization here in New York City. Besides her work at Global Kids in here at CUNY SPS, Bishop is on the Research Team at the Queering Education Research Institute housed at Hunter College and she directs the Drop Knowledge project where she conducts research on literacy and activism. Previously Bishop taught on the Faculty of English Education and Women and Gender Studies at Ithaca College. She served as Deputy Director at the Center for institutional and social change at Columbia Law School and as an Assistant Director of the Peace Corps Fellows Program at Teachers College Columbia University. She began her career, you know, on the ground, as a public school teacher in the Bronx, and has worked in many in school and out of school time settings and she has many credentials. I'll tell you a few. She holds a PhD in Language Literacy and Culture from the University of Pittsburgh School of Education, an MST and Adolescent Education from Pace University, an MA in Literary and Cultural Studies from Carnegie Mellon University, and a BA in Plan Studies from Ithaca College. Yeah. So, tonight, Dr. Bishop will present lessons learned from her research with five self-described activists here in New York City. Really demonstrating how the development of critical literacy skills play a significant role in how young people address injustice. So, and just-- this is her first book. Her second book will come out on 2018. So I'm gonna give it to you. Take this away, thank you. Thank you so much. I want to also make sure to thank the folks that have joined us on the webinar and to ask you to bear with me as I move through this presentation. And then we're gonna open up for a Q&A at the end. And there is a chat box available for you to shoot questions our way so and also just thank you to Sarah, of course, for her visionary leadership in this program. And also to Heather in the Events Management who really made this whole thing super flawless. So I'm gonna jump right in and, you know this is a lot of content, but we're gonna move swiftly through it and I really want to honor the young folks who are in the text. Who of course aren't here because of IRB and research ethics so their voices and their language is going to feature prominently throughout this presentation as a result. So I wanted to start, if we can, there we go. These are actually-- this is very overwhelming slide. They're not all this overwhelming but I went back into my notes and looked a little bit at what were the early designs of this research before I did it. So in the yellow at the top, this is 2010-2011, when I was first thinking about what I might want to end up doing that turned into this book and I was really focused on working collaboratively with youth activists and organizers in order to document the work that they were doing. So they're anti-oppressive work and various forms of representation that they were undertaking. In terms of context , was super interested in thinking about youth organizing projects as innovative out of school spaces for critical education and social action work and we'll talk more about that. I'm a student of language and so very much so this is about language for me and thinking about kind of challenging what is sometimes perceived of as radical in a negative ways and understanding that to be radical actually means to grab at the root in all of its etymological senses. So I actually had this quote from Henry Giroux from 1998 in my earliest designs here and I won't read you a ton off of the screen but I will share this with you, in which he says: "critical educators challenged ethically limp discourses (privatization, national standards, global competitiveness) while simultaneously providing ethical signposts for public discourse about education and democracy... and the need to produce critical public spaces of Education as a process of social change that takes place across multiple sites outside of school." So this is 1998, you're talking 20 years ago this some of this came to the fore. So these are some of the early design notes and, of course, the book becoming activist is the result but I stand on the shoulder of all of these other academics that came before me so. There's a quick snap of an element of my library that helped build this up for me. So I'm gonna dive right into the research. There were two fundamental research questions and I have some research method students in the room who know how painstakingly we research and workshop questions. So it took me a while to get to these exact questions and even now I've got a critique of them, sure take photos if you want.So there were two levels of questions here. The first was about how do urban youth organizers engage in critical literacy praxis as they become activists? I'm not going into the detail of what a lot of this language means as I go but there were some sub questions here. These youth organizers, what are they reading and researching as they're identifying topics that they want to have activism and organizing mobilization around? What are they consuming and critiquing and how are they responding to texts? And what are they creating in response to what they're understanding? How are they disseminating it? To what audiences and with what purpose? So that's really why-- despite kind of any big questions out there about why this is about literacy, this work-- it is fundamentally about literacy, there's a second layer here and it's it has to do with how young folks articulate their own visions of themselves as activists. So I come from a cultural, theoretical tradition of post-structuralism meaning that I'm not looking for a single definition of activism to emerge from any of this. I never was. What I what I was interested in is, how are the young people involved this work how do they define activism themselves and what relationship do they have to the texts and contexts of activism, the ones they take in and the ones they produce? So there's a background here. So I'll briefly trace for you the critical literacy theory out of which some of this emerges; has deep tradition in critical pedagogy and I'm sure this is a text that's not unfamiliar to most folks in this room: Paulo Freire is Pedagogy of the Oppressed, in which he really underscored the political dimensions of experience and the need to initiate social change with "oppressed person" by identifying structures of oppression in communities and then acting to redress those conditions. So the identification is important. Almost 20 years later, Freire and Macedo came out with the text "Literacy: Reading The Word and The World." and often, if you are tapped into the critical literacy discourse at all, that's really the kind of most essential way you could frame this conversation: is reading the word and the world right beyond just kind of classic decoding. So in this text they posit that those who are critically literate not only do they understand the meaning of things and how meaning is socially created but also the political and economic context in which those things are created. Who owns the press, what's the copyright, what access emerges from these things. In 1993 two texts came out in the same year. They both kind of pushed us in the direction of what we now know as critical literacy in a transformative model. So Lankshear & McLaren had an edited text called "Critical Literacy: Politics, Praxis, and the Postmodern" and in which they identified three forms of educational practice that critical literacy can take on varying by levels of commitment to modes of inquiry and actions. So the first is interpretation, right. The idea and this is kind of your classic like AP literature space that interpretation is allowed. You can (unintelligible) different things but inevitably contradiction is to be avoided. There's a second level which is pushes a little bit further that has an emphasis on tolerance, right. But tolerance as we know often means that there is a mainstream status quo from which you are tolerating otherness. So the third and more component arm of this to me is the idea of direct emancipatory action in the world taking language, taking other sorts of text, and effecting change out of that. So, at the same time, same year, Knoblauch and Brannon put out a text in which they identify four approaches somewhat similar: the rhetoric of Objectivism, right which is kind of your positivist or post positivist, there are certain truths and foolhardy not to understand them; there's a politics of nostalgia, a wishing for a time that has passed where truth or simplicity existed, not that that was ever really true; the idea of personal growth right, this is kind of like reader response that you read something and you can personally grow from it, and then again the more transformative element of it which is the socio political activist side of things which is not just looking yourself but looking across social, political, and cultural spaces. So really, foregrounding here the relationship of language and power with practical knowledge about how to use language to advocate for social critique, for transformation. So contemporary critical literacy research, and this contemporary to the text when it came out, there's been subsequent research-- was really talking about what does it look like to do critical literacy research and work in ways that support "good democratic pedagogy", right. Spaces that are foregrounding historical, cultural, or social issues and a lot of this is grounded in ELA, in English Language Arts, in History curricula, which we're looking at how do you consume texts? What are you producing? How are you distributing? Similarly, a lot of critical literacy research in the mid 2000s was looking at what are ways the literacy work can move you "towards change" and that's, in theories of idea has many different iterations for what it looks like. And so, Singer asks like what is your activist story teach about movements towards making positive change? Borscheim & Petrone had a study where they working at what does it mean to teach the research paper for local action. And here's where you are to see some of kind of the classic critical literacy taxonomies emerge. That young people are identifying social and political -- that they're conducting research and outreach, that they're writing academic research kind of in your classic sense of the final paper or product, but that they are also producing real texts for real audiences and we can talk more about what that looks like in the QA as well. And then Phelps in 2010 had a study that was really looking at what does it mean to do critical literacy work to try to combat Islamophobia, and xenophobia, in the United States. So this just kind of brings you up to speed a little bit and where some of the research was. So, for me, I'm looking across the history of this research. I identified five overlapping components that I used to frame critical literacy throughout the course of this study. And they're not an -- they very much are kind of it's not a linear trajectory. They are that you're mobilizing learners as social actors with knowledge and skills to disrupt the commonplace. Conducting research analysis and interrogation of multiple viewpoints on any given issue, Identifying those same issues in the context of the lives of learners. So there's a real sense of relevance and culturally relevant and sustaining space. Designing and undertaking actions focused on justice outside of the classroom, also inside the classroom, but a huge element of this is spaces of classic academic space. And then reflecting on those actions that are taken and creating visions for the future. So this is brings you right up to speed in terms of where I am when I'm talking about critical literacy. There's some substantial limitations to critical literacy work that does happen in schools. Now I want to be very clear because I'm asked this question all the time, I don't-- I think the critical literacy work can and does happen inside of academics and school-based environments all the time but there have been, historically, some conceptual challenges and some practical challenges. So conceptually, critical literacy has been critiqued as being too pedagogically loose of a model or too politically activist and/or that literacy practices inside of schools tend to primarily function in ways that sustain dominant cultural norms and ideologies and the critical literacy is going to try to overturn those and that's going to complicate the discourse in that space and that the goals of critical literacy don't reflect the overwhelmingly hierarchical relationship that exist in traditional classroom spaces. In practice, and this quote always stands out to me, "because of the nature of critical research are likely to ask questions that some people would prefer that they don't ask about some topics that people would prefer they don't address." And again, and Beck follows and says, "it's not a good idea to teach critical literacy in settings where silence is encouraged, such as prisons and schools." "Even when students consider socio-political cultural and ideological issues and they could take action, they frequently won't if they're not explicitly supported to do so." And that's a really huge element that some of those initial steps and stages of critical literacy happen for when it comes to the moment of taking that action, that move into action that sometimes there's limitations that really prevent that. So, just to be clear, I strongly aligned with the idea that you can do critical literacy work inside of schools and, at the same time, recognize that there are sometimes limitations. The last two texts that came out right before i was writing this book that really spoke to me about the actionable elements of critical literacy were Morrell's 2004 ethnography called "Becoming Critical Researchers"; where he was looking at the relationship between academic but in literacy spaces literacy development, in action --social action research, in summertime programming with young folks, and his project really demonstrated the need to look further into the study of activism as it relates to the development of young folks as critical citizens through a lens of critical literacy. So, Morrell has certainly written ad infinitum on this topic and I deferred to a lot of his work in my earliest research. At the same time, Blackburn and Clark had put out a 2007 edited text called "Literacy Research for Political Action and Social Change" and in this text they identified the explicit need to take critical reading and text production outside of classroom spaces and into activist spaces with young folks so that they could engage in immediate needs for social action and social change that weren't necessarily regulated within school based interests. So for me this very much pointed to the question, "where can critical literacy be more fully realized?" and so across the things that I was looking at and thinking about anecdotally in the know about, for me, this was youth organizing. It was really compelling space to think about critical literacy actualization. So for those of you who want a quick background, I locate approaches to youth organizing in the space where community organizing meets youth development and positive development critical pedagogy. We can talk a lot more about this Shawn Ginwright who has been really on the forefront out of the publications around this in his 2010 book "Black Youth Rising" says "young people are conceived of as agents of, not subjects, to change in youth organizing spaces and that their rights and skills to exercise change in the present as community leaders is what's really foregrounded in organizing spaces" which I find very compelling. So this one I guess is a little bit hard to see but in 2012 Hinds Foundation funded a study that was looking at various models for youth engagement and what I find most compelling about this particular infographic is that it talks about different moves across here. So you see youth services as kind of intervention in the lives of young people with-- your clients. Youth development, where young folks are participants, sometimes workers towards more collective work. Youth leadership, youth civic engagement, where young folks are leaders and that they're staffing various advisory board, leadership, councils, things of this nature and then they posit youth organizing as a model for systemic change that is driven by and alongside young folks. So it really can be activism as the model for pedagogy around critical literacy. So to me what was significant about picking up this book that I'm about to spend the rest of this time telling you about was that the study of critical literacy with youth organizers is significant for considering what are some alternative spaces of informal learning outside of school where this work can be done in this deep literacy work. So that history of critical literacy in theory and practice looking at some of the limits that emerging in school-based spaces really pushes youth organizing as an alternative context for critical literacy learning. So that was really where the need for the presence to merge, to bridge the gap between some of the limitations of critical literacy in classrooms and a real lack, at the time, of research on literacy in organizing spaces. So that's where this book comes in. And as I talk about the I'm definitely gonna be sure to read to you a bit from the young folks that are in it there were a few goals for me when thinking about how to design research that wasn't that wasn't kind of your classic ethnographer on the outside telling other folks about their experiences but to explore along side youth organizers how they were engaging praxis, how they were articulating their identities as emerging activists and how that was evolving. I was interested in considering what the implications of that would be for further study, which is something I continue to focus on, and to facilitate a wider dialogue including this evening, around organized activists, educators, who are interested and thinking about how to do work that contributes to greater connectivity and collectivities. So without going too far down in a pistol more logical hole, I will spend just a second talking about how some of the theoretical frame matters. You're laughing because you know that-- epistemology all the time. But for me the ethical-political had to do with foregrounding the subjectivity of the young folks who are involved in the research right. Oftentimes people who are involved in research are seen as the objects of study and their subjectivity isn't actually at the core of the work. So I was really interested in this idea of researchers practice and knowing that there were undecidable things, and I cite Lather here and I do later as well, that there were there was a need for an emergent design. That I was going to be influenced entirely by the young folks who were involved in the process with me and that I was willing for research relationships to evolve and, thus, the project collaboratively to evolve at the same time. So conceptually, that's what it looked like. In practice, I was really interested in having a study that was of service to a wider conversation, not just to go into the library, right, and to just sit on the shelves but how could this research actually support further training of youth activists or organizers. And there's an element of this when I talk about post-structural poly-vocality. What that means is having spaces that don't totalize somebody else's narrative. Poly-vocality means many voices right. So that participatory research really looks like creating spaces where you can work with youth human rights activists and social justice organizers and have them articulate their identities and their experiences in a way that was strategically about multiplicity. The multiplicity of their voices and their experiences. So the design. The research setting and participants. So I'm going to take some time to articulate this out. So I had started my career as a public school teacher and, at that time, I was lucky enough to have Global Kids in my classroom doing a residency and one of the things that I was introduced to at the time, as a public school teacher, was one of a few of their after-school programs. One of which was the human rights activist project which is a social action side of programming. And so subsequently I went and worked in the organization for a year. Back now and I couldn't be happier. There's been some time in-between but I've always been, and I say in my book as well, strong proponent of the work. So I purposefully sampled a diverse group of young folks who were alumni of the project. I wasn't working on behalf of the organization or trying to speak on behalf of them. I was more interested in understanding how the young folks themselves individually were articulating what their experiences had been. So their shared history is that they were in these spaces but it wasn't like an organizational study; it was about the young folks themselves and that was really their shared context historically. So initially I had designed this as a critical auto-ethnographic study, right. Not ethnography and it's classic "let me tell you about your culture" but Auto- ethnographic to the extent that I was going to be telling my story and the young folks are gonna be telling theirs and then critical ethnography has one that has always got kind of a socio-political trajectory on it. So this was designed through methods of interview observation and artifact analysis. There were quite a few limitations in the actual implementation of the study. Some of which had to do with access. Me either not being allowed in spaces because I didn't have credentials or identification or because I wasn't an insider to those communities and I really respected that. So overwhelmingly the study was restricted to qualitative interview. There is some artifact analysis and observation that's conducted but the qualitative interview really served as the forum for retelling and reconstructing some of the activists work and it gets closer to what (unintelligible) calls "portraiture" in this way and a little bit about life history but not with now with a singular trajectory. So I was dialoguing with the young folks around their literacy learning as they are articulating their activists experiences. So, in terms of analysis, you'll see you know I was trying to engage in a form of critical discourse analysis and, in educational research, CDA has a deep history and I'm not getting into all of that but for me I come from a cultural studies background so when I think about discourse I think about Foucault and I think about what are the systems of power, modes of practice that are either offering spaces of liberation or constraint, and how are those discourse spaces spaces from which truth or falsehood is produced. That you are, are not an activist. That you are, are not allowed do or be in certain ways. So, the forms of analysis that are in the text and throughout the study: the first phase was that critical literacy taxonomy that I talked about earlier really examples of iterations of these various things in the experiences of these young folks. And then I picked up Chantal Mouffe's articulation theory, which comes from post- structialist ontology, looking at what are the elements what are the relational signifiers such as a word "activist", for instance, that may have lack meaning in themselves, right, as a signifier, but through socio-historical moments, meaning is-- social meaning is produced. So activists will look and mean different things, in different contexts, at different times, and that sense of difference and multiplicity is huge here. So in terms of validity. Validity is often a really praiseworthy thing in terms of proving that your work matters. And, of course, validity and reliability are essential. So again here I defer to Patty Lather, whose 2007 book, "Getting Lost in Social Science Research", she foregrounds the idea of an "aggressive validity". That language will be insufficient to make --like final statements that you can gesture towards the problematics of representation including expectations within social science research that is appropriate to foster difference the heterogeneity, to supplement and exceed the stable and the permanent, right. To complicate our thinking and understanding and to embody a practice that is situated partial and explicitly tentative, right. Rather than making any kind of final authoritative statements. And really bringing together an ethics and an epistemology and for me later is very much writing against this image of kind of the classic ethnography looking in on someone else's culture and making judgments and statements. So, this is where it gets real interesting. The study participants. They all chose self selected pseudonyms and so these are the names that they chose: Vaga de Franx, Awesome Woman, Green Strawberries People's Republic of Mars, Gentle Meadows, and that's me the punk rock garbage can on the right. So what you see on the slides--come on in, there's some seats in the front exactly reserved for you. Thank you so much for joining us. You're just walking into the right moment cuz I'm talking about some of the youth who are involved in this study. So what you see on the slide and the following slides are quick portraits of the various young folks who were involved in the study. And so there's a few things here but I'm gonna read you some of their words. So I did a frequency analysis of some of the language that they were using as they were talking about their activist experiences. So that's what you see on the left here in the word cloud. They also each chose an image to serve as kind of like their avatar for any of the work that we did and then also there was a cloud that shows the issues and campaign topics around which they were mobilizing. So you can see these as I read you a few words from each of them. So this is Vega de Franx who says: "on any given event what people will ask me what do you really do? I say, well we organized for about four months. We connected, we fly at our campus, we talk to people, we tirelessly outreach to professors, we annoyed administration and annoy security for months, and we did it with the idea in our minds that there were other students on other campuses who were doing the same and that we had an opportunity to secure that community on our campuses because there was somebody on another campus doing the same." Subsequently I asked her to talk a little bit about how she got so good at interrogating multiple perspectives on issues and she says, "it's funny because of all the student organizers that I met, everybody always tells me that I am the most neutral and that I am the most non-sectarian, and I really am the least sectarian organizer I've come across. And I think that that's because of the workshops that I learned and the skills I developed at Global Kids and other organizations that really allowed me to develop the patience, and understanding, and ability to break things down to break information down to listen to experience and analyze them and really look past all of that theory and personalize it." And then she says, "you know ,when you do a workshop and you have your audience, you have a shitload of information you're supposed to cram into their brains in 45 minutes and the way of learning within a workshop is different than learning in an institution and different than just organizing. A workshop, you get there and it's most often a circle. You see everyone's face and you're looking at each other. You give information in an interactive way. It's very physical and entertaining. You don't ask your audience to sit and list for you a number of socialist leaders in Soviet Russia. You ask them what do they know about socialism. You ask very basic questions. It really makes people question themselves and not get patronizing. It really means they're going along with the workshop and learning together and we have this safe space that allows everyone to not feel self-conscious about a lack of theory or how much they might know. So when I'm in groups or in meetings, I can do that with people. We have a lot of problems because people don't know how to do that. People who are plugged into the student movement don't even know what a safe space is and are fighting for social justice and practicing theory that's about justice but they don't know what safe space is and they don't realize how important it is to always implement it. So we held a workshop last week on safe space and it was the first time that we had ever done that. Gentle meadows. And Gentle Meadows-- if you can picture a gentle meadow that's gentle meadows. So when I met gentle meadows he was a senior in high school in Queens and throughout our dialogues we talked about the various multiple perspectives that he had and he said: "from food production to the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, Israel and Palestine, which was a very hot topic in women's rights, what I remember most was the LGBTQI day which was very controversial for the people there." And asked him why I was controversial in which he said: "in our high schools combined, a vast majority of students come from immigrant backgrounds and on issues like immigration and things like that they might be progressive but on other things, like cultural issues, they would be like whether women should be treated equal as men and acceptance of, not just tolerance but acceptance of, lesbian, gay, bisexual ,transgender, intersex people; it was more up in the air for them. Some people do and some don't care, and some don't know. So that dialogue definitely helps there. Books won't change that if you were reading them alone. They need to be discussed and you need to talk to other people." And then he says subsequently, when talking about identifying socio-political issues, he says: "I would say the conversation and discourse are the most important. A lot of people would say it's not fruitful or it's not good for change but by talking about something, people rethink what they previously thought. It's not taken for granted anymore. So the questioning that happens in your head, it brings up the idea that oh maybe there's different possibilities out there. Not just the ones I've known all my life. Or that I have been taught in school by a different generation. So discourse and dialogue; it's a catalyst for change, definitely. Green Strawberries. Green Strawberries was um-- had a real international perspective on everything that we talked about as we talked together. And so she and I were talking a ton about Occupy Wall Street at the time, 'cause the study was conducted right around 2012 and also about Palestine. And so she was highlighting some of the experiences that she had and she started talking about how as central to her learning in her peer education was the art she was creating in response to the conditions of the people in Palestine. So I asked her what made Palestine so relevant for her and she detailed her personal commitment as follows: "The fact that these days I've been recognizing how whitewashed I am. How whitewashed I've become and I'm trying to go back to my roots. And the Palestinians are my brothers and sisters right. What's happening to them is beyond ridiculous, so I feel like a lot of the Palestinian issues connect back, you know, with my brothers and sisters in that way and their struggle and recognizing the connections of those struggles. That's why it was important to me." And I asked her, when you say your brothers and sisters you're not Palestinian are you? And she said: "No, I'm Pakistani and Afghani but they're still my brothers and sisters." People's Republic of Mars. So our discussion included an emphasis on subordinate groups and ways to provide for the politicized articulation of counter-narratives and self-determination amongst groups. And he was focused particularly on immigration policy and the struggle of undocumented persons. And he says: "DREAM Act. I love my work with immigration. When I was in high school, a lot of my friends, even though they were talented, super talented, and all the grades very good-- everything under their belt, but they couldn't go to good schools because of their immigration status even though they lived here their whole lives, you know. So I'm always active whenever something like that comes up. And when a recent update happens, for instance, recently Obama kind of suspended the deportation of young undocumented immigrants who would have benefited from the DREAM Act. So updating people about things like that. The DREAM Act is something that I want to see passed. So sometimes I feel like I could do more work not only on DREAM Act. Just to get comprehensive mediation. I think the DREAM Act, that would be a first step. But working to make sure that there is comprehensive immigration reform passed. That's my form of activism. And then finally, Awesome Woman. Awesome Woman spoke so intentionally and at length that Awesome Woman takes up a ton of space in this text because she has so much-- so many stories to tell. So I will tell you briefly two things that she said. One in which she was really questioning some of the textual intentions around how our identities are perceived and she she took the notion of borders and picked that up talking about historical and current events. She said: "there are borders. Actual borders that we put up that don't make sense. Like families who've been separated for centuries because of lines that are superficial or artificial. I'm not sure which word I'm looking for." and I said both perhaps. To which she laughed and replied: within places people separate themselves all the time, within the nation or whatever. So now I'm interested in South Africa and there was this really shitty special I watched the other day and I was like, it's on let, me watch it. And it was called a Global White Woman and basically it was an exploration of beauty for white women in South Africa and I was really upset. It was basically this Indian dude, who was a self-identified Indian dude, who was basically talking about his obsession with white women and why. And he was so misogynistic, I couldn't appreciate it. And at the end I asked myself, why did I watch this? It didn't explore anything that was new to me and I feel like it wasn't new to a lot of audiences. Like we know white women are beautiful, are considered beautiful in South Africa, but why really? and who came up with these ideas of beauty? That was not explored." So together, this is a frequency analysis of the words that across all of my interviews with all of them they said the most. And so, I know you can all see these but, the idea of knowing and knowing people and understanding difference and what's real and what's right and talking and thinking around activism and laughter and all of these other more humanizing elements. I let this stand in the space as well and not just for, you know, book sales but I highly encourage you to read the text so that you can really see the language of the young folks throughout. So just to give you sense of where we were and what we were doing. Dots on this represent the spaces in which we met together to design the work and to kind of do analysis and push the work together. The green dots represent spaces in which they were engaged in organizing actions and events. That the the world map on the right shows the global connections that they made and talking about the various lenses upon which they were thinking about activist work. So there's some big conclusions here and I'm not going to talk through all of them because I do want to make sure when up for conversation. But there were conclusions under each one of those elements of critical literacy in terms of the ways in which the young folks were mobilizing themselves and through their life histories ; really looking locally but thinking globally. And being very personally committed to whatever the political work was and really looking at what are the social elements of ourselves in this work. They conducted a ton of research and analysis around multiple perspectives, looking at different cross-cutting issues, and thinking about the intersectionality in connection across those throughout. And they talk a ton about various ways that they designed and were undertaking social justice actions. Some of this they talk about as quote-unquote "on-the-ground activism outside of school". Oftentimes folks think that this looks like protests and they spend quite a bit of time talking about the work that proceeds and follows a single day of protester action. And other forms of creation and dissemination. So they were talking about the creation of zine s, shareholder advocacy, video blogs, all of these various other forms of iteration. And then there was always space for reflection and, you know, awesome woman said to me " the reason I wanted to be a part of this was because I want a book and I want a book that I can take in other spaces and that other young folks can learn and that we can grow together." And one of the last lines in the book is her saying "I'm gonna be an activist until I die." So there's a second layer here which was around their articulation of their activist identities because from the start I didn't want this to be a singular definition of activism. And I really want that to stand. So again, I'm not gonna read it to you but the first question I asked each one of them when we first sat down was "do you consider yourself an activist?" It was really kind of the only threshold or benchmark I suppose if they said no, we might not have conducted the study together. But they all said yes in various ways including really recognizing the ways in which they're organizers even beyond just kind of activist moments. So again here this is just to show you the ways in which the moves articulation theory provides a space to really think about "how do you make social meaning?" removed from anything that might just be like dictionary defined. There were conclusions throughout the text. Participants, they had a lot of conclusions for themselves, their trajectories. For me as a writer, I've had a ton of reflection on where should I go next and how should this work evolve. For readers there's a lot of invitations in the text to think about what does this mean for you and your work ,regardless of who you are. That you're coming to this kind of with various connections to the space of organizing or literacy.And then of course for educators who I really admire and always hold up both in school and out of school, in formal and informal spaces, as the folks who are pushing this work forward. As well as researchers, some whom feel very confined in spaces of research and some of whom really crack open ideas of what does it mean to conduct research and wider academic space as well. So, of course there's connections here for organizers themselves, organizations,and wider networks of activisms. And then these are kind of the big conceptual things for me and here's where you see the post-structuralist drop right back in but thinking about the idea of care through Alterity. And alterity is an idea from Levinas about trying to understand somebody else's experience knowing that you can't ever get outside of your own. And so what does it mean spaces of care that are both analog and digital and intersubjective where you're sharing resources and experiences towards healing. Towards radical healing. And so I talk about this a lot in terms of ethics that don't moralize ethical praxis and what it means to have a -- of activism where the story of the self can be told and no one's going to tell you that your story of yourself is wrong and that that has a lot to do with the creation of safe spaces or safer spaces perhaps. So future trajectories. Drop Knowledge Project is what this project was named; Drop Knowledge Project NYC and it has since spawned some new iterations which is exciting for me because that was always the intention. To have kind of a facing space of research to do this works. The drop-- I was in Ithica last year and some young folks who had this book with me decided to launch a Drop Knowledge Project in Ithaca and they actually just got something like about a few days to go on that so it's interesting to just watch them evolve and take ownership and the first thing I'm doing is kind of saying to them "(unintelligible) forget about IRB. Don't --research ethics and be careful as you try to, say Elementary School kids about sex ed which is what they want to do right now. But then also, you know, I had initial designs to conduct some more work focused explicitly on queer youth organizing. So I had an initial grant from the Center for the Study of women at UCLA to look at this in LA and so I was looking to do comparative analysis both in LA and in New York and so those those are in those phases are kind of up and slowly moving. And then some conversations with some folks on Miami and actually a young man who is an alum from Ithaca who's in France now and so he's picking up job knowledge project France and he sent me this image in advance of this presentation. But he's really kind of moving and shaking so look out for his blog to come up more. And then there's a book that's coming out, subsequently, that's called "Embodying Theory, Epistemology & Aesthetics and Resistance." I wanted to call it "Make theory Walk" and my publisher told me that that's not good for search engine optimization. So it's called Embodying Theory. It's really about like how do you take things like Foucault, Toulouse, Derrida, Chantal, move and make them walking in the world so that it's not some kind of academic ivory tower philosophy but it's really about what does it mean to identify the function of power/knowledge and the creation of truth and what can you do when you understand that. So that's where we end and open up for a conversation with those of you who are sending in questions Q&A in the chat box and those of you who are here in the space. Thank you so much. There's also quite a few young folks in the room, practitioners, and so it would be great if this is a kind of wide open conversation. I'm very open to that. This was excellent. Can you talk a little bit about what the surprising findings for yourself were going into this process? What you learned about the young people, how it shifted your own research practice as you were going along? Sure so, you know, one of the things -- I learned a ton about them and their experiences and their evolving ideas but I also really understood a lot about what it means to design research. Do you want to be participatory, collaborative, etc and the ways in which that can be really complicated. Right from the start I was saying to them these are my research questions what do you think? and they were like "You good. You know we're good." You know and there was a sense of "let's just do it" and I was like "no but I want you to critique these, let's change them, revise them together." And there was a bit of a deference to me regardless as someone with some age on them, with some credentials, even though for me that doesn't change the conversation but for them, you know, they were they were struggling through, trying to stay in school, trying to have, you know, employment, right. Have secure housing, to get done with their degrees and advance their careers, and so even though I really want a collaborative space of research, this was very much what I was thinking about a 150% of my day and perhaps they didn't have quite as much time to devote to that. So there was a usual curve there. I was able to do some collaborative analysis with them, you know, I was constantly sharing transcripts and initial analysis and really hoping that they would be like, "you got this all wrong." Like, "this is what I think" and they were much more affirmative to say "I like it. It's good. Carry on, which was good for me but in some regards right, to move this project along --much more interested in thinking about how do you create and sustain spaces where young folks can absolutely critique any of the frames that are coming from academic or research oriented spaces. I mean, young folks themselves, they blew me away throughout. They were talking-- I was buying books that they were talking about, I was trying to go get inside of spaces that they were naming, and they were really shedding light for me on the various things that they cared about, and just send me kind of down the rhizomatic trajectories of--like, there's so much more to explore on any of these given topics and, you know, Kim Gomez, who is a UCLA but was one of my advisors at the University of Pittsburgh when I was doing this, she really kept pushing back to me in terms of activism and she was like: You don't mean all activism. You don't mean necessarily white supremacist violent activism. You need to kind of find ways to name explicitly what sort of activism you're talking about because activism itself - and this kind of harkens back to the Chantal thing right -- the word the signifier in some ways it's empty. I mean it's loaded for sure. Activist is a very explosive term. But, at the same time, there's a sense of activism that is really what's got folks from the most recent inauguration facing federal charges because windows were broken, right. There's that idea of activism and the young folks in this space who I was working with and the work that I'm really committed to is about non- violent anti-oppressive spaces of activism. And sometimes that activism is information activism. It's teach-backs. It's not always, although sometimes it is, about standing in the street or petitioning your government for a redress of grievances. Thank you. Hi my name is Adonis. You stated before that you were a teacher in the Bronx, right? I just like to ask a question. How do you think that we can change the fundamentals in like school and stuff like that and like the basis of how we think in regards to education? That's a great question. I would love to hear from some of the experts in this space as well who might have ideas but two things come to mind for me, for sure, and the first is listen the young people. To just listen to the young folks in these spaces, many of whom often aren't actually asked about what their experiences of schooling are because of other limitations and confines on their day or on the parameters of what's happening in that space and, you know, on the second level then is listen to parents, guardians, families, educators, administrators. Listen and dialogue with folks who are there for the right reason. Schools will always be spaced, as any institutional space, will always be a space that has certain confines and constraints on it just by definition of it having an institutional box around it. But that doesn't mean that it can't be dynamic, right? And so, whether it's like flipped classrooms, connected learning, project-based work. Some of this has very old history and so I don't, you know, I've heard obituaries of education. Schools can no longer can do X ,Y ,or Z because of X, Y, or Z. And I understand what that critique is but unnecessarily subscribe to it, right. Everyday educators and young folks walk into schools at 7 o'clock in the morning right. And they stay for 12 hours and they're committed to that educative work so if anything I think elevating the voices of the young folks, as well as the educators and the other adults who are there, to push that work forward is huge. But I would love to know if other folks have ideas about what will that look like or what will it take? we can let it hang in the air.  Thanks for inviting us to this talk. Okay, so my question is: can you talk a little bit about your selection process for the youth in this research? Why you chose five young people? Just if you could take us step by step through that process. Sure. So let me try to go down memory lane for a second here. You know when I was first thinking about doing the work, I was talking with friends, who also worked in the field of youth development, and thinking and some of whom we shared professional spaces or intellectual academic spaces and so I was really saying to them: "who do you know as young folks who you think are really out there in their activist work who would be interested in trying to build collaborative research?" So, fundamentally, this was about a snowball sampling in this kind of basic sense. Like I asked someone who told me about someone who then told me about someone else and so it's like some of the young folks in the book are there because they were like "I want to do this and you should bring my friend in too." So it was very much-- I wouldn't call it convenience sampling because it wasn't that convenient and it also didn't -- it didn't stay only in the space of particularly young folks that I had worked with-- actually I explicitly say in the book that the spaces in which I was facilitating, none of the young people who I facilitated with are in this in this study right. Because you have to protect the folks that you work with so it was kind of like a second circle there. young folks who I knew who had been involved in citywide or other branches of the human rights activist project in the time that I was involved. I (unintelligible) with myself one on one because that's too close sometimes for the research right. Like you take a look at a photo of me and trace it back and be like, "I know that's who these people are". And so is a wider sphere and it really, to me, -- it could have been more. There was actually another young man who ,if I could remember the pseudonym, he gave himself Dominican Puerto Rican Arab and he was supposed to be in this study too as well. And then because of housing insecurity, he was unable to continue with me. So I was trying to get --not of-- I don't really believe in quote-unquote "representative samples" right. We are intersectional and multiplicities people. So I wasn't looking for, like, one person to check every demographic category or something that would be kind of oversimplified in that way. But I wanted different young folks who come activism from different frameworks. Some more interested in becoming diplomats and some of whom are more interested in creating video blogs. And to get a sense of young folks who are interested in different issues and who are willing to think across those issues too. So some of them knew each other but they didn't know that they were in the work together in this study, in terms of some of the research protections, and I never brought them together even though initially that was something I was interested in. Also because of some of the research protection and, I take that very seriously, there were some young folks in this text who were gung- ho to, you know, highlight everybody they knew and bring the voices of every undocumented person who they knew to this conversation because, if they wanted them in it, and I had a sense of I understand why you want to do that but I also really want to protect you and your community and your spaces because that's my job as the researcher is to not put you in risk or harm. Even at the same time that we want to elevate your experience. So, I mean if I could do this again and I had a huge research team, like everybody in this room then we could have many more than five. Do we have a question online? Yeah so one question from Abigail: can you talk more about the overlapping literacies within the multiple analog and digital spaces? Sure. So, you know, Green Strawberries when she-- 'cause I was rereading a bunch of this is in preparation for this conversation-- and she was talking a lot about how some of the first places that young folks go, and this was then so you know it's even more true now, is online to get a sense of what's happening with various issues, right. So they might first be made aware of some sort of injustice or grievance through reading an article or reading someone's personal posts that they're writing somewhere and that, in those moments, often times there's opportunities to then connect with other folks. So I know for her, she was involved in a lot of what's happening with Occupy Wall Street and some of those invitations were coming in person. But she herself and actually, Vega de Franx as well, they both talked a lot about how important it was to get analog, to get offline, to not have your IP address traced, and to feel like you could share information in old-school ways. And so Vega de Franx spends a ton of time talking about try to make sure the tuition stayed low so that he and her classmates could stay in the institution that they were in and they did some of that online but they did a ton of it through interviews of people, conversations, writing down, jotting down notes so then they created a zine as a result of that and then they photocopied it and they left it in stacks in libraries. They handed it out in various spaces. So, in that way, it's kind of like, you know, you think about these days, you think in maker spaces or you think about "hacktivism"' and those things are all super relevant. But they're not different necessarily than analog activism. They're just different tools right --and even in the spaces of EdTech, that's what folks tend to say. It's not that the educational or activists work is about the tool. It's that the tool helps you move forward on whatever it is that issue that you're trying to interrogate or make some organizational outreach and moves around. Thank you. So, listening to the words of the participants, I heard a lot of what seemed to be, like, hopeful speech and kind of beliefs and I didn't get to stare and study the word clouds but I was wondering if "hope" came up? And then also if religion came up thinking about the different backgrounds of the participants and people that you spoke with, if any anything was there? That's a good question. I don't remember the word "Hope" explicitly being stated although I'm sure that it's in there but the ethos of Hope was very present. And I think this has a lot to do like , to -- to Jen Wright for a second, with the idea that when you're in spaces that are either traumatizing or violent structurally, interpersonally or otherwise ;that oftentimes you end up holding two things at the same time. One is the recognition of that violence and the oppressive or subjugated spaces that you're in and the second is the need to do something about it. And I think one of the things that is inspiring to me about this work is that those young folks, these young folks, and others like them who are engaged in this work, they were moving across spaces. So it might not be that your personal identity was necessarily being attacked but perhaps that that one of your activist friends, who was standing next to you was. And so you-- in that process not only are you digging in for them but also for yourself to stand in solidarity and, so, I feel like -- and I was talking to Mark Lester yesterday on his podcast and we're talking about the same exact thing. That is, it's almost in the moment where you open the --you read a headline and there's such despair. You see policy or various things happening that make you want to, you know, let your hair on fire. But it's like what are you gonna do? If you light your hair on fire are you gonna be able to mobilize in the same way than if you take that same energy and passion and ignition that's occurring inside of you and figure out what are you gonna do about it? How can you build spaces? So one of the conclusions from this text is very much about how can you create what I call counter-spaces to counter-narraten right. So if narratives are being created about you without your permission or without your inclusion or, you know, without your involvement, how can you have an opportunity to say what is true for you and to kind of counter narrate it against stereotyped or other kind of myopic understandings of your experience or of your culture. And so, to me, that's where the hope came across. Religion came up a lot because the young people all came from different faith backgrounds and I would really invite you to read some of what they say 'cause I couldn't do justice if I was trying to summarize but Awesome Woman tells this incredible story about going to Sudan to study for a year and being seen having been seen as an outsider here, as a young Muslim woman, and then being seen as an outsider there as an American. And just all the itterations of outsiderness and kind of the complexity around moralism, and the role of women, for instance, or queer folks in in those struggles. And so, you know, I really honor the faith-based conversation as it came in and oftentimes, in the conclusions of this work ,I end up talking a lot about ethics. And ethics in ways that don't moralize right; which means you're not going to be told that who you are or how you are is right or wrong. But rather the wider conversations can emerge about how is meaning being created and how are we creating safer spaces and inclusive spaces together? Thank you. Great talk, by the way. I just have two questions. The first one has to do with about what I've heard earlier on about one of the young person, young people, were talking about how appreciative they were to be around safe spaces and also to be able to be able to understand and speak to one another through dialogue and just collective knowledge. So I wanted to know from you, what ways were you more-- you found ways to be more intentional in the reflection process? I know that's very important in collaborative research and I wanted to know what types of methods you used to be --to drive home the reflection process. And the second part is that one of the young person as well spoke about the interest in the arts. And I wanted to see what type of associations came to be in how they used art in advocacy outside of disseminating the designs and if there were-- and also the videos that you spoke earlier. Yep. So in terms of the designs for reflection. I think there's two levels here. So as they were talking about safe space for them, a lot of that had to do-- some some of it came directly out of the experiences of the workshops that they were involved in when they were at Global Kids and in some other youth organizing and youth facing spaces that really foregrounding certain guidelines to make sure that everybody's experiences and perspectives could come into the room. That it was okay to ask complicated questions. To really --enforce would be the wrong word but to ensure safe space was possible and so when they're talking about it, they're really talking about it within their own spaces. And so I again would say, you know, reading her words and reading their words is the best way to see what that looks like. In our process, for me it had a lot to do with me learning how to ask open-ended questions but, more than anything as a researcher, getting excellent at listening. Getting excellent at listening because if you have like an interview protocol, you have certain questions that you are trying to hit on so that you are getting all of the answers to all of your sub questions, you are gonna miss the entire story. And so, you know, some of the greatest training that I got (unintelligible) one of the kind of post-structuralist at the University of Pittsburgh who I worked for, he said "the best thing you could do is to say to folks when you ask them the first open-ended question and they give you a snapshot, say, tell me more. Can you tell me a story about that experience?" and to just kind of interrogate a little bit more what you're hearing and, in order to do that, you have to listen. It can't be like waiting so that you can ask your next question, right. So like when Awesome Woman told me that story about her experiences of schooling and during a year - age 12 in Sudan, I didn't anticipate that story coming up. And in the text, I published the whole story and it took almost two pages and there were people in higher ed, in academic publishing, in other spaces, who were like, "That's too many words. That's too many words of the young folks throughout." and I was like "you need to hear this whole story. It is not my place to recap her story." And this is where the collaborative element of it was really key, right. So, this went to press after they all had their eyes on it to make sure these stories that they told, even though they were sued anonymous, that they still had ownership in deciding if they wanted things in or out. So, I think the reflection process kind of-- it went throughout and there were some young folks who I was able to see more frequently and dive deeper in and some of whom had more challenges in that regard. So we were able to go deeper with some than others. And then in terms the art that they created. So there was all kinds of different art that actually was being made out from these various young folks. And so Green Strawberries was doing a lot of like stenciling. What my friend, the poet, Katie Byram calls "kamikaze art." So just kind of rolling up on spaces and stenciling images, and oftentimes with things like-- we were talking about things like invisible ink or things that like give a temper --sometimes permanent right, sometimes spray paint, but things that also give you an opportunity to drop a temporal or impermanent iteration of what you're thinking into the space. Awesome woman was doing a ton of educational theater work at the time. And so she talks about, she talks about the-- some of the theater she was involved in that was about the "hijaby monologues" which is kind of like a iteration-- it was built off of the idea similar to Eve Ensler's Vagina Monologues. It's about the experiences of Muslim women. And so a lot of that was-- some of it was institutional in nature when it started. Then that a lot of it became extra institutional, meaning outside of the institutional space and the institution pushed back. She was also engaged in a lot of video blogs that were going on, and some of it was that she heard something or someone said something to her and she sat down and made a video blog about it. And she has a line and I have quoted it, I probably quote her to this number of you who are my students, in which she says: "it's not my job to be the Rosetta Stone of otherness for you." And that was something that really stood out to me across a lot of this work is that a ton of these young folks are positioned in spaces where someone wants to tokenize their experience or wants to essential eyes what is true for them. And I struggle with that myself when people ask me about certain experiences, and how is it that you can protect yourself and still make things and still disseminate what it is you want to disseminate and really own what that looks like. So it's 10 after. I'm not sure if we need to wrap. So thank you all so much, I'm happy to hang out for further conversation. Thank you for coming out. [Applause] 