 Hey guys welcome back to SMART Robots Review the show the reviews robotics and other fantastic tech on today's pioneer robotics tech edition episode we're gonna be looking at PEDDY a Robot that is going to be your pets best friend PEDDY is a pet companion robot also a home security robot a automatic feeding robot for your pet among other things the Korean startup is looking to place this robot in the market by February of 2018 I stumbled upon this project on kickstarter.com. They're looking to raise $15,000 and they have already raised $16,000 with 18 days left in their campaign so a great job, nice going alright Let's take a closer virtual look at this product to be PEDDY.. funny little name for a cute little robot with ears that light up It has 2-way video call capability you can call your pet to remotely and Talk to them, and you have two-way video you can play videos and other entertainment to them Relieving any anxiety they may experience when you're not home. That's kind of funny and nice for some pet owners It's got an automatic food dispenser. You can feed them automatically with a swipe in the app It's got ultrasonic sensors will detect when your dog is barking and send you notifications Also will take pictures all around and send you those pictures when something happens It's got a powerful battery that will give you about eight hours of use For hours to charge. The app seems pretty powerful It gives you ambient temperature and humidity readings along with the ability to do everything I just said remotely. I love the design of the robot It's ingenious in the fact that it uses a tablet and from my perspective It looks like the tablet is used as the main controller It's used for the eyes, but also for the entertainment for the brain power the thinking of this robot Which is very smart. Why waste resources to redesign the wheel I do have some overall questions and concerns about this product though From this perspective being not having the actual product in front of me for example. Can you record video? What is the resolution of this video? I could not not find that information also when you do record this video Where is that stored? is it safe? who else will have access to my video? Can I delete it so some of those questions are pretty important? I think this will be to some customers as security is continuously a focus of concern around the world Also, you do have two different devices right now the tablet and the robot itself and does that mean I would have to charge both Devices independently, and that sounds kind of silly in today's market where you have robotic vacuums finding their home dock automatically and heading to the home base to recharge when needed or when you Send them via a remote of a voice command to recharge so that technology has been around for a long time now I would expect a product like this would have that same capability Seems me to my last concern and question right now for this product. Which is the price it looks like there's a special? $319 price on Kickstarter for this device and Does that mean the final price would be higher than that I think that makes the product? unreachable for many folks and Unnecessarily premium priced. For more information check out their main website PEDDYlook.com or head over to their kickstarter page. I will list that link below as well they have some information there about their product and some additional videos I think the concept is great. I love to see it in action and I wish them good luck, but I'd love to hear what you guys have to say so please leave your feedback, questions and Comments down below and let me know what you thought of today's episode what you think of this robotic pet companion/security robot and until next time. Thank you for watching Smart Robots Review 