 - So can you tell me a bit about Locus Robot and how it works? - Yeah. The Locus Robot is a a warehouse robot. And supports the picking and put away operations in the warehouse. So that's something that everybody knows how to do because everybody's been grocery shopping. So that's exactly what we do in our ecommerce warehouse. We just fulfill orders. So somebody sends in a list of things they want to buy, we got in the shelf and put it in a box. Really a robot does that for us. Makes it a lot easier makes it a more pleasant job. - And so do the robots work side by side with people or human coworkers or are they predominately working on their own? - Well now, they work alongside you. The idea there is that humans are very evolved. We're very good at picking things up in various shapes and sizes. Robots aren't very good at that. What we try to do is have the robot do things the robot's good at and have the human do things that the humans are good at. We're not really trying to be too far out there on the technology curve. We're just trying to take the technology as it exist today and put it to good use. - I think that's a really great point. I think sometimes it's easy to get caught up in overly futuristic ideas instead of the real concrete applications today. - Yeah, we all watch Star Trek right? - Yeah. We can't stop talking about Star Trek over the past few days here. And so, do you have a vision of where you want the technology for the company to be in five years? - Oh yeah. I mean it's hard to predict the future but I look at this as something I like. Evolution. You just kind of let the circumstances dictate how things should work and we see just so many different ways we can optimize. But the robots can do so much. And we're operating in such a granular level in the work itself. We know where the people are, we know where the robots are, we know where the products are, and everything is moving and being tracked in real time so we can really do a lot of really great things like if you were walking down an isle, I can actually make a robot just sort of appear in front of you as you're moving along. And that kind of optimization that is an example of an opportunity that we have. We can just keep working on forever. - And so how are the robots on improving productivity? - Well in that example I gave you, grocery shopping which we're all really bad at. And all hate to do. It's really there's really two main things you're doing. One is you're walking down the isle looking for a product and the other thing is you're taking a product off the shelf and putting it in a basket. So what we do is we analyze all the behaviors on that. And it may seem like why are you doing that? We have to do that 20 or 30 million times a year so and probably next year, 40 million times. So if we can find a more efficient way to do it, really matters to us. And so what we do is we have the robot do as much of that job as as it can, and so the robot does the walking for you and you do some walking but minimal, and then we make it very easy for you to pick the item off the shelf. Confirm it by scanning it and putting it in the box. So really, we've analyzed every movement and made it as efficient as possible. - And how did you personally get into robotics? - Well I was actually, I'm a reluctant roboticist. When we first started our logistics business which, we had two companies. One sells robots and one buys robots. Our logistics business buys the robots and originally, we started out with another company's robot. It was a company that ultimately got acquired by Amazon. And then when we sort of realized that we couldn't buy that robot anymore, we said, oh my gosh, we got to come up with an alternative. So I scoured the globe looking for a replacement robot and we're somewhat disappointed with what I found. And then I also realized that if we were to work with someone else's robot, then that would make the robot company more valuable and then they might sell that to Amazon. - Got it. Or it could happen again. - It could happen again and we'd just be right back where we started so we said, we got to own this technology So that's what we did. - That's cool. So you kind of got into it by way of wanting to make sure the company was positioned in the most effective way? - Yeah. Well I have a problem to solve. You know, I had all these customers that needed me to deliver their goods. And all my contracts and all my commitments to them were based on having a robot to help me do that. And then all of a sudden I didn't have a robot. So I was pretty much in trouble. That was a bad day. - And so, what was the timeline like in developing the first robot? The company? - Well we started out really with just an idea. We had we went to a catalog and we bought a simple robot. And what's really funny is the robot we have today is very much like that very first robot we bought out of a hobbyist catalog. But we built a tiny little robot and we realized very quickly that the robots don't have to do much. They just have to go forward and have to go backward and have to spin. That's what these mobile robots do now. But the real hard part is in the software. So we have to do things like navigation, we had to do collision avoidance, we had to be able to communicate with the robot, we had to put intelligence in the robot, sensors and all sorts of other things to make it work. And we just kept building better and better robots then we finally designed our own robot. And that took altogether about three years and quite a lot of money. Maybe 15 million dollars. - Whew! And so how do you think that workers feel about the robot? Are they receptive to it? Kind of like nervous? Like ah don't take my job! - You know, we haven't seen that at all. It's kind of a funny trend what's happening. It's sort of hard to sort out. But retail is losing customers and ecommerce is gaining customers. And it's happening sort of at the same rate. It's almost dollar for dollar. So we're seeing people in the retail space lose jobs. And then we're seeing people in the warehouse place gain jobs. The problem we're having is we can't find enough people to do these jobs. We're sort of in this box where we need the robot just to do the work. I think if you go to any warehouse, industrial park, anywhere in the United States, you'll see help wanted signs and the wage rates continue to go up and the businesses it's a challenging business it's a hard job. It's not a lot of fun to do it all day. So we're just trying to address that problem. - Yeah. I love just the applicable nature of the technology. - Yeah, I'm a big fan of I mean, obviously, we all love sci-fi, we all love these great out there technology. But I think one of the things that we sort of quickly realize was it's much easier to build a robot if you know exactly what it needs to do. - [Interviewer] Yes. - And since we knew that part of it really well, it didn't take us that much time to actually build a new robot. And when we were done with it, we knew it would do the job because we knew the job that it needed to do exactly. We knew every little detail about it. So now, this robot is really quite elegant. It just does only what it needs to do. No more, no less. It's just a great solution for the problem. - Well Bruce, thank you so much. It's been a pleasure. - Yeah. - Thanks everyone for tuning in. That's it for now. 