 VO: Once just a vision of the future, robots are becoming a part of the scenery in international travel and hospitality. Take Relay, for example, a robot butler from the California-based company Savioke (Savvy – oak). Steve Cousins, the robot’s creator explains how it works. STEVE: Relay bascailly helps the hotel provide a better traveller experience. You get in, you call the front desk, you talk to a person, you say, “I forgot my toothpaste, can you send some up?” And the robot watches the walls to keep track of where it is, calls the elevator over wifi, gets in the elevator, tells the elevator “please go to the fourth floor”. The elevator actually tells Relay that we’re at the fourth floor, and so then Relay will get out, navigate down the hallway, stop in front of the door, and then call the room. And then when the door opens Relay opens its lid so you can have whatever it is that was sent to you. STEVE And then it repeats the process in reverse to go back down the elevator, find its dock, and then charge itself until the next request for delivery. VO: Over at Geneva Airport, roaming check-in desks have been helping to make the check in process faster and more efficient. STEPHANE: Kate the robot is an idea we had that came from airports. They were thinking “how can we enable better passenger flow?” So we thought about putting together and developing an autonomous kiosk. VO: VO: The kiosks are programmed to respond to changes in their environment. STEPHANE: We are working with artificial intelligence, we’re gathering data from all the different areas of the airport, so that if there’s a disruption and they’re needed in one area, the autonomous kiosk will go from one area to the other automatically, so this will help alleviate airport congestion. STEPHANE: One of the main innovations of those self-driving kiosks is the fact that they know where they are. So they are using geo-localisation; there is a map within a server, and the kiosk, using a laser, will be able to pinpoint all the points of interest around it and it’ll know exactly where it is. STEPHANE: Other areas that the lab is continuing to do research on is more on the airside; so you could imagine on the tarmac having robots that will be self driving, that could take luggage from one aircraft to another one. STEPHANE In the future, the aim with all these robots is to help passengers go through the passenger journey quicker, to make it more comfortable. VO: But when it comes to using robots in travel and hospitality, the Henn na Hotel in Toyko takes it to a whole new level. You’ll be greeted by a robot at the front desk, a robot porter then takes your bag and when you get to your room, you have a robot assistant to cater to your every need. STEVE: Travel is a lot of work sometimes. There’s a lot to carry, there’s a lot of walking, and whenever we can automate things and make it easier for people, people are going to appreciate that. 