 Which with more than 10 million inhabitants with all those people clamoring for goods and services Can technology help us keep pace with our craving for Instant commerce? In Boston a robot Workforce is being built to meet our consumer demands Chris Eliasmith is about to test the theory that anything humans do robots do better Grocery shopping is a drag But could a robot do it any faster? So here's a simple test? I'm going to find say a dozen items and check out. We'll see how long it takes The average shopper spends about two and a half hours each week buying groceries Over the course of the year that adds up to over 15 full-time days of shopping and in the Modern world That's a waste of precious time Here we go, ice cream, ice cream, ice cream, ice cream, here we go Let's see how we did 18 minutes That's a long time. That's over a minute and a half per item But what if we could get rid of all of this with just a push of a button? That would be something Kiva systems may have the answer. They are designing building and training an army of workers to shop for you robots, hundreds of them Nick Mountz is their inventor and the company's CEO 10-12 years ago now I was working in E-Commerce as a grocery home delivery project in the Bay area and we could not find a way to economically pick, pack, and ship Each's, that is to get like one can of soup one thing of toothpaste in a tote for a home delivery order So we invented this Traditionally goods are moved around a distribution center using conveyors or forklift? With Kiva's approach items are kept on portable storage unit When an order arrived [a] robot is dispatched to fetch it So I could say why don't we move all of those robots out here? Onto the highway and so now they've each been given a mission to come from wherever they are and line themselves up on the highway I've always wanted to command my own robot army. Here we go release the hounds They're going the wrong place. It's my fault. I'm not very good at commanding a robot army So there's like four of them moving at the same time and how do they not run into each other so the way it happens is each robot is on a wireless network having a Conversation with the host and the way they travel is by using the sticker system that we put down And the host is handing out missions, and he's asking them to travel on certain stickers at certain times You can think of it as maybe an air traffic control system Each sticker is a unique 2d barcode that identifies its location in the highway like a grid reference The Central computer feeds Data to each of the robots in the hive updating them as new orders come in That means the route of every one of up to 500 robots placed in the shop floor is constantly changing to avoid collision When they're in full flow, it's like watching a robotic ant colony So these guys are kind of cute. What makes this thing tick is the question. Pull this guy out So we have two motors that are driving the vehicle forward and a third motor that will actually be used to rotate The lifting plate that's on top and so we did that with the corkscrew. That's an ingenious design This particular version of the robot is designed to pick up a 3,000 Pound Payload Then you have a lot of computer power onboard that's doing all the coordination There's a wi-Fi radio talking to the host talking to the camera so it can see the floor and see the loads that it's picking up you'll see we're wired up with lots of different sensors and lights and indicators Well look at that. it's got more eyes than a spider Robots like these will definitely speed up the online retail process But to really revolutionize shopping they need to be fast enough to allow same-day delivery on every order It's time to put the robots to the test Just how fast can they put an order together and get it to my door. What do you Absolutely have to have in your grocery cart today. Well the first thing is obviously Chunky-fied iced cream. So some ice cream. We get one of those okay? And so what we're going to do now is set up the order on the table here and by attaching it to this pick spot And you'll notice the robot guys are coming around action nice Fetching those pods that have those items of inventory that you order on their way, this is a brand new concept in order fulfillment. It's the notion of real time we don't need to ant... So this is like all five things coming at once [yeah] so it's probably five pods unless two of the items happen to be on the same pods you might get four pause to get some of the work done and Again that is part of our software algorithms Which is if we can find the Pod that has two or [three] of the things that you ordered will use that pot and that? shortens the Robot work load. First one's here already right? literally 30 seconds from the time you submit order on the web That inventory can [be] in a station in a human can picking it excellent The future go to work in the morning surf the internet make an order waiting for you when you get home Amazon the world's largest online retailer has bought Kiva for a whopping eight hundred million dollars By 2023 it's forecast that online shopping will rise to over one-quarter of all retail driven largely by the appeal of super fast delivery Opportunities for interacting with the world without having to be physically present are increasing rapidly 