 Everybody welcome back to SMART ROBOTS REVIEW, the show the reviews robotics and other fantastic tech I'm your host Elias and you guessed it today, we are talking about ... BB-8.. and the marvelous "FORCE BAND" Today's episode is well overdue bb-8 has been out for a while and if you search the web you're gonna find thousands of videos and articles about him from enthusiastic fans and experts from around the world But I couldn't pass up the chance of giving you my opinion He's amazing I own one obviously and I managed to pick up a Force Band as well They're both made by company named SPHERO, so I'll keep this short but relevant. So what we have here is a very famous Droid from the Star Wars franchise. It is a unique robot in fact I believe it has revolutionized the way we look at robots ever since its introduction in the Star Wars movie obviously because of its ball shape the company that makes this particular toy or collectible either what you want to look at it is Called Sphero and Sphero has mastered the art of creating Sphere or ball looking robots.. they have other Robots that are using the same technology and what they managed to deliver here with bb-8 is truly incredible you have a accurate representation of... a micro representation of the movie robot wrapped up in a cinematic experience you see that from the Sounds and visuals from the application To the robot itself. The application it self is feature-rich. We can use it to drive bb-8, you can use it to project holographic images or record your own You can also use it to draw a path for BB-8 to follow. You can turn on "Patrol mode" and bb-8 will go about Autonomously patrolling an area and the application will display back some pretty interesting looking statistics such as temperature acceleration and so forth if you want to control your droid via voice command the application gives you that ability as well you can turn that on in the settings section The app gives you the ability to also Turn on voice control And you can give certain commands you can also set him into movie-watching-mode while he'll react to different scenes in Star Wars movies BB-8's sphere is made out of poly-carbonate... that makes it very durable and also in this case water-resistant. Two wheels pressed against the inside of the poly-carbonate shell are counterbalanced and as they roll they create this realistic motion that we're seeing with bb-8. I am oversimplifying it of course, there are other components inside the robot that make the magic of bb-8 possible. I think the real fun begins when you start using the Force Band. Now you can get the force band in a package that comes with bb-8 or you can buy them separately if you have an earlier version of bb-8 The force band is a gesture based wearable device Inside there is a gyroscope and accelerometer There's a speaker... on top of it there's an LED lit button. On the side there's a charging port Using these "Force gestures" you can command the BB-8 to move forward to move backwards left and right to go fast and slow And if you get bored with all that you can hunt for "Holocrons"... which is a Pokemon style type game Collecting holocrons allows you to unlock and discover different abilities for your force bands In conjunction with your phone and the app you can turn on the IFTTT capability of the force band and that stands for "If This Then That" It is a web app service that allows you to trigger Events around your home if you're using smart home devices like lights Like your doorbell or your thermostat, so you can create what they call recipes and with this recipes if you do certain gestures with your hand you can trigger those events so if you have an IFTTT recipe already created you can go in the force control portion of the app trigger The recipe for... in this case I have a "Force-pull" recipe set up so that if I do a "Force-pull" It (the IFTTT service) will call my phone and give me the message that I already programmed into the recipe. So let's try it... I'm going to do a "Force-Pool" (gesture) Alright, let's see I wonder who that is... let put it on Speaker... That's awesome Finally a bb-8 review. I'm so glad I got to share my opinions with you guys. This is an amazing little toy robot of course if you do buy it for an adult it is a "collectible" but That's okay, a collectible or toy That's perfectly fine if you can afford him ... his price is pretty steep But he's amazing "Sphero" the parent company has also released two other cinematic droids from Star Wars They're all kind of hard to find, but if I can get my hands on them and Also pretty pricy but if I can get my hands on them I will definitely review them on the show So the opinion that always matters is your opinion, so I'd love to hear your feedback and thoughts about today's show About bb-8 if you're gonna get him, (or) if you have him... and as promised we have a large robot giveaway to announce There's a link below in the comment section check it out the instructions are there, and how you can enter the contest I'm giving away several robots That should be a lot of fun and just in time for the holidays So with that thank you for watching SMART ROBOTS REVIEW. We'll see you all later BB-8 ...you ROCK 