Risk Factors.The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may be important for understanding any statement in this Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K.Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our results of operations, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.STRATEGIC AND OPERATIONAL RISKSOur business, results of operations and financial condition have been, and could continue to be, adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.The COVID-19 pandemic and the actions taken by governments, businesses and individuals in response to the pandemic have resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, a substantial curtailment of business activities (including the decrease in demand for a broad variety of goods and services), weakened economic conditions, supply chain disruptions, significant economic uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets, both in the United States and abroad.The COVID-19 pandemic is adversely impacting, and is expected to continue to adversely impact, our operations and financial performance. COVID-19 related restrictions impacted the demand for certain products and services as a result of temporary closures of offices and businesses and as people moved to spending more time at home, which negatively impacted sales for commercial products in both Personal Systems and Print. For as long as remote working and learning practices remain prevalent, whether due to restrictions implemented by governmental authorities or businesses allowing employees to continue to work remotely, we expect decreased sales of products for in-office consumption in some markets and channels. While this decrease in demand has been partially offset by increased sales of certain products for in-home consumption, we are unable to predict for how long or to what extent this increase will continue. Moreover, our channel partners have experienced, and may continue to experience, disruptions in their operations due to restrictions implemented in response to COVID-19, which has caused, and may continue to cause, reduced, or cancelled orders and/or collection risks. This has further adversely impacted our results of operations and we expect it to continue to have a negative impact on our results of operations.Additionally, we have experienced temporary factory closures and other supply chain disruptions as a result of COVID-19, and we may continue to experience such disruptions. For example, our manufacturing sites, including in China and Southeast Asia, as well as those of our suppliers and outsourcing partners, were adversely impacted by COVID-19 as a result of quarantines, facility closures, and travel and logistics restrictions. As of the end of fiscal year 2020, our factories have returned to largely normalized levels. These disruptions in Asia resulted in temporary supply shortages that affected sales worldwide for both Personal Systems and Print, as well as incremental costs. We may experience further disruptions in the future, and any prolonged disruptions to our manufacturing operations, supply chain and/or distribution channels could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  We continue to have significant sources of cash and liquidity and access to committed credit lines, but a prolonged period of generating lower cash from operations could adversely affect our financial condition.We are also facing increased operational challenges as we take measures to support and protect employee health and safety, including limiting employee travel, closing facilities and offices, and implementing work-from-home policies for employees. In particular, our remote work arrangements, coupled with stay-at-home orders and quarantines, pose challenges for our employees and our IT systems and extended periods of remote work arrangements could strain our business continuity plans, introduce operational risk, including cybersecurity and IT systems management risks, and impair our ability to manage our business. The effects of COVID-19 may also limit the resources afforded to or delay the implementation of our strategic initiatives and make it more difficult to develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services. If our strategic initiatives are delayed or otherwise modified, such initiatives may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  The ultimate impact of COVID-19 on our operations and financial performance depends on many factors that are not within our control, including: governmental, business and individuals’ actions that have been and continue to be taken in response to the pandemic; general economic uncertainty in global markets and financial market volatility; global economic conditions and levels of economic growth; and the pace of recovery when the COVID-19 pandemic subsides.Further, COVID-19, and the volatile regional and global economic conditions stemming from the pandemic, could precipitate or aggravate the other risk factors that we identify in this report, any of which could materially adversely impact our business. We also face an increased risk of litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny as a result of the effects of 13Table of ContentsCOVID-19 on economic and market conditions. Further, COVID-19 may also affect our business and financial results in ways that are not presently known to us or that we do not currently consider as significant risks to our operations.If we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited.Our business faces many challenges we must address. One set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, which may include declines in the markets in which we operate. For example, a competitive pricing environment and weakened market in certain geographies with associated customer pricing sensitivity has presented market challenges in Printing. A second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. Our primary competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others. A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution. For example, we may fail to develop innovative products and services, maintain the manufacturing quality of our products, manage our global, multi-tier distribution network, limit potential misuse of pricing programs by our channel partners, exclude imitation print supplies from our printers with technological protection measures, adapt to new or changing marketplaces or successfully market new products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, we currently face, and may face in the future, an unpredictable macroeconomic environment, which may exacerbate these challenges. If we do not succeed in our efforts to mitigate these challenges, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business.We operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance.We encounter aggressive competition from competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. We compete on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, availability of application software and internet infrastructure offerings, and our sustainability performance. If our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully, our results of operations, cash flows and business prospects could be harmed.We have a large portfolio of products and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product lines. As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to their products and services compared to the resources allocated to our competing products and services.Our alliance partners in certain areas may be or may become our competitors in others. In addition, these partners also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. If we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.We face aggressive price competition and may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. In addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and/or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. Our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures.Industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. Additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers.Because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is a negative reception to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects.Even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, the financial performance of that product could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. Financial performance could also decline due to increased competition from other types of products. For example, non-original supplies (including imitation, refill or remanufactured alternatives) for some of our LaserJet toner and InkJet cartridges compete with our Printing Supplies business.14Table of ContentsCustomers are increasingly using online and omnichannel resellers and distributors to purchase our products. These resellers and distributors often sell our products alongside competing products, including non-original print supplies, or they may highlight the availability of lower cost non-original supplies. We expect this competition will continue, and it may negatively impact our financial performance, particularly if large commercial customers purchase competing products instead of HP products.If we cannot successfully execute our strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services, our business and financial performance may suffer.Our strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio of products and services to meet the demands of a changing technological landscape and to offset certain areas of industry decline. To successfully execute this strategy, we must emphasize the aspects of our core business where demand remains strong, identify and capitalize on natural areas of growth, innovate and develop new products and services that will enable us to expand beyond our existing technology categories and adapt to new and changing marketplaces for our products. For example, our go-to-market strategy, including online, omnichannel and contractual sales, needs to evolve with market dynamics, forces and demand. In fiscal year 2020, we created a single commercial organization led by a newly-created chief commercial officer role. If we cannot innovate, develop and execute evolutionary strategies in this changing environment (including our end to end business model in Print), then we may not be able to successfully compete and maintain the value proposition of our products, including supplies. Any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Moreover, the process of developing new high-technology products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.To execute our strategy, we must optimize our cost structure, make long-term investments, develop or acquire and appropriately protect intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. Any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our strategy could harm our business and financial performance. Our research and development initiatives or other investments may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel, and our customers may not adopt our new business models.Our industry is subject to rapid and substantial innovation and technological change. Even if we successfully develop new products and technologies, future products and technologies may eventually supplant ours if we are unable to keep pace with technological advances and end-user requirements and preferences and timely enhance our existing products and technologies or develop new ones. Our competitors may also create products that replace ours. As a result, any of our products and technologies may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical.After we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving or improving margins. To accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product’s lifecycle or at all. Any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. Moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically or that we had expected.If we cannot continue to produce high-quality and secure products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer.In the course of conducting our business, we must address quality and security issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, and unsatisfactory performance or malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. Our business is also exposed to the risk of defects in third-party components included in our products, including security vulnerabilities. In order to address quality and security issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement effective solutions. However, the products and services that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be completely effective in controlling or detecting all quality and security issues or errors, particularly with respect to defects or security vulnerabilities in components manufactured by third parties.If we are unable to determine the cause or find an effective solution to address quality or security issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which would delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our net revenue, cash flows and profitability. We have and may again in the future write off some or all of the value of defective inventory. In addition, after products are delivered, quality and security issues may require us to repair or replace such products. Addressing these issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. In the event of security vulnerabilities or other issues with third-15Table of Contentsparty components, we may have to rely on third parties to provide mitigation such as firmware updates. Furthermore, these mitigation techniques may be ineffective or may result in adverse performance, system instability and data loss or corruption. If new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers’ expectations. In addition, quality and security issues, including those resulting from defects or security vulnerabilities in third-party components, can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.The net revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable.Our net revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our portfolio of products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our current results. Overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period’s net revenue, which in turn depends on the overall demand for our products and services. For example, a combination of a higher consumer mix within both Personal Systems and Print hardware and lower rate in commercial print negatively impacted gross margin in fiscal 2020. Delays or reductions in spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in net revenue. In addition, net revenue declines in some of our businesses may affect net revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. Competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, increased tariffs, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting our businesses may also have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. In addition, newer geographic markets can be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we can have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. Market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, increased tariffs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. For example, our supplies business has recently experienced declining revenues due to declines in market share, installed base and usage, and increased customer pricing sensitivity. Our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period.We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers effectively.Our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers’ ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet schedules for the delivery of our products and services. Given the wide variety of products and services we offer, the large and diverse distribution of our suppliers and contract manufacturers, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management and regulatory compliance that could seriously harm our business. Third-party suppliers may have limited financial resources to withstand challenging business conditions, particularly as a result of increased interest rates or emerging market volatility, and our business could be negatively impacted if key suppliers are forced to cease or limit their operations. Due to the international nature of our third-party supplier network, our financial results may also be negatively impacted by increased trade barriers and increased tariffs, which could increase the cost of certain components, products and services that we may not be able to offset. In addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource-intensive than expected. Furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue business with us. Other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, risks related to supply chain working conditions, human rights and materials sourcing and risks related to our relationships with single-source suppliers, each of which is described below.•Component shortages.  We may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. For example, we experienced disruptions in our manufacturing and supply chain during the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in temporary supply shortages that negatively affected our ability to fulfill demand for Personal Systems and Printing products worldwide. Additionally, our Personal Systems business relies heavily upon OMs to manufacture its products and is therefore dependent upon the continuing operations of those OMs to fulfill demand for our products. We represent a substantial portion of the business of some of these OMs, and any changes to the nature or volume of our business transactions with a particular OM could adversely affect the operations and financial condition of the OM and lead to shortages or delays in receiving products from that OM. If shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the components may not be available at all. We may 16Table of Contentsnot be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. Accordingly, our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. If we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to re-engineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays.•Excess supply.  In order to secure components for our products or services, we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. In addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about future availability. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance.•Contractual terms.  As a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. If we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. In addition, many of our competitors obtain products or components from the same OMs and suppliers that we utilize. Our competitors may obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, and more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, and our ability to engage in relationships with certain OMs and suppliers could be limited. The practice employed by our Personal Systems business of purchasing product components and transferring those components to OMs may create large supplier receivables with the OMs that, depending on the financial condition of the OMs, may create collectability risks. In addition, our OMs and suppliers may decide to discontinue business with us. Any of these developments could adversely affect our future cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.•Contingent workers.  We also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to effectively manage our use of such workers could adversely affect our results of operations. We have been exposed to legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. We may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. Our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws.•Working conditions, human rights and materials sourcing.  We work with our suppliers to improve their labor practices, working conditions, and respect for human rights, such as by including requirements in our agreements with our suppliers that workers receive fair treatment, safe working conditions and freely chosen employment, that materials are responsibly sourced and that business operations are conducted in a socially and environmentally responsible and ethical way. Brand perception, customer loyalty and legal compliance could be adversely impacted by a supplier’s improper practices or failure to comply with the above-mentioned requirements or those included in our Supplier Code of Conduct, General Specification for the Environment and other related provisions and requirements of our procurement contracts, including supplier audits, reporting of smelters, human rights due diligence, wood fiber certification (for HP brand paper and product packaging) and GHG emissions, water and waste data.•Single-source suppliers.  We obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. For example, we rely on Canon for certain laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges. We also rely on both Intel and AMD to provide us with a sufficient supply of processors for the majority of our PCs and workstations. Some of those processors may be customized for our products. New products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. Replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. For some components, such as customized components and some of the processors that we obtain from Intel, or the laser printer engines and toner cartridges that we obtain from Canon, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. In addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. The performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components. The loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance.17Table of ContentsIf we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer.We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct sales and indirect channel sales efforts to reach potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, any failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our net revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability and cash flows.Our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or reduced assortments of our products. Moreover, some of our distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in busin