 ZF has a very broad portfolio which I think really enables us to advance mobility across multiple aspects. Part of our strategy is what we would call our four by three. So we have four main action areas. Those would be Integrated Safety, Vehicle Motion Control, Electric Mobility, Automated Driving and those four action fields we're using to drive mobility in three different industries. So in the passenger car industry, in the commercial vehicle industry and then also in the industrial or off-road industry which would include tractors, marine, rail, anything that's off-road. Within those areas, especially if we focus on the automated driving and advanced driver assist systems, we really focus on see, think and act. So the entire system to be able to consider what actions to take and then take those actions. So on the "see" side we have the complete sensor portfolio that is needed in order to figure out what is going on in the environment, so that would be comprised of cameras, radars, lidars and as well as other sensor devices. On the "think" side that's really the processing or the compute power and so we have a range of safety domain ECU's that will be able to take the data coming from the sensors analyze that data and define then what to do with that. And then on the "act" side that's the actual actuation, so braking and steering as well as dampers and other chassis components that then enable us to control the vehicles movement both in terms of longitudinal control, lateral control and even vertical control as we think about potholes and roads and ups and downs. If you look at our technologies today - camera, radar, lidar - it's used in the space and the ADAS space today for automatic emergency braking, lane keeping, things of that nature. We're already starting to see benefits from that technology lessened the number of accidents, especially like rear end accidents and low-speed accidents are already being addressed by some of this technology. We look at it from a safety basics standpoint. You take the technology, you start with the standard basics of safety and then you grow that toward automated driving, so even lower levels of automated driving, where we might automatically stop a vehicle or keep a vehicle in its lane, is not a full automated driving system that you can driverless leave go to another location but that technology is the foundation for future automated driving capability. We're investing a lot of money into the automated driving space so over the next five or seven years have fourteen billion dollars been invested in automated driving. The neat thing about ZF is that we're not just one-dimensional. We have the sensing electronics, we have the central computing or the thinking that does all the calculations and the artificial intelligence to help cars behave more like you and I - hopefully even better. We have the chassis systems for vehicle motion control to make sure that the ride is smooth, it doesn't incur injury or incur sickness. So we have a lot of different aspects in various areas of automotive which drive the market. There are still several barriers to full automated driving in the industry. If we go back to what the SAE levels are, from level 1 through level 3, a driver must be available to come back into the loop, versus level 4 level or 5, a driver doesn't need to be in the loop at all. So really the tricky point is level 3 where you have to say the driver must be available to come back into the loop. And so one of the things that we at ZF think about is what does that human machine interaction look like. We need to be able to to know that the driver is available to come back into the loop, we need to be able to confirm that the driver is back in the loop. And so there are a couple of things that we have in our portfolio to help us drive that. One would be some of the haptic alerts that we we can use through a seat belt, so it's seat belt will always be in contact with the human. You can use that as a haptic alert, to alert the driver to the fact that you need to put your hands back on the wheel and your eyes back on the road. Another element that's in our portfolio is our interior observation sensor. So essentially cameras that are inside the vehicle, looking at both the driver as well as the occupants, to see what position they're in, make sure that they have their eyes on the road, make sure they have their hands on the wheel. We have actually two different variants of interior observations and sensors. One would be a two-dimensional system that can be used more in the fully automated driving situation to see how many people are within the vehicle, to be able to see for example in a fully automated vehicle if something got left behind in a vehicle, or then the 3D which can really assess where are the drivers hands, to check where his eyes are, whether they are on the road or not. For the most part we look at our AD mobility, we include the electrification and the automated driving into one. We see the need for the electrification more for the environmental aspects and then we see the AD in terms of being able to get more and more people in different places, we add value to society by being able to move people around who maybe can't move themselves around any longer. Be it vision impaired, be it elderly or whatever the case may be. If we can get fewer cars on the road and more ride-sharing we can make mobility more efficient and then we're doing our part. We have an incredibly exciting portfolio, we are disrupting the industry, we are changing the way people's lives will be in the future. I often wonder even with my own children if they will ever drive, because that's how different the world might look when they grow up. 