 Hello everybody and welcome to the show today. So I'm really glad you could join us because this is one of the most interesting topics that I've ever had an opportunity to discuss the podcast I've rarely ever had an opportunity it is such a niche, such a powerful niche you can make such good money in. But at the same time there are so few people in the country. I mean I know like very few people in the country that do this. And so I wanted to bring on the foremost expert in this and I mean when we talk about the volume he does you'll see that he is the guy that knows the space better than anybody. and decoded, tear it apart and see what's involved where you can make money in a really cool real estate niche. Not a lot of people are in its kind of secret that a lot of people don't know that. So with this today's Kris Benson, now Kris is the Chief Investment Officer for Reliant Investments a subsidiary of Reliant Real Estate Management now Reliant Real Estate is one of the top 30 commercial self-storage operators in the U.S. in 2018. Now as a chief investment officer at Reliant Kris as a member of the company's investment committee those responsible for overseeing the company's new acquisitions he's also responsible for investor relations and working with accredited investors to raise the capital needed for alliance acquisition of new self-storage properties which by the way they just got one right down the road from me which I'll talk about later now Kris is an investor in commercial multifamily as well as commercial stores self-storage and currently has over 570 units in his portfolio.  while commercial Multifamily is a great asset class he believes the opportunity right now is in self-storage. I believe that too and in the last 12 months, the Reliant team has invested over ninety-six million in self-storage projects that raised over thirty-eight million. I think that's right from investors self-storage provides a unique opportunity to invest in one of the most successful asset classes in the last five years and take advantage of the institutional interest moving forward as well. So Kris thanks for joining us today. thank you, Ty, I appreciate the opportunity you got to take a breath there. That's a lot of sentences all at once.  a lot of people say that they go, man, you never take a breath. And I'm like I feel weird when I have to pass to take a breath. so they're really well done, well done. Everybody that listens knows I get like freaked out pumped when I saw something that I think is so cool and cool and I'm passionate about it. I love what you do in self-storage. I just think it's brilliant. There's not a lot of people in the space. There's a lot of ways to monetize on what you guys do. I just I love what you do man. I think it's awesome. I appreciate that. Yeah it's, it's an incredible asset class. I think the thing that you hit the nail right on the head is there's still so much opportunity that exists in the asset class When you say not a lot of people are doing it just a quick statistic for your audience and for you the top. There are six publicly traded companies in self- storage right there are five REIT and then there's one publicly-traded company it's called U-Haul. Everybody knows who they are. So they own about 20 percent of the entire staff self-storage market 20-25 depending on what data you look at. The rest is up for grabs right. So there are companies like us. We have forty-eight properties including that loose property that you just mentioned. So we have forty-eight right now. But you know there are a ton of mom and pop operators and for your listeners who know real estate you know typically Mom Pop operator they own one or two properties and there's huge opportunities for revenue enhancement and those types of properties. So yes it's a great asset class. We've been fortunate to be a part of it part of an awesome team at Reliant who really is a deep understanding of storage and how to make it work. And yeah we've been I’ve been happy to be along for the ride.  so let me let me start with that. I mean why do you like self-storage as much as you do and obviously you hit on a major point right. which is why I the reason I love it. It's really niche. There's just not a lot of players in this space in space. You need to think it was ridiculous money without a lot of competition. But beyond that what are some of the other real benefits that you love about that is this asset class, so I think there's three pillars right. And we just talk about one of them and I would call that pillar of opportunity right. It's the opportunity to roll up and to say there's not a lot of competition probably isn't fair. I'll walk you through kind of what's happening in the asset class now. But there's two things to think is when we look at an asset class that say hey is this in investable assets for us. The first thing is returns right. Everybody wants to talk about how, how has the asset class performed. And so I'm going to reference a data set and I can actually send you the link to the data so your listeners can see it as well. There's a dataset called the National Association of Regus and a NAREIT and they track all of the publicly traded read across any of the real estate asset classes and they track it for a long time. So they have 25 years plus worth of data. Right. If you look at the recent data and compare major asset classes self-storage retail office apartments you know you can look at timber, health care anything that has a publicly-traded you can see there storage in the last twenty-five years did just under 17 percent of the year it was 16.85 percent a year which is incredible. And so you know everyone I would say the darling of commercial real estate investing is always multi-family right because people have lived in apartments. They understand how that model works. Multifamily did just over 13 in that same timeframe still incredible but self-storage outperformed it. So that's the first thing we look at it is OK. Historically how is it performed? The next thing is returns are fantastic. What happens in the last downturn? We're a believer and I think most people are that everything is cyclical right. So you're going to have a downturn and you want to understand how this asset classes get affected in those particular real estate downturn. So from 2007 8, 9 you can look at that same data in 2007 8, 9 stores lost less than 4 percent Pretty good. Apartments was just under 7. Retail got crushed office got hurt really bad. S&P 500 just 4 baseline was down 22 percent. So you look at an asset class where Warren Buffett Rule number one in investing is don't lose money. Right. So you're looking at asset class that has performed well over time and have some downside protection. Those were the two things that really stood out to us. And then the last part about it that you just talked about or that we just talked about was the opportunity aspect. There's still so many opportunities for a business to go into a mom and pop operator and create value in a property and in multifamily and a fair experience investing in multifamily. Those opportunities are very, very challenging to find right now. So you know I think where we are in storage is lifecycle is every asset class goes through this life cycle of it kind of is in its infancy and grows to sort of a mature. And we're sort of in that phase now where people after 2007 8, 9. That we should be looking at storage because it did so well in the recession. So like in back to my point about competition so in the last two years 2017 and 2018 the industry has delivered the most net new rentable square foot in the history of the asset class. So there's been a huge development cycle of new properties coming online in 2019 is going to be that way as well. So it'll be interesting to see how that gets sorted out with the demand. Right. It's a supply and demand game with all this new supply coming to market how it gets leased up. And then look the next market correction is going to be a big opportunity because there's a lot of people in this game who don't know storage and they've just seen the performance of it and say hey I'm going to build I'm a developer I'm a build storage asset. And that's as you know when the blood is in the streets that's the time to buy. So we're anxiously awaiting what the next correction looks like for sure. One of the things you mentioned there was you know how you were able to come into an existing operation and help them monetize in ways they haven't before. and it makes sense with multi-family there's not a lot of ways you can monetize. But let's talk about that when you come into a new a new location. What are some of the things you guys are doing to start monetizing that location. Typically they're just not doing now. you’re saying specifically for like Mom and Pop operator. Sure. I mean for Mom and Pop you know you come in they're letting you know they're selling it for whatever reason you obviously are coming in to see an opportunity to monetize and make even more money in multiple different ways. What are some of those ways that you're able to come into a property and monetize from what that mom and pop has been doing on their own? so in that, that forced depreciation or value add categories is really too. I would say two separate paths here right. One path is construction right. When we say value add most of the time we're doing some sort of expansion right. So you may be mom a pop operator you're in a great market. We believe the markets undersupplied and we have the ability to expand. Maybe you built a 40 thousand square foot facility you ran it for 10 years. You're ready to get out. We look at the facility and say hey we can go another twenty-five thousand square feet get that leased up right. And the valuation is all based off rental income and in net operating income. So if we can grow that an ally of the property we're also growing the value of the property. So that's one way is through construction expansion put a shovel on the ground and then the second way is ancillary income items. but And I'll give you example a property that's just down the road from you. So that was a property that was bought by or it was originally purchased by a guy in his brother they built it in the late 90s. They've done a fantastic job. They did two or three expansions along the way. And it's an unbelievable location. You know the areas it is growing leaps and bounds ton of of traffic. So we went and looked at that site. And for example if I was a tenant that started renting a unit in the year 2000 and I'm still a tenant Today I pay the same rent. He's never raised rents anywhere. So Ben ever use you may have you may have a 10 by 10 unit right. 10 storage unit and there's 15 different rates of who pays what for a 10 by 10. So if you rented today you're going to pay more than that guy who rented it in the year 2000 but he's never raised - rent right. Right. These are people like you know the owner loves the business and he's in it every day. And so there are all kinds of examples like that were just going in and running it like a business right. I mean you have to cover your expenses right at my our expenses are up at least three percent a year. So you know that rent growth has to support that expense growth. We're not in the business or our investors aren't in the business to lose money. So you know that's one thing. There are some ancillary revenue items in storage unique to storage that don't exist in multifamily things like truck rental. You go in we're one of the largest U-haul dealers in the country. We have U-Haul and all of our sites. Most people who are using storage you know they need a truck to move their stuff so U-Haul we can build a commission structure off that tenant insurance programs so our leases require and some states require that tenants have their own insurance for their belongings in the unit. So we offer tenant insurance if their homeowner's policy doesn't doesn't cover those types of things. So there's, there's revenue dollars available there. Point of sale items lock boxes you know tape those kinds of things when you come in our retail space. You know we can create some revenue there as well. . So I would say on average our ancillary income probably 10 to 15 percent of our portfolio revenues are driven off those ancillary items. Aside from just the rental revenues that you'd expect. Wow and that's, that's impressive because there's like he says a lot of ways to monetize. What's interesting is one of the biggest and most important ways that you set to monetize was expansion. the guys down here did it lützen you talked about that property, I'm in Trinity Florida. Lutz is right at the road. I mean I pass it on the way to my office and I see that storage facility. You talked about I immediately know what it is but one of the big things you said is those guys expand a couple times you come in an expansion, Kris coming house with that sounds expensive. I mean the numbers that we've been talking about here that you guys invested over ninety six million, thirty eight million raised from investors I mean this is a big game. So how do people get into this without the experience without having the millions to do these things because you guys kind of help with that aspect as well. Right.  Well I think there's two paths right when you decide to be a real estate investor you decide to be one of two things you're going to be a direct investor which means Ty you're going to go out buy a facility. Figure out how to manage it and run it. And that's an option right and there's. It's how we got started right. It's how basically every real estate company ever got started. Right. There's someone who's. Well it's all about what you want to do right here. I'm a big believer in this Ty. The only thing not replaceable in this world is time. Right. And I'm also a big believer in the 10,000-hour rule. So if you want to make money in the real estate you've got to be an expert. And there's only so many 10,000-hour blocks in your life if you want to dedicate a 10,000-hour block to be a real estate expert then there's a huge opportunity. Most people that we deal with anyways say hey I know why to invest in real estate there's tax benefits right there. There's a return and the appreciation my capital and I like investing in a non-correlated asset to the stock market. But I don't have the time. I'm a doctor I'm a lawyer you know I'm an executive. I have disposable income. And I'd like to invest but I want to do it passively I don't want anything to do with the property and really Ty that that's what we partner with the most when we can when you talk about that 38 million in equity that, that's done with our investment partners people who are saying to us, look we want a piece of the asset class we'd like storage. We'd like you reliant. And your track record which is key if you're doing any type of passive investing you're trusting the operator with your money and you have no say when we talk about being a limited partner you're trusting us to do everything. And any limited partner. So what I would guide your listeners to do is the big piece is due to doing due diligence on the operator so we can give you access to the at the asset class. You just want to make sure that you're partnering with someone when things go wrong. What are they going to do? Right. Because everybody's friends during this when things are good. Everybody's having a great time during the sales process where the greatest people ever it's when things go wrong that you feel you find out who you're partnered with. So we partner with a ton of accredited investors who have interest in becoming passive investors in the asset class. And that's worked out really well for us in our investor base. Do you guys deal with only accredited investors are non-accredited as well? Yes. So for us, we only deal with accredited investors. There's some S.E.C. regulations and not to get too far down a hole that there's some FCC regulations around the type of offering that we're doing. Typically we're doing a five or six C offering in those five or six C offering it has to be a credit. You have to be an accredited investor and just a quick definition for your listeners who don't know what that is. so accredited investor there's two tests that allow you to be accredited. One is a network test. Essentially you have to have a net worth greater a million dollars excluding your primary residence or it's an income test and in the income tests its first single income $200,000 for dual-income that's $300,000. You have to have made that in the last two years and expect to make it in the future. So those are the tests. And actually as part of our investment process as an investor goes through our subscription documents there's a step that has we have a third-party verification that verifies hey this person is accredited so they can have access to the deal. you help them if they're not accredited already. In what way? well I mean let's say somebody comes in meets the requirements. they’re not officially into credit they haven't got been certified or passed what they need do you guys help them with that point to become accredited. oh absolutely Yeah. It's it's, it's a it's a check box. Honestly like the it's actually built into our investment process. So there's a third party website or we have a letter that you can send out to your accountant attorney financial advisor who can verify for you. So yeah that you know verification process is super easy. Sure and that's nice that you do that because once they're accredited investor with what you're doing then they're an accredited investor. There's a lot of different things of that SEC that they're been able to go out there. Do. No question. Yeah. So that’s cool. It's so if you don't mind me asking. And I'm sure you have a pretty good idea. What kind of returns can somebody really expect and I think in the beginning we talked about the kind of returns in the asset class in general but with your clients what kind of returns to somebody see where they would want to invest in something like this versus something like the stock market. And then let's talk a little bit more about the stability of something like this versus the stock market again. In the beginning we kind of generally talked about this, but narrowly get down to kind of what you guys see in your organization with clients with their terms like Yeah well so I think the easiest way to do that is I can only speak to our track record right. So there may be other self-storage operators that have outperformed us or underperformed us. I gave you the National Association REIT data because I think that's a good baseline for all of the publicly traded REIT but so for us. As I mentioned we have 48 properties primarily in the southeast. We've sold another twenty one properties. So that's our track record right. That's where we've gone full cycle with investors and return capital and appreciation. So our average rate of return is just over sixty-five percent a year. So the total so are what we're saying to investors is if you had invested at the project-level the project has returned just over sixty-five percent a year and our average whole time is just over three years right. So that equates to just under three multiple. So if you invested one hundred thousand dollars into one of our projects and you could have invested across all 21 the average return on that was we would have returned to you just over two hundred ninety-three thousand dollars. Now that's inclusive of your principal. That's inclusive of all the distributions throughout. But keep in mind Ty it’s an incredible rate of return right. We've done an excellent job but we've also been part of the greatest real estate market of my generation. I'm thirty-nine right. So for the last 10 years if you had your money in real estate you really had to work hard to screw it up. Right. So I were a great operator in my opinion I’m bias but we're a great operator. But the second part of it too is you know the market has come with us right. Rising tide lifts all boats. So what I would say is the deals that we're underwriting and we're in the midst of raising money for a fund right now the average rate of return that we're saying all in when we sell the property is 16 percent a year and we're projecting it project-level the project has returned just over sixty-five percent a year and our example again if you invested one hundred thousand dollars. We're projecting when we're done in six years we're going to give you one hundred ninety-six thousand back to you. That makes sense. Yeah I mean it's phenomenal you're basically doubling your money in the course of about six years is what you guys are saying that that's what we're projecting right now. and look we feel like we're being pretty conservative but Ty. As I mentioned and I don't mean to harp on it too much but the wildcard in all of this is the next correction. You know everybody's been saying hey you you know it’s coming, its coming and it is it's an inevitability. You know we're in the United States one of the greatest or the longest Bull Run that we've ever had. So it's coming. It's, it's a question of when. Well let's talk a little bit about that and risk and then I want to get a little bit more into your general overall strategy of buying and holding and what you keep in those those type of things. But let's talk about that. I mean from your guy's perspective as operators in space. What do you foresee coming in? Do you foresee a major correction economically Do you mind would I know you're not I'm not asking. Yes I am just if I knew that Ty if I knew that I wouldn't be selling self-storage stories I'll tell you that I can tell you as a company what we are doing proactively now to prepare for the correction and I can tell you that we don't believe it's going to be a major correction like we saw you know 2006, 7. But I understand it for you guys as a standpoint you're obviously preparing for a correction you're talking the language now acknowledging that yeah it's probably going to happen. We know it is. We know that we're going to see an adjustment from your guy’s perspective how much are you guys prepared? you really perceive it as going a major correction sometime soon. Or do you think it's going to be like what we've seen in the past before this 2006/07 insane debacle that we saw. Well I mean I think the challenge with 207/8, 9 right was to do the correction was twofold. It was not only the markets correcting but it was also debt. Debt went away. Credit went away and in your business, you knew that right. I mean that's how you, you created a business out of it is no one good real estate operator. We know one could go get debt because the banks said nope we're done. We're going to see what happens here. And so this is my own personal belief it reflects nothing. And it's not really rooted in data either. It's just my gut there's going to be a valuation correction. 100 percent right that is going to happen. What I think is going to be different than two thousand seven eight nine. I think the banks have been smarter where they're not going to be in a position where debt locks up. Right. So for companies like us, that's much better. We're in a position where there's still debt to go or in credit to go get. Whether that be from a debt vehicle equity it doesn't matter. That's, that's my own personal perspective. If you're asking strategy how are we approaching it as a company to mitigate those risks? You know I think there's two things right. You talk about risk as an investor or risk in real estate on a whole how you lose your money as the bank comes and takes your property. Right. Otherwise, the property always have an intrinsic value. It may go up or down. Right based on market valuation. But it's always worth something. The dirt is worth something. It's never zero unless you lose your property the bank takes it. Now it's worth zero. You've lost your principal. So I think for us it's being very conservative in our debt that we're putting on these properties. You know we like the fund that I mentioned that we're raising now. It will be less than 70 percent loan to value meaning we have 30 percent of equity or more in each one of the deals in the fund started. So if there is a correction and we have to go out and get additional debt on one of these properties there's a pretty good bet that we have enough equity where a lender is going to feel comfortable. The second thing we're doing aside from being conservative in our debt is that's why value add for us is the strategy we're moving with now versus development is we feel like value add. Think of it this way right. So if I started 70 percent loan to value which just means for your listeners if it's a 10 million dollar project it's worth 10 million dollars. The bank says Hey we're going to give you seven reliant. You've got to come up with three million 70 percent debt. OK. So we go out put a million dollars into it and build another 15,000 square feet. And I'm making up the numbers but 15,000 square feet of storage we get it leased up and stabilize. Now our property is not worth 10 anymore. It's worth I don't know 15. Right. So now my loan to value right. I still have that seven million dollar loan. My loan to value is less than 50 percent. In that case Ty unless there's a catastrophic market correction we got more than 50 percent equity in our project. It's really hard for us to imagine that if we're in trouble and we have to go get a new bank loan that the banks there's not going to be a bank out there who wants to lend on that type of product. So that's kind of how we're looking at it right. Conservative loan upfront force depreciation model on the side and build out additional equity so that we're in a position, where we can go, get that if we need it. That's how we're looking at it for the correction. But you know there's a lot of unknowns here for sure and I follow a few economists you know they're saying the next two years they don't know. You know nobody knows for sure. well I appreciate your insight because I just like talking to really smart people and figuring out those two things like what do you foresee and how are you preparing. Because like I lost my business in the first crash you know I owned a mortgage company. I was like right there on the front line the whole thing. And so obviously we do really on a lot of proactive things. So I appreciate you sharing that and I don't. Hold your feet to the fire. No, you're not but I was going to ask about risk and what the risk really is and what I like about your strategy. What I love about it is that not only does it allow you the ability to go get more debt if you need to but you can unload those properties at 50, 70 percent loan to value to even as value drops. You had to get out you can get out because that equity is there. So it sounds like you've got multiple different ways that you're kind of offsetting the risk but what kind of risks does an investor really face getting into this if they're investing money into self-storage. Well we just hit on the worst one right. Investors always ask me like hey what's the worst-case scenario is. Worst case scenario is you put in a hundred grand you lose it there's, there's no way you lose more than that. So if we ever have to make a capital call the project needs more money the investors aren't on the hook for that. We'll go to them and say Hey Mr. Investor we need another million dollars to keep this project afloat do you want to reinvest. If they say no we have the ability to essentially go out and get additional money and it dilutes them. But there is no obligation for additional capital. So worst case the bank takes the project. We lose 100 grand or you lose your as an investor you lose your hundred thousand dollars. We just talked about how we're mitigating that. I think the other risks in storage is back to the supply side. That's our biggest risk right now when we go into a market. Storage is very micro market specific. What really matters is the one not so much the one the three five-mile radius around your facility is where your tenants come from. Right. Storage isn't like apartments. People aren't going to drive for a good school district right. I mean you're at the garage so it's going to be to mean it's your house or convenient to your work. If it's not you're not going there. You know we don't have amenities other than customer service. We feel like we offer superior customer service but other than that it's a garage and a cement pad. So what we're really focused on in our acquisition strategy is buying into markets. One that we feel are in a position where they can absorb some new development right because most of our investments are in a five to seven-year hold period There can be a lot of development that happens in that timeframe right. A lot of bad things can happen in five to seven years. And what we're projecting now based off the data we have today may be different three years from now. So we're looking for markets that can maybe absorb some of of that new development and that we feel like is undersupplied at this point and measuring the supply in storage. I don't want to give too much time talking specifics about it but measuring the supply and storage is a it's, a, it's a moving target. It's not a perfect science to say OK if there's this amount of population then this is how much storage activity. So for us, I think that's the the second risk is as an investor being thoughtful as to where we're getting into for additional supply to maybe impact our ability to hit our projections right because we're making a projection saying hey we think we can grow rent so much. We think we can you know drive occupancy by this much. Well a self-storage facility opens across the street that's going to impact our ability to do those things right. It's basically terrified demands. So I think that's, that's our second biggest risk right now is the supply side and it's tailing off 2019. You know we've had a development curve that looked just like this 2019 at the end of 2019 it does this in 2020 it's supposed to tail off. So we'll see sort of how this development settles out in the marketplace. Yeah I like that I mean there's multiple ways to really turn risk as a year to look the worst happens as you put your money and you lose your money. But in order to lose your money you basically have to stop paying rent on that property. Like they have to foreclose you got it. I mean in order to foreclose like there's a million things that can happen before that point happens because you're in these it the right equity. So if you're in a position where you couldn't afford property which doesn't make sense because you're buying in the cash flow anyways I would imagine and you're getting into properties a cash flow. You're improving the cash flow of them. But even if worst-case scenario happened you're in enough equity where you could go borrow money more to take you something. So the risk is really minimal with the way you guys do it which I think is brilliant. Yeah I mean we hope so. We've been we've never lost investor principle we never made an investor capital call so, so far the strategy work. But little guy and I don't mean to hedge against us but nobody bats a thousand. Right. If you're in real estate long enough like people say oh they foreclosed. Well you know if you're in this game long enough it happens. Right. I mean things happen. And now if you foreclose on 15 properties you know maybe that's an issue. But let me give you just a quick example that one of the nation's largest private self-storage REIT in the early mid-2000s built up a portfolio of over 200 projects. He lost a hundred to the bank in 2007 and you know he sold the other hundred for a couple billion dollars. And now he's rebuilding he's back up to 150 properties. So it's not like you know they don't know what they're doing but there are risk in the marketplace that some you can affect and some you can't. And so you know I just as your listeners hear this right. It's not perfect right. It's not like no one ever loses money in real estate. They absolutely do. But you take the risk. You try to mitigate them the best that you can and try to be forward-thinking and conservative in your estimates. And you know and then you see what happens to the market goes up the big piece that nobody really knows. Kris what is your overall investment strategy touched upon it sounds like you're buying property you're then doing these improvements and we talked about what improvements include and then you mentioned six years. So is that really your goals to get in. Do improvements and then looked at for a profit every six years? it depends on the projects. You know there are some projects and markets that we could see ourselves being in forever. The property that we just bought by you. That's one we feel how long term legs just because of what's happening around it. So but for our investor’s right. We're making a projection of when we think we're going to get their money back. Right. So in a situation where we may say hey we think this property has legs we don't want to sell it. We're going to try to do two things right. One may be if we built up the value of it refinance it might cause you as an investor. If I give you back your principal let's say you invest a hundred grand we're in it for five years and we say hey Ty we don't want to sell this thing. It's still cash flowing fantastic. We think there's still upside in the market. But what we're going to do is we're going to refinance it. I'm going to give you your hundred grand back and then we're just going to collect coupons after that. Right? So now you’re principal back in your pocket you go invest in something else. If you so choose but you're can collecting your cash flow every quarter. Right. Which is a win because your return is infinite. You have no money in the deal anymore and you're still making money. So that's the magic wand scenario where you know that's as good as it gets. But there are definitely properties you know. Twenty-one properties where we've sold them and our average hold time on those is three point one five years. Right. So on those 21 sold it's just over three so we're projecting that five to seven years. I mentioned the fund is a six-year projection but we're opportunistic. If there is someone who wants to buy the product that we have and we're able to get our investors the returns we promised in year six. But we can do it in year 3. You know we're going to do that. But let me give you just one quick example of that. We built this facility ground-up development in Naples Florida. We expected to hold it six to eight years. It was going to be a flagship type properties beautiful three- storey glass Stone We opened it. It took us about twelve months to build. We opened it and ran it for about eight months. Got an offer from an unsolicited an unsolicited offer from one of the storage REIT and they basically gave us the value that we had projected in year six in year two. So we said No way. Right. So for the investors in that position, the investor tripled their money in two years. We can't walk away from that you know. So I think it's a project by project opportunity. You know But I would say that we're opportunistic in that you know hey if we can get that money out short term we will and vice versa. Right if the market craps out and goes down the tubes we're not going to sell the property for a loss right. How would the cost structure is built? Is our incentives are aligned with our investors so we don't make any money. If the investor doesn't make any money so obviously our incentive is to make sure the investor makes their money first. Then we get to share in the profits. what kind of investment are you looking for from an investor? so typically it doesn't mean there's about 50 thousand of either cash but we have a lot of investors who do self-directed to qualified funds. They’re like a self-directed IRA self-directed 401K day that type of thing. Cool and then. And that's awesome. I think we talked about a lot of the other things what kind of returns they can expect exit strategy those type of things. so it sounds like you're for the most part you're trying to get an investment out and pay a few years into it three years six years.  well I would say you plan on seven and if we can get you out earlier. Great. And that's the thing where I went back to you know you're really trusting the operator to make the right decision because you have no recourse if you come to me year three and say hey I'd like my money by law. You know you're signing on the document thing that's up to Reliance to make that decision. You don't have a voting right. So you know it's what we say to our investors is this is money and you're getting dividends along the way. It's not like you know the money goes away. Six years later we show up with a check. Most of our projects and the business plan different for each. But there's a dividend that gets paid every quarter to you based on the cash flow of the properties. But this is money that investors should look at as long term right. Hey I don't need access to the liquidity and that's really one of the downsides to these private placements is it's an illiquid investment right. You can go buy a share of a storage REIT and it's perfectly liquid. You could trade it today buy it today trade it tomorrow with us. You buy it today and you wait for us to tell you we've sold it and here's your check back. So you know it's just kind of as an investor you've got to know what you're getting into and what you're comfortable with. And you know that that's how, that's how I counsel our investors to say look it's a long term play that illiquid. So if you need this money don't do this deal with us. its cool anything I really haven't asked that you think that, that it's important for the listeners and viewers to be able to know about investing in such a well we kind of took a different angle here because you know what I really want to know is how to make money on this without doing the work. And we probably couldn't talk for a long time about doing the work and the exact steps that were involved or what you guys do and there's a lot to it. But anything else along that line that maybe we should have talked about or should have asked and that I haven't. No I mean I think if the plan is to be a passive investor. Right. The key is and this was just with us. The key is and I've done a lot of passive investing and other asset classes as well as the stuff we've built our on, on our own. The key is the people you're investing in the people. And usually, if you can make a good decision around you know character and work ethic of the people you're investing with. The deals turn out pretty good because in these types of offerings these private placements you know you are trusting implicitly the operator and a great operator can take a bad project and make it OK and a bad operator and take a great project and make it awful. So you know my advice to your listeners is if you want to be a path of investor and you're looking for these types of investments there's a number of places you can go to, to access those deals. You know there's crowdfunding sites like Crowd Street, realty mobile, phone rise. There are private placements like us. All right. So an investor can reach out to us direct and they have to learn more about that. But the thing that you want to do your due diligence is the people because ultimately they're going to be the ones that make these things work through the good times and the bad times. So that would be my advice and I try to push that to everybody is do your due diligence on the operator make sure they know what they're doing. They have a track record of success because it's the, it's the best indicator of what's going to happen in the future is what they've done in the past. Kris Where can everybody go to kind of learn more about investing in self-storage what you guys do these type of things. Yeah for sure so I have a website krisbenson.com with a KRISBENSON.com I have a LinkedIn page that I'm pretty active on Kris Benson if you search Kris Benson reliant. And then for the specific to the business we have www.reliantinvestments.com. And that that goes through a lot of our track record information on the firm that type of thing on krisbenson.com There's going to be a number of educational videos as well where you can see a walk through some of the terminology those kinds of things just kind of free content and really we built it so that I have a place to send investors, so they don't have the app right where someone can go through a learning process really high level and say OK I'm dangerous now I at least understand how to evaluate these sites opportunities. Cool. Kris thanks for coming on with this man. This was really enlightening. Yeah, I appreciate Ty. Thanks for the opportunity to chat with your listeners. And yeah let's talk soon. sounds good. So everybody make sure you do one of two things either go to krisbenon.com that's K R I S Benson B.E.N.S.O.N.com krisbenson.com I'm going to put the link on the show wrote resources page or you can also go to reliantinvestments.com a Reliant R E L I A N T investments with an S dot com and I will make sure that and Kris's LinkedIn is on there as well I don’t put their Facebook link there as well so you have all those natural resources pages okay that's pretty crazy I mean an opportunity to nearly double your money in up to a seven-year timeframe while you're still getting dividends or in the process that's pretty cool thing to do which is why did they attract so many investors so much money and I didn't ask Kris but I imagine most of their investors Kris most investors probably come back and reinvest I would think right.  Yeah especially the ones who've been part of the twenty-one sales right I mean that's our goal is to turn that money as quickly as possible so that you come back say what are we doing next? Yeah. And in a model where it's driven a large part by investors money you got to make sure those investors get really good with that rate of return and that's what these guys do it relying as they're coming in and making sure you're getting really good rate of return so you want to constantly reinvest. Makes it easier on them and they have to find fewer investors that way if they blow your socks off. So I think this is brilliant. I love self-storage because it's such niche. Not a lot of people are really in it. And Kris was very humble and said look there is competition but if you really look at the real estate investment space in general multifamily residential it's the same. How many people were investing there considering the very small percentage here so it's a lot of opportunity? And Kris talked about a lot of different ways to monetize self-storage facilities as well in ways you can make additional money on properties that are already cash flowing from raising rents to selling more things to be able to expanding the property. It's just I think it's it's a brilliant way to go but let’s be honest it's, it's cumbersome to learn to do this from your by yourself from the ground up. There's so many things involved and so much money and capital that's required that it for some people. And if that's not for you then this may be a better way to go to actually be able to passively invest without having to do the work. So make sure you check out reliantinvestments.com or krisbenson.com. Both of those on the share resources page and Kris said all the details you need are there you can learn enough to become dangerous just by looking at a lot of the training there so make sure you check out krisbenson.com or reliantnvestments.com. and again everybody I'll put those on the show resources. Thanks, everybody. Have a great day. 