 Hyundai and Aptiv's self-driving joint venture officially announced their mission as "motional" on the 12th. According to Hyundai Motor Group, 'motor' is a combination of 'motion' and 'emotion' which means 'exercise' and 'emotion'. 'Motion' means the movement of self-driving cars, and'Emotional' means to realize the value of respect for human beings based on safety and trust. Aptiv is a company specializing in automotive electronic components and autonomous driving, which was spun off by Delphi, a global auto parts maker, in December 2017, and is evaluated as the world's best in autonomous driving technology. MOTIONAL is developing and commercializing Level 4 autonomous driving technology that can cope with any situation. From this year, we plan to test fully autonomous driving systems, and in 2022, we plan to supply autonomous driving systems and support technologies to robo taxis and mobility operators. “Hyundai Motor Group has been working hard to realize the dream of mankind for more than half a century,” said Jung Eui-sun, senior vice president of Hyundai Motor Group “Motional represents the next generation of innovation that will open up new fields of safe, economical and green mobility,” he said. Senior Vice Chairman Jung said, "Hyundai Motor Group has been writing a new history of cutting-edge automotive technology, and we look forward to continuing this legacy with Motal." "Motional is a strong name that will make consumers aware that self-driving cars will make the world safer," said Kevin Clark, CEO of Aptiv. "Motional is pushing for mobility transformation through mass production of autonomous driving systems. Aptiv will help us open the era of autonomous vehicles with an advanced ADAS platform that adds safety and trust to highly automated vehicles," he said. In fact, through Aptiv, Motal succeeded in crossing the continental United States as the industry's first fully self-driving vehicle in 2015, and the following year launched the world's first robot taxi pilot project in Singapore. From 2018 to the present, we have been leading the industry by commercializing the world's largest robotic taxi service to the general public and providing more than 100,000 autonomous robotic taxi services in Las Vegas. Currently, we are developing and commercializing level 4 autonomous driving technology. In particular, we plan to conduct a fully autonomous driving system test starting this year, and in 2022, we plan to supply autonomous driving systems and support technologies to robo taxis and mobility operators. In relation to this, we will show you the video on the website. I wonder how quickly Motal, who established a joint venture between Hyundai Motor Company and Aptiv, can successfully commercialize fully autonomous driving in a short time. If the video was helpful, please subscribe and like it. Thank you for watching the video 