 Hey everybody, what I'm going to cover in this video. I think it's quite unique. And I think it hasn't been touched upon in any other investment channel and not in any Tesla or NIO YouTube channel so far. So I'm pretty excited to show you my research that I've been doing on Tesla, autonomy on NIO full self driving and their approach to autonomy in partnership with Intel Mobileye. So if you enjoyed that, please give this video some laugh and hit the like button subscribe to our channel for follow ups on this video, on this topic, but also on more topics around investing in NIO and Tesla, and also about some other companies that have a large exposure to the Chinese market or are IPO from China. And I think this video could be a crucial for investors to understand where NIO and Tesla's valuation will be going. Because in this video I'm going to show you, I'm actually thinking that mobile eye has a good chance of catching up with what Tesla is doing when it comes to autonomy. However, I also share my views that I think Tesla will still be having the lead here. And I will also be telling you about how NIO fits in this and what is their unique approach to autonomy. And I will also be comparing it to Tesla. So let's just dive into it. First of all, to my new viewers, I am both invested in NIO as well as in Tesla. So I am a little bit biased if you are skeptical of this companies, take my videos with a grain of salt, because I obviously want those companies to succeed. However, if you see the history of this channel, I'm always trying to stay objective. And also I will be changing my views whenever I do some research that is kind of changing my opinion and my thesis, why I've invested in those companies. So I will always stay transparent about it. However, none of what I'm saying here is investment advice. You need to come up with your own ideas of how to invest in those companies. So when it comes to autonomous vehicles, I am a big fan of Tesla's approach to full self driving. And I like the approach of getting rid of LiDAR, which is costly and enabling autonomous cars, simply on a vision based approach and leveraging that fleet actually to collect data in order to improve the autopilot. So I think the strategy outlined by Elon Musk and executed by Andrej Karparthy will be successful. And I have tested Tesla autopilot for instance, in China. And I was impressed on how well it's working already at the same time. I've also tested early versions of NIO pilot in Shanghai. So go back to my videos and watch it again. They're still valid. And whereas I was impressed by the early features and the functionality of the NIO pilot. I think it's still obvious that the capabilities of NIO pilot are not as good as Tesla's autopilot today. However, also still one of the most advanced in the industry as I'm showing here in this chart. So now in my mind, for most of the time I had Tesla as the clear winner under race to autonomy in mind and robot taxis are still part of my investment thesis in Tesla. And I like the fact that Elon Musk is actually pushing it hard, communicating it aggressively so well, I know there's lots of people always talking about like how Elon Musk is just talking and bragging, but in the end, yeah. Sometimes he's wrong on the timeline, but in the end he always delivers on what he is saying that he's going to do. However, when I started investing in NIO, I also started digging into deeper what Intel and Mobileye actually doing, uh, in the approach with autonomous vehicles. And I think it is always good to stay open to whatever happens in the industry. So here is some interesting stuff that are found, look at this test at Mobileye is running in Israel right now, the car is handling 40 minutes, ride in the inner city of Tel Aviv, without any major issues. The driving is pretty smooth, unexpected situations are handled quite well. The car is going through roundabouts, it is stopping for red lights and yeah, it is even overtaking obstacles. So, so my views Mobileye's demonstration here, it's actually looking pretty good. And um, yeah, they showing that with their tech that are having, um, also similar to Tesla without any LiDAR, so a low cost set up, um, on the hardware side, they have their own chip set. They have, um, well less, uh, TOPS their peak performance and Tesla, but also, um, lower energy consumption with their own chip and also to have to own camera and sensor system. So looks all pretty legit to me actually. And I'm quite impressed by what I can see here in this video. So there are a couple of things we need to consider here and actually ask critically. So we don't know how Mobileye's system would behave in an unknown territory. Maybe the path shown in this video has been hard-coded and maybe it's been extensively prepared before the test and it might be Geo-fenced. So whereas Teslas Autopilot really is being used everywhere where Teslas are being driven today. So it seems that mobilized testing here is still a much more bound to these test regions. Recently they've been adding Germany now, now allowed to do testing. Um, so, but, but, but of course this isn't any different to the extent of what Tesla is providing in the real world. But now what really struck me here with mobileye, I s that they are starting to copy Tesla's approach electing data. So I'll watch this talk by mobileye CEO at the CES, and he said, eh, already in 2008, started to collect data from vehicles of a couple of different OEMs that are using Mobileye's chipsets, as well as a so-called REM kit, um, that he mentioned in the presentation. So I found it interesting to hear that the CEO states that in this year they will be receiving 6 million kilometers of data every day from about 1 million vehicles. And that the fleet vehicle is about to grow to 14 million till 2022. So, so when I saw it as I started to dig deeper into the data advantage of Tesla and wanted to see how it really compares to what Mobileye is doing here. So of course it's a huge, competitive advantage that Tesla's doing in comparison to Waymo, for instance, that they are collecting real world data from their fleet paid by customers. So that's also cool and not by hiring expensive engineers. And frankly, it was really news to me that Mobileye is doing a similar approach to Tesla at this extent that I just mentioned here. So I started calculating Tesla's run rate as well as Mobileye's based on the data points that are not. So for Tesla, I used the numbers published by Lex Fridman, from MIT, as well as their publicly announced data points about how many miles they had collected so far as well as projections about the fleet growth based on ARK invest bull and bear case for Tesla and the growth in sales numbers, as well as my own projections of what I think is realistic in the future. And for mobile, I, I used those public numbers announced in his presentation, and I also made my own projections about how big their fleet will grow based on the fact that six OEMs will fit their fleet with mobilized sensors, all sending data back, and that could be used for Robotaxis in the end. So in the end, I calculated six different scenarios, three cases for Tesla a minimum likely and maximum case, as well as for mobile. I, the same thing, a minimum case, a likely case and a maximum case. And my overall finding is that because of the fleet size, the sheer fleet size of Mobileye, I, I think they will be able to catch up with Tesla. And in some cases comparing different scenarios, even overtaking Tesla by 2024 or 2025. So even though Tesla really had an upstart and starting three years earlier to collect data than Mobileye, I think it's likely that we see a close race. And even if Tesla sales executing on a bull case scenario, it may get even a really tight race here to the race to autonomy on. If we just, if we just look at the data collection, now some points I need to note here, first off, my scenarios depend on a couple of different variables, such as to fleet sales, the percentage of autopilot activated kilometers collected per car per day and so on. And also we are just comparing autopilot miles versus mobileye Miles and not Tesla miles driven in general. So if we compare it just all driven miles, Tesla actually would still have a huge, large advantage. So I think the question we need to ask here is what kind of data is Mobileye collecting? And how does it compare to the data collected by Tesla? Can Tesla only work with the data collected without autopilot activated or is there also nonactivated data that is relevant in this case? How good is the quality of the data of Mobileye in comparison to Tesla miles and Tesla to Autopilot miles and how much data is actually necessary in total and what will happen with the data? Exactly. Well, I don't think my scenarios can really answer this questions and I can only make the following assumptions. I do think that Tesla's data quality will be much higher due to the vertical integration because they have a standardization of the fleet and also feeding the neural network to make it learn from which decisions to take with the goal of enabling Tesla cars, to even handle unfamiliar paths and situations. On the other hand, I think Mobileyes data collection is largely focused on building those 3D street maps, which is just one layer of the autonomy tech stack, although it's an important one. So yeah, these 3D maps are super important in order to make, um, autonomous vehicles possible. However, in contrast to what Tesla is doing, I think Tesla is building the car to be, you know, fully autonomous in a way that it seems to me that Tesla cars would not even depend so much on external data or those kinds of 3D maps. So in general, I would say even though Mobileye seems to be catching up here or even overtaking on the numbers of data, the miles collected here, I would still see Tesla in the lead and the quality of data should be much superior as well as the general approach seems to be, to me much more sophisticated than what Mobileye is doing. So thereby I'm still confident that Tesla's approach to autonomy is actually the most bullish case. And it will prevail for instance, when it comes to the quality of the data collected, it seems like, um, Tesla, what they are collecting is much more advanced with all of those different cameras around the car. And also with autopilot enabled and data that is being sent back in the cases that have been, that are being sent back. I cannot imagine how does Mobileye eye kit, um, that is used with those larger fleet cars. Now on the roads can actually collect a similar amount of the quality of data, and sending it back to the engineers that are working, uh, receiving this data and, um, yeah, using the machine algorithms and so on. However, my research also gave me some important insights into how NIO could actually become a player in the field of autonomy, given their partnership with Intel Mobileye. Obviously the advancement in data collection with a similar approach to Tesla will help NIO to take the next steps in autonomy with, the help of Mobileye, and it's clear that NIO isn't doing it on their own. So here are some things to consider first for the data collection part to CEO mentioned that, they have two OEMs in China that they are working with, which they cannot disclose. I think it is likely that one of them is actually NIO and the other one may be even Audi considering that they have been using Mobileye IQ4 hardware as well. But don't nail me on that. I don't know it for sure. I'm just guessing here. Second, the CEO goes on and talks about the issues in China regarding mapping. So in terms of, uh, REM in China, the, again, we need to comply with the regulations in, in China, which are very complex. Yeah, it is complicated. And I have been actually been part of other projects of launching car sharing services in China with a couple of German companies. And it's always been a difficult topic of whether or not, um, the company can actually get the proper licenses in operating in China. I've also building an eCommerce myself. I'm launching an app into the Chinese market selling to Chinese consumer. And also for us, it's always been a real pain to obtain the proper licenses or move the servers to China and stuff like that in order to be able to sell to Chinese consumer or, to offer our services to Chinese consumers. So these internet regulations of each internet are really big barriers to overcome, particularly when it comes to mapping to data collection and to offering services to Chinese consumers. And oftentimes to be quite honest about it, it's only Chinese companies that can really get the licenses that you need in order to map the streets, to get proper GPS, to have the licenses, to offer certain services. And frankly, and frankly speaking, this is just a way of China protecting its economy. That's why the big players in China, all Chinese companies are Chinese tech companies, and it's unfair in some regards and even it's affecting Tesla here. If we look at Tesla news about relocating their services in China, and speaking about that, the autopilot will be totally different with the China team. Well, it's just basically another way of saying, we also are desperate to finding ways of launching our services, um, in China and, and yeah, to be Frank about it, it's protectionism by China. And that's why for international companies, it's extremely hard to be successful in China. So this is also for me why NIO is actually also an interesting hedge in terms of investing in autonomy and on autonomy specifically for China. And I think it's also the reason why Mobileye has partnered with NIO in China. And now that NIO has government funding in addition to being a Chinese company and with a big backing of Tencent, well, NIO really has a unique advantage in China here when it comes to local regulations regarding those data collection points and mappings et cetera. So I've mentioned before I've tested NIO pilot and with the over the air software updates, I am expecting that NIO pilot will actually be improving its functionality in the next month, as well as update its capacities from time to time, similar to what Tesla is doing. However, I do think that we're looking at a big potential leap frogging here of NIO in the area of autonomy. I think NIO might be actually one of the first players to bring a fully for autonomy optimized vehicle to the market. Because frankly, if we look at Model 3, it's a, yeah, it might be capable of doing full self driving in the future, but it's nowhere optimized for full autonomy. So I think NIO will be one of the first to develop a special autonomous vehicle that is designed for it from scratch. And it will actually be selling it to Mobileye. Yes, you heard me, right. I think they will be selling it to Mobileye who will be operating the robot taxi fleet. If you watch what a CEO of Mobileye saying. We mentioned a month ago, the deal with the NIO, uh, their ES8 vehicle will be used as our robot taxi, um, NIO will be taking our self driving system and it 20 to 2022 timeframe, they will launch in China, uh, vehicles of consumer AV and those vehicles, we can purchase them and use them for a robot taxi fleet as well. So it's, it's, it's a double advantage one. It's our first experiment with consumer AV in China. And also we have a platform for our global taxi. And remember when I interviewed a cofounder of NIO last year, um, Jack Cheng, he mentioned how near we'll be looking to introduce level four autonomy in two years time. And I think this is what they will be starting to sell the NIO Eve as a vehicle and entirely optimized for autonomy, leveraging mobile eye's tech stack. So this is a totally different approach to Tesla. If we look at it at the details. So NIO will be the one collecting the China data for mobile. I starting with the NIO ES8 of today and besides that, SAIC, which is also the joint venture of Volkswagen will also be doing that in China. And then NIO will be working on a new tech stack exclusive to new as mentioned by the CEO here in a partnership with Mobileye. And I think what are referring to is what they will be implementing with the new Eve concept. And usually I'm really sceptical about those concept cars, because, well, usually it's just about bragging and in the end the car doesn't look like that in reality. But when I was doing my research about the approach that Mobileye doing and the way newest tackling autonomy, more and more things are coming together. And I think, and I think this will be really their approach. So now NIO's angle here. It will be totally different from Tesla. And as I was always preaching, NIO is not a manufacturer. They are a lifestyle brand and they are not an OEM. There are certainly not vertically integrated as Tesla is instead. Think of NIO as a platform business as I'm going to show here. So in this partnership, NIO will be working with Mobileye closely. There will be sending the data mobile, I, and they will be receiving the hardware and software. For instance, to cloud stack from Mobileye. NIO's Key activities will be to having the direct to consumer access. And at the same time, designing a branding, the new autonomous car, which will be produced by JAC motors and another joint venture of NIO, maybe GAC in the future. And it will be sold to Mobileye and they are going to be the fleet operator. So if we are looking at the value network here, NIO will be purchasing the Autonomy Vehicle (AV) hardware from Mobileye, but there will be taking a commission or a cut from mobile eye, right hailing fleets. So for each of the transactions that are making, I do think NIO will be getting a cut because NIO is going to open actually the access to their consumer base on the NIO app. And they will be offering services to the robot taxi fleet, for instance, the battery swapping entertainment, for instance, to NOMI digital assistant inside of the car, which is actually based on artificial intelligence, which we'll be getting more and more important because entertainment is getting more and more important in autonomous fleets. And also they can leverage Tencent as an investor with their streaming services for consuming videos or music. And don't forget in advantage of Tesla here, this robot taxi will be fully optimized for a journey which the passenger doesn't have to drive at all. Instead they can work and entertain themselves. So this is where NIO Life and NIO houses and the digital assistant NOMI and entertainment aspects of new brand come into play. So on top of those service businesses that NIO will earn probably a high margin fee, NIO will still earn a share of the money of robot taxi sold to mobile I and shared income together with JAC motors or whoever who's producing the car for NIO. So you see, in contrast to Tesla, NIO is not owning the autonomy stack here. They're also not owning the vehicle data, but they will be the owner after autonomy platform with direct access to the ridehailing consumer. And they will be the one offering the high margin services on this platform. So I think this model is a smart way because it doesn't require NIO to develop their own tech stack and NIO and focus on building their brand, their NIO lifestyle services offerings, as well as the user base with a unique advantage in mainland China, because I know no player which will be able to match them in approaching this so far. Even Tesla's digital ecosystem is less advanced than NIO's when it comes to digital assistent and the app ecosystem. This is why Li Bin (CEO of NIO) always speaks of NIO as the user enterprise and a lifestyle mobility brand. So to sum things up, I'm pretty happy to actually see those different approaches and, um, yeah, that they are quite different from each other. I think Tesla and NIO both have a unique way of tackling autonomy. I do think Tesla is the leading player and they will be getting a larger share of, uh, autonomous vehicles in the market. Also a larger chunk of the revenues actually, because they own it fully to have to tech stack. They have to data and they have to cars. NIO doesn't have that and investing in both in my views is quite good because, um, well I'm hedging both positions. If one of those approaches is maybe failing, then there's still the other one, which is differentiating from that. And in that way, um, in a autonomous future, I still could win either with both cases, but because I do think that actually both can coexist and actually both of them can make money on that. Um, but at the same time, if one of them fails, I still have the other approach. So please let me know in the comments, what you are thinking about those two approaches and how you view it, what do you think will be more successful? Which cases are you willing to invest in? Or maybe you're just go with one of them or with none of them, maybe you think it's all bullshit for me, this is pretty much still work in progress. And I just wanted to share it with you today. I will be building on that. And actually, if you want to have my calculations, I will be offering them to actually the highest tier in our Patreon supporters, because I think most of this information will actually be relevant just to larger institutions, maybe some funds that are looking to invest or some of the companies that we're usually working with. So it's not so much for the consumers. However, for my private investors, uh, supporting us on Patreon, um, I will be updating my Excel sheet on the NIO business case and a new valuation. And I will be making assumptions on how I think the new autonomy case that I just showed today, will it be actually materializing as income streams as revenues, and also what this means for the valuation of NIO and as always, this will be, um, available to all of my Patreons, no matter which tier you're supporting us. So I hope this will be, um, insightful and, um, of value to you! So once again, I'm pretty excited about it. Um, please give this video a, like if you found it insightful, um, please also subscribe to our channel to stay informed about it. Let me know once again, in the comments about your opinion and yeah. Enjoy the rest of the weekend or the new week, have a great new week and yeah, stay tuned for more insights and thanks for watching. See ya. 