 Each year, semis haul more than $20 billion worth of goods back and forth across the southern border alone. In Arizona, the interstates are a prime testing ground for TuSimple, an international company developing driverless commercial trucks. Arizona rolled out the welcome mat for self-driving vehicles in August of 2015, when Governor Doug Ducey signed an executive order establishing the ground rules for testing on public roads. Two years later, TuSimple made its move to Tucson. Today it tests a fleet of nearly 20 semis, equipped with LiDAR, RADAR and cameras. At TuSimple's warehouse, we met Mo Fitzgerald, a semi driver for more than 30 years. Her job still puts her behind the wheel as a test driver. We asked how she adapted to this new technology. If trucks like this become autonomous, people like you no longer have a job? - I used to think that personally. When I applied here I'm like, "Oh, I'll be a test driver and this "is gonna replace everybody's job." It's the complete opposite. This is going to take the boring, monotonous driving out that most drivers don't wanna do. They wanna stay close to home, so the truck will get from point A to point B, and then that local driver will take over and take that truck and so there'll still be jobs. Someone's gonna have to deliver that load. And the technology is here now to make it more exciting for younger people that may have thought this is an old-time profession, that that's just what old people do. You know, you're just a truck driver. Now it's new, it's exciting, it's technology. It's the future. - I imagine during the course of your career, there have probably been some close calls. Any worries about now that you are a test driver that something could happen that you couldn't react to as a human, and technology can't always predict what a human's going to do. - That's what they're trying to teach these trucks, that to be exactly like a human but be a super trucker. That's what makes it so much safer, because it's never distracted. - When you say safe, are you talkin' about like being on the road for a really long stretch, and you're the human. - Exactly. - You're tired. - Right, this truck will never get tired. It'll never wanna pull over. This truck doesn't have to go to the bathroom. This truck doesn't need to do anything but drive straight down the road and end up where you wanted it to go. And it does it 15 times safer than a human could do it. It's amazing. - You bought into this, you really-- - I have bought into it. You know, like I said, we were all skeptics. And they've proved us wrong and they proved to us that even at the point where we are now where it's doing really well, we know a lot more things can be improved upon. But right now, I mean this is the wave of the future for us. - [Lorraine] Testing routes stretch between Nogales and Phoenix on I-19 and I-10, a popular corridor according to Robert Brown, who oversees the company's government relations and public affairs in Arizona. - I-10 is the second busiest freight corridor in the whole country. From Florida to California, obviously through New Mexico and Texas, is kind of what we're focused on. You'll see our trucks every day. They still have the driver behind the wheel, so unless you're really paying attention and looking at the sensors, you probably won't notice them. - I can't think of the song at the moment, but the 18-wheeler can't stop on a dime. - No. - Let's say this guy's going 75 miles an hour, an object crosses the road. How quickly can it stop, and avoid a catastrophe? - Well, one thing nice about our system, it actually has a reaction time of .02 seconds. For an attentive human driver is around 1.5, so it has a reaction time faster than a human driver. So that's also a plus. Plus, in addition to that, the way our camera is, it can see 360 degrees around the vehicle up to a thousand meters in front of it at all times. And it does that 20 times per second, so it's constantly vigilant, understanding in its environment. So it can predict and understand possible dangerous threats like that better than a human can. - You mentioned these cameras. Are these cameras, these systems, able to manage our unique weather patterns? - Yes, in Arizona, yes. We can handle the monsoons, the rainstorms, the haboobs, the high winds. We haven't solved snow yet, but you know, the Arizona/Southwest climate, the cameras have performed quite well. - There are probably people sitting at home watching this who are critical of it. - Yeah. - Does this somehow translate into job loss when it comes to the trucking industry? - No, absolutely no. From a Ferber might be in, my uncle, my aunt, my cousins, they're all truck drivers. My cousin's 22 years old and he wants to be a trucker. He'll retire a trucker if he wants to be. So what we are trying to do is offset that acute driver shortage in that long haul segment right now. You know, the American Trucking Association says we're short around 50,000 drivers today, and it's growing to over 200,000 in the next few years. - Do you have the workforce or the potential workforce to put in these trucks, or behind the scenes doing this work here? - Oh yes, at Tucson we've, around the lunch table I see new faces every day. We went from a handful of employees last year, we're up to over a hundred. And we're expanding rapidly, with construction and footprint. I can't say enough about Tucson and Arizona as a whole, being a great community partner as well. - [Lorraine] One of the partnerships TuSimple developed is with Pima Community College. The two collaborated on a new certification program launching in September, that will train experienced truckers on the systems used by TuSimple. Missy Blair manages PCC's transportation program. She explained why the college is embracing autonomous tech. - The World Economic Forum recently posted something that, 65% of the first graders now will be in jobs that don't exist right now. And so how do we get ahead of that as a community college? The college has been very hyper-focused on workforce. So this is something that we really wanna be able to help the community with in getting upskilled, because as we know, things are moving rapidly in technology and so we have to be able to adapt to that. - TuSimple earlier today told me part of the reason they settled on Tucson is the workforce, the U of A, Pima Community College. There's gotta be some pressure to be sure that you deliver. - There is a little bit of pressure, but we're ready. We're ready for it. You know, this is what we do. This is what we're comfortable with doing. We work with business and industry to find out what they need, so we're ready. The neat thing about this program is that this is the first iteration of it. As the technology gets better and as TuSimple forges their way through the industry, then we'll be able to also evolve with what they need. So this is just the first step of it. This is by no means where we stop with the program. - What is your pitch to prospective students? - You know, the industry can be a great industry. You know, get out there, get some experience. Get paid to see the country, right? You can go out and drive, get paid to see the country. And then if this is something that you're interested in, come back, we'll get the certificate for them and get them upskilled with training that they need for this industry. And then they can go ahead and start playing with the robotrucks. 