 Hello, everyone. This is Saurabh from Edureka. Welcome everyone to today's session on what is deep learning? We'll understand how deep learning emerged that is what are the limitations of the previous technologies that led to the evolution of deep learning. So let us have a look at the agenda for today. First will understand what is artificial intelligence, and what exactly is machine learning, then we look at various limitations of machine learning and how deep learning solves or overcame those limitations after that will understand what exactly is the blurring and we'll also look at various applications of deep learning. So I hope you all are clear with the agenda. Kindly give me a quick confirmation by writing down in the chat box or if you have any questions or doubts, you can ask me. Alright, so we have no questions. So let us move forward and understand artificial intelligence. But the first thing that we need to focus on is why artificial intelligence, why do we need artificial intelligence now, let us understand this with an example. So nowadays if you have noticed if your car exceeds the speed limit, so you'll get a little It'll basically a challenge at your home. How do you think that happens? Do you think that there is a person who is sitting in a chair and actually noting down all the number plates that crosses the speed limit. Well that is not possible because there might be millions of cars that pass through that road and at once they might be many cars are to be passing through that road. So for a human being to actually do this task is next to Impossible. Now, let us see another approach to this particular problem. So what we can do we can actually make use of cameras that will click the picture of the car that exceeds the speed limit and then we could convert that picture into a text. For example, we have U KP late-20s way the human error the risk of human error has been reduced and at the same time machines, they never get tired. So because of that you can capture all the images of cars that actually crosses the speed limit similarly you can think of a many other examples as well. It is used in order to recognize a sign that is in Banks. You want to authenticate whether that person is the bank customers or not apart from that it is Was for self-driving cars as well. So in u.s. Around 30,000 people die every year because of Road accidents so that can be completely removed. If we use the self-driving cars which is based on the concept of artificial intelligence and let me tell you guys you might find it very fascinating that people in MIT are using artificial intelligence in order to predict the future so you can imagine why we need artificial intelligence. If you have any questions any doubts, you can ask me it is even used in places where humans can't reach for example, a deep oceans or navigation and Mars. So in those places, we need machines which are smart enough to carry our tasks. This is why we need artificial intelligence. If you have any questions any doubts, you can ask me or if you have any example to share you can do that as well. Any questions guys. Alright, so we have no doubt. Let us move forward and understand what exactly is artificial intelligence now artificial intelligence. I know the word sounds pretty complex and there are a lot of Hollywood movies that are based on artificial intelligence. If you have seen Terminator or Matrix, all these movies are based on artificial intelligence, but you don't need to worry about it because till now we haven't reached that level as they have shown in movies like The Terminator but yeah, the concept is pretty similar. So basically we want systems and software's in such a way that they get imitate The Human Behavior. Now what happens in artificial intelligence artificial intelligence is accomplished by studying how human brain thinks and how human brain learns decide and work while trying to solve a problem and then we use outcome of this study as the basis of development of intelligent software and systems. So our major goal is to have systems or software that can imitate the human behavior the way they think the way the decide the way to solve a problem so in that Look fashion, we want a machines to do that. So this is basically artificial intelligence in a nutshell. I hope you have understood the concept if you have any questions, you can write down in the chat box. Fine guy so we have no questions here. So let us move forward and look at various applications of artificial intelligence. So this light basically talks about the application of artificial intelligence. Now, I've listed only three of them but there are millions of applications. For example, it is used in speech recognition. So whenever you search something on Google, so you just tell Google and searched for you similarly. It is used for understanding natural language as well as for image recognition as well. And there are many many other applications in which artificial intelligence Finds Its use for example, it can be used in self-driving cars. It can be used in CD for recommending some products. And even when you go to websites like YouTube or Pandora YouTube knows which video you want to NEX Pandora knows which song you want to listen to How do you think this happens? It happens all because of artificial intelligence. So all of these are a few examples of artificial intelligence, but nowadays it is used almost everywhere guys. Trust me on that. Now, let us move forward and understand how to achieve artificial intelligence now in order to achieve artificial Legends, there were few technologies that came first came up machine learning. Now. There are certain limitations of machine learning in order to overcome. Those limitations came a deep learning. Now. Let me tell you guys the concept of artificial intelligence is not new. It was first coined in 1956, but it was just a theoretical concept then in 80s and 90s. We were talking about neural networks. But since we didn't have enough computational power so we couldn't utilize it properly but in late 90s and 2000's we started using the neural networks for machine learning there in 2006. The term deep learning was coined for the first time that overcame the limitations of machine learning and from 2010 deep learning was used commercially as well. So this was just a small history about artificial intelligence machine learning and deep learning not to understand this deep learning. We need to First Look at machine learning and what were the VDS limitations of machine learning that led to the evolution of deep learning. How does that sound guys? All right fine so I can see a lot of people agreeing to me. All right, cool. So we'll move forward and understand what exactly is a machine learning. Now. What is machine learning? So machine learning is nothing but a type of artificial intelligence or you can say a subset of artificial intelligence and it provides computers with the ability to learn without being explicitly programmed. So you do need to hard-code your machine for that. Let us understand this with an example. So we have a problem statement in which whenever you give certain input we need to determine the species of the plot. And what is that input that input will be sepal length sepal width petal length and petal width. So wherever we get these four parameters or these four variables are machine should be able to predict what sort of a flower it is. Now. How do you think that will happen first what we need to do. We need to train our machine on the basis of the data that we have. So in this data, we have sepal length sepal width better length and petal width and we have species so our machine. Learn from this data, it will determine what should be the length and width of the sepal and petal in order to classify it as setosa or were secular or other species of flowers as well. Now what happens next so you have trained your data, so you have trained your machine from the data set, then what happens whenever you give a new input to this particular machine, it will predict the specie of the flower. So these are machine learning works. It is nothing but machine learning in nutshell. So basically I'll just revise it once more so you have a data set. So you split that data into training and testing data. So what happens with the help of training data you train your particular machine and after that you test it in order to determine the accuracy and once it is done whenever you give the new input it will predict the outcome or the desired outcome. So this is how machine Learning Works guys. If you have any questions any doubts, you can write it down in your chat box. So we have no questions here. Let us move forward and understand various types of machine learning. So the first type is called supervised learning now in supervised learning what happens you have input variables X and an output variable Y and you can use an algorithm to learn mapping function from the input to the output now, let me simplify it for you. So what happens in supervised learning the data that you have already contained the classification now, let me talk about the previous example itself. So from our data set, we knew that if we have this with this length of our sepal and petal so that will be the specie of flour. So the classifications are already defined so that will be under supervised learning now. Let me tell you how it actually works. So you have data you divide that data and training data as well as test data. So on the basis of this training data you train your machine and after that you create a model so as you can see that this page is called training phase and after that you create a model now. In order to check this model to get the accuracy you have test data. So you'll pass that test data and you will see the accuracy that is nothing but the actual output - the output that is present in the test data. So with that you can get the accuracy, so this is nothing but a supervised learning and if you have any questions, you can ask me right now any questions guys. So this is all about supervised learning. We have no questions. So we'll move forward and understand unsupervised learning now in unsupervised learning unlike supervised learning. You don't have any predefined classes. So what happens you have data? So on the basis of that data, you try to create your own class you try to make sure that whatever class you create has high intraclass similarities and have a low inter-class similarities. That means if I have created to class like this class 1 and Class 2. So the elements of this particular class should have high similarity, but at the same time it should have low similarity with the elements of class to so you can think of examples is well of unsupervised learning for example, if I have a data about my customers, so if I have a website and there are millions of visitors and my website and I want to make sure that I group people on babies criteria, for example, I can group people on the basis of willingness to purchase the product that is there on my website or where they're coming from. What is the source all Those things I want to group my customers and I want to make sure that I have certain high priority customers and I have low priority customers and I have medium priority customers. So with the help of unsupervised learning I can actually do that. I can make a certain classes of people on whom I should focus more on as compared to the other class. So this was just an example guys, you can use it in various other fields as well. So in marketing this is how you can use unsupervised learning. If you have any questions any doubts, you can write it down in her chart box. So we have a question from Ashish. He's asking can you name a few algorithms of a supervised and unsupervised learning? Sure Ashish and supervised learning you can use of KNN algorithm that is k-nearest neighbor. You can use logistic regression. You can use decision tree. There are many other examples of supervised learning and unsupervised learning you can use k-means clustering. So I hope this answers your question. All right, so he's a pretty satisfied with the answer any other questions guys. You can write it down. So we have one more question from Theon. He's asking what do you mean by that? The information is neither classified not labeled or it fine and tell you so obviously I'll take the same example of marketing itself. So if I have a few customers that are visiting my website the data that I have it doesn't include that these people are of high priority and these people are of low priority, right? It is just raw data about the person who is visiting my website, but at the same time I will be making those labels or I'll be classifying them on the basis of priority you getting the difference, right? So in supervised learning those classifications or those classes or labels are already present but in unsupervised learning, I don't know anything about it. I am going to create my own clusters or I'm going to create my own classes and I'm going to group people on the basis of priority. So I hope with the help of this example you get the point. All right. He's also satisfied with it fine fine guys any other questions? All right. So this brings us to our next type of machine learning which is called a reinforcement learning. Now. This is reinforcement learning guides now all happens in reinforcement learning the machine learns by interacting with space or an environment. So it learns with their experience with its past experience and also by new Choice exploration now, I'll take the analogy of dogs. So if you have any dog or a pet at your home, so if you have trained your dog not to get the newspaper and if it gets it then you reward it with some chocolate or things that the dog likes, right? So the dog will know whatever he has done. He's actually rewarded for that. So we'll continue doing that but apart from that if he does something else if it's one of the newspaper, he brings something else. So what you do you might even punish it. So because of that the dog will come to know that it has to get newspaper every morning. Now the same example is there in front of your screen so you have this machine so that's two choices either to touch the fire or touch the water now first what it does Goes on and touch the file. So because of that it gets a burning sensation. Now, it has only other option that is to touch the water. So when it touches the water it get some reward. So because of that it will understand that it does not have to touch fire ever again. Now, there's a diagram that is there in front of your screen. So what happens is you have an agent. All right that agent perform some action and on the basis of that action, it will be exposed to some sort of an environment. Now if that action is correct, then it will be rewarded with that. But if it is not then it will change its toys and it will again perform some action. So this process will keep on repeating. So this is how reinforcement learning works. If you have any questions any doubts, you can write it down in your chat box. Any questions guys. All right, so no question. So let us move forward and understand when we have machine learning. Why do we need deep learning that is will look at various and limitations of machine learning. Now. The first limitation is high dimensionality of the data now the data that is now generated is huge in size. So we have a very large number of inputs and outputs so due to that machine learning algorithms Faith so they cannot deal with high dimensionality of data or you can say data with large number of inputs and outputs. Now, there's another problem is well in which it is unable to solve The crucial AI problems which can be natural language processing image recognition and things like that. Now one of the biggest challenges with machine learning models is feature extraction. Now, let me tell you what our features since that is takes we consider features as variables, but when we talk about artificial intelligence these variables and nothing but the features now what happens because of that the complex problems such as object recognition or handwriting recognition becomes a huge challenge for machine learning algorithms to solve now. Let me give you an example of this feature. Suppose if you want to predict that whether they'll be a match today or not. So it depends on our various features. It depends on the weather. The weather is sunny weather. It is windy all those things if we have provided all those features in our data set, but we have forgot one particular feature could that is humidity and our machine learning models are not that efficient that they will automatically generate that particular feature. So this is one huge problem or you can say limitation with machine learning now, obviously, we have limitation and it won't be fair that I if I don't give you the solution to this particular problem, so we'll move forward and understand how deep learning solves these kind of problems. Now as you can see that the first line on your slide, which says that deep learning models are capable to focus on the right features by themselves requiring little guidance from the programmer. So with the help of little guidance what these deep learning will models can do they can generate their features on which the outcome will depend on our the same time. It also solves the dimensionality problem as well. If you have very large number of inputs and outputs, you can make use of a deep learning algorithm. Now what exactly is deep learning again since Note that it has been evolved by Machine learning and machine learning is nothing but a subset of artificial intelligence and the idea behind artificial intelligence is to imitate the human behavior. The same idea is for the Deep learning is well is to build learning algorithms that can mimic pray now, let us move forward and understand deep learning what exactly it is. Now. The Deep learning is implemented with the help of neural networks, and the idea of the motivation behind your own networks are nothing but neurons what on Iran's these are nothing but your brain cells now here is a diagram of neuron. So we have dendrites here the which are used to provide input to our neuron as you can see we have multiple dendrites here. So these many inputs will be provided to earn your own now. This is called cell body and inside the cell body. We have a nucleus which performs some function after that that output will travel through eggs on and it will go towards the eggs on terminals. And then this neuron will fire this output towards the next neuron. Now the studies tell us that the next year on now, or you can see the two neurons are never connected to each other. There's a gap between them. So that is called. Let's announce. So this is how basically a neuron works like and on the right hand side of your slide. You can see an artificial neuron. Now, let me explain you that so what here similar to neurons we have multiple inputs. Now, these inputs will be provided to a processing element like a cell body and over here the processing element what will happens summation of your inputs and waits now when it moves on then what will happen this input will be multiplied with our weights. So in the beginning what happens these weights are randomly assigned, so what'll happen if I take the example of x 1 so x 1 x W1 will go towards the processing element similarly x 2 and W to will go towards the processing element and similarly. The other inputs is wet and then summation will happen which will generate a function of s that is f of s after that comes the concept of activation function. Now what is activation function it is nothing but in order to provide a threshold, so if your output is above the threshold, they're only this neuron will fire. Otherwise, it won't fire so you can use a step function as an activation function. Or you can even use a sigmoid function as your activation function. So this is how an artificial neuron it looks like. So a network will be multiple neurons which are connected to each other will form an artificial neural network. And this activation function can be a sigmoid function or a step function that totally depends on your requirement. Now, once it exceeds the threshold it will fire after that what will happen it will check the output. Now if this output is not equal to the desired output. So these are the actual outputs and we know the real output. So we'll compare both of that and we'll find the difference between the actual output and the desired output on the base of that difference we have again going to update our weights and this process will keep on repeating until we get the desired output as our actual output. Now this process of updating weight is nothing but your back propagation method. So this is your let Works in a nutshell if you have any questions any doubts, you can write it down in your chat box. Now, let me tell you guys this is just an introductory session to deep learning just to explain you how it actually emerged. What are the reasons it? Me to existence and a little bit introduction about how it actually works any questions any doubts guys, you can ask me so we have no questions here. So we'll move forward and understand what our deep networks. So basically deep learning is implemented by the help of deep networks and deep networks are nothing but neural networks with multiple hidden layers. Now, what are hidden layers? Let me explain you that so you have inputs that comes here. This will be your input layer after that some process happens and it will go to the next node, or you can say to the hidden layer notes. So this is nothing but your hidden layer 1 so every node is interconnected. If you can notice after that, you have one more hidden layer where some function will happen. And as you can see that again, these nodes are interconnected to each other after this hidden layer to comes the output layer and this output layer again. We are going to check the output whether it is equal to the desired output or not. If it is not we are again going to update the weights. So this is how a deep that work looks like now there can be multiple hidden layers. They can be hundreds of hidden layers is back. But when we talk about machine learning that was not the case, we were not able to process multiple hidden layers when we talk about machine learning. So because of deep learning we have multiple hidden layers at once now, let us understand this with an example. So we'll take an image which has four pixels. So if you can notice we have four pixels here among which the top two pixels are bright that is a black and color whereas bottom two pixels are white. Now what happens we'll divide these pixels and we'll send these fixes to each and every node. So for that we need four nodes. So this particular pixel will go to this node. It will go to this node. This pixel will go to this node. And finally this pixel will go to this particular know that I'm highlighting with my cursor. Now what happens we provide them random ways. So these white lines actually represent the positive weights and these black lines represents the negative waves. Now this particular brightness, when we display High brightness will consider it as negative. Now what happens when you see the next output of the next hidden layer, it will be provided with the input with this. So this will provide an input with positive weight to this particular node. And the second input will come from this particular node, since both of them are positive. So we'll get this kind of a note similarly this one as well. Now when I talk about these two nodes the first node over here. So this is getting input from this node as well as from this node. Now over here, we have a negative weight. So because of that the value will be negative and we have represented that with black color similarly over here is well, we're getting one input from here which has a negative weight and the another input from here which again has a negative way. So accordingly we get again a negative value here. So these two becomes black in color now, if you notice what will happen next will provide one input here which will be negative and a positive weight which will be again negative and this will be also negative and a positive weight. So that will again come out to be negative. So that is why we have got this kind of a structure if you notice this this is nothing but the inverse of this particular image when I talk about this node over here, we are getting the negative value with the The weight which is negative and a negative value the negative weight which is positive. So we are getting something which is positive here. Now, obviously, I want this particular image to get in verse I want these black strips to come up. So what I'll do I'll actually calculate the inverse by providing a negative weight like this over here. I've provided a negative weight it will come up. So when I provide a positive weight, so it will stay wherever it is after that. It's detect and the output you can see will be a horizontal image not a solid not a vertical not a diagonal but a horizontal and after that we are going to calculate the difference between actual output on the desired output and we are going to update the weights accordingly. Now, this is just an example guys. So guys, this is one example of deep learning where what happens we have images here. We provide these raw data to the first layer to the input layer then what happens these input layers will determine the patterns of local contrast orally fixated those partners of local contrast, which means that it will differentiate on the basis of colors in luminosity and all those things. So we'll differentiate those things and after that in the following What will happen it will determine the phase features. It will fix a those face features. So it will form nose eyes ears all those things then what will happen it will activate those correct features for the correct phase or you can say that'll fix it those features on the correct phase template. So it will actually determine the faces here as you can see it over here and then it will be sent to the output layer now. Basically you can add more hidden layers to solve more complex problems. For example, if I want to find out a particular kind of face, for example a face which has large eyes or which has light complexion so I can do that by adding more hidden layers and I can increase the complexity also at the same time if I want to find which image contains a dog. So for that also, I can have one more hidden layer. So as and when hidden layer increases we are able to solve more and more complex problem. So this is just a general overview of how a deep Network looks like so we have first patterns of local contrast in the first layer, then what happens we fixates these patterns of flow will go Entourage in order to form the face features such as eyes nose ears Etc. Then we accumulate these features for the correct phase and then we determine the image. So this is how deep Learning Network or you can say deep Network. Looks like if you have any questions any doubt, you can write it down in your chart box. All right. So we have a question from our seats again. He's asking can you please generalize this a bit fine? I shall tell you. So what happens we have talked about neurons, right? So you can stack layers of neurons on top of each other. So you have one year on then on top of that you can have another neuron like that. You can stack up or your neurons or notes on top of each other the lowest layer that is there will take the raw data. In this case. We are taking images. Although it can be takes sounds Etc. After that would happen each neuron or each node store some information about the data. They encounter after that each neuron, or that node will send that information to the next layer of the node, which learns a more abstract version of the data below since this is obviously a more abstract version of the data that is that it is getting right. So the higher you will go up the more abstract features, you'll learn this is how a general law deep neural networks work. I hope you are actually satisfied with the answer. All right. He says yes. So this was just an introductory session of deep learning. If you have any other questions any other doubts, you can ask me basically we have discussed how deep learning evolved. What were the reasons why deep learning came into the existence and what exactly it is. I've just given you a general overview. Justin says amazing session. Thank you. Justin any questions guys. All right fine. So there are no questions. I will move forward and I'll give you some applications of deep learning. So here are a few applications of deep learning. It can be used in self-driving cars. So you must have heard about self-driving cars. So what happens it will capture the images around it. It will process that huge amount of data and then it will decide what action should it takes to take left. Right? Should It Stop So accordingly, it will decide what action should it take and that will reduce the amount of accidents that happens every year then when we talk about voice control assistance. I'm pretty sure you must have heard about Siri all the iPhone users know about Siri, right? So you can tell Siri whatever you want to do a little search it for you and display for you. Then when you talk about automatic image caption generation, so what happens in this whatever image that he will Then Gotham is in such a way that will generate the caption accordingly. So for example, if you have say blue colored eye so it will display a blue color dye caption at the bottom of the image. Now when I talk about automatic machine translation so we can convert English language into Spanish similarly Spanish the French so basically automatic machine translation, you can convert one language to another language with the help of deep learning and these are just a few examples guys that are many many other examples of deep learning. It can be used in game playing it can be used in many other things and let me tell you one very fascinating thing that I've told you in the beginning is well with the help of deep learning MIT is trying to predict future. So yeah, I know it is growing exponentially right now guys. So this is it for today's session on what exactly is deep learning. If you have any questions any doubts, you can write it down in the chat box. Any questions guys. All right, so we have no questions will move forward and I'll just give you a quick summary of what all things we have discussed. So first we saw why we need artificial intelligence. So basically things that humans cannot perform be want a You need to learn and do those tasks for us. Then we understood what exactly is artificial intelligence. And what are the various subsets of artificial intelligence like machine learning deep learning Etc. So we first focus on machine learning we saw what exactly it is. We saw various types of machine learning namely supervised or unsupervised and reinforcement. Then we focus on various limitations of machine learning that led to the evolution of deep learning. Then we saw a use case in which we saw how to recognize an image using a deep networks. So this was it for today's session. This video will be uploaded into your LMS. You can go through it. If you have any questions any doubts, you can bring it in the next class or you can ask our 24/7 support team as well. Thank you, and have a great day. I hope you enjoyed listening to this video. Please be kind enough to like it and you can comment any of your doubts and queries and we will reply to them at the earliest do look out for more videos in a playlist. And subscribe to our Edureka channel  to learn more. Happy learning. 