 WISE Employment is an Australian not-for-profit  employment service for disadvantaged citizens. With 160 offices and 1,000 employees in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Tasmania, South  Australia and the Northern Territory, each year WISE puts more than 12,000 people on the path to self-sufficiency through purposeful work. Facing overly expensive network infrastructure costs,  unacceptable levels of wired broadband downtime, and performance issues in its many branch offices, Mick Havill, CIO of WISE Employment, had to figure out how to solve these issues  and make WISE truly competitive. Basically I woke up one morning and thought,  why don't we just make everything mobile? I thought there must be something, as I spent three sleepless nights following that and asking lots of people, What's not going to work about this?  And nobody could come up with a solid reason. “Ah, latency,  capacity, speed,”  All these things. Well, the speed's better. Capacity isn't a particular issue, we're not shifting big amounts of data. Latency, our experience wasn't, latency wasn’t a big problem. (music) So, we cut all the copper to our sites back in 2014, early 2014, and it's just been a fabulous journey since then. Our laptops and Cradlepoints all connect  through a private APN with Telstra, a corporate APN, so we go directly into the Telstra cloud.   Now from there then we have firewalls that go out through our data center to internet. We've been enabled to grow very rapidly   and that's been very much supported by our change to mobile broadband connectivity. We'll initially maybe test out an area by going into a shared working space. Then once we build that in, we can two weeks later, we can move out to a bigger site. So, we can really scale our premises up to the need, of the local need. We've known for some years that this was a was a gift that keeps on giving, and a year-on-year we saw the financial benefits the reliability and so on. Of course, the big hit, the big opening realization, was when we hit COVID, and our staff, who were well used to working  anywhere in the country on our systems and an instant log on and access into our environment, they just carried on as though nothing had happened. Our competitors were struggling, trying to send out, find laptops, send PCs to people's houses, setting up VPNs. The potential I think to change the way and what we do in our business, I want to be on the leading edge of those technical changes so we can take advantage of it. One of the things that is very interesting for the future, well a couple of things in that space, is augmented reality. So, one of the things with augmented reality is to be able to experience working in particular careers without actually going and doing it. The other one is the capabilities around  bioengineering exoskeleton-type assists for clients, where I would think that IoT would be very much an important feature to give mechanical assistance to people with physical disability. People that were naysayers, to admit they were wrong, because we had a lot of pushback in the early days  by people that just didn't believe it was going to happen. And the CFO, when she admits that it saved us money as well, that's quite an admission. 