 Hi, everyone. This is Kushal Ghosh. And today we will be discussing about 5G cellular network. And we will also look at some of its advantages. So 5T cellular network, or the fifth generation network is the latest advancement in cellular Network Technology. It is the planned successor to 4G or the fourth generation Network, which almost all of us use now and 5G also brings us a lot. out of advantages So what will we discuss in this video? We will get to know what is 5G for this five. You have to offer us we will discuss about the evolution from one G25 G. We will get to know the key concepts of this. We will get to know the basic architecture of the fifth generation Network and look at its advantages and finally we will conclude the topic. So what is V G5 G or the If generation Wireless technology is completely wireless. It has almost no limitations. There may be some but it's advantageous surpass them. It is a real world Wireless technology with real-world applications and it has seemingly fast data transmission speeds. What does 5G have to offer 5G will come to use worldwide in almost all cellular phones? It has extraordinary data capabilities. It has high connectivity. It gives more power and features to the end users hand. It has a large phone memory. It will give more dialing speed more clarity more Precision in audio and video. So, how did we evolve from one G25 G first? We had one G then to G then in the past. We were using 3G. Now most of us used for G. And in the future almost all of us will be using 5G. So what was one G one G was the history of cellular network? It was developed in 1980s and completed in the early 1990s. It was based on an analog system. It has speeds up to 2.4 kbps. It worked on emps that is Advanced Mobile phone system, which was launched by the us and it was the 1G mobile system. But it had a disadvantage. It allowed users to make voice calls only within the country. Then we had to G. It was developed in late 1980s and it was also completed by the late 1990s. Now this was the first generation which was developed on a digital system 1G was on analog. But from to Jeanne came to the digital system. The speed was increased by multiple folds it gave a speed of up to 64 kbps Revenue Services such as digital voice and SMS with more clarity. It had semi Global facility and to gr. The handsets which we use today the where 2.5 g then which came afterwards which had a few more capabilities. Then we had 3G 3G was developed between late 1990s and early 2000s until the present day. We had for the first time transmission speeds up to Mbps. The transmission speeds were from 125 kbps to 2 Mbps. It has Superior voice quality good Clarity in video conferencing it gave new features such as emails surfing online shopping banking games PDA information and global roaming. Then we have 4G which all of us use now. It was developed in 2010. It is very fast and more reliable than 3G had high speed of up to 100 Mbps. It gives high performance easy roaming and it is a low-cost service. And this is the future 5G next major of mobile telecommunication and wireless system. It gives ten times more capacity than others expected speed is up to 1gbps for the first time in history. It is very fast and more reliable than the 4G networks, and it will also be lower cost than the previous generation. Now, let's get to know some key concepts of 5G networking 5G networking is real Wireless world with no more limitations with access and Zone issues. It uses IPv6 where a visiting care of mobile IP address is assigned according to location. It works on one unified Global standards. It has smart radio. It works with wearable devices. The end user can simultaneously be connected to various wireless access Technologies at the same time and multiple concurrent data transfer path is used for implementing 5G. Know the basic architecture of five see the architecture consists of owa OTP new applications VIP TV sensors GPS mobile management and a lot of entertainment services. In this architecture the application layer and presentation layer are clubbed into the single application service session layer and the transport layer come in the OTP section that is opened transport protocol Network becomes into two parts that is up a network layer and lower Network layer and the data link layer and physical layer again clubbed into the open Wireless architecture. That is owa thus as we can see 5G. Has a cleaner and a more systemic architecture. Now let's get to know the advantages of V. G5 G gives us an incredible high resolution for all crazy cell phone users such as bi-directional large bandwidth can be seen in 5G less traffic problems, 25 Mbps connectivity speed better and fast solution as we know 5G uploading and downloading speeds are touching this peak and handstand available connectivity just above the world. It gives high quality service based on policy to avoid error data bandwidth of ones. BPS are higher can be seen here. It is globally accessible more attractive and effective. It supports virtual private networks that is privacy is taken care of because privacy of data is very important. It is available at low cost and it gives seemingly incredible download speeds of up to 10 gigabits per second. Okay. So now let's conclude 3G according to me was operator Centric 4G was service Centric whereas 5G will be and user-centric that is V. The end users will be the center of the whole network. We have proposed 5G Wireless concept designed as an open platform of different layers and the new coming technology will be available in the market shortly. It must be at affordable rates. It will be the high peak future and it will be much more reliable than all the past generation networks that we have seen. Okay, so that is a conclusion. Thank you very much. So guys if you enjoyed this video, please He's do press the like button. Thank you. 