 - Hi, my name is Ashwin Moranganti. I'm the chief product officer at Affirmed Networks, a Microsoft company. We may not always be hearing about all the big opportunity with 5G and all of the enterprise opportunities and the new ways the network are gonna be built. And this is all about the digital transformation of the, the operators or the mobile networks. There are several other sections that we have been recording, some of them talk about the how we build the networks, about the cloud native technologies that we are coming up with, the automation that we are bringing to the operators, but today's session, we're gonna focus on the enterprise opportunities. What are the enterprise opportunities? What can the operators offer to the enterprise? And what do Affirmed and Microsoft bring to the table? Okay. So let's get down directly to the four opportunities that I want to talk about. The first one is what we call is network edge compute. The second is edge extension. The third is private networks. And the fourth one is Slice as a Service. I'll go deep into each section one by one. And we'll talk about, you know, what it does mean to the enterprise. What can the operator offer, and what does Affirmed and Microsoft bring to the table. So the first one is the network edge compute. There are a lot of emerging applications which require to be running much closer to the edge of the customer. And these require either low latencies or bandwidth efficiencies, and they need to be running much closer to the network. Today, most of the traffic will go down from the mobile phones, goes to the RAN, goes to the mobile core and then goes to the internet, and then goes to most of the applications are running on the cloud somewhere. And that's how the traffic flow is. What we want is these applications to be somehow to be running closer to the actual activity. And so that means that there needs to be a computer requirement much closer to the network. And that is what is the edge compute opportunity. If you look at where the Edge is, and the Edge is essentially, I'm showing you a picture where in one side you will have the public cloud or the regional mobile operator data center. And that is where most of the applications run today. And you typically get around, you know, 50 milliseconds of latency and that's okay for a lot of applications, but there are a lot of emerging applications, which will require a little bit lesser, which is like in the 10 to 35 milliseconds acceptable latency. And that is what we call is the edge compute at the mobile network operators aggregation center. So that is where is one of the edge network location that we are gonna talk about today. And then moving along very few required, even more or less latency, like less than five milliseconds, and that's gonna be at the premises itself or at the tower or at the venue. And that is gonna be the other location for the edge compute. So let's look at an example application like immersive gaming. Everybody has a console today at their homes. And what if you wanted to play the same games that you've been playing on the console, but you wanted to do it on your mobile phone, so that you go to your vacation homes you still can continue to access all your gaming, but not without the console. That means whatever it is running on the console needs to be running somewhere on the network. And that will be a perfect location for an edge computer or an edge network. As everybody knows, the mobile gaming on the smartphones generates about $68.5 billion, and it's gonna be continuously growing. And so this is, could be a great application, which the, both the operators could be offering as a value added to their mobile phone subscription and the gaming servers could be actually be located on the operator network. So that the mobile traffic coming from the phones directly comes as soon as it enters the operator network on the edge of the network, it is guilds off and led to the gaming servers there. This has an amazing benefit, both as a both revenue opportunity, best subscriber customer experience. And this is the first application that we were talking about, the network edge compute. So, in some of the mobile operators can deploy Azure edge zone, alongside the mobile code, a user play at the edge of the network and the mobile traffic that is carrying the edge workloads will be offloaded to the edge at the Azure Edge Zone. The operator provides a space and power as your sales revenue with the operator, the service could be co-branded console, and you know, many other ways. And the same as Azure edge zone can also run actually network workloads if the operator chooses to. If you go to the next picture which shows what we are talking about is go to any operator who has deployed a cup's mobile code. In this case, we are showing the form to mobile code, which is actually deployed in many of the operator's networks. And at the same place you would, all you have to do is deploy in Azure edge zone with the carrier. And that one will be hosting a lot of the edge applications. As soon as the traffic is determined that it needs to be broken out. And it is sent to the Azure Edge Zone where the carrier and the applications are gonna be running then. So all of the edge application orchestration and everything is already done, and it's gonna be done from the, from the Azure Public. And this would be the first application that we wanted to introduce as an opportunity towards gaining new enterprise revenue. And by deploying in Azure edge zone, along with an Affirmed mobile core user plane, this is one of the first services. The next one that we're gonna go to is the edge extension. Let's talk about a use case like an in stadium, instant replay. The users already have their mobile phones, but the stadium experience of the stadium owners wanted to stitch multiple videos from the fans' phone and wanted to create an immersive experience. That experience is an application and an application could be running as close to this in the stadium premise itself. And so that all the videos that are generated from the fans are sent out. And instead of going back to the mobile network code and the public clouds, it would actually be peeled off right there, and broken out and the motion application is created, and that is what is being used for the fans. This is an example where you would want an edge compute and mobile application breakout at the premise or the actual event. The second one is quite similar, you know, as you can now see in this world of COVID, automation is big IOT for automation is going to be even more at a scale that we have never imagined. And a lot of these applications and optimization for maintenance, predictions, smartphone, making them smarter, making the manufacturing operations more seamless, you would want faster rapid processing decision-making at the edge of the network. Again, all you would need is the sensors and all of these equipment, which are connected with the wireless can be again, broken out at the premise itself, the traffic and fed to these rapid processing applications and decision making applications, which are running at the edge of the network and can be addressed. Another example is the first responders, public safety kind of applications. When technologies like facial recognition, all of these things need to be, again, running closer to where the action is happening. The instruct the video being sent to the, the public clouds or center to the applications, which are running in centralized data centers could actually be using inference technologies at the edge and could be providing these kinds of services. So these are just examples of some of the reasons why an operator needs to extend his mobile network to the edge of the network. And that is where the applications need to be broken out. So, let's talk about carrier edge extension. With Affirmed's CUPS technology, operators today are deploying virtualized technology in their networks, the user plane, and the control plane of the mobile network are separated. And the operator can actually extend the same user plane onto the customer premise. In this time, what the operators can do is they can deploy in Azure private zone, which can host both the carrier's user plane and can also host the edge applications like that immersive stadium experience that I just talked about. Right? And by doing that, the operator is exactly actually just extending his technology, but does not have the operational difficulties of deploying on the edge and managing these boxes on the edge. It all could be done and provided by the Azure service. So if you go to the pictorial slide here, the operator has been deploying a mobile code again, and that is what is deployed today and is deployed CUPS. With Affirmed, we can deploy that mobile code user plane that you see in the picture there, which could be running on the Azure private edge and the private edge and the edge applications and the network function can all be orchestrated from the Azure public. So the benefits are huge to the operator. The operator can simply add a new service to his catalog and the applications like the manufacturing, the stadium experiences, they can simply deliver amazing customer experiences with that. So let's move on to the next one. And the next one is what is widely becoming the most popular one is called the private networks. So let's look at why private networks. As you can see, and we talked about manufacturing is a sector, which is gonna be one of the primary focus areas for us. Azure IoT is one of the leading solutions out there. And we want to extend our leadership in that area, combined with the network too. It is gonna be providing amazing results. So let's look at the manufacturing. With the automation that is going around there are robots coming in the factories, and these robots are connected with cameras that are sensing all the things that are happening on that, and these are HD cameras. A lot of video is going to be digested and ingested, and that is gonna be fed to smart applications that are running on the edge, to provide guidance to the operators there. This could be again, safety, asset management, and all of these things. And one of the important ones, like immersive training, remote assistance, where people are getting assistance remotely, and they're able to do the diagnostics much better by watching the video on the one side with the halo lenses and be able to repair things with lot of guidance. This kind of factory automation and all in mind, natural public venues, everywhere, there is a demand for networks which are private. They have their own RAMs, they have their own small cell, and they have full control of the network because these are actually more critical than just a consumer phone. So for the reliability, for the security, for the throughput, the amount of bandwidth that they were consuming, for low latency, they are looking to private networks. First, the market will adopt a lot of the cases where WIFI is not adequate. And then eventually it's gonna be also be a WIFI alternate. What do mobile operators can do today? Mobile operators do have the technology, but this technology has to be simplified, automated, and so that they are able to do million sites at ease. Today, a lot of it is done centrally, and now when you distribute it, you need the automation that is necessary in order to be able to go ahead and deploy at a large scale, manage independently monitor. So the operators have a great opportunity, and unlike WIFI still requires an operator skillsets. RF design is not as simple as just a deploying your WIFI access points. So enterprises are looking for carriers to be able to provide this managed service and get their private networks, and, you know, the operators can also have one of the biggest revenue opportunities right now. So if you go to what does Affirmed and Microsoft bringing in? So the mobile core technology again was available, has been deployed. We used to call it a network in a box and deploy in many locations today. This is not a new kind of service, but what we're bringing to the table is that the original versions had a lot of manual intervention. The deployments were taking a long time. The deployments would have a lot of professional services involved there, but now what we want to be doing is we ship an Azure private zone connected to the network and right from your console, just from the Azure public portal, you're able to activate that public edge zone. And you're able to deploy, orchestrate all over any edge applications that are in the marketplace. And in addition to that, you're gonna be able to partner with operators who are gonna be offering day managed service, and that could be a private network service. And that private network service can be orchestrated by the Azure portal to be able to be deployed on the private edge zone. This way, the only manual part is shipping the server and connecting to the internet and doing the RF design. But other than that, he's able to do all of this remotely, all aspects of orchestration, lifecycle management, monitoring, and SLAs are all being able to do it from the portal. This will provide the scalability that is necessarily, the ease that is necessary to be able to do millions of sites. Evidently there are about 14 million sites which have a demand for private networks. And if each side is providing X amount of dollars per month, you can imagine what the revenue potential is gonna be. So not only this, if you go to the next picture, that we are showing here. We're also combining with the operator assets. We can deal with scenarios and factories or manufacturing sites have multiple locations, and those locations, people, the devices, or they are going from one location to the other, you still want some sort of a simplified subscriber and policy management. Instead of having poor sites subscribed on policy, you will be able to do that. So we are able to accommodate and provide that kind of a service. Integrating with the operators existing core, then also be able to provide with MNO, oh sorry, roaming services. So while the devices are in the factory side, they're using the private networks, but when they roam onto the macro networks, they're also, the services still continues. And then they go to the next site and service also continues. This is how the services and innovation that are found on Azure are bringing to the operator in order to provide an amazing experience for the private networks deployments for the enterprises. Now that brings us to the last of the four services. What we call a Slice as a Service. And what we are talking about is really a vertically focused mobile core as a service. Everything that I've been talking about is not new. The technology like 4G and 5G is new, but nevertheless, the operators have been doing it. What we are bringing to the table is automation. The speed and agility for the operators, and this is what we call as the digital transformation. So let's look at the mobile code overlays. The operators have been deploying cores, which are dedicated to IoTs, dedicated to let's say the automobile sector, but the deployments today are silos, and they deployed the entire hardware, the virtualization infrastructure, they do the mobile code and it's essentially a silo. And the reason it needs to be a silo because they need to be independently monitored and independently managed. So how do you make that even better? When you're making such an investment, you need to validate the business cases, and then, you know, start to build these silos. What if it was a little bit more easier? What if it was a lesser investment and you are able to just try out and instantiate with just software, just another code and go after new businesses, let's say drones and just a code, mobile code dedicated to drones across the country, and independently managed and monitored, and you wanted to just try it. You know, maybe the business case is not 100% solid. What if there was a risk free innovation opportunity, where then you would just go to any other digital transformation, which is happening in the other enterprises? They will go to the public cloud. It will be able to instantiate a mobile code and try the drone service, mileage, manipulate and grow that business, and if things don't work out, you can shut it down. That kind of agility is what we want to bring to the operators. The other important point is some of these things may take up a lot of bandwidth. A lot of servers. Some may require lesser bandwidth and less servers, but by bringing the cloud economics to the table, you are able to accommodate the various bandwidth needs. The server needs, the compute needs of these codes, and still be able to bring the monetary benefits to the operator. So the mobile operators, what we want is a full turn key service from Affirmed and Azure, where we can and provide a mobile code. The operator still owns the land, the customer, the brand, the ideation, all of that, all of we are trying to do with the ability to instantiate a code, connect to the RAN, and then the operators offer a vertically focused enterprise service. So if you go to what is network slicing? It was all about the standards have done a lot more work. They knew about this business opportunity and they created a lot of standardization in slice management. There are several TGP technologies like NSS and NEF and FMF. And the main goal was one size doesn't fit all. We need to be able to create multiple slices, which are independently instantiated, managed, and monitored, and the ability to let them grow independently to whatever scale that they can, and that's what we want to bring. So it's a combination of the cloud technology and the three DPP innovations that have been done. We're putting that together, along with the mobile core technology that we have, offering it at Affirmed to energize the operator offerings. So what is Slice as a Service? Slice as a Service will allow the operators to disrupt the economics of innovation. And by rapidly ideating a new service license on the cloud with very little cost. They are able to meet the diversity of requirements. Either they are latency sensitive, throughput sensitive, either for security, either for high availability, whatever may be the reason, but you will be able to do that with the most optimized cost, and all of these slices are gonna be differentiated services. And this is like a pie that addresses all the needs, but it's actually gonna be one of the most intelligent connectivity options that the operator will provide, and which is gonna increase the brand of the operator and with the automation that we are bringing to the table. If you look at the next pictorial that we have, the operator starts off with deploying an Azure edge with the carrier, we'll be able to offer network compute or edge compute applications, and bring in more revenue, he can use the same edge infrastructure which is deployed in the operator's network, and run the 5G network functions. And that's what you will see in this picture as 5G user plane line there. You can extend the 5G user plane onto the customer prem by running an Azure private edge. And the user plane is running on the private edge. That is the carrier edge extension. And then you could also be deploying fully standalone private networks on Azure private edge zone, but then the entire mobile core with its own RAM and everything is deployed in those locations, by connecting all of these things in a control plan, which is gonna be running on the Azure public, you'll be able to be running all the four services that we talked about, you know, very seamlessly. And that's the summary of the presentation here. We have talked about the four big opportunities for the operators. These are actually already deployed use cases that we have shown. They may not be 5G but be 4G, and what's coming in the near future- the automation and the cloud economics that Affirmed and Azure are bringing to our future. What I wanted to do was take a moment and give a preview of one of the offers. Here's a private LTE demo that we're gonna do. Microsoft has been putting together an ecosystem and to offer a private LTE service on a private 5G service. And private networks are not new. I mean, mobile operators have been doing that for several years, but what the opportunity right now is really the massive scale and amount of sites, the opportunities that are coming to the service providers. So they would want a lot of automation, and that is the key. How fast can you deploy? And with a remote deployment of thousands of these networks, how do you manage them? How do you make sure that there is no track roads necessary in order to diagnose some problems or upgrade some things, or managing issues. So it's all about automation. And so with this Affirmed technology in conjunction with the Microsoft technology is what is the automation that we are gonna demo here. So imagine that a service an enterprise customer has already got an Azure private edge zone. And he's got that from the marketplace. And he's being able to run enterprise applications on that platform. The enterprise applications could be something like an IoT gateway or any API reference applications. Enterprise sees a need for a private network, and he goes to and buys an MSP offer. MSP is the operator a managed service provider, either from the management service provider's website or his promotions are from the Azures marketplace. Once you do that, the MSP is gonna be going to the Azure portal and is gonna be able to instantiate a private network service, and he will use their phone service manager to deploy onto the Azure private edge zone. And he will be able to do all the operations from the portal and should be able to do monitoring, and get the private networks up and running. So let's go through that sequence here, if you start off, assume right now that the enterprise has reached out to the operator and the operator goes to the Azure portal right now, and from here he's gonna start this Azure network function manager. And he's gonna create a network, network two, and he's gonna create this device, it's happened and he uses a phone packet code. It could be any of those packet codes, Azure has been pretty open to support other vendors solutions also. And then we go ahead and review this instantiation of this virtual network function. It contains all of the MEP gateway HSS. And once the virtual instance is created, what you'll be able to see is a small service key is actually gonna be generated on the Azure portal. The service key is on the second column there. And once you pick it up, you will go to the service manager and you can, here, you can add all your enterprises and multiple sites. And go ahead and we'll add a network to here and basically just a site and the service key that you just created, this is what is linking the virtual network function, which is the entire private network mobile core to the private edge box or the private edge cloud. And you are able to go ahead and provision that. And once you click on that, and right now the provision state is unknown and it's not provision yet. This is a sample of all of the provisioning details. We have an automated version, but I just wanted to show that a lot of flexibilities there to be able to configure these things. And I just don't want to say that it's just click click and you feel like, oh, there's not many options provided. And there are options provided. For simplicity case you can make it fewer options or more options. And then we go ahead and get that started. It's still not in the provision stage right now. And then you can see that yes, wow the network two is a success and it's provisioned. So now your private network is actually deployed. And what you can now further do is provision the SIM file. So if you have an existing SIM management platform, or you can pick a SIM management platform from the marketplace, but for now, we will just take that you have a SIM management platform, the SIM files are taken out, and you can use that to configure the subscriber management system, which is actually deployed on the private network. And once that is there, your private network is up and running. All your devices now have connectivity, and you're able to now just monitor the network. You can also create custom dashboards on this one. You will create, some of these dashboards so that you can provide some views to the enterprise so that he can see what the status of his private network is. And if things are working well, or if there's any glitches. And that's how we provide a simple automated, private network deployment management and monitoring. In order to learn more about monetizing the enterprise services, go to Affirmednetworks.com or reach out to your account teams for more information on how to leverage edge compute, carrier edge extension, private networks, and Slice as a Service. Thank you for your time. 