 Most businesses and agencies understand the benefits of cellular-based broadband for Wide Area Networking, but how about using LTE for a Local Area Network or LAN?  In most cases, Wi-Fi is the natural option  for Wireless LAN deployments, however organizations that oversee vast sprawling locations with lots of connected people, devices, and applications understand the challenges of using Wi-Fi as Wireless LAN.   Those challenges include high latency that hinders high-bandwidth or real-time applications, range limitations, network congestion, inability to control and automate quality of service, information security, and the cost of infrastructure. In large areas, these challenges are addressed by using Private LTE instead of Wi-Fi as a Wireless LAN. Organizations place micro towers, small cells, edge routers, and other infrastructure on-site, which allows them to mimic a standard public cellular network, but with less congestion and more cost effectiveness even in areas where public LTE infrastructure doesn't exist. In most cases Private LTE is based on shared spectrum, which is owned, but is not often licensed or used, CBRS is the most common example.   Network operators can license their own spectrum directly to enterprises or third-party providers or they can operate a Private LTE network themselves  as a managed service with flat-rate pricing. Another option is unlicensed spectrum such as the 5 gigahertz band that is used for Wi-Fi.   Private LTE is a highly flexible alternative to Wi-Fi that offers several key benefits. First, Private LTE is much more cost effective than large-scale Wi-Fi  because the infrastructure is less expensive, but mostly because end-users can run their own  cellular network without any recurring data costs. Regarding performance, Private LTE offers a much better experience for today's high-bandwidth applications such as robotics and video streaming. The network and its infrastructure control all connections and priority and preemption can be assigned to certain SIMs and devices providing much better quality of service. Security is another key advantage of Private LTE, keeping traffic local between IOT devices and on-site servers is important.   Also LTE endpoints require SIM cards and pins which provide a form of two-factor authentication that isn't available with Wi-Fi. With Cradlepoint's NetCloud Service, delivered through gigabit-class LTE routers that support CBRS, organizations can have remotely managed user equipment   that fits well into Private LTE use cases of all shapes and sizes, from manufacturing facilities, warehouses, and mines, to airports, hospitals, and even cities. The result is a Wireless LAN that is more reliable, high-performing, secure, and cost-effective than Wi-Fi. 