 - Hi, I'm Ron Parker, the CTO of Affirmed Networks, now a Microsoft company. And I'm really excited to talk to you about how, at Affirmed and Microsoft Azure, we're bringing the 5G Mobile Core to the hyperscale cloud as a software service. So today we'll be talking about four items- characteristics of a successful 5G network, 5G Mobile Core as a service on the hyperscale cloud and in hybrid cloud, what are the benefits to fully integrate hyperscale cloud and the mobile core? Why is this better together? And some use cases to prove some of those points. So, we start with Azure for Operators. We're really excited to talk about Azure for Operators. This is our approach to providing services specifically tailored to mobile and fixed-line operators around the world. So what we're doing is combining our Telco DNA from Affirmed Networks, now a Microsoft company, Metaswitch, now Microsoft company, and others backed by Microsoft's developer ecosystem. Together, this lets us achieve scale. Carrier grade networks powered by AI and public, private, and hybrid networks. We can operate hybrid networks seamlessly, so we can have common management across public resources and private resources. Azure for Operators lets us monetize with new business models as we address edge computing, internet of things, 5G, network slicing, using public, private, and hybrid networks to monetize. And lastly, trust. At Azure, security and trust are key to everything we do, and we believe that as we move forward with 5G networks, security and trust become ever more important. So here we have global security, compliance, really to empower you and your business to succeed. So as we move into the 5G era, we think enterprise apps will really drive the new network requirements. For consumer networks, we know that consumers are always wanting more bandwidth, and will consume more bandwidth, but the services from the operator are more or less the same. It's faster and better, what we call enhanced mobile broadband. But the really new opportunities in 5G, aside from enhancing quality of experience to consumers, is on the enterprise side. Things like connected cars, billboard advertising, video analytics, a lot of camera upload data there, smart cities are very exciting, smart medicine, telemedicine, in these days we're experiencing quite a bit more of that. Drones have lots of applications. AR/VR and private LTE, private 5G are just examples of what can be done with the 5G networks in a way that's really advanced, relative to what we did before in the previous Gs, 2G, 3G, 4G. So, to address these new network requirements, there are a number of challenges. The way the old networks were built didn't anticipate, necessarily, these new applications, and therefore the approach to building the mobile networks really had some shortcomings with respect to addressing these new business opportunities. On this slide, we talk about a number of those. The old approaches were very CapEx oriented, typically with dedicated hardware appliances, inadequate automation, because we didn't have the same kind of scale, and we didn't have all of these independent slices addressing various enterprises and various applications. The need for automation was less, and therefore automation really didn't grow to the point that we need today. The software approach was really quite different. The older software appliances that powered these 2G, 3G, and 4G networks typically were not built with continuous integration, continuous delivery, agile-type software approaches. They would typically be on a once a year major software release schedule and two to four times a year minor software releases. And when addressing the consumer mobile networks, this was generally adequate, but as we moved toward addressing these finer-grain enterprise applications, the need for new features and new optimizations will be so much more frequent that the older software approach really can't serve those needs. The operations were tailored around a different model as well. Maintenance windows for software upgrades and downgrades are still the norm. Lots of planning, long cycles downtime, very often, services are moved out of data centers to perform operations and then back, very manually intensive. And finally, network control. Again, this comes to our lack of automation. Monitoring and assurance systems are decoupled, out of sync, and really don't have enough visibility and enough intelligent alerting of anomalous events in the current approach. So, it should be clear the new 5G network must enable innovation. And by innovation, we talk about competing with the OTT. How does the carrier operator compete with the over-the-top providers? The over-the-to providers have embraced agile and DevOps models for years now. They pioneered these approaches. They have fail-fast approaches to minimize risks, and they're constantly testing new markets and serving new audiences. In the operator community, how can we, Microsoft Azure, enable operators to move in this direction, to successfully compete with OTTs for communication services? So, this is a brand of innovation. We need to provide complete network control. We need 100% network visibility, augmented with machine learning and AI to determine anomalous events and trigger automatic corrective actions. We need zero downtime, which is a different approach in a hyperscale-type model than it was in the traditional single point of failure type of implementations. And we need automation, at least 90% of operations need to be automated, and we really should strive for 100% automation. Lastly, we need the flexibility, which is another form of innovation, to deploy the services anywhere. So, the 5G services will often be highly customized. They should be deployable in the public cloud, in public edge zones, on enterprise locations with cloud-managed infrastructure, or on private infrastructure. So, no vendor lock-in, this means no lock-in of your cloud provider and no lock-in of your 5G network function provider either. We aim to provide you, the operator, with this kind of flexibility. So again, you can innovate. Innovate the software, innovate the solution, innovate the deployment. So, this really continues to drive us toward a set of new requirements for the 5G Mobile Core. Why is it different than before? Well, because of the agility required to provide these vastly different applications in the marketplace, we really need to move toward more of a plug and play app store style deployment from a portal or with APIs to compose the service you want and see that all of those integration points between the components of your service are automated and handled in the way that you would expect from an app store. You click things together, and it just works. And the second one would be containerization of the workloads. Virtualization gave our industry lots of advantage, VM based approaches versus physical appliances, but now the technology pushes us further into containerization cloud native solutions using stateless microservices. We have more security this way, more deployment flexibility. Containerized workloads are simply more decoupled from the dependencies of the hardware and software environments on which they set. So this means we can build the software once and run it anywhere. End-to-end network slicing. So 5G really formalizes the concept of network slicing. Network slicing is simply isolation, so that you can deploy separate resources to serve separate needs, because you have tenant isolation or because the nature of the workload is so different. To serve your consumer smartphone base, you might have one slice, but to serve Internet of Things, you might have a separate slice per enterprise that is using an Internet of Things mobility solution. So end-to-end network slicing is a very powerful advance in 5G. Location independence- location independence means not only can we be deployed in hybrid modes, where some of the resources are deployed on public cloud or public edge zones, and other resources are deployed privately in enterprise prem or on the operator prem, but we can also separate user plane solutions and control plane solutions so that we can provide the right resources in the right location. If we're looking to achieve a local data breakout at an enterprise edge, it may be entirely appropriate to locate the user plane function for the mobile network in that enterprise edge location and keep the control plane in the public cloud. So this kind of composition is, again, a key requirement for modern 5G Mobile Core. And lastly, access independence. So, we've talked about fixed mobile convergence for many years in our industry, and I believe that finally, with 5G, we're seeing motion. So, this means a common core network to process not only the mobile traffic, but what we call the non-3GPP traffic, which includes Wi-Fi and wireline, wireline being cable or fiber, or even older, a DSL-type access. So, how do we bring all of this traffic into a common core so we can apply a common policy framework to the traffic, regardless of the access type? So this is, again, another requirement that grows in the 5G Mobile Core. We're proud to announce our UnityCloud solution, which is our 5G Mobile Core as a service on Azure. As we mentioned earlier, we can run this privately or publicly, but here I'll show you how it would run publicly as a service on Azure. So, as a modern cloud-native network function, CNF we call, built around a stateless microservices design pattern, this is the typical stack up. So at the top, we'll have our cloud-native network functions that comprise the 5G Mobile Core. There's a variety of them to perform control plane operations, like attaching to the network and being mobile across cells, a user plane function to transfer the data toward the internet or a local breakout. So these are your cloud-native network functions at the top. All of these, as a modern implementation of a cloud-native software architecture, sit on what we call the UnityCloud platform. This is a set of services that we often call the PaaS layer, or platform as a service layer, that provides service assurance, life cycle management of those network functions, so you can deploy them, scale them, upgrade them, observability of those network functions so that you can ensure that they're operating properly and receive anomalous event reporting, and security being absolutely key to enabling these things to run, providing critical infrastructure in the public cloud. All of this can run on a variety of Azure infrastructure, including public edge zones, edge zones on carrier prem, which we call edge zone with carrier, or on the private edge, or, you know, I'll point out again, it can run in a fully private environment as well. Same software, exactly. Automation and management is absolutely key, and a unified management approach and experience, regardless of the infrastructure on which these solutions are deployed. So, the Azure Resource Manager, or ARM, is the front end to all things you do in Azure. It's an API surface, and it's also a GUI portal. Should you choose to work from that, you can also create ARM templates to script these things together as well. And an additional component, ARC, which is very important, Azure Resource Center. This allows you to manage, from Azure, non-Azure infrastructure. So if you employ an ARC agent in your private networking infrastructure, you can manage from Azure. So we feel this is a very exciting partner. I've got another slide coming on that as well. So this is UnityCloud, our 5G Mobile Core, as a modern cloud-native architecture running on Azure. So we can deploy this anywhere. So, deploy 5G on any cloud, private, public, hybrid. We want to meet the operator where they are, where their needs are. We are not dictating where things shall be deployed, we're providing this flexibility. So obviously we have all kinds of options. We can deploy, say, control plane elements for the signaling, the attachment mobility, those things in the public cloud, and the user plane can be deployed on the operator's own premises and their own private infrastructure. Control point could be there too, if you wanted. User plane is very well suited to the Azure private edge zones on the enterprise premise edge, so you can mix and match and compose. And I think that's the theme of hyperscale approach in general, that you compose what you want and where you want. Coming back to ARC. We feel ARC provides tremendous advantage and flexibility, so that you can now get that uniform management experience from Azure, even when your workloads are deployed in non-Azure infrastructure. And even when the workloads are non-Azure workloads. So this gives you that flexibility to deploy wherever you need to deploy and whatever you need to deploy. At the foundation of the software solutions is cloud-native software, and cloud-native software is generally taken to mean composed of stateless microservices and delivered as containers. And today, orchestrated with Kubernetes is pretty much the de facto standard. And all of those things are true of our solution. What may not be obvious is the microservice design pattern was invented to satisfy the needs of CI/CD, of continuous integration and continuous deployment. CI/CD was invented first, and it was found that the modern software architectures of the time, which wasn't so long ago, a few years back, really didn't satisfy the needs of CI/CD. We needed smaller pieces of software, and we needed each piece of software to be released autonomously, upgraded on its own schedule, independent of the others, with the ability to mix and match the versions of the various pieces of software. So, all of this agility derives from this, the fact that the software is cloud native, following a CI/CD DevOps type approach, where the very same software can be deployed in Azure as a service or by the operator directly in their choice of environment. Again, including Azure or private infrastructure. So this introduces a unique wrinkle to CI/CD because it's typically presumed that the same organization builds and operates the software. And I can give an example like Netflix. Netflix services, their teams build the software, deploy the software, operate the software. So CI/CD DevOps fits perfectly. And when we're running our cloud-native network functions in Azure, we, too, have exactly that, but when the operator self-deploys, either in Azure or on their own private infrastructure, now we have this discontinuity between the organization that developed the software and the organization that's deploying the software. So, we work extensively on how to marry these two CI/CD pipelines that do have this discontinuity in between. So that an operator that is taking the software for direct deployment in their own infrastructure can be monitoring the Azure repos, seeing when new artifacts, new builds, releases are posted, pull them down, and enter their own CI/CD pipeline, where they're deploying to a pre-production environment, testing, performing their acceptance testing, and then in a controlled manner, deploying out to their various production environments. So this kind of automation of software upgrades from the point that the code is checked in to the point that the code is now running in an operational network, this is absolutely key to achieving the flexibility. And cloud-native software has all kinds of advantages now. If we accept that cloud native software gives us tremendous agility in terms of new features, feature velocity, software upgrade velocity, we now apply this to this varied set of applications out in the marketplace. We come back to self-driving cars, public safety, smart cities, mission-critical type applications, smart lighting, fixed wireless. All of these varied things lend themselves to network slices, and each slice now will have, not only unique operational characteristic, from a tuning and scaling perspective, but also needing new features, and the microservices design approach allows us to address that. And the CI/CD development delivery approach allows us to make good on that, to execute that. So in this pictorial, we have these ideas. They enter from our customers, largely from ourselves, in some cases, they enter our software factory paradigm, and out pops various microservices that then get delivered out to enable these various slices. So, let's summarize the benefits of a 5G Mobile Core on a hyperscale cloud, how it provides us the best network economics at scale. So, we have fully automated deployment. This gives us service philosophy, faster time to new revenue. We have coordinated orchestration of cloud and private workloads. Deploy anywhere, compose the way you need to compose, giving you deployment flexibility again to address your business needs. Automated scale in and scale out of network functions. So here we have demand driven network growth. It's pay as you go. You start small, and you provide policy what your max scale points are, that you're willing to go to, and the network scales as needed in near real time, Automated software upgrades and downgrades. This has traditionally been a real pain point in traditional ways of building networks. Now we get to true continuous innovation with minimized risk. The CI/CD pipeline is the automation that drives all of this. And automated fault detection and correction. Here, we apply machine learning and AI techniques so that you don't have to stare at graphs on displays all day long. You can trust that you will be alerted when there's an anomalous event that requires attention. So this gives us reduce operational complexity and efficiency. We feel that 5G hyperscale cloud, cloud-native architecture, they're all such a virtuous combination. Now we go to a few use cases that describe some of the ways that Affirmed Networks customers have benefited from these technologies. The first one I'll describe is a Tier 1 operator in Europe, and here, it was 5G for all. So this operator has roughly 3 million subscribers in Finland, which happens to be the highest consumer per capita of broadband bandwidth in the world. So in their mobile networks, the average smartphone in Finland uses more data than any other country. So, challenge includes having to replace the legacy infrastructure that was no longer meeting that need and enable competitive differentiation in this incredibly competitive market. So the Affirmed solution benefits provided this fast and reliable 5G connectivity, rich customer experience, satisfying all of this high bandwidth need on a fully virtualized architecture, giving a cloud-native mobile core to support all of these services. So all of these benefits around agility that we described come to play directly here. Virtualized web-scale architecture gives us that high-speed broadband service, including fixed wireless. So this market also has extensive fixed wireless support in their rural areas. So the same solution provides the smartphone service and the fixed wireless service in both 4G and 5G radio. The second example is a Tier 1 operator in Latin America. So this operator has 50 millions subscribers and a broad geographic distribution, so, many territories, many countries, and the goal was to prove service agility. Really, what was happening was the network topology itself was changing. It was moving more to the edge, where more points of presence where the network was deployed and doing it in the old, traditional way was very awkward. So, what was required to satisfy this new network topology was the ability to deploy virtualized solutions in multiple locations rapidly, provide those local breakout services, which is really what we call the edge traffic requirements, so the traffic should travel less of the distance between the user, the smartphone, perhaps, and the server that it's attaching to. So, here, by moving the network closer to the edge, moving those points of presence, having more of them, realizing that with virtualization, we drastically improved quality of experience for those users. And this gives us the service agility, that again, we're looking for. So reducing operational costs, improving top-line revenue by software agility, allowing for much more rapid introduction of new features and services. My last example is a Tier 1 operator in the UK with over 10 million subscribers. This operator had a very complex architecture composed of multiple vendor solutions. The touch points, integration points, were sometimes fragile, and the goal was to reduce the network complexity to support the growing data demands. Like in any market, the amount of data only goes up and up and up, and eventually the current solutions run out of gas to satisfy. So, the Affirmed solution benefits here were to provide new subscriber centric services. Part of the Affirmed solution includes content-optimization services like TCP optimization, video optimization, subscriber firewall, carrier grade NAT. This customer makes use of virtually all of these types of value-add services, and by consolidating the mobile core and these value-add services that were previously handled by different vendor solutions drastically simplified their network and reduced their operational complexity and costs. So, customers get the improved quality of experience through this. There were fewer hops through the network, less latency, less loss. The operator gets the advantage of simplification, operational cost reduction, and we've dramatically accelerated the service creation environment here through the virtualized software solutions. So, that's a wrap of our examples that give you a little bit of a sense of what we can do with this technology and how our customers benefit from this technology. So I'll wrap up what we covered today. We covered the characteristics of a 5G network, 5G Mobile Core as a service, the benefits of an integrated hyperscale cloud and mobile core. And we provided some examples of how operators are leveraging the 5G Mobile Core to monetize their networks and provide their customers a superior experience. To learn more about these use cases and 5G Mobile Core, please go to our website affirmednetworks.com or reach out to your account managers. And I want to thank you for sticking with me and listening to this presentation. 