 Antennas are not removable. Yusby there is no way out for flash drives. Signal breaks through three walls free. In a private house at 5 GHz breaks three brick walls at a distance of 25 meters. The apartment is 200 meters There are no communication problems. On the tests can issue up to 740 Mbps. All will be depend only on used Internet and consumer devices. Devices can be hung up to 128 devices. On my over 30 devices. Glitches and problems with no connection. Tube. 2 Hello everyone, you are on the channel no good here too quick and capacious reviews, long streams with answers to your questions and a draw of 5 fitness bracelets mi band 4 randomly, once in month per like, subscription and koment, all conditions of the draws Details in the description of the video. Mata and rudeness, and advertising not on the channel. And today I will tell you thesis about my first router from xiaomi. Which finally made my streams watchable and internet connection devices fast and easy. Perfect packaging will not come to our mail. But this is not a gift device. Main information on the packaging. Xiaomi AC2100 is a Wi-Fi router with support for IPV6, gigabit Ethernet interface, 2-band Gigabit Wi-Fi module four antennas with 6 channel signal amplifier and optimization under the Smart Home system. Inside the router is a dual-core clock processor 880 MHz and integrated accelerator NetEase UU for high gaming performance on consoles. At 5 GHz, you can connect up to 128 devices without breaks. Onboard 128 MB ROM and RAM which is enough. Router Xiaomi AC2100 combines two-way and four-way amplifiers as well as iLNA which contributes to improvement signal reception at large distance, taking into account obstacles and walls. Noisy router to a minimum, I can’t hear him. It turns out thanks to three-dimensional structure heat dissipation air convection channel interacting with radiator, router does not overheat, which reduces component heating rate devices. The router is implemented error correction technology LDPC systems. That’s in general. In particular - the router comes with a kit - cable, router with fixed antennas, power supply with a makeshift adapter, which I would immediately replace. White color. Connects 2 ways - 1) Way through Miwifi program, download it is needed through the play market. Everything is very simple there and on in English. 2) By cable. Briefly. To configure, connect by cable to the computer. In browser http://192.168.31.1/ Read more We take a patch cord (aka UTP cable) included with a router and insert one end to any (except first, from the power connector) second to the port of your PC or laptop. We connect the power to the router. Most often on PC automatically a browser with a window will open. If the browser does not open, open it yourself and enter 192.168.31.1 or miwifi.com Click the blue button, then in the first line we enter Your WiFi network name and password. And that’s it. Password and login can look at your second router, in contract, or find out in case of emergency by telephone with the operator your internet. From the buns which I need. Can combine 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz into one SSID. Although from experience separate networks work more stable. In my odnushka on the first floor catches 80 meters from the building in which meter walls. 2.4G Wi-Fi: 2 × 2 (supports IEEE 802.11n maximum speed up to 300 Mbps) 5G Wi-Fi: 4 × 4 (supports IEEE 802.11ac Maximum speed up to 1733 Mbps) Three adaptive LAN ports 10/100 / 1000M (Auto MDI / MDIX) LED indicators: 2 System Reset Button: 1 Power Input Interface: 1 For the quality of work you can see the quality of mine Stream a month ago and now. Personally, my router is working like a clock. For those with devices do not see the router, remember that maybe they do not support 5 GHz, yes and connect for the first time need near the router. By to me - the device is simply top-end. Router that I have long been I searched and found thanks to subscribers. Barbara separate thanks. Cost with free delivery at a router in the area 36 dollars from the link in the description to the video. And only this seller about 2000 orders, and for such a technique it’s very decent. On 4pda dedicated to this router a whole thread of discussions. I summarize. Device fire. Sorry I did not buy it before. I advise everyone to such a contraption to get. Have questions - write in comments there unsubscribe, what else buy for review. We put Like for the work, if similar super everyday theme for useful to you. Device yes or not, no benefit will give answer! Good luck to you, Dear friends! 