 Hello everybody! I'm Gleb and right now i'm going  to tell you about 5G NR reference signals for   beamforming and massive MIMO. As you may already  know the key to success of massive MIMO and   beamforming is the channel knowledge information. The system should know and estimate the channel   knowledge information in order to achieve the  maximum possible rank for massive MIMO systems   and to perform the perfect adjustments of  directional beams to gain the reliability and   throughput. So, basically in 5G used two methods,  for that reason: the first one is for TDD mode   this is based on Sounding Reference Signals in Uplink and a physical uplink common control channel.   This is based on reciprocity. It means that a  channel estimation can be performed just in one   direction, because downlink and uplink operates  on the same frequencies and channel behavior is   relatively the same, I would say. But in practice  reciprocity based estimation is not so perfect as   it should be, because different equipments,  because some variety in antenna elements   in frequency, in time domain synchronization.  So, in practice such method can be not so   perfect, like in theory. The second method method  is for FDD mode, for frequency division duplex   mode. This is based on channel state information  reference signals that transmitted in downlink   and feedbacks from user equipment.   Such method is good for   is cell-edge users, is good for  estimation of interference from other users.   But it requires at least in two times more  pilots (more reference signals) to estimate channel   not only in Uplink but in downlink as well. So, for that reason, 3GPP has two methods, basically,   two types of channel state information  reference signals: CSI-RS type 1   with low density of pilots. This type  would be good for single user MIMO, because pilots, reference signals transmitted only every two resource blocks. And  the second is type 2 reference signals with high   density for MU-MIMO cases. Because with  high density a system can estimate more properly   interference from other users, from other beams  that should not be transmitted in some directions   for example. So, with high-density reference  signals transmitted every resource block and   we have additional type of reference signals  in 5G we call it Tracking Reference Signal   with a very high-density. Every three resource  block transmitted such signals it used for   tracking for beam management and i will  tell you about such reference signal   at the end of this video. And right now, let's talk  about other aspects of channel state information   reference signals in 5G NR. Let's  continue with CSI-RS. So, 5G NR has to use   such flexible and multipurpose channel state  information signals well at least for applying   single user MIMO and beamforming, at least for  applying multi-user MIMO. Because as you may   know, nowadays, traffic are very bursty. There is  a very little probability for network to have   a connection at the same time with multiple  users which downloads a huge amount of data   the traffic from messengers and browsers  are not so big and very bursty by the nature.   So, for that reason such system should use  very flexible channel state information   reference signals and feedbacks from user  equipment in order to estimate and perform the exact number of beams and special layers for particular cases.   So, the base station, 5G base station can configure  the user equipment to use a channel state   information reference signal for next reasons  first of all for beam management and measurements   in order to user equipment would be able  to estimate and calculate a channel quality   indicator rank indicator pre-coded matrix  indicator and sent these measurement reports to a   base station in order to understand and  estimate correctly the directional beams. CSI-RS can be used for CONNECTED MODE  mobility, for calculating RSRP, RSRQ, SNR,   for connected mobility such signals can be used for radio link failure detection, in order to understand if the channel  is OUT of synchronization or IN synchronization.   CSI-RS can be used for beam-failure detection  and recovery. Based on estimation of such signals   user equipment can be forced to perform Contention Free Random Access attempt. It is when   base station assign dedicated preamble to user  equipment to perform Random Access in order to   recover from being failure. Channel State  Information Reference Signals can be used for time   and frequency synchronization. We can call it, as i've mentioned before, Tracking Reference Signals.  This is a kind of replacement that was in Lte. In Lte we have reference signals for that purposes   and in 5G NR we use Tracking Reference Signals for  that purposes. And such signals can be used for   coordination and multi-point transmission.  This is a very interesting feature, I suppose  i will tell you in my next videos about that.  So, it's important to say that such  measurements they can be periodic, aperiodic or semi-persistent. Semi-persistent measurements. So, periodic based on RRC messages, aperiodic and semi-persistent based  on DCI commands and such measurements can be transmitted by user equipment to base  station via PUCCH or PUSCH channels. What's more I want to say that CSI-RS has the same  Subcarrier Spacing as the current bandwidth part. This is very important to know and  understand. That means, that most of   these that i've said right now it is related  to bandwidth part. It is related to current   bandwidth part for user equipment. So, what's more I would like to add is that, for example,  connected mode mobility and beam management can be  based on csirs or it can be based on ssb block ssb RSRP RSRQ measurements or Signal Noise Interference Ratio (SNIR). So, there are  multiple cases and multiple purposes in order to   use either CSI-RS mobility or SSB mobility  based. Okay, let's continue to talk about CSI-RS signals. Basically there are two types of CSI-RS  signals from a power transmitted point of view the first one is non-zero powered CSI-RS. This is mainly used for most of the cases, for beam management, for connected  mode mobility. All of that I have listed before this is a dedicated signaling from base station  to user equipment to configure the reception of   such signals and non-zero power CSI-RS. This is a  special empty resource elements for measurements, for interference measurements. We can see it in my example. Here the serving cell this is a   resource grid, resource elements here. And this 4 resource element is empty, because in this   field would be measured background interference.  And here this is our background interference from  other cells and as a result user equipment would  see that picture, would see resource elements   from serving cell. Empty resource element with  interference from background from neighbor cells   and user equipment can compare the SNR level  between interference resource elements and resource elements not empty which from  serving cell. So, as you can see this method   can be used only if CSI-RS signals are  configured and planned accordingly because if   each cell has the same CSI-RS signal locations  such method would be compromised and   there will not be any benefits from zero power CSI-RS. Okay, let's continue to talk about a CSI-RS   signal. Okay let's briefly talk about CSI-RS codebooks. There are two approaches:   basically the first approach is when  we pre-code CSI-RS signals together with   traffic together with the demodulation reference  signals. Let's imagine, here we can put our CSI-RS signals and all of these signals go together  directly to logical ports or, as we can say, virtual   ports of antennas. Actually, if you want to know  more about logical ports, physical ports of antenna   i've already told about that topic  in this video. So, let's continue! What's the advantage of such precoding method? This is the main advantage is   csi arrests they pre-coded they been formed  together with data traffic so it means that   more reliable estimation for user equipment. It connects directly to data traffic and it helps   not to depends to the number of antennas. It  means that CSI-RS signals in such precoding scheme   depends, not depends on not the number of transmitted antenna, but there are only   dependencies on the number of beams and  that's very important! Because it helps us to use less CSI-RS signals for massive antenna arrays  and this will lead to less pilot overhead in this case. And the second approach is non-precoded  actually. I've draw here the non-precoded approach. As you can see, a CSI-RS for each polarization, they put it for each   layer here and then direct connection to logical  ports. So, this approach is just less complex   and can be used as well. Okay, let's move on.  Okay, let's right now calculate the number.   of beams for a real antenna system the number  of beams depends on the number of polarization   In most of the cases for x-polarization  it will be two basically the second case is number of virtual antenna ports or logical antenna ports let's suppose this is n1 and n2 oversampling factor. This is a special factor that you can find in 3GPP specifications, in special table O1 and O2. By this we can calculate by multiplexing N1 and  O1 the number of beams in a row 4 antenna  system and N2 and O2 the number of beams   for a column. So, if we put some numbers from a table for oversampling factor we can   find that it can be from 8 to 256  beams for a real antenna system.   What else I would like to say that the number of virtual antenna ports has the direct connection  to the number of CSI-RS signals or sometimes  it may be called ports as well. So, for example, let's assume, that our virtual antenna ports  looks like. This 4 elements and we have 8   antenna ports, 8 ports and for each  port, for each polarization, we need a CSI-RS reference signal. So, it means that in this  case would be 8 CSI-RS used. So, what   does that mean that some resource element should be occupied and of course this will lead to  the case that resource elements they  dedicated for reference signals not for traffic.   So, that's why more virtual ports, more  antenna system with multiple sub-arrays this is   not every time the best solution for your network. Because in this case you need more and more   CSI-RS resources that will occupy your resource  grid in 5G NR radio. In 5G   it can be, in 5G it can be up to 32 CSI-RS signals and, for example, in 4G it can be up to 10. 10 CSI-RS signals moreover in 5G, CSI-RS they're   more flexible they can be adjusted and they don't  transmit every time like in lte cell reference signals. So, okay let's move on with our CSI-RS signals. Okay, right now let's talk about Tracking   Reference Signal, TRS. So, what is it TRS, TRS this is  downlink signal that can be used by user equipment   to track, to estimate time and frequency  variations for channel, for radio channel.   Basically TRS, as i've already said before TRS is a set of Channel State Information Reference   Signal. This is just a set of CSI-RS with special  configuration, with special TRS flag in parameters.   TRS can be used for the whole bandwidth  part and this is very important.   That's, actually, the answer to the  question why not to use the modulation   reference signals for all of these purposes, for  for the purpose of Channel State Information   acquiring. The thing is the Demodulation  Reference Signals they connected to SSB   blocks, they connected to data channels  or control channels. But CSI-RS or TRS   they allocated to the whole bandwidth  part or basically to the whole cell.   So, that's the question, that's the answer to that  question. Next point is TRS can be periodic   or aperiodic. Aperiodic TRS transmission can  be used after bandwidth part switching or after cell switching between different cells uh for  example handover yes so what does it mean it means   that we need to tune transmission in frequency  domain, in time domain before the start of data transmission. So, that's why we can use  aperiodic TRS in order to tune transmission for new bandwidth part. Let's say the next point TRS has high density as i've already mentioned.   At the start of this video it occupies 3  resource elements per resource block but even with such high density trs occupies less this  is less than cell reference signals cell reference   signals in Lte. So, it means that TRS  require less overhead overall for the whole system.   Okay, this was my short lesson about channel state  information signals and beamforming and MIMO massive array techniques. So, if you like this  video you can like and subscribe to my channel.   If you have any questions you can send me your  questions to LinkedIn or to comments below.  Stay tuned with "IoT  understanding channel! Goodbye! 