 Let's talk about space and history being made on the launch pad. “3 ... 2 ... 1 ....” "America has launched." For the first time ever a private company, SpaceX has put people into orbit. Launching a new capsule, a new rocket it's a major, major thing. It’s all about building a commercial space industry. Going back to the Moon. We should become a multi-planet civilisation. Even if it’s just a science base. Going to Mars. And back here on Earth hypersonic flights at speeds that’ll make the Concorde look like a Cessna. look like a Cessna. But what makes this launch special? Why is all this money being spent on space? And do we really need to fly New York to Shanghai in 39 minutes? Billionaires dream big. And that’s Elon Musk to a T. And he wants us to dream big too. There are many troubles in the world. These are important and we need to solve them. But we also need things that make us excited to be alive. Everything is a stepping stone to the next step to the next technological feat. So let's understand: Elon Musk's goal is to build, by 2050, a city on Mars that will have a population of a million people. Pretty amazing considering that not long ago about the only things flying were hot air balloons and gliders made of wood. But that changed in 1903 with the Wright brothers. Orville and Wilbur flew the first motorised plane. And after that — well, things took off. The F 13 was the first all-metal commercial plane. It carried four passengers. The ’40s saw the rise of the Constellation and the fall of speed records. Then came the Comet. The world's first commercial jet airliner. It crashed a few times because of stress fractures around its square windows. It’s why windows on planes today are oval. The ’70s brought the supersonic Concorde. In the early 2000s the Airbus A380 and 787 Dreamliner made it cheaper for airlines to fly people around. And today there’s Elon Musk and his plans for the Starship to fly us to other planets — or even between cities at insane speeds. The critical breakthrough that’s needed The critical breakthrough that’s needed for us to become a  spacefaring civilisation is to make space travel like air travel. We’ll talk about  intercity commutes on rockets a little later. But let’s talk about this SpaceX launch first. “Lift-off!” Up until now only governments in the US, Russia and China have been able to fly people into space. So this is the first commercial company to take people into low-Earth orbit. And this is a test mission called Demo-2. It’s also — as NASA likes to remind us the first launch of American astronauts the first launch of American astronauts from American soil in almost a decade. Astronauts Bob Behnken  and Doug Hurley rode up in a capsule  called the Crew Dragon. It’s like a big SUV that seats up to seven. But it’s less tin can Apollo 11, more sleek modern kitchen with touchscreens. Bad weather delayed the launch by a few days. “Unfortunately we are not going to launch today.” But then there was lift-off ... Lift-off! Go NASA, go SpaceX, godspeed Bob and Doug! from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida to the International Space Station, or the ISS where Behnken and Hurley will stay up to four months. We’re given the honour  to name this capsule. Without further ado we would like to welcome you aboard capsule Endeavour. It’s historic. And sure, it’s something to celebrate. But what’s in it for SpaceX? And NASA? Well privatised space flight means the US doesn’t have to spend as many tax dollars to transport cargo and people to the ISS. Since NASA retired the Space Shuttle in 2011 We sure hope that everybody was able to take just a little part of the journey with us. it’s had to rely on Russian Soyuz rockets to get to the space station. It costs roughly $85 million a seat to send a NASA astronaut up on the Soyuz. SpaceX is going to charge about $55 million per seat. NASA also saves money by getting private companies like SpaceX and Boeing to compete for contracts. They take on the big expenses of innovation and testing and it drives down the costs for NASA. This rocket, you know — nuts to bolts, top to tail all of it is owned by a commercial entity. Not one part of it is owned by NASA or the US government except for, well,  the astronauts and the patches on their chest. Musk started his company with $100 million of his own cash. That was 18 years ago. Today his private company is reportedly worth as much as $36 billion. So what does that tell you? There’s money to be made in space. In 2018 hundreds of billions of dollars were spent on things like satellite-based entertainment mapping and weather. In 20 years people think space-related goods and services could be worth more than a trillion. That trillion-dollar figure includes projects like a new satellite-based internet, space tourism and mining on mineral-rich asteroids and on the Moon. What becomes more valuable than gold is water. And water has been discovered on the Moon. And that's what everyone is trying to race to, to get at. And it’s not just about water to drink. People are looking at the Moon as a potential gas station on the way to Mars. Because when you split water into oxygen and hydrogen and liquify it you get rocket fuel. And the US isn’t the only country with plans for the Moon. Russia’s going. China and India are too. The thing is, is that whoever really gets there first really gets to decide the rules. So there are plenty of business incentives. And companies like SpaceX and Boeing well, they want to be the airlines to space. But first they have to show they can do it safely. And to do that they’ve had to learn from some spectacular failures. "And we appear to have had a launch vehicle failure." If you’re going to have a problem with engines it's better to have it on the ground. “Oooh! Oh no!” As anyone in space will tell you all failures — while really, really awful as long as they don't kill anybody they're incredible learning experiences. Boeing, which is a SpaceX competitor is still learning too. It’s developing its own spacecraft for astronauts called the Starliner. But it’s had its problems. "And lift-off. The rise of Starliner — a new era of human space flight." Last December a test flight without a crew got lost on the way to the space station because of a software glitch. Boeing is going to be back — pretty sure of that. But how soon is anybody's guess. For SpaceX it’s not just about getting to space. Because on top of everything else Elon Musk also wants to rocket civilians between cities in no time at all. A commercial flight from New York to Shanghai in 39 minutes. “Anywhere on Earth in under an hour” that’s their sales pitch. So far there’s no timetable for this adventure. It may never even happen. But people are already asking questions like: Imagine your carbon footprint on one of those flights? Not to mention the jetlag. I think it will be just a white elephant in the end. Why do we need to fly like that? We have to apply our technology for the benefit of humanity. Who knows? Humanity might benefit in the end. But right now there are some powerful commercial drivers that have some people saying: Let’s keep an eye on this space race. I can see a future of an enormous amount of countries private enterprises that go into space. Space tourism. Hotels on the Moon. Exploitation of the  Moon for minerals. “We have a lift-off!” You have to remember that the first plaque that was left on the Moon — it's still there — by the Apollo 11 said: “We Came in Peace for all Mankind.” And that has to continue. There’s a famous picture of Earth called the Pale Blue Dot. It was taken 30 years ago by a space probe called Voyager 1 6 billion kilometres away. In it the Earth is about the size of a pixel you can barely see us. But it was enough to inspire Carl Sagan, the cosmologist. For him that picture “underscores our responsibility to deal more kindly with one another, and to preserve and cherish the pale blue dot — the only home we've ever known.” If anything those words mean more today  than they ever did. If there’s a story or a topic in the news you want us to to unpick and explain, leave a comment wherever you’re watching this video. And make sure to follow, like or subscribe to Al Jazeera so you won’t miss our next episode. I'll see you next week. 