 (fireworks crackling) - [Narrator] There's a big trend right now in the IPO world. - Be latest company to go public through a SPAC IPO. - SPACs for many, many years had a very bad name. - [Narrator] Over the last two years, companies like Nikola, DraftKings and Virgin Galactic have all entered the market through something called SPACs, or Special Purpose Acquisition Companies. These controversial entities also known as blank-check companies offer private businesses a fast track to going public that bypasses the traditional IPO process. And they're growing more popular. You can see activity has almost quadrupled so far in 2020. Some investors see a big opportunity in SPACs and say they're a more efficient way for companies to go public. But critics say they allow for backdoor deals and that they're not worth the risk. - One criticism of the SPAC process is that investors can get into a company and then get burned, they won't have the time to figure out if it's really a legitimate company and there is even risk of fraud. - [Narrator] To understand why investors are rushing to blank-check companies despite the potential risks, first, you need to understand how they work. (gentle music) SPACs are public shell companies that exist for a single purpose, finding a private company and taking it to market quickly. In order to take a company public, a SPAC will merge with it. The company then gets a spot on the exchange and a new ticker. The SPAC transforms into the target company taking on its name. Once the deal closes, investors who own shares in the blank-check company now own a piece of the new entity and the founders of the SPAC get a large part of it too, often at a very good price. Blank-check companies are primarily owned by veteran corporate leaders and big investors, like private equity firms. Usually it's a smaller amount of shares that are available to the public. - Ideally, a SPAC gives you an opportunity to invest in a good management team or in a good entrepreneur, where you have a good feeling about them doing some sort of profitable deal that increases the value of the investment. But it is writing a blank-check, you're taking a risk, you don't know if they're gonna do a good deal and have the stock go up or if they're gonna do a bad deal and the stock will go down. - [Narrator] For the companies going public, SPACs offer a different approach than traditional IPOs, where the private company works with underwriters or investment banks to work out a deal and then takes the company public. The process can take months, and under traditional IPO rules, the private company must stay quiet and refrain from promoting its shares until they start trading. This is where SPACs have a big advantage. - With a SPAC deal, companies can actually talk about themselves and promote themselves to investors in a way that they can't with an IPO. - [Narrator] Analysts say growing mainstream acceptance of SPACs, help fuel this year's boom, but it was also the coronavirus pandemic. - We are looking at another day of extreme volatility, stocks opened just moments ago with the Dow down more than 600 points. - [Narrator] This is because during volatile markets, a company's valuation can crash overnight. - The main advantage to going public through a SPAC has been definitely true this year is there's more certainty of execution. You know earlier on in the process they'll get the deal done. IPOs get derailed at the last minute all the time. Because the markets are volatile, they're falling, nobody wants to go public. - [Narrator] And this year, many of the companies going public through SPACs are seeing big valuations. In September, United Wholesale Mortgage agreed to go public in the biggest SPAC deal ever with a $16 billion valuation. This is a sharp change from the early days in the 1980s when the precursors of today's SPACs were called blind pools. These had a shady reputation tied to Penny-Stock frauds. But in the decades since, new laws and regulations helped add credibility and bolster investor confidence. Now as SPACs gain momentum, more blue chip institutions and veteran investors are buying in. - For instance, Goldman Sachs never used to underwrite SPAC IPOs. A few years ago, it did its first SPAC IPO. The New York Stock Exchange now lists a lot of SPAC. For a long time it did not. - [Narrator] And with SPAC funds getting larger, the size of blank-check deals are expected to grow as well. - This year Bill Ackman launched the biggest SPAC ever. It could potentially take a very, very large company public. - Our thesis here is by having a $5 million dollar cash pile in a public company. It's really, it's our own version of a unicorn. - [Narrator] Still, some critics remain concerned that companies going public through SPACs aren't getting as much scrutiny as those using traditional IPOs. - Exhibit A for that might be the situation with Nikola, which went public through a SPAC a few months ago, and has turned out to be the center of a firestorm of fraud allegations. - Nikola shares are tumbling after a short seller called the company quote, "An intricate fraud built on dozens of lies." - The people who don't like SPACs and prefer traditional IPOs would tell you that if it had gone through a traditional IPO, there would have been more time for investors to kick the tires and to scrutinize the company for fraud before it went public. - [Narrator] Federal regulators are raising concerns as well. The SEC is now examining how blank-check companies disclose their ownership, and how compensation is tied to an acquisition. - [Clayton] We wanna make sure that investors understand those things. And then at the time of the transaction, when they vote, that they're getting the same rigorous disclosure that you get in connection with bringing an IPO to market. - [Narrator] Critics also say, SPACs have often been a bad deal for companies going public. - The founders of the SPAC, when they do a deal, they get to have a 20% stake in the company that results from the deal without having to pay very much for it. And so essentially a way they can line their own pockets. - [Narrator] But this is starting to change. Akckman's blank-check company is one of the largest to not include this feature. - If Bill Ackman SPAC succeeds in getting a large multibillion dollar private company and taking it public, I think it'll be the best proof of concept yet for the SPAC idea. - [Narrator] But right now, the future of blank-check companies remains unclear. Investors say SPAC deals are here to stay, while critics argue that the blank-check boom is just that a trend that isn't destined to last. (gentle music) 