 Being sponsored to come to Canada as a refugee can be a rewarding experience for you and your sponsor. But do you know the facts about private sponsorship? True or false. Avoid becoming a victim of fraud. Learn the facts about being a privately sponsored refugee, including who pays for what. As a privately sponsored refugee, it means that a group of individuals in Canada is offering to be your sponsor and to help you adjust to life during your first year here. You do not pay a sponsor for your sponsorship, or for submitting your application. Your sponsor is responsible for providing the funds to support you during your first year in Canada. Your sponsor gives you emotional and social support during that year as well. Your sponsor must also live in Canada. FACT: All of the forms you and your sponsor need to complete are available for free from our website. Your sponsor can also ask for free advice from the Refugee Sponsonship Training Program, which has several offices in Canada. FACT: You may decide to hire a consultant, lawyer or notary as your immigration representative to help you complete the forms. That is your choice. You do not have to use one. If you choose to hire one, be sure to check Canada's immigration website first. The website has a list of people who can legally represent you on your application. Only authorized representatives can represent you for a fee. FACT: If your sponsor or an immigration representative asks you for money or tells you that you have to pre-pay to be sponsored, even if they promise to give it back once you land in Canada, do NOT pay them. Your sponsor is responsible for providing that financial support. Look for the signs. It could be fraud. Remember, a consultant can charge you to complete the forms, but they cannot charge you for the cost of your sponsorship. Your sponsor is responsible for paying for that. FACT: The Government of Canada does NOT have favoured immigration representatives who can fast track applications. Each application is processed individually and is approved or rejected based on its own merit. No one can make your application get processed faster. FACT: No one can guarantee that your application will be approved. Only a Canadian migration officer can decide if you get a visa to come to Canada. You and your sponsor must both meet the requirements for you to be approved as a privately sponsored refugee. You must pass the medical, security and criminality requirements before your application can be approved. Once your application has been submitted, it may take some time before your application is reviewed. These ads appear around the world and try to scam refugees. Don't be a victim of these types of fraudulent ads. Learn the facts about private sponsorship. 