 Hello everybody! I'm Gleb and this is my 5G course  on "IoT understanding channel". As for today we're   going to learn about 5G NR (New Radio) channels, we're  gonna talk about physical channels and signals but we will cover some aspects of transport  and logical channels, as well probably in my next   videos. Let's take a look at NR channels for  downlink direction. As you may see there are some   similar channels as in Lte, we have broadcast  channel, shared channels, control channels for   downlink but apart from this we have lots  of new signals and that's primarily because 5G   is more suitable, it's basically going to  be deployed in millimeter waves, in C-bands.   So, that's why we need so many new signals  to support these frequencies. So, first of all   the combination of Physical Broadcast Channel (PBCH) and Synchronization Signals (SSS), and the Demodulation   Reference Signal (DM-RS). This combination in 5G NR we call it as Synchronization Signal Block (SSS) and   in 5G NR each cell is defined by this  Synchronization Signal Block. Because as you   can see in this block we have PBCH which  contains Master Information Block (MIB) and we   have this signal for time synchronization, for  slot synchronization, for frame synchronization.   This block contains a vital  information for cell search procedures, for cell   selection and for these purposes this block has  its own DM-RS, for measurement purposes, for estimating   quality of channel. So, this block has its own  SS-RSRP/SS-RSRQ and has SS-SINR but with SS prefix.  So, this is a new concept for mobile techniques for   5G. Because each cell, each NR cell defines  by this SS block and this is a very important. This   is new! And what's more new in 5G, each beam  may use a different SSB blocks indexes and   a user equipment may estimate each beam in order  to choose the best one and to transmit preamble   in the procedure of initial access. But that's quite another topic. This is again, a fundamental difference between  5G NR and Lte that's because we have this SS block   and this block may define each beam and each cell. Apart from this idea, as you   can see each channel that contains information  has its own the Demodulation Reference Signal. It   helps to estimate and perform some attenuation  for power allocation, of each channels. It helps   to demodulate channel in the right way. This is again a vital reference signal that's   why in 5G NR we don't have such reference  signals as it used to be in Lte (Cell RS).   Demodulation Reference Signal helps us to support  the concept of lean system when it transmitted   only when it's need to be transmitted. Not every time. It helps us again to save power   and perform lots of other different things. In  addition to that we have Phase Tracking Reference   Signal (PTRS) for shared channels, for user data.  We have a Phase Tracking Reference Signal this.   It is again a very important signal because it helps  to estimate phase noises and it's specially very   important forFR2, for high-bands, for high  frequencies. It performs very good for user   data. And apart from all of these channels we  have such channels as Channel State Information   Reference Signal (CSI-RS) to estimate and measure CQI reports for each beam in case of beamforming.  And we have Tracking Reference Signal to track  each user. It may be configured for each user to track time and frequency and to mitigate  Doppler spread effect. So basically it was   some information about 5G NR channels in  downlink direction. And now let's take a look   at uplink direction. In uplink direction we  have pretty the same picture as it used to be   in Lte. We have Uplink Shared Channel (PUSCH), we have  Control Channel (PUCCH) and Random Access Channel (RACH) for initial transmission of user equipment which carry preamble. And, by the way, in 5G preamble format as far as I know number 1 support cell range up to 110 kilometers. So, in 5G as it used to be in Lte we may  configure a very long distance cell range for   some cases. As you can see, each NR channel  that has data contains their own Demodulation Reference Signals. And for shared channels  we have Phase Tracking Reference Signal to estimate and to compensate phase  noises. Especially for high frequencies, for   millimeter waves. And in 5G NR we have  Sounding Reference Signal (SRS) which is pretty   similar to Lte but it helps us to estimate quality  of uplink channel in particular active bandwidth   part. So, uplink channel estimation for active  bandwidth in order to choose the right   modulation and coding scheme. So, basically it was a short overview of 5G NR channels. If you like  this short lesson about 5G NR you may thumb up,   subscribe and we will see you later in my next  short lessons about 5G NR technologies! 