 (upbeat music) The 5G revolution has only just begun. While some retail services have been rolled out using 5G New Radio, the real benefits will only arrive with a true standalone 5G core. The key parts of the 5G network are the radio access and transport networks, which act to coordinate resources across devices, the Edge Cloud, responsible for bringing compute services to the edge of the telco network, and the 5G core, which empowers telcos to tailor wireless networks to specific use cases, unleash groundbreaking new customer experiences, and drive new revenue streams, all while reducing operational costs through automation. Initial 5G deployments have used 5G New Radio to connect back to a 4G core, using the non-standalone option, improving wireless speeds but without unlocking the true potential of 5G. Deploying 5G in standalone mode is essential to enable a new generation of critical services that require ultra-reliable connectivity and low latency. Telcos drove 5G standards to break vendor lock-in and increase agility through use of technologies invented in the cloud. Large monolithic applications now are broken down into independent cloud-native microservices that are separated from the service data and the subscriber's information. With an open design, there are no black boxes for security vulnerabilities to hide in. Containerization as microservices allows quick observability of any network function's malperformance or data leakage. If trust in any vendor is jeopardized, network functions are easy to swap out and replace by others. And with Silicon Root of Trust, HPE-embedded cryptographic firmware protection mitigates potential hacking attempts. And with the separation of components and functions, the stateless network functions can be upgraded or swapped out at devops-level speed, enabling much faster innovation. So how do you take advantage of the full capabilities of 5G without increasing complexity? Integrating all of the components yourself can be a challenge. So Hewlett Packard Enterprise offers a pre-integrated but open 5G stack so you retain the flexibility to choose from a wide range of best-of-breed vendors but with the confidence of limited technical and financial risk. This ready-to-deploy solution, available under consumption-based pricing, gives you the flexibility to offer use cases that matter most to your customers and your business, matching your cost to 5G revenue up-tech, so you only pay for what you use. When fully realized, 5G enables amazing networking experiences and services, with the potential for new revenue models unlike anything that's existed before. Choose Hewlett-Packard Enterprise to deploy services faster with a pre-integrated cloud-native 5G core, reduce risk and complexity with proven edge-to-core 5G solutions, and pay for the stack as you need it with consumption-based services from HPE GreenLake. Are you ready to enable new customer experiences and create new revenue streams? Only Hewlett Packard Enterprise can deliver the enterprise edge-to-telco cloud as a service. Discover how you can benefit today. 