 Hello everybody! I'm Gleb and this is my 5G  course on "IoT understanding channel". As for today   we're going to talk about 5G dynamic spectrum  sharing technology or 5G DSS. So, what is it 5G   dynamic spectrum sharing this is actually a  software solution that allows you to set up   5G NR cell inside the current LTE band and,  actually, such cell can share the same bandwidth   with Lte the same resources in time domain. You can deploy 5G on the same radio with Lte on the same baseband this is actually only just  a software update, because such technology it is   realized by smart scheduler inside base base  unit. This is just software update and as you   may think this technology is going  to be a really game-changing technology in   the whole mobile telecom market. But before we  start talking some physical layer aspects and   some aspects related to hardware and software.  Let's start with some positive moments that can   bring that technology to mobile operators and  customers. And first of all, such technology as   dynamic spectrum sharing can help the mobile  operator to be the first in the 5G roll-out   race because the current situation in the  mobile market is so over hyped. There are so   many hype regarding 5G and there are so many  subscribers and they are all waiting for 5G   sign, 5G icon on their screens. So operators  wants to deploy their 5G network as fast as  possible and this technology may help you to win  that race, because some subscribers they may switch   to another operator if the current operator can't  give them "5G marvelous" mobile broadband services.   So, this technology may help operator to win the  5G fast roll-out race. The second thing is avoiding   multi-year re-farming for 5G. the  re-farming process is long, is usually long-term coped with lots of regulations, hardware, software  changes and this solution may help operator to   skip this process. Actually, at least for some  bands, for some probable low-low bands, sub 1GHz  and deploy 5G NR cells in the  current Lte low band cells. The third option   is adding 5G NR coverage layer with the current Lte infrastructure. That actually helps to   get a return on investment, because we still use  the same radio, we still share the same antenna,   the same basement units, front-hauls  and all of other network elements. So, the third   is a kind of transformation. DSS is a kind of  a transformation from non-standalone options to   standalone option. I guess, it may be considered as just update   software. Run up 5g NR cell in current Lte  equipment. And when Lte will be out of fashion,   let's say, you can still use it as a standalone option, based on all the   4G equipment, actually. But this is option this is possible maybe not for low-bands. Maybe not   for high-bands, actually, because in high bands.  I guess, there will be non-standalone, so it will  be start from a non stand-alone options but then  it's possible to have only NR cells on that   equipment as a standalone option. The next is  better Lte NR cell realization. Because this   is a software solution based on smart scheduler  the resource in time the main may be scheduled   in more progressive and effective way. Because  everything is coordinated inside baseband unit   inside one hardware unit and there is no  need for inter-site coordination.   There will be some coordination in inter-sites, but  if we are talking about the same site everything   will be performed inside one unit, on the same  software. So, this will help to utilize Lte cells   in a better way. The next is a throughput gain with  carrier aggregation combinations, of course. If you   deploy 5G NR cell in the current Lte cells and  their share some resources there are a possibility   to have the carrier aggregation with other Lte  or NR cells and that will of course gain   your throughput. Actually, throughput may be  gained by the better utilization. Because if   we have the better utilized network, there  will be less interference from other neighbor   cells, neighbor sites. And the less interference  if you interference the higher signal-to-noise   ratio and the higher signal-to-noise ratio, the  higher throughput we can have in cells and peak   throughput for user equipments. So, this is a real  point. And the last one, DSS is a real game-changing   solution. Maybe even 4G networks as you can  see it really may help some operators to win   that race and some regions and take over that  market, but let's consider some negative sides.   some issues and questions and now let's consider  some negative possible aspects that may occur   while deploying DSS solution. And the first is that  if operator is rushing into early DSS deployment   in order to be the first in the market in order  to win that race. This may lead to unreasonable Lte,   capacity reduction because in most of the cases  in large cities there are many cells that actually  even overloaded in LTE and if you wants to deploy  DSS solution in that cell the efficiency of that   solution, actually will be, will be debatable.  let's say so, not so clear. And in this case   the operator may become a 5G operator but the 4G users may suffer, and in some cases suffer   a lot. So, this is a very important consideration  because it may lead to unreasonable Lte capacity reductions on the current healthy network. And now  the point is, of course, there are some   possible limitations, restrictions from our vendors,  from chip makers. Because this is really changes   and probably there are some requirements to 4G, 5G  user requirements nobody knows exactly, as for now.  Probably for for some vendors there will be some  limitations when it comes to NR connectivity   mode, when it comes to beamforming techniques.  Actually how beamforming will work with   that cell configurations, there are maybe some new  requirements for front-haul and back-haul capacity   networks. Because deploying 5G NR cell in the  same Lte band which may require more capacity for   transport network for microwave links or for optic  network. Of course when you deployed dynamic   spectrum sharing in your network you should be  aware of that, you would keep in mind some specific   things for network design and optimization because,  of course, it will be differed from the classic 4G   planning parametrization or from the current 5G  aspects. The last one, actually, affects   especially, when it comes to low-bands, maybe not so  a visible, not so clear and the real efficiency   of that solution is only in some  particular cases, is only in just show enough   that you as an operator deployed 5G coverage in  low-band, for example. But in order to mitigate,   in order to avoid all of these negative sides the  operator and chip makers should know exactly,   they should calculate all positive and negative  sides of their technology and only after that,  only after particular decisions, they should decide  to deploy or not to deploy the technology. Because I   think in some cases it would be better to  wait until new frequencies will be available   or it would be better to perform real re-farming when Lte or 3G, 2G cells will be less loaded and   less used. So actually it was my short introductory  lesson regarding 5G dynamic a spectrum sharing   technology. In my next videos I'm going to tell  you about some physical layer aspects and how  it's going to work and operate in real hardware.  So, stand tuned with "IoT understanding channel"! Goodbye! 