 So this video is a commentary on the latest buzz on AI and how it affects programming. A new AI was introduced to the world by OPENAI recently and the crowd went crazy! There were many coders showing off awesome things they created, just by describing in natural language. Search engine that returns the exact answer. Software code for Apps created by a short description. App design with Figma by just describing it gradually. All these surely added up to the fear factor: is coding gonna be obsolete? Will the developers be replaced by an AI? Let’s take a look closely. Coding is about solving a problem. We tell the computer what to do, with code. It is the language of communication. Now with GPT-3 and future improvements to it, that language is going to be almost like a natural language. When we look back at how the computer were programmed in the beginning.. It was connecting wires together.. And then came the punch cards.. Then the keyboard.. Programming languages started as machine code, and then assembly.. And then abstracted by higher order programming languages, and libraries, frameworks. So it is easier for a human to specify what they require. So you can view this as another way of simplifying programming. The most difficult thing about programming is specifying a problem accurately and fully so that it can be implemented. The GPT-3 DEMOs you see need careful priming to get the amazing looking output. The way to talk to the AI has become an art form rather than a strict language. This has the potential to simplify tedious programming tasks, and free the developers to focus on more interesting things. After all who wants to create the same layout or the similar functioning app for the millionth time. These are better automated. There’s a potential for the IDEs to be more intelligent. Think of this as a 10x Intelisense. Another thing about GPT-3 Generating code, it doesn’t currently have a way of verifying if the code is correct. Even though this has the potential to improve in coming versions. There will always be a need for a developer to verify and make sure that the AI is doing the right thing. This is because AI can generate these amazing looking code, it has no inherent understanding of what it is doing. There is no thinking process why it is doing what it's doing. In short programming will change, but that is always the case. New things to learn everyday. This will just be another one of those. 