 Generative Design Generative processes are increasingly used in design disciplines, from architecture to product design and fashion design. Often called ‘parametric design’ because automated changes are made to the parameters or variables of a software design specification, the use of algorithmic processes in design has been applied to achieve optimisation as much as new ideation. That is, generative processes are used for achieving the lightest or strongest possible structure as much as for finding new and interesting forms. With parallel developments in computerised manufacturing processes, such as 3D printing, generative design is moving beyond speculative structures to realisable outcomes. But let us first look at how this developed. The rules for transcribing objects in two-dimensional space have not changed for a long time. They involve the accurate scaling of the object, in plain view and elevations. And the representation of a three-dimensional object was not a requirement of the drafting process at all. Drafting has existed for a very, very long time. And for most of that time there was no requirement to involve the representation of three-dimensional objects at all. Early experiments in computer graphics were undertaken in the 1960s. For example, Ivan Sutherland’s Sketchpad program looks primitive today, but was amongst the first programs to move computers beyond the command line text display into our bit-mapped graphical world. Computers seriously entered this field with the release of the AutoCAD software in 1982. It essentially mirrored exactly what was done on drawing boards with pencil and paper. For quite some time, AutoCAD held its place as the standard in computer-aided design, but these days there are many computer-assisted design tools. Initially software emulated the traditional drafting processes and eventually made drafting easier and quicker and much more editable. Files were first printed on paper using plotters but are now printed on 2D and 3D cutting and printing machines. The two-dimensional design domain remained dominant for quite some time. In some industries it still remains. Three-dimensional modelling is now the norm in many fields, including product design. A significant shift since the 1980s is that computer programs have moved from aiding the design process to generating designs itself, or at least having a hand in generating designs. An example of this is Michael Hansmeyer's forms and products. These result from computation data that are the sequence or subdivisions of simple geometric forms carried out algorithmically thousands of times. They are quite simple structures mathematically speaking, but each shape is a unique evolution of the basic form. As the tools for design changed, so too did the tools for fabrication. As the digital forms became more complex, they were increasingly dependent upon the translation by digital processes, such as lasers cutting in 3-D printing. In these changes in design through generative processes we can see another example of how a field can be transformed by the tools available. This trend was highlighted early on in computer-aided design by Winograd and Flores who wrote that “The creation of a new device or systematic domain can have far reaching significance – it can create new ways of being that previously did not exist and a framework for actions that would not have previously made sense” (1879: 178). One of the big conversations around the use of generative processes in design, is whether it spells the death of creativity. For the most part humans are deeply imbedded in the design process and computers are assisting with data analysis, suggested design concepts, and optimisations. That does not mean that in the future co-creation relationships may not continue to change. For now, many designers, like others in the creative arts, are embracing the new generative tools and exploring new creative possibilities from new fashion trends to engineering innovations. 