 Today I want to talk about a request many of our clients bring to us. How to overcome a lack of quality data to train their deep learning neural networks? We recently worked with a global medical devices company and invented some world-first algorithms to amplify their clinical trials data by 30 times. This allowed their data science team to achieve greater levels of performance for their AI systems, which will directly impact the experience of patients with chronic disease. I'm Tim Ensor, and I lead the AI capability at Cambridge Consultants This is the second of a series of short videos on the AI Opportunity I'll be sharing our most recent AI developments, the challenges they address for industry and the opportunities they're creating for the ambitious businesses that have deployed them. Now the data science team at our client have been working hard to develop algorithms which would calibrate their devices for the range of effects causing normal variations in the manufacturing process. Collecting real world data from clinical trials is costly and time-consuming, and so, as is often the case, the team didn't have enough clinical trial data to manage all the variables they were trying to control. To solve this issue the client team started to explore the use of advanced generative AI, to amplify the training data they had. Working alongside the client's research team, we created new tools to generate over 30 channels of synthetic, time-series biomarker data, to accurately represent the target population of patients and sensors, including variations in human behaviour and product ageing. As part of the project we deliver training tools and material to enable a team to onboard new members into working with these advanced AI methods. So by taking a completely new approach, we demonstrated we could amplify the clinical trials data up to 30 times, and enhance the performance of their algorithms and products. It's also allowed the client to completely rethink the design of their clinical trials. That means in the future can be much more efficient and targeted in collecting this critical, but expensive, real-world data. If you'd like to talk more about using advanced AI for massively amplifying algorithm training data, or any other business challenge needing a unique AI solution,  please get in touch. You can find out more about our work at cambridgeconsultants.com/ai 