 All right well welcome back thank you so much to those of you who tuned into my last video it was just amazing to see some of the reactions from all around the world. So the reactions really broke into two parts the first was oh my god this is amazing look at what this technology can do. And the other reaction was really: oh my god, my job! What's going to happen? In this video we're going to take a look at artificial intelligence and why you really don't have to worry about your job... in the short term! And what some of the lackings of GPT3 are while it's amazing in terms of what it can do there's a lot that it can't do i'm going to show you some more demos of what gpt3 is able to do in just the last week and lastly, I'm going to talk about why, while you don't have to worry about your jobs there are things that we do have to worry about as a society, in terms of artificial intelligence in terms of biases for racism, sexism and more let's get into it. So let's jump back to the computer and see some of the demos that have been released in the last week. So this is an example of a cool new dictionary that i saw released this week using GPT3 and the idea of the dictionary is it's able to use context to give you the definition of a word most of the time a dictionary just gives you definitions for different words that you look up but here you can actually see that you can give it the context of the words: "The bark of a tree." and then it'll give you the definition based on the context of that word. So this is an example of an image recognizer it's using a combination of image recognition as well as gpt3 so it's recognizing the ingredients on a package and then able to tell you whether those ingredients are good for you bad for you or what they actually come from so here we see it's identifying the ingredients. It's able to find those ingredients, it's actually looking up emojis for each of those ingredients as well. And able to give you a sense if those ingredients are good for you or bad for you. So here's another example of gpt3 working in a spreadsheet this time in google docs similar to a demo i showed last week it's able to complete and autocomplete formulas and equations based on what it's seeing in the surrounding area so it has a simple function called gpt3 which populates the data from what it sees around it and this is a great example of a tool that can really be powerful in the hands of folks who use spreadsheets. Again lots of people were concerned that this can eliminate jobs but i actually think it makes it powerful to get better information and use tools more effectively. Here's another example of GPT3 doing layout for design and here the designer is asking for a button that looks like a watermelon and it's generating the CSS for creating that button, with the text inside of it. A button for every color of the rainbow, and it automatically produces a design that satisfies that constraint. A table of the richest countries in the world with column names and gdp... So a little bit of editing and polish, let's see if that fixes it. It was close, but the autocomplete isn't perfect and again we really need to be thinking of this as a very sophisticated autocomplete. So it's not going to replace designers or developers it's going to produce the beginnings of something that's incredibly useful but it doesn't really have testing or quality associated with it it's still up to skilled developers and designers to make sure that they use this as a starting point to produce something useful and to produce something that is well tested. So here's another one that i really like. This is a quote engine, and you can just hit refresh and it will give you a new quote every time. "A bad question will beat a good answer every time." "Tradition is by definition progress against the odds." "The environment shapes evolution and the economy shapes society. Ultimately evolution shapes everything. So let's do it right." I couldn't agree more, good job AI. And here's another design example of using text to UI within figma. This is a variation of one of the things we saw last week So in this example called magicify he's able to produce the beginnings of a webpage by producing sections of that web page one at a time. So he's able to give testimonials or logos, placeholder graphics and the UI is able to generate the beginnings of those designs. So for the developers out there, here's another technical one where you're able to type in a sentence and GPT3 is able to produce an artificial intelligence-based SQL query that actually works within a SQL database. So really cool example of a technology. So it's able to produce and autocomplete amazing things like html and css and code and sql statements but the reason i say jobs aren't really at jeopardy is because it really does take a human to test these things. You need to make sure that these statements are correct the designs are valid they actually work with humans that people understand the text and the copy that it's being produced and that it's producing content that is useful and valid. So there are four types of artificial intelligence that are important to talk about. The first is reactive machines and so a reactive machine is basically a computer an algorithm and it's reacting to the environment if you think about certain types of artificial intelligence it's really looking at the board of what the environment looks like such as a chess board or text that you give it and reacts to that board. The second type of artificial intelligence has memory and so it's using what it learns over time getting smarter and smarter in terms of memory it's able to learn and adapt from the things that it's doing. Self-driving cars are a good example of an artificial intelligence that's learning from its environment and getting better and better. as it learns. So the third type of artificial intelligence is theory of mind and that's where you can really put yourself in someone else's shoes and imagine what they're thinking and really solve abstract problems. So for example if i tell you you should really click the like button. Yeah i don't know if i should click the like button. But if you click the like button google will recommend my video and it'll make it easier for me to make better videos for you in the future. Well i do like better videos so future me would really appreciate that. So the idea of theory of mind is you can put yourself in someone else's shoes and this is a real leap in terms of artificial intelligence this is sometimes called general artificial intelligence or AGI it has all that ability of memory it also has all that ability of a reactive machine and can really think and solve complex problems. The fourth type of artificial intelligence is really self-aware. That's not only where the artificial intelligence can think and put itself in the shoes of other people but it realizes that it itself is aware of its own existence and this is the science fiction of AI and we're really nowhere close to number three number or four. So when you think about gpt-3 it really doesn't have a lot of memory it's mostly a type 1 machine, a reactive machine. It's reacting to the text that you give it and it's spitting out an output and so it doesn't have memory from session to session it doesn't learn from one behavior to another. You give it examples and it reacts to those examples and even in the name GPT the PT stands for pre-training you pre-train GPT it's pre-trained on billions of pieces of information but that training doesn't continue to happen as you're running the algorithm. So that's a really important distinction in terms of artificial intelligence you can really think of it as the world's most sophisticated autocomplete. So similar to google it's filling in the result of a search query something that you're giving it and then it's predicting what the output's going to be. Now because of the sophistication of gpt3 it's able to complete html, it's able to complete code, poetry, other languages, and text and it makes it look amazingly sophisticated. But it is using an extension of that autocomplete philosophy, with a lot of data and a lot of AI behind it. Now GPT3 is an amazing piece of technology and i can totally understand why it would cause people to be concerned for their jobs in fact being concerned for employment isn't anything new, and people have been concerned for their employment with advances in technology since Aristotle and the ancient greeks. Farmers have been concerned about plowing technology, scribes have been concerned about the printing press, typist, mathematicians, and secretaries have been concerned about computers and what that would do to their jobs. In fact there's a term for this it's called technological unemployment and it's been going on for decades and centuries and centuries and the reason i think it's not of great concern is while technology creates advances and may shift or eliminate some jobs it often creates brand new opportunities and brand new jobs. There are a lot more people employed today than they were employed hundreds of years ago and so it's important that we as people look at this technology as a brand new tool to allow us to build amazing technology. The thing that people should be worried about when it comes to artificial intelligence is bias. Here's a video from Chukwuemeka about some of the ways that biases and artificial intelligence can be problematic. okay now, we trying then... come to your hand too black too black, yeah. come again, try. let's start napkin and napkin again... Napkin again What's the color of your hand? Ha ha ha. So it's a simple example of bias but there are lots of biases in artificial intelligence and as we're building technology either for auto-complete, auto-suggest, image recognition or artificial intelligence it's important that we think about biases and populate the databases that we're building with diverse information, such that we really represent a good cross-section of all of society. Here's a video of Joy from MIT talking about some of the biases that are introduced in facial recognition as well Hi I'm Joy and I research how computers detect recognize and classify people's faces in my TED featured talk, i spoke about my experience with the coded gaze, my term for algorithmic bias. The system i was using worked well on my lighter skinned friend's face but when it came to detecting my face it didn't do so well until i put on a white mask. Joy has an amazing TEDx talk that i've linked up here in the corner so if you want to check that out, give it a listen. As developers build tools for artificial intelligence it's important that they think about biases, bad jokes things that are offensive historical inaccuracies and more in order to build better AI and AI that is more inclusive and holistic in terms of society. This is something that OpenAI is actively thinking about. In fact here's a tweet from Sam Altman, one of the founders of OpenAI about how they're really thinking about bias and making sure that these applications that you're seeing demos of are properly vetted before they're released. That's one of the reasons why these application demos are available on twitter but they're not publicly available, these aren't apps that you can download yet because they haven't gone through that vetting process which they're still working out. It's great to see OpenAI taking bias seriously and i encourage other developers who are thinking about artificial intelligence or GPT3 to think about bias and how they can make their applications more inclusive. I want to thank everyone for joining me on this video, i'm excited to announce i crossed a thousand subscribers. Thank you so much. I love talking about entrepreneurship, design and technology, and how these things can really change the world for the better. If you like that sort of thing, you know what to do. If you have questions or want to check me out on twitter, post other demos that you think I should highlight, or other technology i'd love to hear from you. i'm Greg Raiz until the next one. 