 So I got a lot of feedback on gpt3, a lot of  people excited about GPT3 and the technology,   and a lot of people on the waiting list.  I'm on the waiting list too. I signed up   early and have been on the waiting list for  almost two months, and i've been waiting,   and waiting, and waiting and waiting, so i got  sick and tired of waiting and decided to sign up   and download GPT2, install it on my computer. So  i'm going to walk through how to get GPT2 set up   some of the pitfalls some of the things i learned  in training a number of different models on gpt2   and some of the things to be careful of if  you're starting a company using artificial   intelligence technology specifically  gpt3 and how to be careful to make   sure that your company is set up for the  long term. All right let's get into it. So my previous videos i showed a number of  different examples of gpt3 and i've gotten   a lot of comments of people wanting to try out  those samples. Well a lot of those samples aren't   yet publicly available because GPT 3  itself isn't publicly available so you   can get on the waiting list and i've been on the  waiting list for months and months and really   from what i've seen the waiting list has not made  a ton of progress so GPT 2 was released a while   ago it's available on github so no problem.  Download a virtual environment, anaconda.   Get that set up on your computer. Create a GPT 2  environment. Install the right version of python,   tensorflow, and gpt2 simple. Check out the code  from github, download the 774 million parameter   model, it's just a couple gigs. Swear at your  computer for a couple hours. Boom! You have   the shakespeare sample working. So now i can  give my computer a prompt and it'll continue   to speak in Shakespeare. with the thought that I  started. "So as am I, a smoke rises out of fire,   so smoke rises out of sweet smoke, so sweet it  is. So sweet it is for me to win the love of   the sun to tear the dregs of the cheeks of old  men." I didn't say it was good it just sounds   like Shakespeare now it's not particularly great.  I don't happen to speak or have the need to speak   Shakespeare on a daily basis but it just shows  the power of the technology and what's possible   even on your own machine. Now i'm on a MacBook  and this was taking hours and hours and hours,   in fact it was taking so long that it really  was starting to frustrate me and i spent an   entire day trying to figure out how to get  virtual windows running under boot camp on   my Mac. Now this is because MacBooks aren't  set up with the right graphics accelerator   most artificial intelligence is trained on a gpu  and the mac just has a different gpu that's not   really trained for tensorflow and the technology  i was using. I did find a better way to do this   and that's using google collab. So google collab  is a fantastic technology it allows you to run   a gpu in the cloud using google servers, and so  all those same samples that i was experimenting   with on my local computer for a library called  gpt2-simple you're able to run in google collab   in the cloud. Google collab is a collaborative  platform for running notebooks these are based   on a technology called jupiter. It's a combination  of code and notes you can simply go through the   notebook either modifying the code or running it  step by step. It's a really interactive and easy   way to learn artificial intelligence, learn how  this technology works and run models right in   the cloud without having to update your computer  or add a graphics card. So i'm using a notebook   from Max Wolf who wrote the library gb2-simple  and it's a fantastic collab notebook that really   walks you through the steps of setting up and  training and artificial intelligence using gpt2   i won't bore you with the code and the specifics  but i've linked the notebook in the description   below so you can take a look at that and follow  along step by step. You choose how big of a model   you want to train and there's a couple options  for the size of the model that you want to train,   you download the open source model and then you  fine-tune that model. So you can fine-tune it   by telling it what you want examples of. In  my own experiments i trained three models to   get a sense of how it works the first model was  trained on shakespeare which i showed you before,   the second model i trained on my twitter history  and twitter makes it easy for you to download your   entire twitter history and by tuning gpt2 simple  i was able to train it to tweet as if it was me.   Here's some of the best tweets that gpt2-simple  was able to create. The internet is like a series   of tubes with a pipe that leads to nowhere, there  is no escape. Killed another software project that   was on life support, sad? Nope. I love creating  focus for the bigger things we have going on.   Some of the tweets worked some were confusing  of course that's true of normal twitter too   the third example i tried to train GPT2 on  a series of jokes. I was trying to get it   to be funny so i downloaded an entire library of  jokes and tried to fine-tune gpt2 to tell jokes.   Now i was able to get gpt2 to have a really good  structure of jokes and so the format of what it   was producing was structured to be like a joke but  many of the jokes that produced weren't actually   that funny. So hopefully this gives you some  of the bare bones steps you need to get started   with gpt2 now if you're thinking about using  artificial intelligence for your startup there's   some caveats, some things to be aware of. The  first is ai is often about the data and in my own   experimentation whether it was the twitter history  or the shakespeare archive or the joke database,   the database of the data that you're feeding  and training your ai model is really important.   Really critical to getting good results and  fine-tuning that data, fine-tuning how you're   training that artificial intelligence is really  what separates a great artificial intelligence   model and one that's really okay. So really  plan on spending a lot of time curating your   examples curating your samples to get better  results with your artificial intelligence model   the second thing to think about when starting  a business using artificial intelligence   is your dependencies. Are you dependent on  open ai and an api that they're providing and   what happens if that api stops functioning or  functions differently. I happen to think that   using artificial intelligence can be a great  differentiator for a startup but if you're using   the same api that every single other developer is  using for their model you're not really creating   an opportunity for clear differentiation. So  think about how you will differentiate your   startup using an open api versus something  that's proprietary and special to your startup.   You don't want to have a dependency on a third  party that prevents you from really being   competitive. In differentiating yourself i've seen  a lot of pitches from startups that use artificial   intelligence and it's important to remember that  the business side of an artificial intelligence   company is as important if not more important  than the artificial intelligence itself think   about the business that you're trying to establish  and how that business channel will really function   where are you going to get your customers. How  you're going to differentiate yourself and long   term as more companies incorporate artificial  intelligence. What's going to set you apart   in terms of what you're doing from a business  perspective from your competition. And lastly   gpt2 and gpt3 are hot technologies today lots of  people are talking about them but you can be sure   that google and amazon and apple and facebook  and many other companies will create technologies   in the future to compete with gpt 2 and 3 and  provide technologies for application developers.   So think about long term how you plan to  pivot and incorporate or use new technologies   by creating strong dependencies with one provider  you could actually limit your long-term potential   for your startup or business. So if you're a  startup using artificial intelligence technology   or gpt-2 or gpt-3 i'd love to hear from you  leave a comment down below telling me how you're   using the technology and how you think you'll  differentiate and if you're new to the channel,   I talk about entrepreneurship, technology and  design and i hope i'll see you in the next one. 