 Hello Cloud Gurus. Are you the next Beyonce, Ed Sheeran or Celine Dion in the making? Well, having an awesome music track is the very first step. Okay, so maybe you might not reach beyonce level status, but you'll definitely be a machine learning rock star by the time this series is over. Welcome to DeepComposer: Train it again, Maestro. Hi, I'm Kesha Williams and AWS machine learning hero. Alexa champion and training architect with A Cloud Guru. In this limited series, you'll develop machine learning skills and maybe score your first recording contract by composing an AI, artificial intelligence powered music track using AWS DeepComposer and generative AI. You simply input a melody that is magically transformed to a completely original song. How cool is that? This series is for you if you want to learn more about machine learning or maybe more about the biggest recent advancement in artificial intelligence, generative AI, or maybe you want to learn how to train custom models using AWS Sage maker, or you just want to join the cool kids and have fun with the world's first AI driven keyboard. AWS DeepComposer is the latest device from AWS that can offer you another way to level up your skills. In this episode I'll give you an overview of AWS DeepComposer and episode two we'll learn about the machine learning that powers the AWS DeepComposer keyboard. We'll have a brief introduction of machine learning and then deep dive into generative AI and episode three we literally get hands on composing our first AI generated music track using one of the pre-trained music genre models and episode four I show you how to bring your own data set to train your own custom music genre model using Amazon Sage maker and then we use it to create a brand new song. In episode five I'll show you how to evaluate your model to ensure it's producing music that actually sounds good. In episode six there will be a head to head battle between two machine learning maestros, Scott Pletcher and myself. We'll wrap up by uploading your original song to SoundCloud and then you're off to receiving your first Grammy. AWS DeepComposer is a musical keyboard that uses generative AI to transform a melody that you provide into a completely original song. Generative AI is one of the biggest recent advancements in artificial intelligence technology because of its ability to create something new. I'm often asked the question, is this just a toy? My answer is no. AWS DeepComposer is not a toy at all. It is actually a real keyboard that produces midi files that you can later import into garage band to do even more with. The keyboard serves as a way to feed the AWS DeepComposer service your melody as input and the service uses a machine learning model to add the accompanying instrument to produce an entirely new song. Now, if you don't have the actual physical keyboard, you can use a virtual keyboard found in the deep composer console and enable hot keys so that you can use your computer's keyboard to control it. DeepComposer truly is a tool that helps you to explore machine learning in a fun, hands-on, and interactive way. What I really love about DeepComposer is that it combines machine learning with music and no, you don't have to be musically inclined or gifted before using AWS DeepComposer. If I can do it, you can do it to the process. To create a musical composition is simple. The first step input a melody, AWS DeepComposer accepts midi format. You can either play a melody on the physical keyboard or use the virtual keyboard if you don't trust your musical skills. You can also choose from one of the existing melodies step to generate the original song based on your melody. During the generation process, you select a pre-trained or custom genre model you've created using Sage maker. The AI will add the accompanying instruments. You also have the option to change the accompanying instruments to improve the sound of the musical track. Step three, you can export your midi files and load to garage band to get even more creative or upload your track to sound cloud. Let's take a look at the keyboard. This keyboard is a USB keyboard, so no charger is required and as I mentioned before, it functions just like a regular keyboard. What it runs for about $99 USD and you can buy it online at amazon.com it has 32 keys and two octaves. Don't worry if you don't understand all of the music terminology yet. I will bring you up to speed on all of the musical terms in an upcoming episode. There are a ton of buttons here at the top. Let's talk about what each of them do. The arpeggiator, this button enables you to step through a group of notes in a particular sequence when you press these notes at the same time to create an arpeggio auto cord. This button enables you to generate a chord by playing a single key. When you play a note, the auto court feature generates a simple triad chord, taking the note provided as the root note. Modulation is currently not functional, but when it is, this wheel modulates the synthetic audio signal to create a vibrato effect. Octave adjust. The default setting position of the AWS deep composer keyboard contains the C four and C3 octaves. The octave down button. Adjust the keyboard down one or more octaves and the octave up button. Adjust the keyboard up one or more octaves. Pitch is currently not functional, but when it becomes functional, this wheel enables you to bend or change the pitch of a note up or down slightly playback. This button enables you to play back a melody you just created. Record. This button enables you to begin recording and melody on your keyboard to stop recording. Tap the button again. Sustained switch interface. This enables you to plug any universal midi compliant sustained pedal into your keyboard. Tap tempo. This button enables you to set the arpeggio tempo manually by tapping the button USB port. This port connects the physical keyboard to the AWS deep composer console volume. This slider enables you to adjust the volume on your keyboard. Now let's walk through the AWS DeepComposer service on the console. If you don't have an AWS account, you'll need to create one so that you can access the service. And from a cost perspective, the service includes a 12 month free tier for all AWS customers. So that means that you can generate up to 500 compositions using the sample models at no cost. And then in addition to the free tier, if you order your keyboard from amazon.com in the U S and link it to your DeepComposer console, you'll get another three months of free trial. So that's really good. Let's look at the AWS DeepComposer service. This is the main page. The first thing I want to point out is that notice it's in the U S East, North Virginia region. All of the other regions are greyed out, so that's the only region for right now where DeepComposer is available. Here we have the menu options. We're looking at the getting started page. There is also a music studio models, compositions, learning capsules. The option to link your AWS DeepComposer keyboard and a link to the forum. Now let's look at the music studio. With the music studio, you'll see a replica of the keyboard here. So this is what we call the virtual keyboard, and you can play this using your mouse or you can enable hot keys to allow your computer's keyboard. So example, when I press w or E or you see it plays the keys. This allows you to use your computer's keyboard to play and you can also just connect your physical keyboard to record your melody. Now if you don't trust your musical skills, you can use one of these prerecorded compositions when you start to train like twinkle, twinkle little star or Ode to joy or deck the halls, et cetera. Rhythm assist. Let's turn this on. Basically this perfectly times your melody with a beat. So if you want to have rhythm, make sure you turn this on over here. This is where you select a model. So when I click on that notice, it shows you the pre-trained model. So there's rock model, pop jazz, Jonathan Colton, and symphony. Notice up here you can play stop or record your melody. Down here. You can also change the octave. There is a metronome option and this is just a periodic click to keep track of the timing underneath settings, there is an option to enable a countdown. This enables a five second countdown before recording. There's also the tempo. This just shows the tempo and this shows the time signature. Hopefully they'll provide more time signatures in the future. Now let's go to compositions. This shows the list of your compositions, so the compositions that you've created by playing a melody and then generating the accompanying instruments. On this screen, there are several actions that you can perform. You can share it on SoundCloud, download it as a midi download, as MP3, or you can load it into the music studio. Let's look at learning capsules, learning capsules. This portion teaches you more about the generative AI architectures, training parameters, model evaluation tools, et cetera. These learning capsules change frequently, so you may come in and see something that's different from what I have here. This link to the AWS deep composer keyboard. This allows you to associate your physical keyboard with your AWS account. Don't forget that doing this activates your three month free trial so make sure that you do so well. That's it for this episode. Join me in the next episode where we'll learn about the machine learning that powers AWS DeepComposer and take a peek under the hood at the architecture for the AWS DeepComposer service. 