 alright done hello and welcome to one new episode of Work in Progress the last one was way too long ago. Some things have happened in the meantime. The world has changed. We are stuck in the middle of a pandemic. The corona virus influences the whole world. So, also my rythm has changed a bit. As you know, I'm working at university mainly in teaching. We try to switch all lectures to remote now. exams are canceled and so on. But I've also been at home a lot longer than probably most people, because even before the official lockdown university told people to work from home. Well, such situations require adaption and you start thinking: How can I protect me or others? This is why I set up my sewing machine and sewed a face mask you can fixate it behind your ears and that works really well. In the front I have.... Guess I take it down so you can understand me better. I left a pocket in it so you can insert something from the side in my case it's a pm2.5 filter I'm a bit divided how useful are the filters? of course they don't filter viruses nevertheless it's an increased filter effect. Such diy masks are first of all a safety feature for others. when I sneeze or cough droplets will stay in the mask. But with the filter inserted, I need to breath way heavier and this might be contraproductiv, because now I rearrange the mask a lot or it may prevent people from wearing it altogether. This would be the worst case. So I'm a bit unsure about the filter. If I wear the mask, between nose and my cheeks are two holes. This is why most masks have those small wires that you can fit to your nose shape. I think I'll insert something similar into the mask as I realizes especially if I have that filter inserted, that I suck a lot of air in and out those holes. I searched for two possible wire inlays and I think these might work well. Do these have official names?? The white one is from a pasta package and the other one is from cable packages. It's nice that both already have a plastic coating. So they don't poke through the fabric so easily. So I'll try one of these. especially the pasta package one is pretty sturdy and I think it would work well to add it with a few stitches. If you are also interested in diy masks my "pattern" was more an aducated guess, but I've seen that the xhain a berlin located hack- and makespace use a very very similar pattern and I'll add the link to their page down below. I think that is more useful than the scribble I had as a pattern. And there's also a really nice episode fron the NDR Podcast with Prof. Drosten and they talk quite long about such DIY masks so if you want to know more I can recommend that a lot. So, of course corona keeps my brain quite occupied. I started to check the new case numbers every day checked the growth rate checked if there are new deaths especially in my region and I had the feeling I wanted to do more with this data sort of a visualizing? at least a generative project. And I asked on twitter if this was a good idea. or if others find this too problematic. of course I don't want to do anything funny with it! and it's also no scientific analysis! But people on Twitter and Mastodon gave very positive feedback. So I started to experiment a bit So, that's the current state: it runs quite quickly. So for every new day a row of lines appears every stroke is a new infected person I think I selected the german data I started trying some stuff with animations so I thought about counting and that usually you do it in that 5-stroke way (4 strokes and the 5th crosses the group) So I thought I could do something with strokes and counting and also every new death create a think black lines that grows to the bottom. and they don't fade. The count lines fade a bit with every new day so new days get easier to see. and what I did not implement yet: if a case recovers, the count line should vanish. of course I don't know exactly which case recovered, ,but I can choose a random line. I use the data from john hopkins university. They have a nice github repo where they update their data every day and I can just use their csv files now you can see the first deaths emerge and they get a lot more over time I also thought that I could rotate the canvas every day so the lines from the deaths would form sort of a cross over time. But I'm not really happy with the results. but well, that was my experimenting. Now I think it would be better to do something interactive there were also really nice simulations about infection rates with particle simulations but just recreating already existing stuff is not what I want to do. and it's just a small side project thingy I just wanted to fiddle with the data no matter if it has a nice outcome or not. maybe I'll try something completely different. Currently I learn some generative 3d stuff together with a friend. Maybe I could try something here. It's really not that easy because you know.. exponential growth. So the generative model should look good with very small numbers and then later on also with very large numbers. that's quite hard. But maybe I can come up with something nice. What you maybe spotted is the animation in the intro! This is now sorta done, but I drew it by hand because what Is now missing is the generation of letter paths that the brush then will glide along. But the brush simulation itself is now finished. that was way more complicated than I thought. I'll show you some steps I did in the process: what I showed last time was the version where I tried do draw single hair lines I discarded that idea basically while I was recording the last video. but I started to watch some videos about asian calligraphy and I realized that I really like the aesthetic of a very very long brush. So the hair is dragged behind like a long tail so I tried to simulate that in a easy way so when I know click you can see two different paths In the end result those two shapes would be merged I need both in the generation process the dark black one is only the mouse path in a certain thickness and then I have a brush shape, you can see it if I push the mouse like a tail behind the cursor and I use lot's of union calls to fill the areas in such curves but it's super buggy. Especially if you move backwards again. I really like the way it looks but even with my strong PC it's very calculation heavy and you have lot's of glitches. it's because I simplify the paths a lot. i call simplify() to create these small streaks and that often glitches pretty bad I would have to write my one simplification method and that's now what I currently what to do :D So I discarded that idea so I kept looking around and was pleasantly surprised that on the paper.js tutorial page is a great example that I didn't know! it explains how to use mouse interaction and it shows that the mouse event not only contains the point - what I used until now but also for example the delta, the movement vector from the last point and that's really nice to use f.e. to change the thickness of the drawn path. so this is a simple version of the brush. You can see the red line if the red line is further away from the path than the brush the brush points get moved outwards Pretty nice and that works quite well! So in the end I could fill this path black and maybe smooth it a bit so I could get rid of those points here the problem with this red line solution is that I think the dragging effect is not strong enough so I want two lines that symbolize the brush edges so it might work better, this is why I made this sketch here: but well... it looks like toothpaste. but I thought maybe it's enough if I just simulate those brush edges but if I form such curles the brush would color a bigger area than what is covered in the end. so if I only take the area between the lines after i moved the mouse around that would not correspond to the area that the brush would fill. if looks more like I pressed something out of a tube :D so what I want to have is the mixture of the last two versions oh this might be hard to see I drag two light lines behind my mouse maybe you need to need to watch this on a larger screen so now I can draw lines and the thickness changes dependent on the speed and the lines get dragged inwards in curves. and the whole brush area is colored black. this works quite nicely! some minor glitches like here but thats totally fine to me the problem I had was with "illegal" moves: when I move backwards like towards the brush hairs that's something you would never do in real life. but of course you can here in this simulation in this case I just start a new path that's a quite cheap workaround, so you don't have a nice edge here maybe it would be nicer to let be brush make a circle or something, but this was easiest to implement. Basically I only check the angle and if it's rather large like close to 180 then I start a new line. You can try the simulation yourself. I'll put a link to the sketch below the video. I really like to use it, because the brush position influences the line shape, so if I generate an image it is interesting from where the brush moves towards the new point so it influences the overall generated image. I really like it! it's a really nice calligraphy tool not a simulation in that sense but really fun Last time I showed you some stuff from my transformer, my current research. now I have a small update. Last time I told you it would be nice to use smaller path sections. so I tried this. You can see they are way shorter but also with edges. that's because I stopped using curves. Because If the sections get super small, I can use them to approximate the path as well and it's no problem to smooth that out. but the space of all possible path sections gets way smaller. if I remove the additional curve data. So I trained two transformer models. the top row with a sample image which contained lot's of spirals and the row below with rectangles that are stacked into each other. So I drew some shapes and gave it to my models so that can finish the lines. And it's super fun to see what they do. So the spiral model adds spirals to the end of each shape that this spiral shows in this direction is most likely because the last path segment also shows in this direction. and the model continues this direction. and the circle also just becomes a spiral :D also quite fun in the box behavior. the rectangle model likes to close rectangles of course. so it just adds a little segment to sorta close the rectangle. And then the wavy line... Maybe it thought "What should I do with it?" The triangle is also sorta closed? and with the circle... it seems to try to make a rectangle out of it? Well, those shapes may be a bit ungrateful, because the shapes are already quite long lines. So the longer the lines the more it can confuse the model a bit. Shorter lines are easier. and then it draws rectangles as supposed. You can see it well with this example here: Here I let the model not only finish the line but the whole image. and if we start with the rectangle it finishes the line and then goes on and draws more rectangles. It's similar with the triangle the model seems a bit confused because some rectangles are not really closed but the input image style is visible. Its really nice to see that the rectangles are oriented the same way as the given shape and that's the same way in the input shape. and here the shapes are aligned to the last stroke. so they don't differ but all have the same orientation. that's a really good sign! that shows that there is at least enough context to do that. and it would be really nice to combine this with my brush simulation. So now I can generate paths and the brush could draw along them! That will be fun! So I'm happy with the outcome. And I wonder: am I the only person that personifies this model behavior? :D here, a rectangle: wheeeeeee close here, a triangle eeeeeeeeee close here, a wavy line eeeeeeeeeeee here, a circle eeeeeeeee So, that's basically it for today I have some dates that I want to tell you on sunday I will be in the makercast maybe check out my twitter or other social media I'll post where you can find the livestream because I think it's not completely decided who will host the next episode. It's a nice format where people just talk and show their projects and I'll talk about a new small thing I recently started. I'll also show it in the next episode of WiP ;) also in June will be the EnthusiastiCon! it will be held online and not in berlin this time. It's a super nice, small event about anything that people like about coding and tech the CfP is open now, I think so you can submit your talk and then there is Wikidata Wochenende. Also in June. I already talked about this event in another video i'll link it up here it's also a great event great to meet new people or learn about wikidata. usually it's held at Verschwörhaus Ulm. But it will also be online because of Corona. so, no matter where you live: you can participate. so maybe check out the link in the description and I think the registration is also already open. So that's it. Stay home! maybe craft a face mask stay healthy and see you the next time! 