 And we are recording welcome to another WFH edition of Do Not Touch on Tech, where we covered the latest in emerging technologies. Shall you join us? So have you ever been scrolling through your Postmates and wondering what something tastes like? Maybe you're looking at the hot chicken and you're just like "Wow how hot is that?" It wouldn't be nice if you could just take that screen and give it a little lick preview? So they've created a Taste-vision screen, and what it does is it ejects little gels that you can lick and it'll recreate any flavor you could ever imagine. You can lick your screen. Yep. So did you know that a digital dress was just sold for $9,500? Now how do you sell a digital dress? Can't you just copy them forever and everyone can have their own for free? No. With this digital dress it actually gets recorded on the blockchain so that it proves that you own it, and then they turn it into a custom filter that you can use on Instagram to show off your cool iridescent dress, and nobody else can use it but you. The cool thing is that you don't have to spend a ton of money in fabricating these real clothes that you have to wear out into the real world, which what is that again? AIs are just creating all types of things that don't exist, and now they've created dictionary words that don't exist. So by using a refined model of OpenA...OpenGPT-2...what...OpenAIs OpenGPT....Open AIs OpenG....so using open AIs GPT-2 model and refining it and training it on dictionary words, you can generate all types of new words that don't exist. And so what you do is you hit this site, hit refresh, and it'll give you a whole new word that doesn't exist with a definition that doesn't exist either. Like flapbox. it's just what is a flat box? I don't know. So Scrabble is never gonna be the same again cuz you can generate a word to fit in any of these Scrabble spots. If those people don't believe you then you just show them the definition because it exists and it's real and boom. Scrabble. Throw the board. I'm out. So the islands of Faro have been in some trouble because no one's been able to go visit them lately because of all the virus stuff. But they figured out a clever way around it because they're allowing you to remote-control people on the island with your phone so you can be a virtual tourist, and you see a live webcam from somebody who's across the world in the Faro Islands and its streaming video right off their head, and so on this controller you push up, they will walk forward. You push down they'll go backwards. You hit the jump button. Bloop. Just like Mario, they're up in the air. Just be nice to them. Watch out for those question blocks. Where do you want to go to? Leave your comment below. Toot toot. Well was that a train or a boat? Can you take the train to the outdoors? I don't know. So if you're a fan of Britney Spears and Frank Sinatra, wouldn't it be your dream to just have them come together and do some type of put-together-music-song? What do they call it? Mashups? Mixups? Beatups? Mashup. Yes, a mashup. So OpenAI created Jukebox which has been trained on 9,000 songs. And someone took it and refined it to actually pull up Britney Spears lyrics and have Frank Sinatra singing Britney Spears songs. (Frank singing) I'm addicted to you, don't you know that you're toxic. And I love what do, you do (end singing) Quite a nice rendition of Toxic, if I do say so myself. You know that I'm Toxic. Yeah that was a good song. That's it. I'm Britney Spears and that's it for another edition of Do Not Touch on Tech. Thanks for coming by and spending a few minutes with us, and we hope to see you next time on another edition of Do Not Touch on Tech. 