 Let's see how to quickly and efficiently  make some simple generative music!  First, open your DAW and create some tracks. You  have to create several tracks per musical element,   so that you have several versions that  the system can pick from later on.   Now let's just record all of this. The  different versions of the instrument clips   must be slighty different while fulfilling  the same overall purpose. You'll also need   to organize your composition in different parts  that have some internal logic. For instance,   I'll regroup my clips by chord. This way we'll be  able to play one chord at random amongst those 5,   then play another one at random, and so on. Once  this is done, export all the clips independently,   there are some quick ways to do that in Cubase.  Name the files from the general to the specific:   sequence, section, instrument, version and  so on. In my case, I'm firstly exporting some   accompaniement tracks so I have to indicate that.  If you need info like tempo and time signatures,   indicate that as well, along with some info about  the duration of the clips and the time preceding   the first beat. For each chord, I'll also record 2  dozen short melodic motives that will play on top.   Then you need to open Wwise. Create one bus for  the accompaniement and one for the melody. You   can put some effects on the buses and adjust the  volume for instance. I'll personally use some   reverb, with different settings for each bus.  In the actor mixer hierarchy, create a random   container for your sequence, it will trigger  one chord at random every 6 to 8 seconds.   The container must play in a loop a certain number  of times, in my case it will determine the number   of chords played in a row. Adjust the settings to  your needs. Then, create a blend container for one   of the chords. Inside, create one random  container per instrument type. Route the   accompaniement instruments to the accompaniement  bus and the melodic instruments to the melody bus.   I set up my melody random container so that  it chooses between 0 and 5 melodic motives and   plays them in a row every 1 to 3 seconds. Then,  just copy what you did for all the other chords,   and rename them accordingly. Now just drag  and drop your files into the containers.   Then generate a silent sound sfx, and  insert this in every container. Where you   want silence to be a likelier option, put the  file several times or go into the probability   settings of the associated container. All that  remains is to listen to the result and adjust   the different settings like probabilities,  volume, effects, occurrences or transitions.   It's done, you are now  ready to try your own stuff! 