BusinessOur Company Leidos Holdings, Inc. ("Leidos"), a Delaware corporation, is a holding company whose direct 100%-owned subsidiary and principal operating company is Leidos, Inc. Leidos was founded in 1969 by physicist Dr. Robert Beyster. Since our founding 50 years ago, we have applied our expertise in science, research and engineering in rapidly evolving technologies and markets to solve complex problems of global concern.We use the terms "Company," "we," "us" and "our" to refer collectively to Leidos Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Leidos is a FORTUNE 500® science, engineering and information technology company that provides services and solutions in the defense, intelligence, civil and health markets. We bring domain-specific capability and cross-market innovations to customers in each of these markets by leveraging seven core capabilities: enterprise modernization; cyber operations; operations and logistics; mission software systems; integrated systems; sensors and phenomenology; and mission support. Applying our technically advanced solutions to help solve our customers' most difficult problems has enabled us to build strong relationships with key customers. Our domestic customers include the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), the U.S. Intelligence Community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security ("DHS"), the Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA"), the Department of Veterans Affairs ("VA") and many other U.S. government civilian agencies, as well as state and local government agencies. With a focus on delivering mission-critical solutions, Leidos generated 85% of fiscal 2018 revenues from U.S. government contracts. Building on our foundation in offering innovative services and solutions to U.S. government customers, Leidos serves international government and broader commercial markets. Our international customers include foreign governments and their agencies, primarily located in Australia and the United Kingdom ("U.K."). By leveraging expertise in multiple disciplines, tailoring our services and solutions to the particular needs of our targeted markets and using advanced analytics, we work to securely deliver services and solutions that not only meet customers' current goals, but also support their future missions. For additional discussion and analysis related to recent business developments, see "Business Environment and Trends" in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Our Business SegmentsDuring fiscal 2017, we completed a business reorganization, which resulted in the identification of new reportable segments. We commenced operating and reporting under the new organization structure effective the beginning of fiscal 2017. As a result of this change, fiscal 2016 segment results and disclosures have been recast to reflect the new reportable segments.At December 28, 2018, our business is aligned into three reportable segments (Defense Solutions, Civil and Health). Additionally, we separately present the costs associated with corporate functions as Corporate. Our operations and reportable segments are organized around the markets served and the nature of the products and services provided to customers in those markets. We provide a wide array of scientific, engineering and technical services and solutions across these reportable segments. Less than 10% of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located outside of the United States.Defense Solutions Defense Solutions is focused on rapidly deploying agile, cost-effective solutions to meet the ever-changing missions of our customers in the areas of intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance ("ISR"), enterprise information technology ("IT"), integrated systems, cybersecurity and global services. We provide a diverse portfolio of national security solutions and systems for air, land, sea, space and cyberspace for the U.S. Intelligence Community, the DoD, military services, DHS, government agencies of U.S. allies abroad and other federal, civilian and commercial customers in the national security industry. Our solutions deliver innovative technology, large-scale intelligence systems, command and control platforms, data analytics, logistics and cybersecurity solutions, as well as intelligence analysis and operations support to critical missions around the world. Defense Solutions represented 48%, 49% and 55% of total revenues for fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 1Table of ContentsPART IOur Defense Solutions business offers broad technology, development and integration capabilities and is responsible for leading our efforts in surveillance and reconnaissance, integrated systems solutions and global services for the U.S. Intelligence Community, military commands and other government and commercial customers.•Surveillance and Reconnaissance – We offer a wide range of technologies in multiple domains that address the nation's most critical threats and deliver solutions to the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD and military services. A primary focus is on the DoD's technology organizations, which include the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, Army Research Lab, Air Force Research Lab and Office of Naval Research. Our market concentration is on airborne and ground ISR, maritime systems, electronic warfare systems, distributed sensor systems, autonomous systems and command and control. We provide multi-spectral, airborne, ground and maritime ISR collection and processing systems, advanced sensor design, command and control solutions and training systems.•Enterprise IT and Integrated Systems – We offer extensive software development capabilities for intelligence and information systems and deliver mission and enterprise-level solutions to the U.S. and allied Intelligence Community, DoD, military services, DHS and the Australian Department of Defense. Our markets include cybersecurity, data analytics, enterprise IT and operations and logistics. Our cybersecurity solutions detect and manage the most sophisticated cyber threats. We offer innovative data analytics capabilities, and we design, develop, integrate, deploy and support information-centric software and enterprise IT systems for complex, data-driven national security challenges. Our operations and logistics offerings include enterprise platforms that speed the supply chain of highly complex systems.•Global Services – We provide high-end services to the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD and federal civilian agencies. Operating around the world daily, we provide intelligence analysis, operational support, security, linguistics and training. In addition, we deliver tailored IT services and solutions to our customers across the globe.CivilOur Civil business is focused on seamlessly integrating and protecting physical, digital and data domains. By applying leading science, effective technologies and business acumen, our talented employees help customers maximize their performance and take on the connected world with data-driven insights, improved efficiencies and technological advantages. Civil represented 34%, 33% and 29% of total revenues for fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.•Aviation Solutions – Leidos is a trusted systems integrator serving Air Navigation Service Providers including the FAA, the Transportation Security Administration ("TSA") and airport operators. Our work in airport modernization helps stakeholders achieve stated objectives, including increased operational efficiency and safety, a technology enhanced passenger experience, non-aeronautical revenue enablement and state-of-the-art situational awareness and security. Leidos air traffic control systems are used in Air Navigation Service Provider facilities that control more than 60 percent of the world's air traffic. We work diligently to support the FAA's NextGen program with government accepted systems including En Route Automation Modernization, Advanced Technology Oceanic Procedures, Time Based Flow Management and Terminal Flight Data Management. For the National Air Traffic Services system in the U.K., we offer the SkyLine Air Traffic Management suite to enhance safety, improve on-time performance and increase fuel efficiency. •Security Products – Our Vehicle and Cargo Inspection Systems enable the rapid scanning of vehicles and cargo using patented technology that produces a high-quality image using a low radiation dose while using less space and processing higher volumes of cars and trucks than other scanning systems. Our Reveal line of explosive detection systems for checked airline baggage pioneered the "reduced size" segment of this market with small, flexible systems that can be installed at airport check-in counters. We also have a line of radiation detection systems, which are used today at ports, border crossings and industrial facilities around the world – including most ports and border crossings in the United States.Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 2Table of ContentsPART I •Enterprise IT Services – We deliver secure, user-centric IT solutions in cloud computing, mobility, application modernization, DevOps, data center and network modernization, asset management, help desk operations and digital workplace enablement. We help our customers achieve their missions and business goals by delivering purpose-built solutions, cybersecurity as a standard, efficient project delivery and end-user satisfaction. Leidos is modernizing enterprise IT for CONUS/OCONUS programs in classified and unclassified environments, including programs with the General Services Administration ("GSA"), the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Department of Justice. •Federal Environment and Infrastructure – We are trusted by civilian and defense agencies with substantial environmental and sustainability driven missions. Our pedigree across environmental management, nuclear security, energy efficiency, infrastructure management, mission support and IT modernization provides the applicable expertise needed to transform operations while modernizing aging infrastructure and maintaining environmental stewardship. We support several of the Department of Energy's largest nuclear production, operations and remediation sites. At Hanford, we provide site-wide infrastructure management and operation including oversight of land and logistics, public works, information technology, fleet transportation, environmental sustainability and compliance, first responder services and future project planning. Our environmental engineers and scientists address all aspects of remediation for soil, groundwater, surface water and sediment, including removal, treatment, bioremediation, containment, resource management, land use and institutional controls, air emission control and monitoring and remedy performance monitoring and reviews, including National Emergency Rapid Response.•Logistics – Leidos is a global leader in large-scale, complex operations and logistics. Our programs extend from the bottom of the world on the Antarctic ice to the orbiting outpost that is the International Space Station. Our expertise goes beyond supply sourcing, shipping, warehousing and maintenance as we also provide systems engineering, specialized product support, training and field readiness, base operations, data analytics and software development. We are helping our customers, including the United Kingdom Ministry of Defence ("U.K. MoD"), the National Science Foundation ("NSF") and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ("NASA"), streamline logistics through data analytics so more of their budgets can be applied to their mission activities.  HealthOur Health business is focused on delivering effective and affordable solutions to federal and commercial customers that are responsible for the health and well-being of people worldwide including service members and veterans. Our solutions enable customers to deliver on the health mission of providing high quality, cost effective care, and are accomplished through the integration of information technology, engineering, health and life sciences, clinical insights and health policy. The capabilities we provide are principally encapsulated by four major areas of activity: complex systems integration, managed health services, enterprise IT transformation and life sciences. Health represented 18% of total revenues for fiscal 2018 and 2017 and 16% of total revenues for fiscal 2016.•Complex Systems Integration – Leidos employs whole-systems thinking in fielding applied technology solutions across the entire continuum of care. We are working as the lead systems integrator deploying the next generation electronic health records system to DoD hospitals and treatment facilities worldwide, responsible for architecture, cyber and complex systems integration. We provide information technology solutions to the VA, National Institutes of Health, DoD and other government customers. Commercially, we are one of the largest systems integration and staff support firms for hospitals deploying modern electronic health records, and combined with our federal work, Leidos has a significant presence in electronic health record implementation, optimization and support. In addition, we provide consulting, platform integration services and support across a broad range of health operational activities including value based care enablement solutions, IT strategy, revenue cycle management, accountable care transformation, risk management, technology infrastructure and project management. Our teams are staffed with clinical subject matter experts who draw upon their deep experience and knowledge of healthcare and IT systems.Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 3Table of ContentsPART I•Managed Health Services – We deploy a national footprint of health clinics and health providers to support care delivery services, including medical disability examinations for the Veterans Administration (including behavioral assessments), as well as serving other independent medical exam markets. We have developed unique capabilities in behavioral health management through many decades of experience with a special emphasis on substance abuse services. Our managed health services activities leverage our IT and mission enablement capabilities which underpin solutions we offer to our customers across all of our served markets.•Enterprise IT Transformation – We manage the entire lifecycle of the IT journey for our customers. Our expertise includes IT strategic planning, outsourcing and management of large scale data centers, agile software development and system transformation, cloud migration and application modernization, digitization and advanced analytics. Our customers include the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Food and Drug Administration, Social Security Administration, VA and commercial customers. Leidos helps transform our customers' IT environments in support of their most critical missions. All of this is accomplished in a highly secure manner by leveraging our cybersecurity capabilities.  •Life Sciences – We provide life science research and development support to the National Institutes of Health, Center for Disease Control, Army Medical Research community, commercial biotech companies and the Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research, where we employ approximately 2,300 scientists, technicians, administrators and support staff. Our professionals operate a wide range of leading-edge research and development laboratories in the areas of genetics and genomics, proteins and proteomics, advanced biomedical computing and information technology, biopharmaceutical development and manufacturing, nanotechnology characterization and clinical trials management. From the biomedical sciences to implementing and optimizing electronic health records to enabling providers to perform care coordination and population health management, Leidos is pioneering the use of systems integration principles, processes and technologies to transform the health industry’s evolution towards better quality, more cost-effective and safe care.  CorporateCorporate includes the operations of various corporate activities, certain expense items that are not reimbursed by our U.S. government customers and certain other expense items excluded from a reportable segment's performance. Acquisitions and DivestituresOn August 16, 2016, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Leidos Holdings, Inc. merged with the Information Systems & Global Solutions business (the "IS&GS Business") of Lockheed Martin Corporation in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Lockheed Martin Transaction" and "Note 6—Acquisitions" in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further description of the Lockheed Martin Transaction.During fiscal 2016, we divested of our heavy construction business. For further information, see "Note 7—Divestitures" in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Key CustomersSubstantially all of our revenues are generated in the United States. Our consolidated revenues are largely attributable to prime contracts or to subcontracts with other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. government, with the remaining attributable to international customers, including the U.K. MoD and Australian Department of Defense, and customers across a variety of commercial markets. Within the U.S. government, our revenues are diversified across many agencies, including various intelligence agencies, the U.S. Army, Navy and Air Force, DHS, FAA, TSA, the Defense Health Agency, VA, Department of Health and Human Services, NASA, NSF, the Environmental Protection Agency and research agencies such as the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 4Table of ContentsPART IThe percentage of total revenues for the U.S. government, its agencies and other customers comprising more than 10% of consolidated revenues for the periods presented were as follows:  Year Ended  December 28, 2018 December 29, 2017 December 30, 2016U.S. Government 85% 84% 81%U.S. DoD 47% 47% 56%U.S. Army 13% 13% 14%These customers have a number of subsidiary agencies that have separate budgets and procurement functions. Our contracts may be with the highest level of these agencies or with the subsidiary agencies of these customers.Employees As of December 28, 2018, we employed approximately 32,000 full and part-time employees in more than 30 countries worldwide. The experience and expertise of our employees makes Leidos capable of solving our customers' most challenging technical problems. Approximately 38% of our employees have degrees in science, technology, engineering or mathematics fields, nearly 1,000 employees have doctoral degrees, approximately 39% of our employees possess security clearances and approximately 22% of our employees are military veterans. Research and Development We conduct research and development activities under customer-funded contracts and with company-funded internal research and development ("IR&D") funds. IR&D efforts consist of projects involving basic research, applied research, development and systems and other concept formulation studies. IR&D expenses are included in selling, general and administrative expenses and are generally allocated to U.S. government contracts. For fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, our company-funded IR&D expense was $46 million, $42 million and $44 million, respectively, which as a percentage of consolidated revenues was 0.5%, 0.4% and 0.6%, respectively. We charge expenses for research and development activities performed under customer contracts directly to cost of revenues for those contracts.Intellectual Property RightsOur technical services and products are not generally dependent upon patent protection, although we do selectively seek patent protection. We claim a proprietary interest in certain of our products, software programs, methodologies and know-how. This proprietary information is protected in confidence as trade secrets, using non-disclosure agreements, contracts and other definitive agreements. We selectively pursue opportunities to license or transfer our technologies to third parties.In connection with the performance of services and solutions, the U.S. government has certain rights to inventions, data, software codes and related material that we develop under U.S. government-funded contracts and subcontracts. Generally, the U.S. government may disclose or license such information to third parties, including, in some instances, our competitors. In the case of some subcontracts that we perform, the prime contractor generally obtains rights to use the programs and products that we deliver under the subcontract to perform its prime contract obligations.CompetitionCompetition for contracts is significant, and we often compete against a large number of well established corporations that may have greater name and brand recognition. We also compete against smaller, more specialized companies that concentrate their resources on particular areas, as well as the U.S. government’s own capabilities and federal non-profit contract research centers. As a result of the diverse requirements of the U.S. government and our commercial customers, we frequently collaborate with other companies to compete for large contracts and bid against these same companies in other situations.Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 5Table of ContentsPART IWe believe that our principal competitors currently include the following companies: BAE Systems plc, Booz Allen Hamilton Inc., CACI International Inc., General Dynamics Corporation, L3 Technologies, Lockheed Martin Corporation, ManTech International Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, Perspecta Inc., Raytheon Company and SAIC. These companies span across sectors that include engineering and technical services divisions of large defense contractors, diversified U.S. and international IT providers and contractors focused solely on technical services, supply chain management, other logistics services and major systems operations and maintenance, homeland security and health solutions.We compete on various factors, including our technical expertise and qualified professional and/or security-cleared personnel; our ability to deliver innovative cost-effective solutions in a timely manner; successful program execution; our reputation and standing with customers; pricing; and the size and geographic presence of our company.The U.S. government has indicated that it intends to increase competition for future procurement of products and services, which has led to fewer sole source awards and more emphasis on cost-competitiveness and affordability. The U.S. government is also committed to maintaining a socioeconomically diverse base of suppliers, which may lead to contracts being set aside for smaller businesses. In addition, procurement initiatives to improve efficiency, refocus priorities and enhance best practices could result in fewer new opportunities for our industry as a whole, which would intensify competition within the industry as companies compete for a more limited set of new programs.Contract Procurement Our business is heavily regulated and we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government and other contracts. The U.S. government procurement environment has evolved due to statutory and regulatory procurement reform initiatives. Today, U.S. government customers employ several contracting methods to purchase services and products. Budgetary pressures and reforms in the procurement process have caused many U.S. government customers to increasingly purchase services and products using contracting methods that give them the ability to select multiple contract winners or pre-qualify certain contractors to provide services or products on established general terms and conditions rather than through single-award contracts. The predominant contracting methods through which U.S. government agencies procure services and products include the following:•Definitive Award Contracts. U.S. government agencies may procure services and products through single definitive award contracts which specify the scope of services or products purchased and identify the contractor that will provide the specified services or products. When an agency has a requirement, the agency will issue a solicitation or request for proposal to which interested contractors can submit a proposal. The bidding and selection process can take a year or more to complete. For the contractor, this method of contracting may provide greater certainty of the timing and amounts to be received at the time of contract award because it generally results in the customer contracting for a specific scope of services or products from the single definitive successful awardee.•Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity ("IDIQ") Contracts. The U.S. government uses IDIQ contracts to obtain commitments from contractors to provide certain services or products on pre-established terms and conditions. The U.S. government then issues task orders under the IDIQ contracts to purchase the specific services or products it needs. IDIQ contracts are awarded to one or more contractors following a competitive procurement process. Under a single-award IDIQ contract, all task orders under that contract are awarded to one pre-established contractor. Under a multiple-award IDIQ contract, task orders can be awarded to any of the pre-established contractors, which can result in further limited competition for the award of task orders. Multiple-award IDIQ contracts that are open for any government agency to use for procurement are commonly referred to as "government-wide acquisition contracts." IDIQ contracts often have multi-year terms and unfunded ceiling amounts, therefore enabling, but not committing, the U.S. government to purchase substantial amounts of services or products from one or more contractors. At the time an IDIQ contract is awarded (prior to the award of any task orders), a contractor may have limited or no visibility as to the ultimate amount of services or products that the U.S. government will purchase under the contract, and in the case of a multiple-award IDIQ, the contractor from which such purchases may be made.Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 6Table of ContentsPART I•U.S. GSA Schedule Contracts. The GSA maintains listings of approved suppliers of services and products with agreed-upon prices for use throughout the U.S. government. In order for a company to provide services under a GSA Schedule contract, a company must be pre-qualified and awarded a contract by the GSA. When an agency uses a GSA Schedule contract to meet its requirements, the agency, or the GSA on behalf of the agency, conducts the procurement. The user agency, or the GSA on its behalf, evaluates the user agency’s requirements and initiates a competition limited to GSA Schedule qualified contractors. GSA Schedule contracts are designed to provide the user agency with reduced procurement time and lower procurement costs. Similar to IDIQ contracts, at the time a GSA Schedule contract is awarded, a contractor may have limited or no visibility as to the ultimate amount of services or products that the U.S. government will purchase under the contract.We often partner with other companies, including our competitors, to submit bids for large U.S. government procurements or other opportunities where we believe that the combination of services and products that we can provide as a team will help us win and perform the contract. Our relationships with our partners, including whether we serve as the prime contractor or as a subcontractor, vary with each contract opportunity and typically depend on the program, contract or customer requirements, as well as the relative size, qualifications, capabilities, customer relationships and experience of our company and our partners.Contracting with the U.S. government also subjects us to substantial regulation and unique risks, including the U.S. government’s ability to cancel any contract at any time through a termination for the convenience of the U.S. government. Most of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees for work performed where the U.S. government issues a termination for convenience. These regulations and risks are described in more detail below under "Business–Regulation" and "Risk Factors" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Contract Types Generally, the type of contract for our services and products is determined by or negotiated with the U.S. government and may depend on certain factors, including the type and complexity of the work to be performed, degree and timing of the responsibility to be assumed by the contractor for the costs of performance, the extent of price competition and the amount and nature of the profit incentive offered to the contractor for achieving or exceeding specified standards or goals. We generate revenues under several types of contracts, including the following:•Cost-reimbursement contracts include cost-plus-fixed-fee, award-fee and incentive-fee contracts. These contracts provide for reimbursement of our direct contract costs and allocable indirect costs, plus a fee. These contracts are generally used when uncertainties involved in contract performance do not permit costs to be estimated with sufficient accuracy to use a fixed-price contract. Cost-reimbursement contracts generally subject us to lower risk but generally require us to use our best efforts to accomplish the scope of the work within a specified time and budget. Award and incentive fees are generally based on performance criteria such as cost, schedule, quality and/or technical performance. Award fees are determined and earned based on customer evaluation of the company's performance against contractual criteria. Incentive fees that are based on cost provide for an initially negotiated fee to be adjusted later, typically using a formula to measure performance against the associated criteria, based on the relationship of total allowable costs to total target costs. •Fixed-price-incentive-fee ("FP-IF") contracts are substantially similar to cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts except they require specified targets for cost and profit, price ceiling (but not a profit ceiling or floor) and profit adjustment formula. Under an FP-IF contract, the allowable costs incurred are eligible for reimbursement but are subject to a cost-share arrangement, which affects profitability. Generally, if our costs exceed the contract target cost or are not allowable under the applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all costs and may have our fees reduced or eliminated.Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 7Table of ContentsPART I•Time-and-materials ("T&M") contracts typically provide for negotiated fixed hourly rates for specified categories of direct labor plus reimbursement of other direct costs. This type of contract is generally used when there is uncertainty about the extent or duration of the work to be performed by the contractor at the time of contract award or it is not possible to anticipate costs with any reasonable degree of confidence. On T&M contracts, we assume the risk of providing appropriately qualified staff to perform these contracts at the hourly rates set forth in the contracts over the period of performance of the contracts.•Fixed-price-level-of-effort ("FP-LOE") contracts are substantially similar to T&M contracts except they require a specified level of effort over a stated period of time on work that can be stated only in general terms. This type of contract is generally used when the contractor is required to perform an investigation or study in a specific research and development area and to provide a report showing the results achieved based on the level of effort. Payment is based on the effort expended rather than the results achieved.•Firm-fixed-price ("FFP") contracts provide for a fixed price for specified products, systems and/or services. This type of contract is generally used when the government acquires products and services on the basis of reasonably definitive specifications and which have a determinable fair and reasonable price. These contracts offer us potential increased profits if