BusinessOur Company Leidos Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Leidos") is a holding company whose direct 100%-owned subsidiaries and principal operating companies are Leidos, Inc. and Leidos Innovations Corporation ("Leidos Innovations"). Leidos was formed in 1969 by a small group of scientists led by physicist Dr. Robert Beyster. Since our founding 49 years ago, we have applied our expertise in science, research and engineering in rapidly evolving technologies and markets to solve complex problems of national concern.Leidos is a FORTUNE 500® science, engineering and information technology company that makes the world healthier, safer and more efficient by providing services and solutions in the defense, intelligence, civil and health markets. We bring domain-specific capability and cross-market innovations to customers in each of these markets by leveraging seven core capabilities: cybersecurity; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; operations and logistics; sensors, collection and phenomenology; software development; and systems engineering. Applying our technically advanced solutions to help solve our customers' most difficult problems has enabled us to build strong relationships with key customers. Our domestic customers include the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), the U.S. Intelligence Community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security ("DHS"), the Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA"), the Department of Veterans Affairs ("VA"), several other U.S. Government civil agencies and state and local government agencies. With a focus on delivering mission-critical solutions, Leidos generated 84% of our total revenues from U.S. Government contracts for fiscal 2017. Building on our foundation in offering innovative services and solutions to U.S. Government customers, Leidos is expanding into international government and broader commercial markets. Our international customers include foreign governments and their agencies, primarily located in the United Kingdom, the Middle East and Australia. By leveraging expertise in multiple disciplines, tailoring our services and solutions to the particular needs of our targeted markets and using advanced analytics, we work to securely deliver services and solutions that not only meet customers' current goals, but also support their future endeavors. For additional discussion and analysis related to recent business developments, see "Business Environment and Trends" in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.We use the terms "Company," "we," "us," and "our" to refer collectively to Leidos Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. In March 2015, we changed our fiscal year end from the Friday nearest the end of January to the Friday nearest the end of December. As a result of this change, we filed a Transition Report on Form 10-K for the 11-month period which began on January 31, 2015, and ended on January 1, 2016. Our Business SegmentsDuring fiscal 2017, we completed a business reorganization, which resulted in the identification of new reportable segments. We commenced operating and reporting under the new organization structure effective the beginning of fiscal 2017. As a result of this change, prior year segment results and disclosures have been recast to reflect the new reportable segments.At December 29, 2017, our business is aligned into three reportable segments (Defense Solutions, Civil and Health). Additionally, we separately present the costs associated with corporate functions as Corporate. Our operations and reportable segments are organized around the markets served and the nature of the products and services provided to customers in those markets. We provide a wide array of scientific, engineering and technical services and solutions across these reportable segments. Less than 10% of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located outside of the United States.Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 1Table of ContentsPART IDefense Solutions Defense Solutions is focused on rapidly deploying agile, cost-effective solutions to meet the ever-changing missions of our customers in the areas of intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance ("ISR"), enterprise information technology ("IT") and integrated systems and cybersecurity and global services. We provide a diverse portfolio of national security solutions and systems for air, land, sea, space and cyberspace for the U.S. Intelligence Community, the DoD, military services, DHS, government agencies of U.S. allies abroad and other federal, civilian and commercial customers in the national security industry. Our solutions deliver innovative technology, large-scale intelligence systems, command and control, data analytics, logistics and cybersecurity solutions, as well as intelligence analysis and operations support to critical missions around the world. Defense Solutions represented 49%, 55% and 64% of total revenues for fiscal 2017, fiscal 2016 and the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, respectively.Our Defense Solutions business offers broad technology, development and integration capabilities and is responsible for leading our efforts in surveillance and reconnaissance, integrated systems solutions and global services for the U.S. Intelligence Community, military commands and other government and commercial customers.•Surveillance and Reconnaissance – We offer a wide range of technologies in multiple domains that address the nation's most critical threats and deliver solutions to the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD and military services. A primary focus is on the DoD's technology organizations, which include the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, Army Research Lab, Air Force Research Lab and Navy Research Lab. Our market concentration is on airborne and ground ISR, maritime systems, sensor systems, autonomous systems and command and control. We provide multi-spectral, airborne, ground and maritime ISR collection and processing systems, advanced sensor design, command and control solutions and training systems.•Enterprise IT and Integrated Systems – We offer extensive software development capabilities for intelligence and information systems and deliver mission and enterprise-level solutions to the U.S. and allied Intelligence Community, DoD, military services, DHS and the Australian Department of Defense. Our markets include cybersecurity, data analytics, enterprise IT and operations and logistics. Our cybersecurity solutions detect and manage the most sophisticated cyber threats. We are highly skilled in data analytics, and we design, develop, integrate, deploy and support information-centric software and enterprise IT systems for complex, data-driven national security challenges. Our operations and logistics offerings include enterprise platforms that speed the supply chain of highly complex systems.•Global Services – We provide high-end services to the U.S. Intelligence Community, DoD and federal civilian agencies. Operating around the world daily, we provide intelligence analysis, operational support, security, linguistics and training. In addition, we deliver tailored IT services and solutions to our customers across the globe.CivilOur Civil business is focused on seamlessly integrating and protecting physical, digital and data domains. By applying leading science, effective technologies and business acumen, our forward thinkers are helping customers maximize their performance and take on the connected world with data-driven insights, improved efficiencies and technological advantages. Civil represented 33%, 29% and 24% of total revenues for fiscal 2017, fiscal 2016 and the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, respectively.•Aviation Solutions – Leidos is a trusted systems integrator serving Air Navigation Service Providers including the FAA, the Transportation Security Administration ("TSA") and airport operators. Our work in airport modernization helps stakeholders achieve stated objectives, including increased operational efficiency and safety, a technology enhanced passenger experience, non-aeronautical revenue enablement and state-of-the-art situational awareness and security.  Leidos air traffic control systems are used in Air Navigation Service Provider facilities that control more than 60 percent of the world's air traffic. We work diligently to support the Federal Aviation Administration's NextGen program with government accepted systems including En Route Automation Modernization, Advanced Technology Oceanic Procedures, Time Based Flow Management and Terminal Flight Data Management. For the NATS system in the United Kingdom, we offer the SkyLine Air Traffic Management suite to enhance safety, improve on-time performance, and increase fuel efficiency. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 2Table of ContentsPART I•Security Products – Our Vehicle and Cargo Inspection System ("VACIS") systems enable the rapid scanning of vehicles and cargo using patented technology that produces a high-quality image using a low radiation dose while using less space and processing higher volumes of cars and trucks than other scanning systems. Our Reveal line of explosive detection systems for checked airline baggage pioneered the "reduced size" segment of this market with small, flexible systems that can be installed at airport check-in counters. We also have a line of radiation detection systems, which are used today at ports, border crossings and industrial facilities around the world – including most ports and border crossings in the United States. •Enterprise IT Services – We deliver secure, user-centric IT solutions in cloud computing, mobility, application modernization, DevOps, data center and network modernization, asset management, help desk operations and digital workplace enablement. We help our customers achieve their missions and business goals by delivering purpose-built solutions, cybersecurity as a standard, efficient project delivery, and end-user satisfaction. Leidos is modernizing enterprise IT for CONUS/OCONUS programs in classified and unclassified environments, including programs with the General Services Administration, the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Department of Justice. •Federal Environment and Infrastructure – We are trusted by civilian and defense agencies with substantial environmental and sustainability driven missions. Our pedigree across environmental management, nuclear security, energy efficiency, infrastructure management, mission support, and IT modernization provides the applicable expertise needed to transform operations while modernizing aging infrastructure and maintaining environmental stewardship. We support several of the Department of Energy's largest nuclear production, operations and remediation sites. At Hanford, we provide site-wide infrastructure management and operation including oversight of land and logistics, public works, information technology, fleet transportation, environmental sustainability and compliance, first responder services, and future project planning. Our environmental engineers and scientists address all aspects of remediation for soil, groundwater, surface water, and sediment, including removal, treatment, bioremediation, containment, resource management, land use and institutional controls, air emission control and monitoring, and remedy performance monitoring and reviews, including National Emergency Rapid Response.•Logistics – Leidos is a global leader in large-scale, complex operations and logistics. Our programs extend from the bottom of the world on the Antarctic ice to the orbiting outpost that is the International Space Station. Our expertise goes beyond supply sourcing, shipping, warehousing, and maintenance as we also provide systems engineering, specialized product support, training and field readiness, base operations, data analytics, and software development.  We are helping our customers – including the United Kingdom Ministry of Defence ("U.K. MoD"), the National Science Foundation ("NSF") and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ("NASA") – streamline logistics through data analytics so more of their budgets can be applied to their mission activities.  HealthOur Health business is focused on delivering effective and affordable solutions to federal and commercial customers that are responsible for the health and well-being of people worldwide including service members and veterans. Our solutions enable customers to deliver on the health mission of providing high quality, cost effective care and are accomplished through the integration of information technology, engineering, health and life sciences, clinical insights and health policy. The capabilities we provide are principally encapsulated by four major areas of activity: complex systems integration, managed health services, enterprise IT transformation and life sciences. Health represented 18%, 16% and 12% of total revenues for fiscal 2017, fiscal 2016 and the 11-month period ended January 1, 2016, respectively.•Complex Systems Integration – Leidos employs whole-systems thinking in fielding applied technology solutions across the entire continuum of care. We are working as the lead systems integrator deploying the next generation electronic health records system to DoD hospitals and treatment facilities worldwide, responsible for architecture, cyber and complex systems integration. We provide information technology solutions to the Department of Veterans Affairs, National Institutes of Health, DoD and other government customers. Commercially, we are one of the largest systems integration and staff support firms for hospitals deploying modern electronic health records, and combined with our federal work, Leidos has a significant presence in electronic health record implementation, optimization and support. In addition, we provide Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 3Table of ContentsPART Iconsulting services and operational support focused on addressing solutions to health care legislation, IT strategy, revenue cycle management, accountable care transformation, risk management, technology infrastructure and project management. Our teams are staffed with clinical subject matter experts who draw upon their deep experience and knowledge of healthcare and IT systems.•Managed Health Services – We deploy a national footprint of health clinics and health providers to support care delivery services, including medical disability examinations for the Veterans Administration (including behavioral assessments), as well as serving other independent medical exam markets. We have developed unique capabilities in behavioral health management through many decades of experience with a special emphasis on substance abuse services. Our managed health services activities leverage our IT and mission enablement capabilities.•Enterprise IT Transformation – We manage the entire lifecycle of the IT journey for our customers. Our expertise includes IT strategic planning, outsourcing and management of large scale data centers, agile software development and system transformation, cloud migration and application modernization, digitization and advanced analytics. Our customers include the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Food and Drug Administration, Social Security Administration, VA and commercial customers. Leidos helps customers transform our customer’s IT environment in support of their most critical missions. All of this is accomplished in a highly secure manner by leveraging our cyber security capabilities.  •Life Sciences – We provide life science research and development support to the National Institutes of Health, Center for Disease Control, Army Medical Research community, commercial biotech companies and the Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research, where we employ about 2,200 scientists, technicians, administrators and support staff. Our professionals operate a wide range of leading-edge research and development laboratories in the areas of genetics and genomics, proteins and proteomics, advanced biomedical computing and information technology, biopharmaceutical development and manufacturing, nanotechnology characterization and clinical trials management. From the biomedical sciences to implementing and optimizing electronic health records to enabling providers to perform care coordination and population health management, Leidos is pioneering the use of systems integration principles, processes and technologies to transform the health industry’s evolution towards better quality, more cost effective and safe care.  CorporateCorporate includes the operations of various corporate activities, certain expense items that are not reimbursed by our U.S. Government customers and certain other expense items excluded from a reportable segment's performance. Acquisitions and DivestituresOn August 16, 2016, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Leidos Holdings, Inc. merged with the Information Systems & Global Solutions business (the "IS&GS Business") of Lockheed Martin Corporation in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction (the "Transactions"). The acquired IS&GS Business was renamed Leidos Innovations Corporation. See "