 Hi, I’m Stefan from Siemens PLM Software. Today I would like to show you how Simcenter Solutions can help you to frontload system and software integration validation for the aerospace industry by using a digital twin aircraft. This twin allows you to assess behavior of the aircraft and it’s avionics controllers long before prototype availability. Airplanes are among the most complex mechatronic systems in today’s transport industry and even more since the increasing presence of controls systems and software on-board. Their development process is not only longer, but also much more expensive than that of an average car. Identifying errors late in the design process can lead to big delays in the aircraft program and to high costs. Therefore, potential design issues should be identified as early as possible. By frontloading your controls design and validation, the PLM flight simulator does exactly that. The Siemens flight simulator setup demonstrates how a pilot can experience a simulated flight with it's senses. It includes a virtual scene featuring the cockpit’s view, as well as dashboard to make the experience even more realistic. Real-time models describing the aircraft behaviour are completely physics-based and therefore extremely accurate. 1D multi-physics models of brakes and aerodynamics in LMS Imagine.Lab Amesim are combined with 3D multi-body airframe and landing gear models in Simcenter 3D. Such co-simulation facilitates interaction between a pilot, the avionics controller and the aircraft. It allows for real-time validation of the avionic software from the very early stages of the design process onwards. Now, let’s have a look at how the flight simulator works. In this scenario our commander performs a rejected take off manoeuvre because an engine fails. This failure is induced by a switch on the simulator. The pilot tries to stay on the runway by controlling the rudder, the nose wheel and the brakes. The simulator makes it possible to check landing gear forces, brake torx and braking temperature. Our pilot-in-the-loop setup enables to tune the aircraft handeling and controller behaviour based on the pilot feedback and the simulated results. So, in short, next to software-in-the-loop, model-in-the-loop and hardware-in-the-loop, Siemens PLM now offers a pilot-in-the-loop simulation that allows you to validate aircraft behavior in real time. Thank you for watching, please visit the Siemens PLM website for more detailed information. 