 At the 2020 Perth grains research update – growers and advisers got a sneak peek at latest plant disease diagnostic technology being developed in the US. So we’re very interested in new diagnostics that are quicker and can detect disease prior to symptom development in the field. Professor Jean Ristaino directs the Emerging Plant Disease cluster at North Carolina State University. Alongside engineering collaborator Dr Qingshan Wai, Jean and the research team have created new technology that can identify crop disease in the paddock via a smartphone. Generally, when diseases are identified, you have to go out in the field, get a sample, bring it into the laboratory, either isolate the microbe in culture or do a DNA analysis, which can take days to weeks for a diagnosis. So the technology we're developing is more rapid and it can be deployed in the field and it's really a simple technology that anyone could use. There are two different in-field sensors – one analyses volatile organic compounds (VOCs) – while the other analyses DNA. Both technologies have been proven to accurately identify disease before symptoms have occurred. When a plant becomes infected by a pathogen or an insect pest, it releases a series of volatile organic compounds. And these volatile compounds are signatures of infection. So what we've figured out with some fungal pathogens is we can inoculate a plant and before symptoms occur, within two days after inoculation, the plant starts to emit the volatiles. We can read the volatile signature and identify the pathogen before symptoms. The VOC sensor works by placing a leaf in a small container for about 15 minutes. A device attached to a smartphone then sucks air into a chamber that contains a paper strip. The strip is embedded with an array of chemical reagents that change colour when they come into contact with a specific chemical group. After just 1-minute the strip will be able to indicate which disease is present – and it’s proven to be 98% accurate. The micro needle technology is a small patch.The second sensor uses plant and pathogen DNA to identify disease. It’s called micro needle patch technology. Micro needle patch technology has been used for a number of years now in the medical field. If you know someone that has diabetes or is trying to stop smoking, you may have seen a patch being used. They're used to deliver drugs in humans, but they also can be used to gather information like blood sugar levels, etc. So we're taking this micro needle technology and applying it to plants so that we can actually measure the health of the plant, measure the DNA content, or we can measure what pathogen is there. So the micro needle technology is kind of a new technology that will allow us to monitor plant health. So how’s it work? Well - a micro needle patch is attached to the leaf of a suspect plant, held in place for a few seconds, then peeled off. It’s then rinsed with a buffer solution to wash genetic material off of the micro needles into a sterile container. From there, specific assays are run to identify which disease is present. We're running a lamp assays, which are isothermal, very rapid quick assays for identification of pathogens in many crops aren't infected by one pathogen. They might have multiple pathogens. So by tailoring the cocktail of assays in our lamp essay, we can identify we can multiplex and identify multiple pathogens at the same time from the DNA. We remove the DNA from the patch within about a minute after puncturing the leaf. A typical DNA extraction can take hours or even days, depending on how elaborate you get using expensive kits. These patches cost sense to produce and they and we can make them out of biodegradable materials as well so that they'll, you know, we want to have to deal with plastic. So far the team at NC state has focused on using these sensors to detect key fungal pathogens for the potato and tomato industries – but with such promising results – the scope of the project is expanding into bacterial and viral diseases as well as more crop types. We started out the work with phytophthora infestans. It's the pathogen that caused the Irish famine. It infects potato and tomato and it results in billion dollar losses globally. We're planning on scaling the technology into the field and looking at multiple pathogens as they occur in space and time. We're also interested in the data collection. The wireless collection and then creating maps of outbreaks from that data. So we're working in that area right now using both micro needles and the volatile sensors. Sensor technology that can be attached and left on plants is also being explored – meaning growers could be immediately alerted to pathogens even if they’re not physically standing in the paddock. Wearable sensors might allow us to monitor plant health over over time. And but they have to be resilient to climate. And ideally, we want to wirelessly transmit data and not have to physically go out and remove the patches or the volatile sensors. So these are the kinds of things we're working on now, deploying in the field because all of our work's been done in a phytotrons a plant growth chamber and we haven't deployed them in the field yet. So that's really the next big step to know if they're going to be field ready. With a lot of commercial interest around these two sensors, Jean’s optimistic about the future of this technology and its adoption across the grains industry. So we have a lot of future direction we can go with this technology.The more I read outside of the discipline of plant pathology and traditional diagnostics and read more and to the work that's going on in the medical community, I'm seeing a lot of opportunities for new applications of this technology in agriculture. You know, people growers are spending more money on technology and data analytics. Crop consultants are using this data to monitor farms over space and time. And I can see this technology fitting in nicely into crop monitoring platforms that are growers are already starting to buy into. Professor Jean Ristaino, plant pathologist at North Carolina State University. And this video is one in a series of update videos recorded at the 2020 GRDC grains research updates. 