 Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Look if you would with you would check your mic for me. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Let's make sure we can hear you. Okay. LUKE HARLOW: Hear me Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Yep, I can hear you. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: And your screen, you can go ahead and do that. Maxine Hunter: Morning. Maxine Hunter: Good morning, Aaron and Luke. Maxine Hunter: How are we today. LUKE HARLOW: We're good. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Oh, wow. Excellent. Maxine Hunter: So I will mute myself and hide and I'm here. Maxine Hunter: So if you needed To Maxine. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: So, well, I'm will be monitoring the chat for you. And then if you have a space where you want to pause, we'll, we'll Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Kind of come in and ask questions if they're appropriate at the time. If not, we can save them to the end and then if we don't get to the questions will will save them and send them out for people that will be here you just won't get okay Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: And then Max and I will both be monitoring. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Emails to make sure everybody can get on. Okay, so Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: And for those of you that are on already. If you want to go ahead. I checked. I put something in the chat box. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: With just asked where you were from. So if you want to go ahead and start filling it that in and getting used to, where the chat is so you know where to ask questions, you can do that. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Thanks. And just so you know. It looks like we maxed out. I put 100 people for this class and we maxed out on the event bright. So I did just open it up again. So I'm so if anybody's looking to try and get on. They can't. I didn't realize that we had all the tickets. So Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: I did open up some more slot. Maxine Hunter: Yeah, we've been getting an average of Maxine Hunter: Two to 300 registered for some of our other events. Maxine Hunter: We've had I'm just maxed out the zoom capacities that we have. So Maxine Hunter: Fun times Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Yeah, that's great. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Yeah 16 on right now so we're Maxine Hunter: I'll definitely keep an eye open and then Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Perfect, thank you. Um, and like I said we've got some people starting to fill in, in the chat, if you would. If you're just joining us, go ahead and find the chat box and put where you are. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Where you are from in that chat box for us. And so far, we've got Pinellas County tarp and springs, which is Pinellas we've got somebody from southwest England, so that's that's fun. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: And welcome, Orlando St Pete Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Polk County. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Marion County. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Orange County several Orange County's Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Snowbird welcome. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Luckily this topic is one that can go anywhere. So that's doesn't really matter where you're from. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: And we'll give them. Just a minute more look we've got about 25 on right now. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Okay, somebody from Rhode Island. LUKE HARLOW: And for the LUKE HARLOW: Person from England. I'm sorry. We won't be using leaders. I'll have to be using gallons as a water. LUKE HARLOW: So that might LUKE HARLOW: trip you up a little, but beyond that most of the information LUKE HARLOW: Should be comparable. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Excellent. Be a county. Excellent. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: So look, I know you have a lot of information to go over Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: We've got about again 25 on so they'll continue to come in. If you want to wait just a minute. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Maybe three minutes or so and then we'll let you get started. I know. Like I said, you have a lot to cover. So LUKE HARLOW: Yeah, well, let's just wait. LUKE HARLOW: Maybe another two, three minutes just to LUKE HARLOW: See if people trickle in. And then we'll get started. Owner: See this matter so they have a side because Owner: This one is the Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Are you ready LUKE HARLOW: I am ready. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Okay, so I wanted to welcome everyone today to the getting your victory garden. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: This is one of our Wednesday presentations that we have as part of the victory garden, our victory 2020 garden program. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: If you're not part of that community will put the link in the chat for you if you have questions during the presentation. Just going to put it in the chat and we'll make sure that Luke gets to it. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: And with that, I'm going to turn off my video and mute and Luke, you can go right ahead. LUKE HARLOW: Alright, so LUKE HARLOW: Aaron, what we're going to be talking today is about irrigating and watering your victory garden, just as a small introduction of myself. LUKE HARLOW: I work here in Union County, Florida, as the agricultural natural resource agent and county Extension director for the University of Florida Extension Service. LUKE HARLOW: So give you a little hang on one second. Here we go, give you a little background on myself. I've been with the university for about five years now. Um, LUKE HARLOW: A lot of what I work with is farmers and ranchers. So a lot of my clientele work more with raising livestock and also large crop production facilities them kind of small smaller gardens. LUKE HARLOW: But a lot of my background actually is in irrigation before I was an extension. I was licensed irrigation contractor within Northeast Florida and about four or five surrounding counties. LUKE HARLOW: And previous to that I actually worked down in Orange County. So it's the old a bunch of you're down there right now. LUKE HARLOW: And I used to work at SeaWorld in Orlando, as one of the the main irrigation contractors and then as the leader occasion technician for aquatica and discovery coast. So those are some of the theme parks that are in Orlando. LUKE HARLOW: So a lot of my experience and in water systems has been from small residential homes to some of the pictures that you see where I'm watering large escapes. LUKE HARLOW: And then large cropping systems as well. I will say that that photo on the left is not me, but I have been there, done that. LUKE HARLOW: So we tend to get very wet and and dirty when it comes to irrigation systems. So feel free throughout this presentation, asking questions you might. I'm going to try to breeze through. So we have kind of a Q AMP. A at the end. LUKE HARLOW: But really what I want to talk about today is three main questions. And that's what do you have what options are out there to irrigate your gardens with LUKE HARLOW: Are we going to use overhead sprinklers. And we can use drip systems. What do you have out there that you can use to irrigate and then really, how do you set it up. LUKE HARLOW: Because we might take a look at a drip system and irrigated a little differently than we would an overhead system. LUKE HARLOW: And ultimately, which I'd like to spend the most time on is when you should actually be watering how to build a schedule so that your crops on your garden is going to actually thrive and grow and produce like you want to LUKE HARLOW: With that you're engaged in there is no silver bullet. When it comes to a specific time that a certain crop is going to need LUKE HARLOW: For how long you should water your system. There's going to be a lot of variables that go along with it. So I cannot realistically tell you if you've got a Rain Bird sprinkler. LUKE HARLOW: You need to run it for 45 minutes on your given property because there are a lot of variables between soil weather region. We've got a bunch of people from different states. The, the weather climate is going to be a little different than it is down here in Florida. LUKE HARLOW: Even between where I am and kind of North Central Florida to South Florida. It's going to be a bit different. LUKE HARLOW: And then we take a look at the irrigation selections design a dad plays a factor of what you're using and then also what crops, you're using LUKE HARLOW: Are we talking about lettuce versus watermelon. The water requirements are going to be quite a bit different. LUKE HARLOW: So what we're really going to talk about is a very broad approach to a much larger topic of irrigating crops. LUKE HARLOW: I'm not going to be able to hit on everything within the hour time that we have. But hopefully, if you've got questions. I'll leave a little time at the end. And then, if you've got questions will write them down and I'll see if I can answer it after this at the end of the session LUKE HARLOW: So taking a look at it. You've got three gardens right here that that are pretty different. You've got on the left photo of garden that, to be honest, as an art piece. LUKE HARLOW: very intricate design for for the the layout. LUKE HARLOW: And it's going to be a little different irrigate this versus the right photo, which is in straight lines, it would be very easy to set up your vacation for the right photo. LUKE HARLOW: For the left photo, you're going to have to do a little more detail work and in trying to get that water correctly. LUKE HARLOW: So what I wanted to start with is kind of going through some of the options that you've got and really before you purchase and start working using system, you want to ask yourself a couple questions really and main one is what we're getting at here again. LUKE HARLOW: Are you just a single, single crop that you've got a lot of corn or do we have a lot of multiple crops that we're working with in our garden. Are we doing, let us so we do in courbet's. Are we doing LUKE HARLOW: You know, kale, broccoli, you know, because each one of those is and may take a little different water than some of the others. And then what's the size and scale of your garden. Are we talking just a backyard patio some some planters that you have tomato plant planted. LUKE HARLOW: Are we talking about something in your backyard that you just decided to fill up some of the grass put in about a quarter of an acre of beds. LUKE HARLOW: And now you need to get irritated. How's it laid out is that backyard Laden's, you know, very defined rose LUKE HARLOW: Or is your garden going to be kind of organized chaos where you've got tomatoes. Their tomatoes over on the other side, you've got kind of a mixture of meandering pathways throughout. So some of those, you're going to have to take into a factor of how you irrigated LUKE HARLOW: Another big point is what is your water source for those of you. Some of you may be an urban areas where you're in a subdivision. And you may be getting your water for your garden. LUKE HARLOW: From your city water supply. Others may be pulling their water from a private wealth source. So knowing some of the differences between those two and we will go over those LUKE HARLOW: You know, might lend you to go this way or that way. Water Efficiency is something that we'd like to look at because we want to make sure that your, your location is is pretty much LUKE HARLOW: Getting the maximum amount of water onto those vegetable gardens, as we, as can be. So in effect, we're looking the water that you're putting out. We want to make sure that is going from point A to point B directly to the plants and being used by the plants 100% LUKE HARLOW: So that's that would be a good efficiency we never really see it 100% because let's be honest, there is no system that is going to give an exact amount of water that the plants need LUKE HARLOW: But typically, we try to get the efficiency as as best as we can. And then what's the time and labor that you have to devote to this. LUKE HARLOW: Is hand watering cost effective over putting in a drip system. Probably, yes. But do you have the time and labor to be able to hand water, a huge garden. LUKE HARLOW: over just a small patio gardens and taking some of those questions that you might want to ask yourself before you kind of start into setting up the irrigation system so LUKE HARLOW: let's kind of go through a few of the options. We just talked about hand watering. Um, this is a very cheap. You know method of watering. LUKE HARLOW: And and it's got some benefits. You've got really no wind drift your hose is probably going to be dumped in that water right where you want it. LUKE HARLOW: So you're not going to really get the wind carrying it away or doing anything of that nature. LUKE HARLOW: Also, it's really cheap. I mean, the low maintenance. You're not going to really have to replace things over the years. LUKE HARLOW: The problem we wanted run into with hand watering is a it's kind of poor uniformity and this is a little different than efficiency that we're talking about. LUKE HARLOW: Think of uniformity as almost a blanket. We want to make sure that the amount of water that is hitting that tomato plant. LUKE HARLOW: Is the same amount of water that's hitting that tomato plant two feet away or 10 feet away. So we're trying to create almost a uniform coverage of water over a given area. So normally, that's kind of lower when we're talking about just hand watering. LUKE HARLOW: There's also a lot of time and labor. If you are not doing just a small patio garden or a container garden. If you've got a garden this size. LUKE HARLOW: It's going to take you a while to hand water it and you're going to be spending a couple hours doing it. So do you have that time every day or every other day to water your garden, just by hand watering. LUKE HARLOW: The other thing with with hand watering. Is it is technically a high water user, we kind of sometimes think that, well, we're getting it right at the plant so it's it's using that water. LUKE HARLOW: But the amount of flow that comes out of that that garden hose is actually pretty high. We're talking about three to 10 gallons per minute. LUKE HARLOW: Out of that garden hose, which is a pretty high water user. So in that sense, usually hand watering. We don't classify as very efficient as a system because you're using a lot of water. It's really not uniform. So usually the LUKE HARLOW: You know, the, the irrigation efficiency is kind of low LUKE HARLOW: So you've got other options out there overhead irrigation is definitely one of them. I think that's one of the ones we're most familiar with is, is what we normally use for our landscape and lawns. LUKE HARLOW: Low maintenance. Normally, you know, you might have to replace a sprinkler if it gets hit or clogged up or something like that. These do have good uniformity. LUKE HARLOW: Most sprinklers are designed and manufactured and as they are installed properly have a very good uniformity. So you know that that tomato plant right here on point A is going to get the same amount of water as 110 feet away and point the LUKE HARLOW: problems we have with overhead is normally because we're blowing water in the air and if there is wind and and heat, you're going to get evaporation and wind drift, especially if we're doing it during the middle of the daytime. LUKE HARLOW: So that's kind of one of the main problems that we have with with overhead irrigation. They do tend to be high water users as well. You can make them lower by using a specific nozzle or sprinkler. LUKE HARLOW: But really the flow rate is one to four gallons per minute. And that's per sprinkler. LUKE HARLOW: So even if you have a smaller area and you've just got four sprinklers one on each corner, you're using possibly 16 gallons a minute. LUKE HARLOW: So these do tend to be high water users as well. But because they're designed to have a good uniformity. The efficiency of this sort of system is a bit better than just hand watering usually anywhere from about 60 to 85% efficient. LUKE HARLOW: As we keep going up the line. LUKE HARLOW: soaker hose and a lot of people will use these especially in smaller gardens and vegetable gardens and these are great because they are classified as low flow. LUKE HARLOW: Whereas, we're talking, you know, gallons per minutes in the overhead irrigation, we now start talking about gallons per hour. LUKE HARLOW: When we start talking about soaker hose and micro irrigation. So a lot less water given over time for your garden. But the benefit is you're putting it right at the the soil surface and hopefully right at that plant. LUKE HARLOW: Where are the roots can pull it up. So that's the benefits of soaker hose. Some of the disadvantages. The uniformity is not great. LUKE HARLOW: You're figuring you're no longer kind of wedding, a large surface and a blanket. You're just almost getting a specific line where this to this following LUKE HARLOW: So if your root system goes beyond let's say six inches to a feat of this to it's going to be dry and so you've got to take that into account for how you lay your soaker hose out to make sure that as your plant grows the root systems are going to still be able to pull up the water LUKE HARLOW: Efficiency, because we're using low flow. It's getting it right to the soil. We don't have wind drift. We don't have about evaporation. The efficiency of these systems is usually 80 to 90% which is to be honest about as good as you can get. LUKE HARLOW: So kind of want to last major options that's out there is going to be micro or drip irrigation and there's one. Some of you may be doing this. Some of you may have heard of this. LUKE HARLOW: This is very much like soaker hose, but instead of having little pores throughout the entire tubing, you now have kind of emitters that are spaced about 12 inches apart 18 inches apart or 24 inches apart to kind of do the same thing. LUKE HARLOW: Pretty much the same advantages and disadvantages of soaker hose. LUKE HARLOW: main difference is going to be the cost. So this is where LUKE HARLOW: You may need to look at, at the cost and how much money you have to devote to setting up a system because normally it's more expensive than you would let's say an overhead system. LUKE HARLOW: Because you've got a lot more fittings, a lot more components and they are just going to be a little more pricey. So you're going to have to take that into consideration when you start trying to install an irrigation system. LUKE HARLOW: Kind of give you some specifics more on micro irrigation, because there are so LUKE HARLOW: Many options out there in the stores as you go by Lowe's Home Depot as any of those types of stores that that carry this LUKE HARLOW: They're going to have these little fittings. These little emitters. And what is each of them mean what what is each of them do. So it's kind of gives you a general idea of LUKE HARLOW: What the uses and kind of what are some of the descriptions and benefits of each one. LUKE HARLOW: So drip line which you're seeing in the upper left photo that is literally tubing, where every 12 inches if there is a manufacturer mitter in it that just slowly trickles out water. LUKE HARLOW: And you can kind of see the generalized flow rates of between drip line which is what you're seeing versus drip tape. LUKE HARLOW: Which is another version that we usually use for more commercial purposes, and these are great for row crops long runs or longer or large gardens. LUKE HARLOW: You also have drip emitters that you can use, which is pretty much just regular tubing doesn't have holes in it. LUKE HARLOW: And what you're going to do is take that that kind of circle limiter and puncture it into the two which will kind of have that same effect of the previous mentor and just kind of trickle water out. LUKE HARLOW: Same thing. It's just another option you can use these and container gardens larger open space plantings. LUKE HARLOW: And then you can kind of look at their micro sprays which almost look like a mini sprinkler head and they're usually on stakes. They usually kind of fan out water. LUKE HARLOW: These ones we usually kind of designate for either fruit trees. LUKE HARLOW: You know container gardens smaller gardens kind of smaller areas because they will use a little more water. LUKE HARLOW: than some of the others. And they do spray it a little more than some of the others. And then you can kind of look at someone like a bubbler option, which just is kind of trickling water outs. LUKE HARLOW: These typically typically have a LUKE HARLOW: Greater flow than some of the other micro emitters, and other things, but they are still classified as micro because it's low and it still is technically low flow. So those are some options. LUKE HARLOW: When you go to the stores, you will see little packets that you can get an individual sprays and nozzles and emitters. LUKE HARLOW: Or you might have this that you can look at and they do sell kits that if you don't want to buy the tubing. You don't want to buy the emitters. You don't want to buy the the filters and everything that you need. LUKE HARLOW: Most of the stores will now sell them as kits. And so here are a couple options that that you will find either in the stores or online. LUKE HARLOW: Really what you're going to have to decide is what's more appropriate for your garden. LUKE HARLOW: Are you doing a big kind of open space, like you see in the upper left. Sorry, upper right hand photo or do you have kind of smaller container gardens or raised beds, like you do in the bottom right hand photo. LUKE HARLOW: You notice that each of these options has different things in it. So take a look in it, make sure it's appropriate for what you want and what you're going to need for your area. And so we'll kind of go through some of that in the LUKE HARLOW: Next section that we we kind of go through about how to lay out how to design one LUKE HARLOW: So we talked a little about water source and and kind of what you're pulling from these are really the main three that you might be pulling from there may be one or two other options, but most likely you're either a municipal water supply. LUKE HARLOW: Your city or, or, you know, government is providing you water through their, their water supply or you have a private well that you're pulling it up through a pump system. LUKE HARLOW: reclaimed water is another option that is out there a lot of urban subdivisions are using reclaimed water landscape. LUKE HARLOW: You can use this to water your vegetable garden. However, if you're not as familiar with reclaim it is recycled sewage water so it has been has been processed. LUKE HARLOW: And purified, to a certain extent, but not to the point where it can be used as drinking water. So there are still some possibilities of contaminants bacteria. LUKE HARLOW: That can be within that water. So there's why we don't want to use it for drinking purposes. LUKE HARLOW: If you are using overhead irrigation for your vegetables. I don't recommend reclaim if you can convert it to drip irrigation where it's getting on the soil. LUKE HARLOW: And not getting on the fruits that is is acceptable in any case I do recommend washing your fruit, especially if you're using reclaimed water afterwards, just to be on a precautionary side. LUKE HARLOW: If you're also usually. Yes, ma'am. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: All right, I just wanted to just jump in there and that reclaimed. I'm just eat a guidelines. If you are using reclaimed water. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: You know, you use it like saying it's not the best thing, but any fruit, where you're eating the skin. That's where you really want to be careful with it. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: If you're not feeling it. For instance, and they don't recommend these to reclaim for that. So you might want to look into like a rain barrel system or sister or something like that, instead LUKE HARLOW: Yeah, that's a very good point is, again, just we that fruit production. LUKE HARLOW: You know, so anything tomatoes, blueberries, all that sort of stuff. We just want to make sure, but it is an option that you can use, not when we recommend, but it is there as an option. LUKE HARLOW: When we start getting into reclaim private. Well, it is also kind of more essential, especially if you're using drip that your system needs to be filtered LUKE HARLOW: There are particular it's when we're talking about minerals sand iron that can clog up drip emitters or micrometres because they're a much smaller opening than you would have a sprinkler. LUKE HARLOW: So we do generally recommend about a 200 mesh filter be used. These are some options that you can use that you might have to order a 200 mesh filter be can kind of see LUKE HARLOW: You know the size of particles that we're trying to collect added that filtration that we need to add of micro irrigation. So I mean we're collecting beach sand find sand centamin minerals LUKE HARLOW: Even rust flake. So that's kind of what we want to filter out out of a micro irrigation system. So it does not clog up LUKE HARLOW: Other components that you will need to look into back flow is one of them. And this is kind of like what Aaron was saying this is more as a precautionary LUKE HARLOW: safety concern. Most of you may have this on your residential homes for, especially if you're on a city water supply. LUKE HARLOW: This device is really there to protect the water source or your home water from having back flow issues and contamination issues from other sources. LUKE HARLOW: So if you've got an irrigation system that's connected to your house line. This thing is there to prevent your irrigation water from flowing backwards into your house water supply or back into the city lines or back in the odd prefer depending on what system you're looking at LUKE HARLOW: So this is really kind of one of those necessity things for health safety issue some areas some counties actually require this by coding, some do not. But especially you know when we're talking about LUKE HARLOW: Irrigation and outside, you can get bacteria within those irrigation line. So it's probably a good thing to have a back flow of some nature. LUKE HARLOW: On your system. If you're installing LUKE HARLOW: Your vegetable gardens can be set up with an automatic controller to. I mean, that's not a bad thing. LUKE HARLOW: One difference that we usually give with vegetable production versus let's say landscape or turf. LUKE HARLOW: Usually we can kind of set a very specific schedule on a season and with landscape and we just have to adjust it with vegetables. There is a very, very specific LUKE HARLOW: Amount of water as they produce and grow and fruit and mature that we want to make sure that we're getting. So you do have to pay a little more attention. LUKE HARLOW: To adjusting your, your schedule based on your controller. If we're talking about vegetable production, um, you also may still need to add a rain sensor in Florida. It is a Florida statute that every automatic system has to have a range shut off device. LUKE HARLOW: Depending on if you're in a different state or even a different country. This may or may not be similar. So take a look at your local coding and state coding LUKE HARLOW: But in Florida, if you've got an automatic system. It's got to have a rain sensor attached to it. LUKE HARLOW: So other options and Aaron made a comment on it as about a rain barrel rain harvesting LUKE HARLOW: Great option to do for small vegetable gardens potted you know patio container plans if you've got a large size garden. This is probably not going to be something that will help you out dramatically when we're talking about the pressure that is needed to push out that water. LUKE HARLOW: a rain barrel itself is probably not a great option need a pump to be added, push it. LUKE HARLOW: Because by itself. If you just open up a valve at the bottom, you're only going to get about less than two psi worth of pressure to be able to push that water out, which is not going to get you even a garden hose. LUKE HARLOW: You know, pressure. So I just want to kind of give this comparison. If we're looking at out of the park really weird train tank car and we put it vertical LUKE HARLOW: That gives us enough vertical distance where we have gravity pushing down on it to give us about 24 psi, which you could run an irrigation system off that LUKE HARLOW: But again, if you're just doing a small patio rain barrel is going to be perfectly. Great. You also can kind of see based on your surface area of a roof. LUKE HARLOW: How much water you can get off of a roof when we're talking about water versus how much your rain barrel can hold. So, but it's a great option to do for small container gardens in small areas. LUKE HARLOW: So go into the next section, we talked about some of the options that are out there. LUKE HARLOW: Now let's get into, okay, I want to do drip irrigation. How do I set that up and it's really going to dictate by what your garden is do you have those uniform rose, you have curving rose LUKE HARLOW: What's your water source, how, how big is this area. How much drip tubing. How many sprinklers. Am I going to need for this whole surface area of your garden, and then also take into account. LUKE HARLOW: What crops are using are you growing corn. If you're using overhead irrigation, you're going to have to get above that corn. LUKE HARLOW: So, I mean, you're going to have to accept those sprinklers up to six, seven feet high, to get over that corn. LUKE HARLOW: If you're using overhead irrigation. So it might be better to use drip in that sense. So you get at the root zone but just realizing some of the crops that you're growing, you may want to use one or the other, and then possible expansion, so LUKE HARLOW: We have a garden and it continually expands over and over again. And so, you know, you take a set up a specific system for your garden and then by next season. You want to add more and more. So realize that you might have to also expand your irrigation system over time. LUKE HARLOW: So some of the general design principles that we like to see really pressure and flower driving forces when it comes to setting up an irrigation system. LUKE HARLOW: If you've got a very small patio or small garden, you're probably not going to need to worry about this too much. But when we're talking about larger areas. We want to make sure that the water LUKE HARLOW: Outputs now. I think I got that backwards on there. Do not exceed the water inputs. So what you're trying to push out of the system and get the water on the crops. LUKE HARLOW: Cannot exceed what you've got available from your water source. So let's take this example of a pump which is going to do a max flow of 16 gallons per minute. So you figure every minute, this thing's pushing out 16 gallons of water. LUKE HARLOW: And in your garden, you've got five sprinklers each doing three gallons a minute. So you're trying to push out 15 gallons a minute this is fine. You're, you're a member amount that you're asking it and put out is pretty equal to what it can handle. LUKE HARLOW: But if we go to the far end, and let's say your gardens under job conditions. You don't know what's going on. LUKE HARLOW: So you decide to add more sprinklers to it. And now you add AIDS. So now you're trying to push out 24 gallons per minutes LUKE HARLOW: But you're pumped can only handle 16 gallons per minute. That's where we run into a lot of low pressure issues, which is what you're seeing in the upper right hand corner. LUKE HARLOW: So this is what we don't want. We want the range of what your outputs are to be equal or less than your inputs. What you can provide. But on the flip side, let's say you just install one sprinkler do fall 360 and that's all you got. LUKE HARLOW: Now, you're really kind of undersized doing it and your system is trying to push out 16 gallons a minute, but you're only being able to push out three or four gallons a minute. LUKE HARLOW: If you're on a pumping system. This is going to create some problems, but you're also going to create a lot of high pressure which is what you're kind of seeing on the bottom right hand corner, which creates a lot of missing. LUKE HARLOW: And it's not good for that uniformity and neither one of those two photos is good for uniformity. LUKE HARLOW: We also want to take a look at how you lay out your drip lines or your sprinklers LUKE HARLOW: To make sure that LUKE HARLOW: They are uniform. They are all kind of equal and what the LUKE HARLOW: Output that gallons per minute is and that pressure is LUKE HARLOW: So on the LUKE HARLOW: Right road. LUKE HARLOW: Yes, ma'am. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: All right, I didn't mean to interrupt you and you may get to this. But how, where do we find the pump, like the pump. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Go back down to that one slide. Now the number for the point where would we find that at where are you going to tell us how we define that. LUKE HARLOW: Though they know it's a good question. So LUKE HARLOW: It depends on where your well is but some have submersible pumps which literally the pump is LUKE HARLOW: In the well underground LUKE HARLOW: So if you don't have documentation on that. It's a little harder to figure out what your flow rate what your max capacity is if it's above ground you should have something that looks very similar to that picture, that one's a stay right LUKE HARLOW: It could be a number of others. But what you will have to do if you don't have the paperwork, the manual that goes with it. You can look online. There are some serial numbers on those pumps. LUKE HARLOW: That you can look up to find out the the manual and they can spit you out a PDF manual that should give you the max flow rate of what you can do and the pressure that these operate bad. So now it's a very good question. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Thank you. LUKE HARLOW: So back to this. LUKE HARLOW: We want the lines, especially the drip lines to kind of be uniform and. And when I look at the most left depiction in that green box that's kind of what we want. We want it to almost be tree form. LUKE HARLOW: Where LUKE HARLOW: Each sprinkler probably has the same distance from the source and you're almost trying to create an equilibrium in the system. Whereas if you go to the right box which is labeled wrong. LUKE HARLOW: That that left photo, which just follows a single line around the pressure at that first circle which is going to be a sprinkler is going to be different than what is that the endpoints. LUKE HARLOW: Sprinkler. And so you see some variation on efficiency and uniformity. So we don't really want it to look like that. And I couldn't find a vegetable photo but LUKE HARLOW: This is kind of what happens if, excuse me, sprinklers or emitters on space right where you get these dead areas. LUKE HARLOW: That that sprinkler isn't able to hit. And so if they're not spaced close enough where one sprinklers hitting to the next, or one emitter is not kidding, to the next and wedding, a pattern. LUKE HARLOW: And getting uniform coverage, then you're going to have certain plants that will just not get as much water as as others. And I'll show you a photo in just a second. Actually right here. So, LUKE HARLOW: What we also want is to make sure that you know you don't over engineer this or under engineer this. And so the left photo. LUKE HARLOW: It's a great depiction of Square Foot Gardening I tepid typically wouldn't recommend using the irrigation lines to designate your Square Foot Gardening though. LUKE HARLOW: There are a lot cheaper ways like yarn to do it. So this specific method how he did it. That's all drip line. So you've got emitters that are LUKE HARLOW: Pouring out water out of that at it at some points. LUKE HARLOW: Each of those that probably has about 50 some odd fittings that you're going to have to purchase and put in LUKE HARLOW: And the labor that would, would it must have taken to cut those equally and space them all apart, put them all together. LUKE HARLOW: When you could have done something differently and run one line up the center between both those boxes, and then just made that kind of tree form look with the drip tubing. LUKE HARLOW: You probably would only have to purchase 10 fittings and save yourself some money. So we also want especially on drip. Remember earlier I said drip lines usually come in 12 inch 18 inch and 24 inch spacing for the emitter LUKE HARLOW: So this is a depiction of something that that may not work for this person because they either use the 18 inch LUKE HARLOW: Board or their Myspace is just not appropriate for the crop that they've got LUKE HARLOW: They're going to have to run this system for a very long time to get that wedding pattern to get all those crops and all those plants. LUKE HARLOW: So just make sure when you're buying the product. If you've got smaller plants, lettuce, carrots, radishes, you're either going to have to buy the 12 inch drip tubing or you might want to do something like a micro spray that's going to get a little more surface area. LUKE HARLOW: A lot of times I get asked, well, what, what's the proper design for drip lines and which side of the planet. Do I put my drip on really LUKE HARLOW: It doesn't matter too much if if we're doing double drip lines versus single LUKE HARLOW: Just realize you are if you're doing two lines on either side of the plan, you are doubling your water output. LUKE HARLOW: So when you go into scheduling just realize that and take that into account that based on both those lines, you're doubling your water so you're going to have to adjust that in the time that you run it. LUKE HARLOW: If you're just running a single line. Um, it really doesn't matter on what side you run the drip line. LUKE HARLOW: The only exception. I usually give is if you're in an area that has elevation change. So if you've got a slope. LUKE HARLOW: Put it on the higher end of the slope so that gravity will pull it down to that plants if it's on the lower end, it's going to pull it away from that plan and that plan is going to have a harder time getting it. LUKE HARLOW: But beyond that, it really I've seen a lot of different variations. You've got a lot of row crops, your lines, but on the bottom right, you've just got pretty much a spaghetti. LUKE HARLOW: Design for for drip tubing, which is perfectly fine. You're getting water to eat plan and then really that's what matters. And usually, that's one of two things we're getting water the plant. And really, I want to make sure it's the cheapest option that that you can do. LUKE HARLOW: So if you've got raised planners. This is an option drip is great for this. You could also do micro sprays instead. This is a bad I helped a school do a couple years back. I think the kids got a little overzealous with the amount of lines. LUKE HARLOW: Really I, if I remember their space about every four inches. These could have been spaced about every eight to 12 inches and you could minimize the amount of tubing that us, but this would be a perfect example of what you could do for raised planner bed. LUKE HARLOW: And then you've got this. This is another option. This one's pretty much just kind of very eclectic bed. LUKE HARLOW: You know and and so you've got to meet us here on the left side, you've got tomatoes at the back of the property. You've got kale here you've got Karen's here. LUKE HARLOW: So if you're wanting more of these drip is a possibility, you're going to have to spend a little more labor and getting it to the beds. LUKE HARLOW: This one I was done with just overhead. You can kind of see the sprinklers along the fence line on rising risers. LUKE HARLOW: So this one just waters, the whole area and I know one of the main reasons that that was done was because these beds kind of rotated and moved LUKE HARLOW: You know the beds kind of shifted the pathway shifted so every season, you're going to have to relocate all your drip lines. So this, which is an option, but this would be another option that you could do. LUKE HARLOW: Alright, any questions so far, Aaron. Are we doing good on time. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: You're doing great. Thanks. We're gonna hold the questions until the end. LUKE HARLOW: Okay, great. LUKE HARLOW: Because this is really where we start working with scheduling. And I know that's where we have a problem. A lot of problems as gardeners. LUKE HARLOW: My, my tomatoes. Not looking good. I now have cracked tomatoes. Why did it cracked LUKE HARLOW: Why do my plants look guilty in the middle of the daytime. So this should help kind of guide you a bit through some of the reasons where we we tend to fall short on scheduling. LUKE HARLOW: On a lot of it is going to be dependent on several questions soil content is really a key factor when we're talking about irrigation and scheduling water systems. Do you have sandy soil is your makeup more clean. Is it more lay low LUKE HARLOW: You know, so those are all really good questions to know or answers to know to be able to figure out how and when you need to water weather patterns rainfall need to take these into account when we're setting up our, our irrigation scheduling. LUKE HARLOW: what system do you have, and what's the outputs, is it putting out too much water do I somehow have to break that up into multiple times. LUKE HARLOW: Excuse me. And then what does the crop need crop individual crops. When we're talking about species and then even crop maturity that what stage do you need to change or watering regime to be able to provide enough water for that crop. LUKE HARLOW: So when we're talking about scheduling. I'm really a on the lower kind of diagram with the flowers. LUKE HARLOW: What we want is the plants to have available water which is kind of on the middle of the scale. LUKE HARLOW: And really watering plants is a balancing act too little. They die too much they die. LUKE HARLOW: And so I usually like to kind of make analogy of a sponge when we're we're kind of talking about this where when we're using us bunch to watch our dishes, we, what do we do, we probably saturated. We run in under the thing. It starts dribbling at water. LUKE HARLOW: That's where we're at the saturation. Part of that's punches full it's draining water out of it, it cannot hold anymore. And so you can think of the soil in that context of saturation point LUKE HARLOW: It's trying to drain out because it it it just can't hold anymore. This is not a good area for plants. This is where they stand in water and we're too much water is a bad thing as well. LUKE HARLOW: So as we start going up the scale when we're talking about that sponge, you kind of wring it out. LUKE HARLOW: It's still moist. It's still holding water but it's no longer draining it out. And so that's really that that field capacity and that that time when it's available to the plan. LUKE HARLOW: That's where we kind of want the soil to be. And have you know enough water for the plants to to actually pull up LUKE HARLOW: When you set that sponge aside it start drying out. You start to get to the wilting point and then ultimately once it's dry. It's to surpass LUKE HARLOW: The, the permanent wilting point which is pretty much THERE'S NO MORE WATER IN THAT SPONGE OR that soil for the plants to us and it dies. LUKE HARLOW: So really when when we're talking about water. We want it to be kind of towards that middle we need that moisture there for that plan to us, but we don't want it to be standing in the water, but we also don't want it to dry out too quickly. LUKE HARLOW: When we're talking about commercial producers, they are using some real time data. LUKE HARLOW: You know with ETF fo transpiration. They are using rain sensors to guide them. And this is a chart that that pretty much shows that balancing act of they want to stay within a very specific range where it's not too dry, not too wet. LUKE HARLOW: It's much harder for us as homeowners and small gardeners to do that. We don't have rain sensors. And so there are certain methods that you can do just by looking at it as my plants under drought. Okay, now I know it's time to water. LUKE HARLOW: Crop water demand is what we usually use on bigger systems where we're using some some measurements and data devices to figure out a scheduling pattern. LUKE HARLOW: What we'll talk about today is more systemic method which is we're talking about time and volume we don't go over certain parameters like soil and weather, but it should kind of give you an idea of what to look for. LUKE HARLOW: Really, first off, though, you do need to know about your soil, not really going to go into it. I think you guys have you haven't LUKE HARLOW: Learned about soils. This kind of gives you a little idea but drainage, we know and soil and sandy soil, it's going to drain a lot quicker and faster than it would if it's clay based or even loan based LUKE HARLOW: And so kind of knowing how quickly it drains out should give you an idea of how often you need to water. LUKE HARLOW: Weather patterns are really going to be key is your area seasonally and regionally. Do you have a lot of rainfall that you may not need to water as much LUKE HARLOW: Are you under drought conditions, you know, so us Drought Monitor system is a good place you're trying to find out in the United States. I am sorry, UK, I'm assuming you probably have some resources like this, that would be for your areas. Well, LUKE HARLOW: If, if you're in the state of Florida. We also have the Florida automated weather network on that you can look at to that gives you good data. LUKE HARLOW: soil temperature. How hot is it outside at different LUKE HARLOW: Heights through the air rain patterns precipitation, so you can find out a lot of good information to help you create a schedule going forward. LUKE HARLOW: You can also use stuff like this. Regionally, we do have LUKE HARLOW: Charts and information like this where it's we know different crops are going to use different amounts of water have different amounts of drought resistance versus others so certain plants like lettuce radishes spinach. LUKE HARLOW: In the grand scheme of things. Yes, they require water but it's going to definitely be a lot less water needs, then we would a watermelon would do. LUKE HARLOW: Our fruits, a lot bigger with watermelon, you're, you're trying to create a much bigger baby and you're going to need more nutrients and more water to sustain that they LUKE HARLOW: So that you can use this chart is kind of a guideline certain other areas in United States. This may not, it may fluctuate, but this is more typical for Florida and what we see. LUKE HARLOW: And then some of those critical stages when we're talking about fruit set versus some plants state doesn't matter when they just need continual monitoring of water. LUKE HARLOW: So other kind of scheduling factors that that you really want to take into consideration if you can watering in the early morning is probably still one of the best times that we recommend LUKE HARLOW: We don't want to work watering during the day because of that heats that wind evaporation and wind drift issue. We want that water to be in that that garden and really get to the plants that you needed to LUKE HARLOW: Watering late at night also can bring in some disease and leave spot issues that we also don't want to see. So in early mornings probably still one of the you know best times to water. LUKE HARLOW: Watering longer periods of time, but less frequent is also still, even with vegetables probably going to be a, you know, one of those recommended practices, it's going to encourage those roots to kind of go down deeper and grow better LUKE HARLOW: If the roots. Just stay at the surface, you've got that heats and and Sun will bake off and evaporate. Some of the the moisture that's in the top where the roots are and damage. Some of the plants we want it to really kind of get down more deeper in the soil. LUKE HARLOW: If you're in sandy soils, Florida. LUKE HARLOW: You may need to think about watering in different times and split applications. So we'll go through a process shortly that talks about, you may need to water. LUKE HARLOW: You know 70 minutes in a week. And so you don't want to just do that all in one shot. LUKE HARLOW: Because most of that will probably go way further down than the root systems and what we want it to. You may have to break that up, even in a day, you may have to water once in the mid morning once in a later afternoon. LUKE HARLOW: mulching is still a really good practice for moisture retention and so that reduces the amount of water that we need to give it. So whether you're using pine straw or hey you know whatever you're using as a mulching agent. We really do recommend mulching those those beds. LUKE HARLOW: And some of us may still have to follow local watering restrictions. If we're talking local in Florida drip irrigation micro irrigation even reclaimed water usually falls outside of our local water restrictions. LUKE HARLOW: But if you're not in Florida, and then in certain parameters, you may have to follow water and restrictions. So just, you know, contact your local governments, your state agencies, they may have different requirements. LUKE HARLOW: So we've talked a lot about a lot of factors that go into scheduling. So how do we actually schedule. So this is what we're going to be talking about the rest of the time is we know as a principle that plants are going to need one to two inches of water per week. LUKE HARLOW: To grow and thrive. LUKE HARLOW: This is, this comes with a caveat, which we'll talk in a few minutes. But we know that's that's a general guideline that we give LUKE HARLOW: Based on that guideline, we can actually create you a schedule for irrigation. So we know LUKE HARLOW: One inch of water in a given thousand square feet, you're going to need to dump 620 gallons of water over that thousand square feet to give you one inch of water. So all those numbers downwards. LUKE HARLOW: Are from a one inch of water standpoint, not a two inches. So if you feel you need two inches. Just double that time or that that amount of gallons. LUKE HARLOW: So if we're talking one square foots of surface area. It's going to be point 624 gallons of water that you're going to need to put on that per week to get you one inch of water. LUKE HARLOW: So we can kind of take a look at that and based on your system, we can kind of build you a water schedule. So, first thing we need to know is how big is your garden. LUKE HARLOW: Easiest thing, hopefully is a rectangle length times with that should give you your full square footage, the surface area of that garden. If it's not a rectangle. You might have to go back to high school math and kind of figure out if it's a circle, what the LUKE HARLOW: Excuse me, this, this area of your garden. LUKE HARLOW: Excuse me. LUKE HARLOW: Once we have that, we can use that formula based on one square foot and give you a total amount of a square foot that total amount of gallons that your garden is going to need per week, based on that one inch of water per week recommendation. LUKE HARLOW: How you figure that out with your system. It's going to be a little different. I kind of gave you a couple ideas if you're using sprinklers LUKE HARLOW: Versus micro emitters versus drip line you can kind of use one of these three pathways to figure it out. It's drip line, you're going to have to take the total linear footage. How much tubing, you have of your drip line. LUKE HARLOW: Figure out the distance of your emitters. So whether you're using that 12 inch spacing 18 or 24 divided to get your total number of mentors times it by the water flow of each submitter and usually that's in gallons per hour. LUKE HARLOW: And then we want to put it in gallons per minute. So you divide that by 60 to get you gallons per minutes LUKE HARLOW: And that should give you your water output and gallons per minute of your drip line system. Hopefully I didn't lose anyone there we can answer some of the questions that you might have in the Q AMP a section. LUKE HARLOW: But this will give you a kind of a clear picture of how much water your system puts out per minute. LUKE HARLOW: And then we can build you based on how much water your needs. How much water your garden needs versus what your system can put out LUKE HARLOW: And then we just divide them to figure out the time you need to run your system in minutes to apply the total gallons that you need on a given week for one inch of water. LUKE HARLOW: So this can kind of start to give you an idea of what you need to do for a watering schedule. So I did want to give you at least an example to kind of walk you through that very quickly. LUKE HARLOW: So we've got a rectangle garden right here 35 feet by 50 feet. So we got 1700 and 50 square feet worth of surface area. LUKE HARLOW: We know we've got five sprinklers LUKE HARLOW: That are there. LUKE HARLOW: And so each of those sprinklers puts out three gallons per minute. So our sprinkler system is going to be putting out 15 gallons per minute. LUKE HARLOW: And so we know that we can build that system. LUKE HARLOW: And through that that calculation, we know the system is going to put outs or needs to run for 73 minutes per week. LUKE HARLOW: Now, granted that is going to be, you know, per week at the one inch of recommendation recommendation rate. The problem that we have with that. That's one inch of water per week. LUKE HARLOW: This system does or this calculation really does not take into other scheduling aspects like regional difference LUKE HARLOW: Weather patterns soil structure crops species crop maturity, or the efficiency of your irrigation system. So it gives you a very good baseline of what you need. And that's why there is a one to two inches of have recommended rate. LUKE HARLOW: So it's not a great method. It's not a silver bullet, but it should give you a kind of baseline of what you need to use for your watering schedule. LUKE HARLOW: There are other options that you have available. There are mobile apps that you can get and use LUKE HARLOW: This one is one that put out for Florida. LUKE HARLOW: And you have specific applications for vegetable production blueberry irrigation. LUKE HARLOW: You have to know some of the specifics on your region and your irrigation system, you'll put in a little information or ask a little information, but ultimately it will spit out your LUKE HARLOW: Schedule that you can use for your vegetable garden. LUKE HARLOW: I know that's a lot to go over LUKE HARLOW: In such a short time. Normally I teach a lot of this in about two to four hour classes and we went through a lot in you know the the last, you know, 40 minutes to an hour so LUKE HARLOW: Really take home messages in our what you want to use and how you're going to use it are really going to be affected by your garden design your crop selection in your available water source. LUKE HARLOW: Also when and how often you have to water is really going to be dependent on several factors, your soil composition crop maturity and other environmental factors. LUKE HARLOW: But hopefully this kind of gave you an idea of what you may need to do for watering. LUKE HARLOW: And kind of gave you what you might want to use or maybe what you're using already LUKE HARLOW: So that's really all I've got for now I put a couple of, you know, resources that you can also look at kind of go a little more in depth on on some of the scheduling aspects. LUKE HARLOW: But thank you for listening and hopefully I mean, at this point, I'll open it up for questions. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: If you have any questions, go ahead and put them in the chat box. We have a couple that come in. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: So the first one is, what is the best way to provide a larger scale system on municipal water source on the scale up 250 plus Microsoft spray emitters. LUKE HARLOW: Okay, so LUKE HARLOW: Are you are you looking LUKE HARLOW: With what is the problem with using your municipal water supply. Are we seeing low pressure or LUKE HARLOW: Are we talking LUKE HARLOW: Water savings because I'm sure that's you know if that's under your municipal water supply is probably eating from your house fed and you're LUKE HARLOW: Paying for that water. LUKE HARLOW: So it may be where you're using a substantial amount of water. LUKE HARLOW: Is that kind of what your Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: If they Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: If they reply. LUKE HARLOW: One reason I can't get the job. LUKE HARLOW: So I cannot see. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: OK, the next question was how much improvement and is there an arrow emitters, so like the the drip type of meters. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: That they use for the gardening and I didn't say kind of win, but just says how much improvement is I don't know they've changed in a couple years. LUKE HARLOW: Um, yeah, if we're talking about the actual LUKE HARLOW: Manufacturing if like there's been improvements down through the years, they've gotten a little better. You know, down from, you know, the 60s and 70s upwards to now I don't clog as much. They're a little more efficient and then the LUKE HARLOW: spray patterns. LUKE HARLOW: A lot of it. Also, they are now, including with pressure compensating on so that you're not if, if you've got high water pressure LUKE HARLOW: There is a pressure compensated that you can add to it. LUKE HARLOW: To reduce that so you don't get misting LUKE HARLOW: If we're talking about from improvement. If we're talking from sprinklers there. There's a good LUKE HARLOW: Amount of improvement from overhead irrigation when we're talking about the water efficiency, how well it's being used and getting to the plants and ultimately the soil contact is really where we want it to be. LUKE HARLOW: So from overhead irrigation. There is definitely an improvement, but if you're talking about from LUKE HARLOW: The actual manufacturing of the sprays and nozzles. They haven't changed drastically by they have seen improvements down through the years. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Okay, thank you. I think that's the only other questions we had that are posted right now. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: We will post these this video are very victory 2020 community page. The where we have the archived on the Wednesday classes. If you do want the PowerPoint as well. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: I think we'll post it in the Canvas course if you're a member there, if not email Luke or myself and we can get that to you. I think with some of the scheduling and calculations, they might want the actual document so Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: If you're good with that. LUKE HARLOW: And I'll be more than happy to help anyone else that I can LUKE HARLOW: You know, absolutely. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: Right at 12 o'clock, so that's awesome. All right, questions with Jim anything else. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: We want to thank you very much. Erin Harlow - UF Columbia County Extension: For that very important LUKE HARLOW: Thank you everyone. 