 Hi my name is Virgile and welcome to Mitwy. Do you have problems with watering your plants? Did you ever think about letting your kids watering them for you? If you have, then you are at the right place. Alright, let's do it! Okey so this is how the story starts. I enjoy to have plants, I think it adds to a room. I don't know how much it adds to clear the air, but it does improve the atmosphere :) Our home has a few plants, and it can take some time to water them... We decided to take one and to add it to the kids room. And they did water it for a while. Until they didn't... I thought that a solution might exits, so I went on looking But I realized rather quickly that nothing was going to help my kids understand the concept of watering plants. So I sat down with my daughter and we pushed the discussion which ended up by drawing a solution. The ultimate solution. From the problem, an idea emerged and grew into a concept. Something or someone should tell her that the plant needs water. From that point on I went on prototyping. I wanted to use wood. Wood feels warm, comforting, and I could let my daughter paint it, just the way she likes it. I also wanted to do the housing in 3D printing. And so I went for wood PLA 3D printing. The material I am using is 40% pine wood and 60% PLA. PLA is an easy to print vegetable-based plastic. It's made from corn starch or sugar cane and so the printed parts are theoretically biodegradable. This is my first functional prototype. There is a cavity in it to put in the Arduino Uno. For the sensor I am using a capacitive sensor. It measures a change in an electric field. So depending on the water in the ground it will change the electric field. If I take my plant and push in the sensor. Right now it is pretty dry so the electric field would have a hard time to go through. Then I add water, the electric field changes and the color changes on the screen. I thought that I could do better than a box, so I looked to shape the concept. It would be nice to make an animal that would be there to protect the plant. So I tried to make a fox in 3D, but I sucked at it and realized that it would take me way too long to achieve what I wanted. I thought about doing photogrammetry, so take one of my kids toy, make multiple pictures of it and then do the rendering in 3D. But I didn't really had the toy or the shape that I wanted to work with. So I went on Thingiverse, took a fox that I thought looked cute and told myself that I could always change it later. I emptied it, resized it, sliced it in two to be able to easily 3D print it, then glued it together. And there is this cavity to put in the LCD screen with the Arduino Uno. Like that. With the connectivity on the top. And then if your plant needs water or not the color on the LCD screen will change. That's it! At this point, I had some concerns with the design. I don't want my kids to watch a screen to water their plant, it doesn't make sense. And the electronic takes a lot of place in the Fox. Which makes the Fox quite big next to the plant. For the electronics, I decided to go from the Arduino Uno to the Nano which is a big size improvement. For the screen issue, I thought that this fox could also be a learning process by helping my kids to learn colors from it. And so, the screen turned into a light. Which in time was also going to help them to be less scared at night. To be able to have the light pass through, the fox is printed without infill. There is two printed walls next to each other that help to let the light pass through it. Prototyping was done and we were pretty happy about it. It worked. I wasn't watering the plant and my daughter was happy to do it! I thought that making this project could be fun for other people too. It was time to take a step back and see how to improve and share. They were still two things bothering me. Different plants need different amount of water, how could I let the user configure his Fox depending on the plant? And how could I ship it if people would be interesting of having it as a product but not to do the soldering or the 3D printing ? For the configuration, it would be cool if the user could control the Fox through a mobile app to change colors or humidity level. The best solution would be to have Bluetooth for mobile app connectivity and WiFi to be able to let people update their Fox. Alright so you make ask yourself, why Bluetooth and WiFi? So bear with me for tow minutes and I will explain you why. So their is yourself their with a phone and an app on it. There is MrFox with his eyes, his nose, very happy to be there. There is a plant with healthy leave that had enough water. And there is one more element which is not hear, it's the API. You have a connection between you and the Fox in Bluetooth. Why Bluetooth? Bluetooth is fast to connect, it gives me a connection ready to be used within five seconds. With WiFi it would be more between ten to fifteen. It's Bluetooth Low Energy and not Bluetooth classic to be able to easily update this app to the app store (iOS). The downfall from this is the data exchange between them that is not really high, because it is Bluetooth Low Energy. To mitigate this, there is a connection between MrFox and the API in WiFi. MrFox connects to your home internet connection and the API. This way there is a high data exchange possibility between the API and MrFox. And on the API is stored the update of MrFox Now I could ask the API to always check if MrFox needs update but that would be a lot of work for MrFox and the API. Better solution, I add a connection there. And this is how the story goes. The user connects to MrFox to get its version. Then the user connects to the API to check if a new version is available for MrFox. If there is one, it will tell the user that will then tell MrFox, without downloading the update. Then MrFox will connect to the API to get the update and update itself. If MrFox doesn't have the internet connection, he will tell the user "I don't have my internet connection". The user then gives his WiFi credential to MrFox that answers "Thank you!". MrFox will then connect to the API to update itself. Easy right ? ;) The Arduino Uno doesn't have the built in connectivity and adding two shields for WiFi and Blueooth seemed a little overkill. It's at that point that I cam across the ESP32. This cute little development board has everything. Bluetooth, WiFi and even 2 cores to do some separated thread work. Awesome! Now I just had to re-work the all design... This is the Fox I made for the Arduinio Uno. You can put it in there. It's made out of one piece. When I made the switch to the ESP32, I also thought that I could make it easier to ship. So I took this fox. And I sliced it! Now that I had the electronic and the design, I just had to built the app. I started by the complicated part to be able to remotely update the fox. Alright so, you have the API. You have the mobile app. And you have MrFox. So MrFox the phone with the app and the API which is fare away. You connect to the MrFox and he answers with his version. The phone will connect to the API to ask what is the latest version of MrFox and the API might tell him that a new version is available. The phone tell MrFox that a new version is available. MrFox connects to the API to download the update and update itself. Then I implemented functions to be able to change the colors and the humidity level. At last I had my final product. Or more like the latest stable version of it :). Until I find an other idea to improve it. The cool thing is that when will improve it I can remotely update people's Fox with added functionality or even switching around the all project. MrFox is now three pieces. One, two, three. You can plug in both faces like this. And place it on the bottom I will now mount the electronic with the sensor in MrFox. Then I put the back hear to close it. Now it's sealed and closed. So now that it is all connected, how does it works? Right now the light of MrFox is turning blue with an in and out dimming. If I hold the sensor it will change the color, it means that the plant has enough water. Because my hand is full of water, it acts as if the ground was full of water and so it changes the color and turn to green. If now I leave the sensor, it will go back to the previous green color. If I connect the app to MrFox. I can see the first value. It's the sensor value in real time. So more I hold the sensor and higher the value goes. If I hold it with just a few fingers. Or if I hold it with my all hand. You can see that the value is higher. And now MrFox is green which is the "Ok" color. If I let it go, it will go back to the "Nop" color of MrFox. Right now the threshold value to switch the color is at 19. If I change the color of the "Nop". Take something more red. Next time MrFox turns off and on, it will come back to a red color. So you don't have to water your plants anymore, your kids will be happy to do it for you! Last but not least, I have a question for you. If you are a 3D model creator expert, or if you know one. And you want to create something else than a fox to water remind you to water your plants or your kid's plants. Then let me know in the comments bellow and maybe we can make more of these projects. Thank you for watching, and see you next time. 