 Subtitles will soon begin... Now we will start by talking about material choices, and It is a subject that has to do with the industry. What we should focus on is how can the choice of materials affect both economic and emotional values. We will be guided through subjects such as biomimicry, storytelling and gamification, and I can promise you That even if it sounds weird and fuzzy (!?) This is certainly not the case. Christian Bergman, an industrial developer at IDC West Sweden (idcab.se) Tell us about it. Just a week ago I asked you to explain biomimicry to me I had not heard of it. Then you told me that you mimic nature to get inspiration To do something better, that is, when you learn from nature. A pretty cool example that Christian gave It was Japanese trains, which could not withstand air pressure, but you looked at the beak of the kingfisher, How it was built, because it is great at diving. So they shaped the trains according to what their beak looks like. Christian has worked at the University of Skövde (his.se) But went over to IDC some year ago. It is a development company for the manufacturing industry In Skaraborg. I'll hand over to you I’m Christian Bergman and come from IDC And we also run Material ConneXion Skövde, Which is a database and material library, which has its headquarters in New York and is located in a few different locations in the world; Milano, Tokyo, Bangkok, Bilbao, Daegu and Skövde. We have a database of innovative materials; Over 10 000 materials in that database and exhibition with thousands of materials in Skövde. I'll talk a bit about materials and "economics or emotions", So we jump right into this with economics. And what is it really? Make money of course, everyone likes, but also to economize with limited resources. Because we live on a sphere of limited resources It is difficult to have constant growth, So we have to manage the resources we have. And then the question is: are we that good at it? You may have seen this picture, Overshoot day; The day of the year when we lived over our assets for that year, and used up all renewable resources. We beat us gladly on the chest in Sweden and say that we are good at recycling plastic and whatever it may be, But if all lived like us, Would we end the whole year's resources already In early April. Then we take off the capital. Is the problem that we are living over our assets, or are we just so amazingly bad at taking care of what we already have? Here we have a fish-a cod, more specifically. Like This, you pull up in quantities all over the world And make fish sticks off. This much (43%) Of it we use, and this much (57%) We see as spillage. Intestines, skeletons, fins and all that kind of thing. It generates 50 million tons of waste annually globally. The smell is only the smallest problem... And we don't know what to do with it-but we learn so much new all the time about how we can use resources better. There is a company called Marinatex that has been doing a bit of this and realized that what we are throwing away, Is full of a lot of protein that can be used to cultivate bioplastics, mix it with some algae So, the waste from a fish is enough to make 477 bags that you grow up. And since everything comes from the sea, it is Also fully degradable in the marine environment. So there's incredible potential in Find new materials in completely unguessed places. This is to take care of spills that's one of those Important thing we have to look at in the future. And where do you find this? If you look at a product development process, it is Easy to look in production, it will spill from harvesting and we can take it up and run it in production again, but we need to start a little earlier in the process. It is already in the idea phase that we construct spills in our products and manufacturing processes. So it starts with a good idea; We must learn to work with circular economy and circular business models. Instead of selling gadgets, we may ever Share things and sell services. Then you get into the design phase and then it's about making materials easier to separate To be able to sort the materials, Upgrade or repair. Then the production comes. There are slightly different streams of material that goes and gets over and can be brought into new places. We have some companies we work with in Material ConneXion and IDC who work well with this; To take care of both his own and others ' spills. Offecct makes Soundsticks, sound absorbers, where you collect leftover padding from the production Here you work together with other companies in the group to collect, sort to similar color Make sound absorbers of this and recycled aluminum and zippers instead of glue, in order to be able to separate. We have B & L Lund, which makes sound absorbers too. When you do big stuff there will always be pieces of waste over When cutting to fabric. Then you can use Small pieces to make smaller products and earn on the side of the main ones. These are quite simple examples, low hanging Fruits, to take what you already have. Then you can start to look at where to find others spills. It doesn't have to be so amazingly difficult. Here is the "re-cycle", made of Nespressocapsules that we make out of in quantities. Although it is more of a "statement" to show how much material we throw away, (Until the Bell is Designed as an espresso capsule) So it sends important signals that we need to be better at taking care of the material we use. Then we have these slightly harder stuff, as substances that come out of shrimp shells can be used for sportswear (RISE) Much is happening in cultured materials. Then there are the more traditional ways, like this shoe from a company in Lidköping (Humansarevain) Made entirely of recycled materials. The plastic comes from the sea; Driving fishnets; Pineapple blast Here, recycled cotton, recycled Shoelaces-everything is recycled and ethically produced. But where do you get to hold all this, These remarkable materials? Firstly, we have our database, (skovde.materialconnexion.com), Where you can find a lot of examples (skovde.materialconnexion.com) But how do you get hold of the spill? There is another database called Excessmaterialsexchange Which is a "dating-site" for waste material: "We have SI and so much over of this The material we do not know what to do by " How it uses AI to match with Others who can do any of it. An absolutely fantastic example is that in Holland Grown as you know a lot of tulips. When they widens, you let the petals only lie and decay or throw them away. So was there anyone who came on that out of the petals You can extract pigments and make color. It's pretty much the tulips we're talking about – it turns out to be a market worth 15 trillion crowns! Not miions -trillions!  In order to be able to collect all this stuff , it makes a little easier if you are several together. It is difficult to change the world alone. One type of initiative is what is called industrial symbiosis- When several companies join together, and utilise each other's residues in a better way. The first, and best-known example, is Kalundborg in Denmark. Where pulp industries have joined together and share resources, one of the surplus heat Heats the other, waste material from one goes right into the next and becomes other products. But you do not have to go as far as Denmark because there are lots of similar in Sweden; a newly started in Lidköping, in our home businesses, where you look at how companies can be intermingled with resources. So this is an industrial ecosystem, and then one starts to think-where more are there sustainable ecosystems? Well, in nature of course! Nature has developed Sustainable solutions for 3.8 billion years. We humans are still beginners to live on this planet, and have not adapted ourselves so well. We are the only species that even uses the concept of waste, it does not exist in nature-everything is nourished to new processes. Biomimik is a very exciting design method, which is in the future to work in a sustainable way. It's not about taking out resources, or designing as it looks, without learning the principles of life. Intermingled about resources, symbioses, everything should be circulated and become nourishment. There is a structured approach around this. The most famous example you all have Encountered, is the Velcro. The Eiffel Tower is actually inspired by the human bone structure, inside the femur. Incredibly light and strong! We talked about serving, and then you want to Save on things, such as materials and energy. Some who are very good at it are the termite stacks that stand in warm climates. They take cold air from the Earth at night, And so it spreads in the aisles of the stack and keeps a comfortable temperature. When transferring this principle to buildings, we have this department store in Zimbabwe (Eastgate) Which also has a passive cooling system where cold air is sucked into the night and spread in the offices of the day. This uses about 1/10 of the energy that comparable department stores in the same place do. Huge Energy savings! We put about 20% of the world's energy on fans, which sits in almost everything. As we look at new things like AI, generative Design and topology optimization, used in 3D-print, and allows a computer to optimize: "What is the best way to connect two points..." "... To use as little material as possible, But get as high a strength as possible? " The solutions you get, they look rather organic, so here is an interesting link to how nature builds. I was going to jump a bit a big step, this raises a lot of emotion in connecting with nature; There are other values in the material than the purely economic ones. Then we start to get into sustainable emotions, how it controls our consumption and how you can influence people To work more sustainably? It is true that emotions govern very much what we obtain; What we wear and surround ourselves with, It expresses in some way who we are. When you see stuff like this on Twitter, fashion magazines says: "Now she's had the same dress Four times in public, how could she!? " It's absolutely amazing, enough to affect The emotions how we change products. Somebody commented "I didn't know that you could reuse clothes, it's going to save me lots!" It was an American news anchor who got tired of his female colleague constantly getting comments on What she wore, so he tried to have the same blazer every day for a year-nobody noticed it!  Back then to sustainable business models-perhaps we should not sell products in this way? You might be able to rent them out instead, like Klädoteket or Houdini, where you can subscribe to clothes. Then send back and let somebody else use them. Think what added value it creates, if you Got to rent Kate Middletons dress! It is not only in the material, that value! There are other things that come into play in how we experience value! This trend is in all sorts of industries, We are seeing increasingly recycled and waste materials, Not least in the open air industry, where conscious consumers demand and want to know where things come from Tierra not only saves money on To use spills for new jackets, They are so clever that they re-brandar This and makes it a thing, This is not old waste, this is Limited Edition! They number through the garments they do! One of the problems with recycled plastics is an inconsistent appearance, colour shifts, etc. How long do we want a car that looks identical to everyone else's? Why not have a unique expression in the one you have? To look further in how emotions affect US you can dig down a bit in theory, Patrick Jordan has made a kind of "Maslow 's needs staircase" fixed for products. First, a product must work, otherwise it has no raison d'être. Otherwise, we call it art. Then it should be useful, easy to understand,  like this Control Panel (not). Then, when it is in place, we come into Pleasure, How we experience joy around products. Ask which macuser Preferably how they feel about their products. This is possible to break down in different ways- Physio -what we experience with our senses; feeling, sight... Psycho sounds fishy, but it's about psychological, what we can reason about, understand us on, or Ideo, the ideals and values we share And feel that "this is a good thing" Socio, things we experience together with others; When we gather around a game or an activity together. Now the question is, how can you as a designer or product developer build in and work consciously on this? There are a lot of good tips and help via okala.net. Can we build emotional coupling into a product? If a toy is assembled together with the parent, you have built in a memory in it. A researcher in robotics encountered such a toy with sensors and motors, It waving the tail if you pat it on your head, but it cries and flounting if you do this. Here she stands and thinks "I know it's motors, plastics, rubber and sensors, but now it's got enough!" This triggered her to do an experiment; They invited some friends who got to name each one and play with, And after an hour they took out torture tools. "Now ye will kill them!" What? People refuse! "OK, then you will live if you sacrifice another team's robot." No, it didn't. Then they had to put their foot down; Then we are all "killing" if you do not appoint and sacrifice one! Then it became a little tricky atmosphere in the room, but in the end, someone took the role to chop the head of the robot. It's so amazing how we tie Product in this way! This can be discussed how we connect with robots, pets and other people. There are other cultures where one might better take advantage of things than in ours? In Japan, it has "Kintsugi", to take care of imperfections. When a bowl breaks, you glue it with glue mixed with gold dust. The cooking becomes a decoration, part of the history of the bowl. This raises the value. The good thing is that the bowl, like us, is shaped by experience and the thorns we go on in life. After all, they may also have another Way of respecting their elders. We can influence behaviors in other ways. You have heard of gamification, to make it more enjoyable and easier to do right than to make mistakes? It's about triggering a lot of psychological reward mechanisms we have in the brain, Here's an example. How many people have seen "Friends"? There was a constant discussion about Ross and Rachel having a break or not when he was with another girl... Instead of throwing the cigarette on the ground, Vote by putting it here. There are examples in Gothenburg with "bottless trash cans", a fun sound when throwing trash That makes people throw more trash In the paper baskets than around. Sen finns "the dark side" av detta, "Shamification" A company wanted to "encourage" people to bring their own bag to the store said: "If you don't have your own Bag to the shop you get one of those " [Embarrassing texts on the bin] Who thinks gamification Works Better than shamification?  This hit the total backout-these sold out in no time! There's a lot to do to make things more enjoyable. Finally, I want to come Into how a good story can make a difference. We did an experiment with User Experiencestudents at the University of Skövde, We had a number of different materials, We have some of us today. They got to know and experience with sina senses, (physio-pleasures) And so they ranked them in a model; Is it a pleasant or unpleasant experience, intense or gentle. First out was an amazing fur, something of the softest that can be grasping. Then a spoon of aluminum they did not want to tuck into the mouth. And a carpeted floor that was perceived as rough. Then they had to hear the story about them. The fur comes from this crab; A genetically modified rabbit that never sees the light of day and gets sores in the paws, is malnourished and dies prematurely. Then we have stages, made of old bombs. During the Vietnam War, Laos was also bombated, 80 million bombs are still unexploded. A project collects and depresses the bombs, Mould them into other, utility items and jewellery. This also preserves an old handicraft tradition. Jewelery, "dropped and made in Laos", are sold For the money you draw in trained more bomb mulsers, schools are built, drinking water is purified. And then we have the carpet, made of one of the biggest problems we have in the seas, all drifting "Ghost nets" Fishnets that have worn out, drift and catch a lot of animals. Then there are companies and projects that collect and make the material as new, so the carpet can be recycled again So, we did the experiment again. Originally, it looked like this, Hardly surprising that the fur was not perceived as pleasant, but that the others were more positive experiences But the excitement is that everyone went upward on the scale, towards a more intense reaction, For now they have tied on a different level, linked it to understanding, ideals and values, With that, I think we can help people to Understand and create other behaviors. Now I want to thank for me and finish with an inspiring quote: When we peek at old movies about time travel, it's always the same problem Do not change anything when you travel back, because it can have such dramatic effects in the present- But we never talk about the small changes we can make today, what amazing changes they can make in the future! Thank you! (skovde.materialconnexion.com) 