 So as it has been said I'm going to talk about biomechanics. That's right. So I prepared this presentation and I'll divide it into two parts. After a short introduction on what is medical device sector. The first one is going to be dedicated to some simulation done with some Transvalor software solutions mainly for the manufacturing process of medical devices. And then I'm going to switch on my own research activity for biomedical simulations and then I will conclude. So medical devices are obviously subjected to a very strict directives and regulations. And up to now out they were divided into different classes. From class one that you can see here for the low-risk medical device. Up to class number three which corresponds to the highest risk medical devices or implantable implantable device our own to this third class. Of course the compliance procedure takes long time it's easy in this case and it's more and more complex when you go up to the third class. And the final element of modeling can be of help in order to anticipate manufacturing defect and to reduce to shorten the compliance procedures. So if you look at the literature in the metric sector there are several kinds of simulation that are well represented. For instance in the manufacturing process mainly for medical device made of metals and polymers that we can see also some biomedical simulation. When you deal with skeleton or bones that you would like to test in use conditions, but you can also have some multi physics simulations. For human body applications for instance if you want to develop hardware which is important to have freed. Also to take into account the freedom in interaction. So the series of benefits that we have using finite element modeling more is More is the same as for the other kind of individual sectors. Mainly to accelerate the product development cycle and to reduce the number and the cost of physical trials. So the main aim is to boost engineering for more innovative medical devices. So if we look at the Transvalor software portfolio. They offer a large range of applications dedicated to the med tech sector. Starting from forging or casting of prosthesis. We have also some injection modeling for polymer medical devices. And also they have performed some structural analysis to see how the components behaves under in use conditions. So if we focus more on the forging field you can see that using Ford software we are able to model the complete form in sequence. This is for the hip stem in making titanium with the first stage here corresponding to the section reduction The second stage and corresponding to the bending to get the preform. and the And the final stage that correspond to the forging part forging stage in order to get the right shape at the end. Casting and more specifically investment casting is also widely used for medical products. You have an example here of a knee joint that has been casted and the recent development in THERCAST® allow to do good simulation in this area. They have now a low shell generation that can be useful but also self-radiation capability. And as you can see there is a huge impact of the self-radiation if you take it into account or not on the evolution of the texture of the material. So it's very important to be able to take into account this phenomenon. Regarding the plastic injection molding you can use a REM3D® for instance, to be able to detect the welding lines in that part for example or also to monitor the pressure the pressure profile during inside the mold during the filling the packing and the holding phase. And as it has been already mentioned you have here a small a very short video about the compression expansion cycle of a stent. The stent made of nitinol, this is a high performance memory shape alloy that is used and thanks to FORGE® we are able to optimize the stent design and helps to create a product that fulfils all the technical requirements. You can look at the evolution of the pressure onto the artery wall during the expansion phase of the stent. So now I'm going to focus on my own topic. It has been divided in fact in two different axes one is dedicated to the characterization of materials and including biological materials. Biological materials are awful materials. Most of them are heterogeneous, hyperelastic, anisotropic. So the worst I think in the world. We have white scattering of the parameters in the literature. So when you would like to do to perform a simulation, it's very difficult to know which value, which of the parameters you have to take. They're also very sensitive to the environment so it's a huge problem for us. So we generally have to develop our own specific device to make the mechanical characterization of these materials. And often we are performing identification of the materials parameter using inverse analysis. Which is particularly suitable for this field The other axes of my research is a numerical modeling of biological materials. So the same that I have characterized here. Here again we have specific features that required to develop specific solvers. I mainly work with FORGE®. So we developed an hyper-elastic solver to be able to reproduce the mechanical properties of those biological materials. This is inside the laboratory version of FORGE®. And we have also to deal with complex geometries. This means that generally CAD systems are not sufficient to be able to reproduce the geometries of the organ of the tissues we are working on. So there are two main applications for the numerical modeling the first one is the computer-aided design of medical devices. I worked on breast implants, advanced cochlear implants and so on. And the subject I decided to show you today belongs to the second part, the second axes for the numerical modeling application. Which is a computer assisted surgery so I work with a lot of surgeons. And the work that I'm going to present was carried out by a maxillofacial surgeon Charles Savoldelli with a maxillofacial surgeon in Nice And he was interested in such topics in fact what you can see here on these pictures These are not extra teeth. These are teeth that were not allowed to grow normally because the mandibular of the subject was too short. So the classical treatment before was to remove these teeth. And this is not something that the surgeons like to do, because they don't like to remove LC materials and see the organs or tissues. So some surgeons propose new alternatives and the one that I'm going to present is the one which is called DOG dog. It stands for Distraction OsteoGenesis and it was proposed by Guerrero in 1997. So this is a surgical process which was mainly used in the field of orthopedics. Mainly to reconstruct skeletal deformities or to lengthen the bones in the body. Especially for the lower limbs. It was used for that and early results in humans Indicated that the process can be used for the maxillofacial surgery. So I had a movie to show but there is too much blood I think for the audience. So I decided just to mention this using the skin here. The weight is performed by the surgeon they are catching the mandible into two segments, and the two segments are gradually separated by a tool which is called destructor that can be put directly on the teeth or on the bone. And you have a small screw that you have to turn and if you turn it correctly in the morning. one millimetre per day this means that after ten days you have increased your mandible of about one centimeter. So this is quite impressive when the desired or the possible length is reached. It is followed by a consolidation phase in which the bone is allowed to keep healing. The big advantage of DOG the Distraction OsteoGenesis it that it simultaneously increases the bone length and the volume of the surrounding soft tissues. So this is very interesting so you can see the result of a few weeks of the surgical operations and then using classical orthodontic treatment they can put the teeth into the right position. So this is the final results. Of course they remove after all the distractors. So there are many clinical studies that have evaluated the long-term effect of this of this procedure and see that no patient presented what we call the temporomandibular joint. This is a disc that you have here in your joint. So no symptoms, no dysfunction but some of them have some pain. So the surgeon tried to understand why it is painful and those small changes in the position of the condyles. The condyles are the upper part of the mandible were observed during the DOG and could lead to chronic pain. So the bone movements must be carefully planned before a device is implanted, so you don't have many possibilities to check this. You can put a sensor inside the inside TemporoMandibular Joint but of course it's going to modify the way people are showing so it's not possible. And the choice that we have made is of course to use a finite element modeling to check this. So at the beginning of the study it is not the last study we have performed on this topic, but I think it was one of the most iconic ones just to explain what we have done. So this is what we had at the beginning of the PhD in the literature when made the literature survey. As you can see we have some coarse meshes Most of the study does not model the teeth which is of importance for us. Most of them were modeling only one half of the mandible and then this is for stabilization reason of course for the computation. So this means that we are not satisfied with available finite element models. So we decided to develop our own force with the finite element model capable of simulating the entire process of the DOG. So for having the geometries of the different organs or tissues of interest. We used CT scans and MRI images. So the CT scans RAF were for for the skull, for the bone, the hard tissues and we uses MRI for the soft tissues. For instance you can see here the disc of the temporal mandibular joint. This has been made thanks to a segmentation software which means that layer by layer, we have to control the organ of interest the tissue of interest and it was a very long process. It took several weeks to get the final model that was interesting for our experiment. As you can see here and it was done layer by layer. Of course we use x-ray we use the CT scans at the hospital it was on the ELSI patient so we were limited in terms of x-ray. And then this is the final result that we had after the segmentation and we had to smooth a little bit the different tissues to be able to import them inside our finite element model. so you have So you have here the result of the final finite element models we take into account the articular disk what we call the capsule joint. The connectivity tissues, the scale of course itself, then the cortical and the console use bone - we have two kinds of bone in the body - and the maxillary and the mandibular teeth. As you can see so it's almost four hundred thousand tetrahedral elements and this model respect the natural asymmetry of the patient. For the mechanical properties we consider most for most of the tissues homogeneous and isotropic materials. For our tissues namely the bone we use a linear elastic model and for the soft tissues we use the hyper elastic model that we have specially developed in our laboratory version of FORGE® using what we call neo-Hookean model. For the friction properties we use mainly stick in contact between the different tissues. Except for the cartilage layer for modeling the cartilage layer in which we use a low friction contact between the disc and the bones. We model the muscles using force vectors and we defined the magnitude thanks to the physiological cross section of the other muscles and we put the origin and the duration. It was taken from anatomical measurements and we apply the same loading conditions on both sides. So you have here (it should work) a simulation of the DOG simulation ok there is no bone remodeling model inside forged. So we are just to add at the end what we call bone callus between the two different segments and then we add to our model tissue so this is the jaw closure. You have before the operation and after the operation. So what is very interesting compared to a real patient is that we can do some cutting plane not easy with patients. And we looked more specifically in the area of interest so you have the disc here or so the condyles and we looked at the pharmacist stress distribution in those regions. This is another point of view of the scales and we focus more specifically on the disc as you can see here. Which enabled us in fact to get this kind of maps with a pharmacists stress map. So what is interesting so this is when you have the mouth which is open and closed at the end you see the red levers. Which respond to the value of the von Mises stress what you can see is that thanks to the natural asymmetry of the patient we don't have exactly the same result for the right disc and for the left one. And when you close the jaw you increase also the stress on the disc. What is also interesting is to compare before the surgical operation and after and you see that the level the maximum level of pharmacy stress is a bit higher after the operation than before But it was not a huge difference it was around lower than two mega Pascal. And these anatomical changes in the TMJ structures are unlikely to predispose to long-term tissue fatigue and it seem that it's more the rate or the frequency of the distraction that are probably more important that the amount of distraction. So at the end of this PhD Charles Savoldelli decided to ask his patient to turn the screw remember that. It was one millimeter in the morning before the the PhD and after the PhD it was 0.5 millimeter in the morning and 0.5 in the evening and it seemed that it was less painful for the different patients. So of course we have a lot of limitations while still continuing to improve our model while still working on it. But the main information that we got from this study was that the present biomechanist studies support the clinical theory that symphyseal distraction generate a low risk of long term temporomandibular joint dysfunction or condylar resorption. So for the conclusion we have seen during this presentation that Transvalor provide the manufacturing industry with leading-edge simulation software software for forging casting or plastic molding. That could be very interesting for the manufacturing of medical devices. The major benefit is that it can guarantee the product quality and increase the forming process reliability and all these new application are sustained by a constant research and development activity at Cemef. This is what I'm trying to do and the FORGE® software on the presentation I gave was clearly used in a challenging non-conventional way. But I think that it strengthened the robustness of the server for the benefit of all users. I thank you for your attention. If you have any question I put here and this slide some other topics I worked on if you have any question on this I can also answer, thank you. 