 Hello, everyone. So, I think we've had a nice introduction to the project sites, some of the kind of ancillary components around MABR or this specific project, but I want to spend a little bit of time talking about it more generally, like, what is the MABR and why is it such a unique product. Why are we so interested in finding ways to apply this memory narrator biofilm technology, and then review to again touch on some of the questions that are being answered by the Ma'ayan Zvi facility, just so we see how the path forward with is the application of this technology. So just a little bit, as introduction, I'm Leon Downing. I'm with Black & Veatch. We have 110 offices globally, about 11,000 employees, 3.5 billion in annual revenues last year. We were founded in 1915 in Kansas City in the U.S., and that's where the majority of our work happens but we're pretty active throughout Asia and Europe, in Australia, and we've completed projects in more than a 100 countries, and we are an engineering consulting firm. We do design work, we do professional services, engineering procurement, construction, and another part of our, a very small part of our overall company, but with myself and Kellie Gordon, who you're gonna meet and just a minute, do is trying to work with innovative technologies for water and wastewater treatment. We have an Applied Research Group that's always looking for the next area of innovation in wastewater treatments. We do more than water. We do power water, telecom, oil and gas and government work. One unique thing we do is every year we do a sustainability survey of all of our clients. All these different questions that we ask, we say, what are your sustainable goals associated with, like, what's really driving your specific company or industrial sector. And what is interesting is that when you look at the blue in this gray line, these components really deal with water, energy, sustainable product manufacturer, really getting at sustainable management of water with a low energy input. Of all our surveyors 84 percent said this is what's most important for our company, and so we take that information back within our group, the water technology group at Black & Veatch, and we try to find technologies that address this, that give us better-quality water, lower energy, and lower capital cost, and that's where the MARB technology can come into play. What is the MABR? Just to give a little bit more background of why it's unique and some of the processes that it does. What's the motivation? To advance these a little bit, historically, we've been adding oxygen through fine bubble diffusion. We're blasting air into activated sludge process, we get all these fine bubbles. It's maybe 50 percent of a facility's energy cost, maybe more, but it's not very efficient. When you look at the net oxygen transfer efficiency of fine bubble diffusion it's only 10 or 15 percent. Of all of the energy we invest to push oxygen into our system only 10 or 15 percent of it actually is available for our microorganisms. It's not a very efficient process, so finding ways to more efficiently deliver oxygen to the biology and our wastewater treatment system, a big part of that is going to be finding sustainable wastewater treatment solutions. What if we could create kind of a stationary bubble? Imagine if a bubble just sort of sat in the water and all that oxygen could kind of continuously diffuse out of the bubble. Instead of that bubble traveling up the column in a matter of seconds and only having a very short period of time, but for that oxygen to reach the liquid, what if we could have a stationary bubble? And that's what this membrane-aerated biofilm reactor is trying to do, it's bubbleless aeration. Instead of trying to bubble water and have oxygen transfer from that little bubble into our bulk liquid, it's saying, let's have that gas just set in our liquid and allow it to just continually diffuse out into the liquid. The first research into these membranes really focused on efficiency of oxygen transfer with membranes. You know, they didn't have this biofilm reactor part of it. They were saying, well, we can have these different membrane materials, and a lot of these membrane materials are used in the chemical industry, in other industries, to efficiently transfer gas into liquid. These were these membrane scientists, physical, chemical engineers that were saying, well, for these micro-porous structures, and we pressurize air, and inside, that gas can diffuse into the liquid and deliver oxygen in a very efficient way. These first papers in the 1980s just were like, well, we just want to make oxygen transfer more efficient, and when you read their papers, they were very frustrated because they kept getting biofilm growth on their membranes. They said, ah, we just want to transfer oxygen into the liquid, but all this biofilm keeps growing. It makes it not possible to transfer our gas into liquid. What came along is the idea that, well, wait, maybe those biofilms aren't a bad thing. Maybe we should take advantage of that biofilm wanting to grow on the membrane, and that's what we're getting to this membrane-aerated biofilm reactor, we want to support that biofilm growth on our oxygen-supplying membranes. And what happens is, if you put these clean membranes in a tank, this is a different type of membrane than Fluence is applying, but illustration-wise it's the same thing. You pressurize the inside of that, that gas diffuses through your membrane, and when you have substrate and the exterior, COD and ammonium, you get this biofilm growing, you get a breathing biofilm on your attachment surface, and that basically is consuming that oxygen, so you no longer have to transfer the oxygen directly into liquid. You're transferring it directly into where your bacteria are active, and they do nitrification, they could do COD removal, and you can do a lot of really great biological processes that we rely on in our wastewater treatment plants. So the first MABR concept was to do total nitrogen in a single biofilm. This kind of mentions this, that, okay, we we pressurize gas and aluminum. It goes through our membrane wall. We have high oxygen concentrations at the base, and our ammonium meets the oxygen at the base of our biofilm, and we produce nitrate, and then that nitrate is exported towards the outside of our biofilm just from diffusion, and then we get that meets our COD and we get denitrification. This is like taking a three-stage activated sludge plant with an anoxic zone and anaerobic zone, and it makes like a recycle pump, and you're squeezing it all into about 300 microns of biofilm thickness. And that's a really neat thing to do because now we don't need the multiple tanks, we don't need the tanks in series, we're accomplishing that within this small area. We're getting total nitrogen removal in a small area, which is beneficial, but we're also getting this highly efficient oxygen transfer, so we are really addressing two big drivers for efficiency and water quality at a wastewater treatment plant. The first researchers said, oh, well let's grow this biofilm and let's try to let all of this happen in one biofilm. Let's have all of our bacteria growing in the biofilm, we don't need any of that suspended growth kind of mucking up the system. Let's just be purists, let's be biofilm engineers. And what they found was that the mechanisms for stratification in the MABR biofilm ended up being very different. When we have a conventional biofilm your activity is high at the outside of the biofilm and low at the inside because you're trying to push everything towards the inside whereas with an MABR you get this high activity in the kind of the center of your biofilm. But what that does mean is that the thicker your biofilm gets, biofilm thickness really becomes a critical parameter because the biofilm gets very thick. You're moving your oxygen farther and farther away from your ammonium, and your activity level gets lower. Some of the first installations they said, oh, we're gonna have this very thick biofilm with our heterotrophs on the outside and our nitrifiers on the inside. They really struggled getting the ammonium from the liquid down to where that oxygen was actually present in doing a nitrification, and so it was too much. You want to support a biofilm but you don't want to have too much. So people had been researching this in the in the mid-2000s, trying to figure out how do we get these breathing biofilms to work practically. And what really helped to do this was moving to a hybrid application. So hybrid applications began to be explored to minimize this heterotrophic biofilm layer. If you're building all of your biomass inside of your biofilm you get stratification, where that denitrification with your heterotrophs is happening outside of your biofilm, your nitrification with your ammonium-oxidizing bacterias happens at the base. Your oxygen is diffusing through, you get this aerobic base and anoxic exterior of your biofilm. But as this pink layer, this reddish layer got bigger and bigger and bigger it got harder and harder to put get the ammonium down, and the nitrification rate went down. Now, a low nitrification rate is great if you want to sell a lot of membranes but if you have to buy the membranes it's not as good because it means you need more and more membranes. We want to have a high nitrification rate within our system. What people found is that, well, if we put this in a hybrid situation, so instead of just having a biofilm process on the all by itself take these membranes and put them inside of an activated sludge system, alright? And mimic, like an IFAS, integrated fixed film activated sludge configuration, where you're growing your heterotrophs in the bulk liquid, you're having some suspended biomass growth in your system and this biomass can consume that BOD in the bulk liquid. You're just dropping this module into an anoxic zone and then in an anoxic zone the oxygens are being delivered to this aerobic biofilm which is consuming your ammonium. But it's also producing nitrate and that nitrate is exported into the bulk liquid where the heterotrophic bacteria can denitrify. And what this accomplished was managing that biofilm thickness to get very high nitrification rates and reduce the amount of membrane surface area you needed to make it more operable, and make it more cost-effective from a CapEx standpoint. Oops, had a couple extra animations there... So lab-scale testing really began with this in 2006. This is at the University of Notre Dame in the U.S. And so we looked at taking [indecipherable] ... starts very small, and we put these membrane cartridges inside of an activated sludge tank, and what we saw was that you can load these systems at a higher rates. You get a much thinner biofilm and you're able to manage that biofilm thickness, getting denitrification in a very effective way. This was scaled up to the pilot scale in 2007-2008s in New York City, where it was the first kind of hybrid application of this, where we were putting these membrane modules inside of an activated sludge system, treating New York City wastewater. And we started to get an idea of nitrification and denitrification rates, some of the operational considerations that had to be thought about when you start putting membranes inside of activated sludge tanks, but it helped to confirm that it helped it really manage the biofilm thickness much better. There was some additional pilot-scale work that was done at a similar time at the University of Minnesota in, like, 2005, where they were trying to do just this big biofilm and they were getting two or three millimeter sized biofilms that would just fall off the membranes. They were getting so heavy that the membrane couldn't attach whereas this configuration, where we say, no, it's okay to have some suspended bacteria growing, really help to keep that biofilm much healthier. So this hybrid application of the MABR has really been the key to the acceleration of the products. You are looking at a simple activated sludge system in the U.S. We usually have a primary clarifier upfront and putting that MABR zone either in a new anoxic zone or creating an anoxic zone at the front of the basin and achieving a portion of your nitrification inside of this MABR zone. And in this same zone where that nitrification happens you get all of your denitrification occurring, with no mixed-liquid recycle pump. You've eliminated that energy, eliminated that infrastructure, and you're just kind of doing it all in one tank. And the number of membranes and the size of that zone, it's a trade-off. So, as you get farther and farther towards the back end of the basin and that ammonium concentration gets lower and lower, your nitrification rates start to go down and you need more membranes per kilogram of nitrogen removed. That's kind of the balance of how much membrane you put into a tank, how much volume is available. There's a lot that goes into that, but again the benefit is that in this one zone you get your total nitrogen removal process, both ends of it, nitrification and denitrification. So, what's the value proposition of MABR technology? As a consulting engineering firm we try to find the best technology solutions for our clients. What do we look for? What are the the benefits that we see? Supporting that total nitrogen removal in the same tank and retrofitting existing aeration tanks achieves process intensification. We're not having to build new basins, it's not that intensive of construction work. That's a huge impact on CapEx, so we have a much more capital-effective way of doing total nitrogen removal, in a less intrusive way on our existing processes to convert a plant from a nitrification to total nitrogen removal. But there's also some pretty major CapEx impact. This is energy-efficient oxygen transfer. We're going from 10 or 15 percent oxygen transfer efficiency. Theoretically it could be a 100 percent efficient. Practically it's maybe 40 to 60 percent efficient but that's still a lot more efficient than 10 or 15 percent. You saw the size of the blower. That's that's not a very big blower to deliver the oxygen for 25 percent of your nitrification capacity. You can reduce or eliminate the internal recycle pumping and that can be a fairly expensive operation if you're running at a three or four or five times influent flow rates, and also, I don't think this is as large an issue in Israel but in China and in the U.S. we often have carbon-limited wastewater so we don't have enough COD to meet our effluent nutrient limits. A lot of times there is supplementation of external carbon, external BOD to drive denitrification. By doing this so efficiently in one zone you're really eliminating the amount of BOD that makes it to your aerobic zone. Demonstration testing at the Ma'ayan Zvi facility has really been an advance in the MABR for nearly a decade. The SUBRE installation is sort of the first full-scale retrofit of an activated sludge plant, one of the first in the world, but definitely the first for Fluence. I think it might be the second globally. But there's been a lot of other work that's been going on. I was really impressed this week when I got to visit the facility. There is a lot of pilot reactors that are activated sludge systems that are running with MABR that have led into the sizing, like how much membrane surface area is needed, how do we mix these compartments, how do we set up the aeration piping. I'm gonna say "we" but it's really Fluence that has figured a lot of this out with these smaller demonstrations. But they're the real deal. They have separate activated sludge systems. They're giving a lot of really great information about how this needs to be operated in design. There's eight years of learning that has gone into this and it's helping to advance the facility. What's really been fascinating for me working with Fluence over the past seven months, eight months, is how most of the the design questions aren't around the MABR. We really kind of know how to design MABR. It's this integration part of it. How does the activated sludge work around it? How do the controls work around it? This week we've been talking about SUBRE all week long, and it was focused on all those components mostly. Like, the MABR is kind of a known technology, but how do you put it in? How do you design it? It's really a lot of great work that's gone into this eventual implementation of the SUBRE facility at Ma'ayan Zvi. The MABR application is accelerating, particularly this package installation. This type of setup is actually the type of facility, the Aspiral package that Fluence has, where it's sort of a containerized system that's very popular in China and other parts of the world. That's really helped to accelerate our knowledge, so when we look at technology implementation, the number of adopters per year over time, there's this S curve of implementation that we typically see. When you look at installations of MABR globally you see it's kind of following this early part of the S curve. The number of installations is accelerating very rapidly. The challenge, well, not the challenge but what's interesting, is that this is a total of installations, but this is the number of retrofit into activated sludge installations. That's kind of the next leap. If you wanted a greenfield package system of MABR I think there's a few people in the room that would be happy to talk to you about how to purchase one. It's fairly well-known there's going to be a 100 installations of that facility but this retrofit into an existing system is really what I think the SUBRE installation at Ma'ayan Zvi is helping us to learn. If you have any the activated sludge plant, what are some of the questions we need to answer to help make sure that this green line starts looking like the blue line, and start accelerating the adoption of this this of hybrid retrofit application of the MABR. What are the critical knowledge gaps for the MABR retrofit and the activated sludge process? I won't go through all of these but some of it's just fundamental understanding, so very few people I think... My wife always tells me that no one cares about microbial ecology they just want the rates but I think it's interesting, and so you can look at see what bacteria are present, what type of ammonium oxidizing bacteria are selected for quorum sensing. That's how the bacteria communicate in the biofilm and that structure... There's some really great fundamental research that's going on and is continuing to go on, but from a practical standpoint there's a lot of operational challenges. What's the optimal SRT? What's the impact of the carbon to nitrogen ratio on performance? Kind of the resilience and robustness of the process to changing operational conditions. And a big part of this is biofilm management. A lot of these hybrid systems that went in in the past struggled because they didn't have a good strategy for managing the biofilm on the media. So these operational challenges are a big part of the research the SUBRE installation in Ma'ayan Zvi. And then scale-up challenge is the number of membranes the nitrification rate that we can expect to see. How do you design the system, like, how many membranes do we put in for the mass of nitrogen that we're trying to remove? Like I said, the Ma'ayan Zvi is really addressing these key questions for the retrofit application of the MABR and it's doing it at a facility right near here. Super configuration of the MABR is this activated sludge retrofit. So, you see some great pictures of what this looks like, just from a process flow diagram. You have an anaerobic zone. You're trying to suck up that soluble BOD. To absorb that soluble BOD into the biomass in this zone anaerobically. And then, this is the SUBRE zone, you're nitrifying in the biofilm, exporting nitrate into the bulk liquid and denitrifying in the bulk liquid. Again, one of the key aspects is that we don't want to have a lot of soluble BOD, soluble COD in the bulk liquid next to this membrane because then you start getting bigger and bigger biofilms because the header troughs want to grow in your biofilm. A lot of this is about managing that soluble COD that's present in the SUBRE zone and then allowing the nitrification to happen with the ammonium that's nitrified by the MABR. The bulk of the reactor is about, okay, how do we then operate our set points and activated sludge system downstream of our MABR zone? What are some of the key questions that Fluence is investigating at this facility? The first question was what nitrification rate can be achieved in the hybrid MABR? There's this low variability and this is just raw sensor data on flow, so you're looking at that type of variability and looking at dynamic effluent ammonium from the SUBRE reactor, so going to that zone, there's online instrumentation that's looking at the nitrification rate in the facility over a 24-hour period of time. Not just understanding what the net nitrification rate is but how it varies over the course of the day, how that's impacted by diurnal flows or changes in loading conditions. What they've really found is that there's a pretty stable nitrification rate of 2 to 3 grams of nitrogen per meter square day. We're trying to quantify that nitrification rate in terms of membrane surface area. If we put in more and more membrane surface area we can get this amount of nitrogen removed from the system. Currently the investigation is looking at the diurnal rate variability. Having two online sensors, having a lot of diurnal influent patterns, and really understanding some of the variability related to the COD to nitrogen ratio and influence, and how robust this is over the course of a 24-hour period. This is the big part of it. Again, we're gonna be able to size these systems much more accurately when we have a better sense of these nitrification rates in a dynamic basis. But the second question then is what is the oxygen transfer rate of the membranes? Remember the first part of this? The biology part that's neat, the nitrification and denitrification, but a big driver is energy-efficiency. How does this oxygen transfer efficiency over the course of the day? They're taking off gas measurements from the different membranes. There's a lot of extra piping out there, so if you go and visit there's a lot of stuff coming out of the liquid but that's specifically so that extra readings can be taken. It's not the full-scale installation. It's enabling the supplied research to do off gas testing from every one of those towers and get a sense of how that oxygen transfer varies throughout the tank, and also from the top to the bottom of that tower. There's a lot of extra data being gathered just so we can understand how much oxygen transfer is happening and how efficient it is. So we're getting a sense of how many grams of oxygen per meter square a day can be transferred from these membranes into the biofilm. The third question is how do you mix these components? If you can imagine, if you put the spiral and suck that into a wastewater treatment plant and in it mix it at all there would be some problems. You get a lot of clogging, and so one of the big questions is, how do you efficiently mix these systems ? I took a little video of the system. This is the SUBRE zone and you can see there's there's a fair amount of air flow coming into that zone right now, but when you look at the activated sludge portion, this is just going around the bend, there's no air going into the other portion of the plant. What's happening is, the mixing cycle is, actually to say this is only mixed for 20 to 40 seconds out of five minutes, so it's not a lot of time, but when that is happening it's really just shifting the air flow that would normally be going to your aerobic activated sludge portion and kind of mixing your MABR zone with that at the same time. Why is that advantageous? It's because you're not having to turn on a blower to provide all that mixing energy. You're kind of taking advantage of your whole system and saying, well, let's just shift that air that's normally providing inefficient oxygen transfer and our activated sludge will mix with that for a little bit in our MABR zone, and then we'll shift back. There's kind of a cyclic operation that goes on and it's really resulting in a fairly robust mixing strategy for the MABR in this SUBRE zone. What have we learned about the MARB from this facility up to this point? There's some sampling going on to investigate some of the fundamental understanding. There's been a lot of learning around these operational challenges. A lot of this understanding of the impact of the C-N ratio, what  happens when you get a very large COD load into the facility. What happens to your nitrification rate? How sensitive is that nitrification rate to your COD loading. How resilient is it? How robust is it to fluctuations in flow rate, changing influent concentration, taking systems offline. It's turning out like a lot of biofilm processes to be very robust and resilient. I just show that mixing image trying to get a sense of how much air scour do you really need to make sure you're both managing the biofilm but also transferring food into the spiral so that there's fresh ammonium and fresh COD supplied to the biofilm, to keep it healthy. A lot of those questions are being answered: number of membranes, the nitrification rate. Like I said, it's it's impressive to me, when you look at these facilities, a lot of the questions are more just around the whole plant system. The design around number of membranes, nitrification rate, is pretty well established. There's always gonna be some optimization work but we have a pretty good sense of what you would need from a membrane surface area standpoint for a given amount of nitrification in the system. So with that I'll thank you for your attention. I'm happy to answer a few questions if there are any. Thank you. 