 I'm Kurt Terrani. I'm a Senior Staff Scientist at Oak Ridge  National Laboratory, and I'm the Technical Director of the Transformational Challenge Reactor or TCR. TCR is a small reactor – we call it a micro reactor. It's an  advanced reactor, it's cooled with a helium gas, so you can go to much higher temperature than currently  operating nuclear reactors. What's important about it is that we haven't built an advanced reactor in this country  [the United States] in about four decades – 40 years. But really, it's the wrong philosophy. So basically, you know,  the old philosophy's that, "Let's take one of these dragons from the 'Game of Thrones'  series, and put the dragon – it's a very powerful being, OK – put the dragon inside of the cage, OK, and harness its  power. But you know what? If the dragon gets out, it's gonna be a mess, right? So let's put a few other cages  around it and let's call that ‘defense in depth’, OK? So this is how we convince ourselves that we're safe. But  occasionally some extreme event happen and the dragon gets out and we're all concerned, OK? Well we're saying today  is that instead of putting one of those dragons in there, get a hamster, get a little bunny. So lower your power density. Under the TCR program, we're 3D printing a core that's 0.8  meter diameter, 0.8 meter tall. You know, maybe a large keg of beer. It consists of micro-encapsulated nuclear fuel  particles – they are nuclear fuel with some coating layers around them that keep all the radionuclides inside. These  particles are inside a 3D printed silicon carbide matrix that forms a complex fuel block. This is a Cadillac of nuclear  fuel. It's got all these barriers to radionuclide release. It's in a refractory ceramic carbide matrix. It can go to very,  very high temperatures, withstand very, very harsh environments. So we take our fuel, these fuel blocks, and then   we combine them with what we call a 'moderator', which you need to slow down the neutrons that have a small core.  And we want to have hydrogen in it. So for moderator, we're using yttrium hydride, that's one of these, again, brand  new materials that hasn't been used before. And we basically combine the yttrium hydride and stainless  steel structures and put our silicon carbide fuel blocks around it. And that forms our core – and all these components  are additive and advanced manufactured. And mass manufacturing brings that into the third thing we do:   when when we are 3D printing, we sneak in some sensors, we sneak in, we embed sensors in there. So we generate hundreds of gigabytes of data compressed  when we make a part. And we feed that data into our machine learning algorithms that we're training today to try  to correlate these signatures that we see during advanced manufacturing to final performance of the part. The machine learning algorithm doesn't need health insurance,  pension, you know, so, automate this and step away. And they can be far more powerful than a human judgment, OK?  Because they can process a lot more data. So for the first time, we have an incredibly data rich approach  to qualification. The two are very distinct. The accident that happened in  Ukraine, in Chernobyl is – it happened to a reactor that had an inherent design flaw, OK? The Western reactors, since the  beginning, they've always been built that there's this thing called the ‘negative feedback’, OK? So if things get hot, if the  temperatures go up, by – not because some pump activates or things like that – by laws of physics, the fission reaction  stops, OK? The Eastern reactor, or the RBMK in Ukraine that happened in Chernobyl, it didn't have that negative  feedback. That was a wholly different class of a disaster. OK. But now let's take a look at the Western reactors that,  again, TMI and Fukushima represent. This goes back to the same conversation we're having, you know, that the design   and the philosophy of building these systems was 1950s and '60s philosophy, OK? So what they did, in a nutshell, they  came in and they said, "Hey, let's define these, these really extreme scenarios," OK? let's call these bounding design  basis accidents, and they define these extreme scenarios. And they said, "Anything that happens beyond that is beyond  design basis, it's really not going to happen." But in Fukushima, you know, they didn't design for a 9.9-plus  Richter magnitude earthquake. A tsunami comes in and this disaster happened. You got to dial that down. You got to bring that power density  down. And then you have inherently benign systems, systems that are not susceptible. You don't need these active  safety systems. When you remove that, then you remove all this concrete, all this shield, all this containment, all this  battery. So the cost comes down. So we need simpler, smaller, more benign systems. People have known this for a  very long time. But the problem is that when you haven't built anything since late 1970s, OK, when we were when  you were still stuck with 1950s and 60s technology, you can't implement these changes. So that's what we're  trying to do is to demonstrate new advanced systems that have inherently safe, without – you know, you don't want  to have a big exclusion zone around them or things like that. You can drop them in different places, connect them to the  grid, and they can be load-following. The whole infrastructure is moving in that direction. And you know, and,  and the new nuclear with a smaller, lower power, micro reactors really lends itself to this new landscape. Ultimately, the vision is to go ahead and build affordable,  reliable, inherently safe and proliferation-resistant systems, OK, that you can ship around the world. You know,  and I think the best analogy to think about, when you think of these small nuclear reactors – think of them as a  battery, OK? It's a battery that fits in the back of the truck. And it can go around and you draw from it when you need it.  But the battery lasts how long? It doesn't last the day, it doesn't last two days, it doesn't last – it lasts 20 years, it lasts   15 years. It's compacted, you pick it up, you take it back, there's no there's no on-site, you know, refueling or anything  like that. It's a one-time core, it operates and then you, you recycle it. So this is the vision that exists today.  It's a very sensible vision. And again, it really, it lends itself to having a balanced portfolio along with renewables  and other sources to bring down the carbon consumption. 