RISK FACTORSWhen evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.Our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability.Our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control.  Some of the factors that may affect our operating results include:•general economic, industry or political conditions in the U.S. or internationally;•changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers, and market fluctuations in the industries into which such products are sold;•changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields;•the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory;•levels of inventories held by our customers;•risk of excess and obsolete inventories;•our ability to realize the expected benefits of our acquisition of SMSC;•competitive developments including pricing pressures;•unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales;•availability of raw materials and equipment;•the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter;•the level of sell-through of our products through distribution;•fluctuations in the mix of products;•our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity;•changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality;•announcements of significant acquisitions;•changes in tax regulations and policies in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business;•disruptions in our business or our customers' businesses due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns, natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system;•constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers;•costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues;•fluctuations in commodity prices; and•property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance.We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our future performance.  In future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative 11Table of Contentseffect on the price of our common stock.  Adverse global economic conditions, the subsequent economic recovery and uncertainty surrounding the strength of such recovery have caused our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparability between periods less meaningful.Our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields.The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes.  These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication and assembly and test personnel and equipment, and other quality issues.  As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields.  Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels.  This could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines.  Our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity.  For example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we reduced wafer starts in both Fab 2 and Fab 4 to help control inventory balances in response to a slowdown in global economic conditions.  We continued with the reduced level of wafer starts through the first quarter of fiscal 2013.  These actions had a negative impact on our gross profit.  We further reduced the wafer starts in our fabs in late September 2012 and again during the quarter ended December 31, 2012 which continued to negatively impact our gross profit through the March 2013 quarter.  We may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our completed or future acquisitions or divestitures, including our acquisition of SMSC.We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses.  In this regard, on August 2, 2012, we completed our acquisition of SMSC, a publicly traded semiconductor company.  The integration process for our acquisitions may be complex, costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities.  We may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees.  We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration.  There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems.  We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company (including SMSC), or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate.  Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition.  We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.  We may be subject to claims by terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction.  Acquisitions may also result in one-time charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results.  Additionally, we may fund acquisitions of new businesses or strategic alliances by utilizing cash, borrowings under our credit agreement, raising debt, issuing shares of common stock, or other mechanisms.While the risks above may be relevant to all of our acquisitions, our acquisition of SMSC was a larger and more complex transaction than our other recent transactions and exposes us to greater risks and liabilities than we have encountered in the past.Further, when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner.  These circumstances could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to a business that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated.  Even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors or other third parties and such obligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition.In addition to acquisitions, we have in the past and expect in the future to enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies.  These transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions.12Table of ContentsWe are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and are therefore limited in our visibility of future product shipments.Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog, and customer orders that are both received and shipped in that same quarter, which we refer to as turns orders.  We measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter.  Historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules.  Shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our backlog visibility on future product shipments.  Turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times.  Because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make our net sales more difficult to forecast.  As a significant portion of our products are manufactured at foundries, foundry lead times may affect our ability to achieve certain turns orders.  If we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results will likely suffer.Intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share.The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change.  We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do.  We may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business.  Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not limited to:•the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products;•our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies;•the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications;•the rate at which the markets that we serve redesign and change their own products;•changes in demand in the markets that we serve and the overall rate of growth or contraction of such markets, including but not limited to the automotive, personal computing and consumer electronics markets;•product introductions by our competitors;•the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market;•our ability to obtain adequate foundry capacity and supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices;•our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights;•our ability to remain price competitive against companies that have copied our proprietary product lines, especially in countries where intellectual property rights protection is difficult to achieve and maintain;•our ability to address the needs of our customers; and•general market and economic conditions.Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product.  The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog, interface and mixed signal products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface and mixed signal products have declined over time.We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions.  We have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices.  However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future.  We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience in the future, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory and non-proprietary analog products.  We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results.Our business is dependent on selling through distributors.Sales through distributors accounted for approximately 53% of our net sales in fiscal 2013 and approximately 59% of our net sales in fiscal 2012.  We do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice.13Table of ContentsAny future adverse conditions in the U.S. or global economies or in the U.S. or global credit markets could materially impact the operations of our distributors.  Any deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors or any disruption in the operations of our distributors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operation.  In addition, during an industry or economic downturn, it is possible there will be an oversupply of products and a decrease in sell-through of our products by our distributors which could reduce our net sales in a given period and result in an increase in inventory returns.  Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or similar laws, by distributors or other channel partners could have a material adverse impact on our business.Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis.Our future operating results will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that can compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements.  The success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to:•proper new product selection;•timely completion and introduction of new product designs;•procurement of licenses for intellectual property rights from third parties under commercially reasonable terms;•timely filing and protection of intellectual property rights for new product designs;•availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and•market acceptance of our customers' end products.Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing development of new products.  In addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance.  We may be unable to design, develop and introduce competitive products on a timely basis, which could adversely impact our future operating results.Our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies.  Semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant R&D expenditures.  We and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries.  Our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented.Our technology licensing business exposes us to various risks.Our technology licensing business is based on our SuperFlash technology.  The success of our licensing business will depend on the continued market acceptance of this technology and on our ability to further develop and enhance such technology and to introduce new technologies in the future.  To be successful, any such technology must be able to be repeatably implemented by licensees, provide satisfactory yield rates, address licensee and customer requirements, and perform competitively.  The success of our technology licensing business depends on various other factors, including, but not limited to:•proper identification of licensee requirements;•timely development and introduction of new or enhanced technology;•our ability to protect our intellectual property rights for our licensed technology;•our ability to limit our liability and indemnification obligations to licensees;•availability of sufficient development and support services to assist licensees in their design and manufacture of products integrating our technology;•availability of foundry licensees with sufficient capacity to support OEM production; and•market acceptance of our customers' end products.Because our SuperFlash technology is complex, there may be delays from time to time in developing and enhancing such technology.  There can be no assurance that our existing or any enhanced or new technology will achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance.  Our licensees may experience disruptions in production or lower than expected production levels which would adversely affect the revenue that we receive from them.  Our technology license agreements generally include an indemnification clause that indemnifies the licensee against liability and damages (including legal defense costs) arising from intellectual property matters.  We could be exposed to substantial liability for claims or damages related to intellectual property matters or indemnification claims.  Any claim, with or without merit, could result in significant legal fees 14Table of Contentsand require significant attention from our management.  Any of the foregoing issues may adversely impact the success of our licensing business and adversely affect our future operating results.We are dependent on wafer foundries and other contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us, and our licensees of our SuperFlash technology also rely on foundries and other contractors.We rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication needs.  We also use several contractors located in Asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products.  Our reliance on third party contractors and foundries has increased as a result of our acquisition of SMSC.  Although we own the majority of our manufacturing resources, the disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results.Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract.  Our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operational or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if due to their locations in foreign countries they were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption.  If these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products in a timely manner or at all, or on terms favorable to us.  Additionally, these subcontractors could abandon fabrication processes that are important to us, or fail to adopt advanced manufacturing technologies desired to control costs.  In any such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs or a decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected.  Further, use of these subcontractors creates increased opportunities for potential misappropriation of our intellectual property.Certain of our SuperFlash technology licensees also rely on outside wafer foundries for wafer fabrication services.  If the licensees were to experience any disruption in supply from the wafer foundries, this would reduce the revenue we receive in our technology licensing business and would harm our operating results.We may lose sales if our suppliers of raw materials and equipment fail to meet our needs.Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw and processed materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards.  We generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various materials and equipment that meet our standards.  The materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases.  Additionally, consolidation in our supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions may reduce the number of suppliers or change the relationships that we have with our suppliers.  This could impair sourcing flexibility or increase costs.  We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacement parts.  An interruption of any materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business.Our operating results may be impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry.The semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand.  Since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business is subject to seasonally lower revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year.  However, broad fluctuations in our overall business in recent periods and changes in semiconductor industry and global economic conditions have had a more significant impact on our results than seasonality, and have made it difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business.  The industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity.  We have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclically by selling proprietary products that cannot be easily or quickly replaced to a geographically diverse base of customers across a broad range of market segments.  However, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions.We are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims.We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, other intellectual property rights, contracts and other matters.  As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from customers or licensees from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to 15Table of Contentsinfringement claims made against us, the customers or licensees by third parties.  These legal proceedings and claims, even if meritless, could result in substantial cost to us and divert our resources.  If we are not able to resolve a claim, settle a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, reengineer our products or processes to avoid infringement, and/or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured liability in any of them, be required to take an appropriate charge to operations, be enjoined from selling a material portion of our products or using certain processes, suffer a reduction or elimination in the value of our inventories, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed.It is also possible that from time to time we may be subject to claims related to the manufacture, performance or use of our products.  These claims may be due to injuries or environmental exposures related to manufacturing, a product's nonconformance to our specifications, or specifications agreed upon with the customer, changes in our manufacturing processes, or unexpected end customer system issues due to the interaction with our products or insufficient design or testing by our customers.  We could incur significant expenses related to such matters, including, but not limited to:•costs related to writing off the value of our inventory of nonconforming products;•recalling nonconforming products;•providing support services, product replacements, or modifications to products and the defense of such claims;•diversion of resources from other projects;•lost revenue or a delay in the recognition of revenue due to cancellation of orders and unpaid receivables;•customer imposed fines or penalties for failure to meet contractual requirements; and•a requirement to pay damages.Because the systems into which our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we sell, our expenses and damages may be significantly higher than the sales and profits we received from the products involved.  While we specifically exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, certain of our contracts may not exclude such liabilities.  Further, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by applicable law.  We do have liability insurance which covers certain damages arising out of product defects, but we do not expect that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims.  Costs or payments we may make in connection with these customer claims may adversely affect the results of our operations.Further, we sell to customers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, and medical, where failure of the systems in which our products are integrated could cause damage to property or persons.  We may be subject to claims if our products, or interactions with our products, cause system failures.  We will face increased exposure to claims if there are substantial increases in either the volume of our sales into these applications or the frequency of system failures integrating our products.Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in lost revenue or market opportunities.Our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success.  To that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes.  The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications.  In addition, our existing and new patents, trademarks and copyrights that issue may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us.  We may be subject to or may ourselves initiate interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, patent offices of a foreign country or U.S. or foreign courts, which can require significant financial and management resources.  In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S.  Infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us.  Although we continue to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our endeavors.Our operating results may be adversely impacted if economic conditions impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers.We regularly review the financial performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers.  However, any downturn in global economic conditions may adversely impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors or suppliers.  The financial failure of a large licensee, customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our not being able to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher reserves for doubtful accounts, write-offs for accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues.16Table of ContentsWe do not typically have long-term contracts with our customers, but where we do, we may be subject to liability.We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers and we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers.  When we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer.  Even though we had approximately 82,000 customers and our ten largest direct customers made up approximately 10% of our total revenue for fiscal 2013, cancellation of customer contracts could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits.  SMSC has a higher concentration of larger customers and we expect the overall percentage of revenue from our top ten customers to increase due to our acquisition of SMSC.We have entered into contracts with certain customers that differ from our standard terms of sale.  Further, as a result of our acquisition of SMSC, we inherited certain customer contracts that differ from our standard terms of sale.  For several of the significant markets that we sell into, such as the automotive and personal computer markets, our current or potential customers may possess significant leverage over us in negotiating the terms and conditions of supply as a result of their market size and position.  For example, under certain contracts we may commit to supply specific quantities of products on scheduled delivery dates, or agree to extend our obligations for certain liabilities such as warranties or indemnification for quality issues or claims of intellectual property infringement.  If we are unable to supply the customer as required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing schedule, or quality-related issues.  We may be liable for the customer's costs, expenses and damages associated with their claims and we may be obligated to defend the customer against claims of intellectual property infringement and pay the associated legal fees.  While we try to limit the number of contracts that we sign which contain such special provisions, manage the risks underlying such liabilities, and set caps on our liability exposure, sometimes we may not be able to do so.  In order to win important designs, avoid losing business to competitors, maintain existing business, or be permitted to bid on new business, we may be forced to agree to uncapped liability for such items as intellectual property infringement or confidentiality.  Such provisions expose us to risk of liability far exceeding the purchase price of the products we sell under such contracts, the lifetime revenues we receive from such products, or various forms of potential consequential damages.  These significant additional risks could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition.We must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and competition for qualified personnel can be intense.Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering, manufacturing and other personnel.  The competition for qualified engineering and management personnel can be intense.  We may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require.  The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business.  The 