BUSINESSGeneralFleetcor is the global leader in workforce payment products.  We primarily go to market with our fuel card payments product solutions, corporate payments products, toll products, lodging cards and gift cards. Our products are used in 53 countries around the world, with our primary geographies in the U.S., Brazil and the U.K., which accounted for approximately 92% of our revenue in 2016.  Our core products are primarily sold to businesses, retailers, major oil companies and marketers and government entities.  Our payment programs enable our customers to better manage and control their commercial payments, card programs, and employee spending and provide card-accepting merchants with a high volume customer base that can increase their sales and customer loyalty. We also provide a suite of fleet related and workforce payment products, including mobile telematics services, fleet maintenance management and employee benefit and transportation related payments. In 2016, we processed approximately 2.2 billion transactions on our proprietary networks and third-party networks (which includes approximately 1.3 billion transactions related to our SVS product, acquired with Comdata, Inc. (“Comdata”). We believe that our size and scale, geographic reach, advanced technology and our expansive suite of products, services, brands and proprietary networks contribute to our leading industry position.We provide our payment products and services in a variety of combinations to create customized payment solutions for our customers and partners. In order to deliver our payment programs and services and process transactions, we own and operate proprietary “closed-loop” networks through which we electronically connect to merchants and capture, analyze and report customized information. We also use third-party networks to deliver our payment programs and services in order to broaden our card acceptance and use. To support our payment products, we also provide a range of services, such as issuing and processing, as well as specialized information services that provide our customers with value-added functionality and data. Our customers can use this data to track important business productivity metrics, combat fraud and employee misuse, streamline expense administration and lower overall workforce and fleet operating costs.We market our fleet payment products directly to a broad range of commercial fleet customers, oil companies, petroleum marketers and government entities. Among these customers, we provide our products and services to commercial fleets of all sizes. These fleets include small and medium commercial fleets, which we believe represent an attractive segment of the global commercial fleet market given their relatively high use of less efficient payment products, such as cash and general purpose credit cards. We also manage commercial fleet card programs for major oil companies, such as British Petroleum (BP) (including its subsidiary Arco), Shell and Speedway, and over 800 petroleum marketers.We distribute our commercial payment solutions through direct and indirect channels to businesses of all sizes and types across a broad number of industry verticals, including retail, healthcare, construction and hospitality. Our indirect channel includes a broad range of value-added resellers (VARs) and other referral partners.We refer to these major oil companies, leasing companies, petroleum marketers, VARs and other referral partners with whom we have strategic relationships as our “partners.” These partners collectively maintain hundreds of thousands of end-customer relationships with commercial fleets, commercial payment solutions customers and other businesses.FleetCor’s predecessor company was organized in the United States in 1986.Our products and servicesWe collectively refer to our suite of product offerings as workforce productivity enhancement products for commercial businesses. We sell a range of customized fleet and lodging payment programs directly and indirectly to our customers through partners, such as major oil companies, leasing companies and petroleum marketers. We provide our customers with various card products that typically function like a charge card to purchase fuel, lodging, food, toll, transportation and related products and services at participating locations. We support these card products with specialized issuing, processing and information services that enable us to manage card accounts, facilitate the routing, authorization, clearing and settlement of transactions, and provide value-added functionality and data, including customizable card-level controls and productivity analysis tools. Depending on our customers and partners needs, we provide these services in a variety of outsourced solutions ranging from a comprehensive “end-to-end” solution (encompassing issuing, processing and network services) to limited back office processing services.Our broad suite of commercial payment solutions with vertical-specific applications enable our corporate customers to manage and control electronic payments across their enterprise, optimize corporate spending and offer innovative services that increase 4Table of Contentsemployee efficiency and customer loyalty. Our commercial payment solutions offer integrated components that create a powerful combination of robust payment functionality, deep business insights and comprehensive technical capabilities and support services.In addition, we offer a telematics solution that combines global positioning, satellite tracking and other wireless technology to allow fleet operators to monitor the capacity utilization and movement of their vehicles and drivers. We also provide a vehicle maintenance service offering that helps fleet customers to better manage their vehicle maintenance, service, and repair needs in the U.K. In Mexico, we offer prepaid fuel and food vouchers and cards that may be used as a form of payment in restaurants, grocery stores and gas stations. We market these payment products to small, medium and large businesses, which provide these cards and vouchers to their employees as benefits, as well as a tool to manage fuel expenses. We offer a similar workforce payment product in Brazil related to public transportation and toll vouchers. Additionally in Brazil, we have designed proprietary equipment which, when installed at the fueling site and on the vehicle and combined with our processing system, significantly reduces the likelihood of unauthorized and fraudulent transactions. We offer this product to over-the-road trucking fleets, shipping fleets and other operators of heavily industrialized equipment, including sea-going vessels, mining equipment, agricultural equipment, and locomotives. Also in Brazil, we offer an electronic toll and parking payments product to commercial and consumer customers, as well as a cardless fuel payments product offering at fueling sites throughout Brazil. Other than our fuel card products and services and prepaid giftcard products, no other products or services accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenues in any of the last three fiscal years.NetworksIn order to deliver our payment programs and services, we own and operate proprietary closed-loop networks in North America and internationally. We also utilize the networks of our major oil and petroleum marketer partners in certain markets. Our networks have well-established brands in local markets and proprietary technology that enable us to capture, transact, analyze and report value-added information pertinent to managing and controlling employee spending. Examples of our networks include:North America proprietary closed-loop networks •Fuelman network—our primary proprietary fleet card network in the United States. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with over 11,000 individual merchants, providing the Fuelman network with over 55,000 fueling sites and over 28,000 maintenance sites across the country.•Comdata network—our network of truck stops and fuel merchants for the over-the-road trucking industry. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms at over 6,800 truck stops and fuel merchants across the United States and Canada.•Corporate Lodging Consultants network (CLC)—our proprietary lodging network in the United States and Canada. The CLC Lodging network includes over 16,400 hotels.•Commercial Fueling Network (CFN)—our “members only” fueling network in the United States and Canada. The CFN network is composed of over 2,500 fueling sites owned by a CFN member—the majority of which are unattended cardlock facilities. CFN provides fuel card authorization, transaction processing, cardlock site branding and reciprocal site access for over 220 independent petroleum marketers. Through a CFN affiliation, petroleum marketers can offer commercial fleets an integrated fuel card solution with access to over 55,000 locations via FleetCor’s Fuelman network.•Pacific Pride Fueling network (Pacific Pride)—our "franchise" fueling network in the United States composed of approximately 1,200 fueling sites owned by more than 250 franchisees. The Pacific Pride franchise offering includes a dynamic fleet card management system and provides franchisees' fleet customers access to Pacific Pride's network of unattended fueling facilities. Franchisees also benefit when fleet customers of other franchisees purchase fuel at their locations.  Additionally, the PrideAdvantage fleet card providing fleet customers of franchisees access to over 55,000 locations via FleetCor’s Fuelman network.International proprietary closed-loop networks •Allstar network—our proprietary fleet card network in the United Kingdom. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with over 2,200 individual merchants, providing this network with over 7,400 fueling sites.5Table of Contents•Keyfuels network—our proprietary fleet card network in the United Kingdom. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with more than 500 individual merchants, providing the Keyfuels network with over 2,600 fueling sites.•CCS network—our primary proprietary fleet card network in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with several major oil companies on a brand-wide basis, including MOL, Benzina, OMV, Slovnaft and Shell, and with over 1,100 other merchants, providing the CCS network at over 2,600 fueling sites and 800 other sites accepting our cards.•Petrol Plus Region (PPR) network—our primary proprietary fleet card network in Russia, Poland, Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Moldova. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with approximately 650 individual merchants, providing the PPR network with over 13,500 fueling sites across the region.•Efectivale network—our proprietary fuel and food card and voucher networks in Mexico. We have negotiated acceptance and settlement terms with over 52,000 individual merchants, providing the Mexican network with over 6,200 fueling sites, 41,800 food locations and 4,000 restaurants.•CTF network—our proprietary fuel controls network in Brazil. We have partnerships with BR Distribuidora (Petrobas) and Ipiranga Distribuidora, retail oil distributors, as well as other fuel providers, in Brazil. CTF’s processing system works at over 1,700 highway fueling sites through these partnerships and is integrated with two main banks, Banco Bradesco and Banco Itau.•1link service network—our proprietary maintenance and repair network in the United Kingdom. The 1link network processes transactions for fleet customers through more than 9,400 service centres across the United Kingdom.•RODOCRED network—our proprietary toll network in Brazil. The RODOCRED network processes toll transactions for more than 46,900 customers on all toll roads across Brazil.•VB Distribution system—our proprietary distribution network in Brazil for transportation cards, meal/grocery cards, and fuel cards. The VB distribution network distributes cards for more than 25,000 clients and negotiates with more than 1,300 public transportation agencies across Brazil.•Sem Parar network—our proprietary toll network in Brazil. The network processes toll transactions for more than 3.2 million customers on 99% of the toll roads across Brazil.Third-Party networksIn addition to our proprietary “closed-loop” networks, we also utilize various third-party networks to deliver our payment programs and services. Examples of these networks include: •MasterCard network—In the United States and Canada, we issue corporate cards that utilize the MasterCard payment network, which includes over 178,000 fuel sites and 469,000 maintenance locations. Our co-branded MasterCard corporate cards, virtual card corporate payment solution, purchasing cards, T&E cards and multi-use cards have additional purchasing capabilities and can be accepted at approximately 10.7 million locations throughout the United States and Canada. We market these cards to customers who require card acceptance beyond our proprietary merchant locations. The MasterCard network delivers the ability to capture value-added transaction data at the point-of-sale and allows us to provide customers with fleet controls and reporting comparable to those of our proprietary fleet card networks.•Major oil and fuel marketer networks—The proprietary networks of branded locations owned by our major oil and petroleum marketer partners in both North America and internationally are generally utilized to support the proprietary, branded card programs of these partners.•UTA network—UNION TANK Eckstein GmbH & Co. KG (UTA) operates a network of over 54,000 points of acceptance in 40 European countries, including more than 39,000 fueling sites. The UTA network is generally utilized by European transport companies that travel between multiple countries.•DKV network—DKV operates a network of over 60,000 fleet card-accepting locations across more than 40 countries throughout Europe. The DKV network is generally utilized by European transport companies that travel between multiple countries.6Table of Contents•Carnet networks—In Mexico, we issue fuel cards and food cards that utilize the Carnet payment network, which includes over 11,000 fueling sites, over 31,000 food locations and over 500,000 restaurants across the country.Customers and distribution channelsWe provide our fleet products and services primarily to trucking companies, commercial fleet customers and our major oil company and petroleum marketer partners. Our commercial fleet customers are businesses that operate fleets comprised of one or more vehicles, including small fleets (1-10 vehicles), medium fleets (11-150 vehicles), large fleets (over 150 vehicles), and government fleets (which are owned and operated by governments). We also provide services through strategic relationships with our partners, ranging in size from major oil companies, such as British Petroleum (BP) (including its subsidiary, Arco), Shell and Speedway, to smaller petroleum marketers with as little as a single fueling location. While we refer to companies with whom we have strategic relationships as “partners,” our legal relationships with these companies are contractual, and do not constitute legal partnerships.We distribute our fleet products and services directly to trucking companies and commercial fleet customers as well as through our major oil company and petroleum marketer partners. We provide comprehensive “end-to-end” support for our direct card programs that include issuing, processing and network services. We manage and market the fleet card programs of our partners under our partners’ own brands. We support these programs with a variety of business models ranging from fully outsourced card programs, which include issuing, processing and network services, to card programs where we may only provide limited back office processing services. These supporting services vary based on our partners’ needs and their own card program capabilities.We primarily provide issuing, processing and information services to our major oil company partners, as these partners utilize their proprietary networks of branded locations to support their card programs. In addition, we provide network services to those major oil company partners who choose to offer a co-branded MasterCard as part of their card program. Our agreements with our major oil company partners typically have initial terms of five to ten years with current remaining terms ranging from two to seven years. No single partner represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue in 2016, 2015 or 2014.We provide similar fleet products and services to government fleet customers as we provide to other commercial fleet customers. Our government fleet customers generally constitute local, state or federal government-affiliated departments and agencies with vehicle fleets, such as police vehicle fleets and school bus fleets. We provide food, fuel, toll and transportation cards and vouchers to commercial businesses, fleets and governmental agencies.We distribute our commercial payment solutions through direct and indirect channels to businesses of all sizes and types across a broad number of industry verticals. We serve customers across numerous industry verticals, such as retail, healthcare, construction and hospitality as well as general commercial payment services in energy, entertainment, insurance and trade finance. We provide our commercial payment solutions under contracts with our customers. Terms such as exclusivity, mandatory minimum contract payments and pricing terms vary based on scope of use, usage volumes, incentives and contract duration. When our commercial payment solutions include short term credit, our contracts for those solutions contain credit and collection terms. Contracts for our commercial stored value solutions include a description and pricing for our services and deliverables associated with those solutions.For a description of our financial information by our North America and International segments and geographical areas, see “Note 15—Segments.”Sales and marketingWe market our products and services to prospective customers in North America and internationally through multiple channels including field sales, telesales, direct marketing, point-of-sale marketing and the internet. We also leverage the sales and marketing capabilities of our strategic relationships. Worldwide, our sales and marketing employees are focused on acquiring new customers and retaining existing customers for our different products. We also utilize tradeshows, advertising and other awareness campaigns to further market our products and services.We utilize proprietary and third-party databases to develop our prospect universe, and segment those prospects by various characteristics, including industry, geography, size, and credit score, to identify potential customers. We develop customized offers for different types of potential customers and work to deliver those offers through the most effective marketing channel. We actively manage prospects across our various marketing channels to optimize our results and avoid marketing channel conflicts.7Table of ContentsOur primary means of acquiring new customers include:•Field sales—Our field sales organizations are comprised of remote or local office-based sales representatives who conduct face-to-face sales presentations and product demonstrations with prospects, assist with post-sale program implementation and training, and provide in-person account management. Field sales representatives also attend and manage our marketing at tradeshows. Our field sales force is generally dedicated to a specific product or service category, and tend to target larger prospects. •Telesales—We have telesales representatives handling inbound and outbound sales calls.•Our inbound call volume is primarily generated as a result of marketing activities, including direct marketing, point-of-sale marketing and the internet.•Our outbound phone calls typically target prospects that have expressed an initial interest in our services or have been identified through database analysis as prospective customers. Our telesales teams are generally dedicated to a specific product or service category, and tend to target smaller prospects. We also leverage our telesales channel to cross-sell additional products to existing customers.•Digital marketing—We manage numerous marketing websites around the world which tend to fall into two categories: product-specific websites and marketing portals. •Product-specific websites—Our product-specific websites, including fuelman.com, checkinncard.com, allstarcard.co.uk and semparar.com.br, focus on one or more specific products, provide the most in-depth information available online regarding those particular products, allow prospects to convert online (where appropriate) and allow customers to access and manage their accounts online. We manage product-specific websites for our own proprietary programs, as well as white labeled sites for our strategic relationships.•Marketing portals—Our marketing portals, including fleetcardsUSA.com and fuelcards.co.uk, serve as information sources for fleet operators interested in fleet card products. In addition to providing helpful information on fleet management, including maintenance, tax reporting and fuel efficiency, these websites allow fleet operators to research card products, compare the features and benefits of multiple products, and identify the card product which best meets the fleet manager’s needs. As part of our digital marketing strategy, we monitor and modify our marketing websites to improve our search engine rankings and test our advertising keywords to optimize our banner advertising placement and costs and our pay-per-click advertising spend among the major internet search firms such as Google and Yahoo.•Direct marketing—We market directly to potential customers via mail and email. We test various program offers and promotions, and adopt the most successful features into subsequent direct marketing initiatives. We seek to enhance the sales conversion rates of our direct marketing efforts by coordinating timely follow-up calls by our telesales teams.•Point-of-sale marketing—We provide marketing literature at the point-of-sale within our proprietary networks and those of our strategic relationships. Literature may include “take-one” applications, pump-top advertising and in-store advertising. Our point-of-sale marketing leverages the branding and distribution reach of the physical merchant locations.•Strategic relationships—We develop and manage relationships with industry participants relevant to our various products and services. With regard to our fuel card products and services, we have developed and currently manage relationships with oil companies, independent petroleum marketers, card marketers and leasing companies. Our major oil company and petroleum marketer relationships offer our payment processing and information management services to their fleet customers in order to establish and enhance customer loyalty. Our card programs for major oil companies and petroleum marketers carry their proprietary branding and may or may not be accepted in one of our merchant networks. We benefit from the marketing efforts of major oil companies and petroleum marketers with whom we have strategic relationships to attract customers to their fueling locations. We manage the fleet card sales and marketing efforts for several major oil companies across the full spectrum of channels, including field sales, telesales, direct marketing, point-of-sale marketing and internet marketing. In these cases, we establish dedicated sales and marketing teams to focus exclusively on marketing the products of major oil companies and petroleum marketers. Our major oil company relationships include some of the world’s largest oil companies such as BP, Speedway and Shell. Through our leasing company relationships, we offer our payment processing, vehicle maintenance and information management services to their fleet customers as part of the leasing company’s broader package of fleet services. Most 8Table of Contentsof our leasing company relationships reside outside of North America, and we view these relationships as an important strategic growth area.Our strategic relationships also include a broad range of VARs and other referral partners that expand our reach into smaller businesses, new industry verticals and new geographies faster and at a significantly lower cost. We provide our commercial payment solutions, third-party processing services and other fleet services to these partners who offer our services under our brands or their own brands on a “white-label” basis. For example, we provide healthcare payment solutions through healthcare networks, corporate payment solutions through software and services providers and payroll card solutions through payroll service providers.Account management •Customer service, account activation, account retention—We provide account management and customer service to our customers. Based in dedicated call centers across our key markets, these professionals handle transaction authorizations, billing questions and account changes. Customers also have the opportunity to self-service their accounts through interactive voice response and online tools. We monitor the quality of the service we provide to our customers by adhering to industry standard service levels with respect to abandon rates and answer times and through regular agent call monitoring. We also conduct regular customer surveys to ensure customers are satisfied with our products and services. In addition to our base customer service support, we provide the following specialized services:•Implementation and activation—We have dedicated implementation teams that are responsible for establishing the system set-up for each customer account. These teams focus on successful activation and utilization of our new customers and provide training and education on the use of our products and services. Technical support resources are provided to support the accurate and timely set-up of technical integrations between our proprietary processing systems and customer systems (e.g., payroll, enterprise resource planning and point-of-sale). Larger accounts are provided dedicated program managers who are responsible for managing and coordinating customer activities for the duration of the implementation. These program managers are responsible for the successful set-up of accounts to meet stated customer objectives.•Strategic account management—We assign designated account managers who serve as the single point of contact for our large accounts. Our account managers have in-depth knowledge of our programs and our customers’ operations and objectives. Our account managers train customer administrators and support them on the operation and optimal use of our programs, oversee account setup and activation, review online billing and create customized reports. Our account managers also prepare periodic account reviews, provide specific information on trends in their accounts and work together to identify and discuss major issues and emerging needs.•Account retention—We have proprietary, proactive strategies to contact customers who may be at risk of terminating their relationship with us. Through these strategies we seek to address service concerns, enhance product structures and provide customized solutions to address customer issues.•Customer service—Day-to-day servicing representatives are designated for customer accounts. These designated representatives are responsible for the daily service items and issue resolution of customers. These servicing representatives are familiar with the nuanced requirements and specifics of a customer’s program. Service representatives are responsible for customer training, fraud disputes, card orders, card maintenance, billing, etc.•Merchant network services—Our representatives work with merchants such as fuel, toll operators and vehicle maintenance providers to enroll them in one of our proprietary networks, install and test all network and terminal software and hardware and train them on the sale and transaction authorization process. In addition, our representatives provide transaction analysis and site reporting and address settlement issues.•Call center program administrator—Off-hour call center support is provided to customers to handle time-sensitive requests and issues outside of normal business hours.•Management tools—We offer a variety of online servicing tools that enable customers to identify and provide authority to program administrators to self-service their accounts.Additionally, we provide cardholder support for individuals utilizing our payment tools, such as fleet, T&E, gift cards, and stored value payroll cards. This support enables cardholders the ability to activate cards, check balances, and resolve issues in a timely and effective fashion. Cardholder support is conducted 24-hours a day, seven-days per week 9Table of Contentsin multiple languages utilizing telephony, web and call center technologies to deliver comprehensive and cost effective servicing. We have rigorous operational metrics in place to increase cardholder responsiveness to corporate and customer objectives. •Credit underwriting and collections—We follow detailed application credit review, account management, and collections procedures for all customers of our payment solutions. We use multiple levers including billing frequency, payment terms, spending limits and security to manage risk in our portfolio. For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, our bad debt expense was $35.9 million and $24.6 million, respectively.•New account underwriting—We use a combination of quantitative, third-party credit scoring models and judgmental underwriting to screen potential customers and establish appropriate credit terms and spend limits. Our underwriting process provides additional scrutiny for large credit amounts and we utilize tiered credit approval authority among our management.•Prepaid and secured accounts—We also offer products and services on a prepaid or fully-secured basis. Prepaid customer accounts are funded with an initial deposit and subsequently debited for each purchase transacted on the cards issued to the customer. Fully-secured customer accounts are secured with cash deposits, letters of credit and/or insurance bonds. The security is held until such time as the customer either fails to pay the account or closes its account after paying outstanding amounts. Under either approach, our prepaid and fully-secured offerings allow us to market to a broader universe of prospects, including customers who might otherwise not meet our credit standards.•Monitoring and account management—We use fraud detection programs, including both proprietary and third party solutions, to monitor transactions and prevent misuse of our products. We monitor the credit quality of our portfolio periodically utilizing external credit scores and internal behavior data to identify high risk or deteriorating credit quality accounts. We conduct targeted strategies to minimize exposure to high risk accounts, including reducing spending limits and payment terms or requiring additional security.•Collections—As accounts become delinquent, we may suspend future transactions based on our risk assessment of the account. Our collections strategy includes a combination of internal and outsourced resources which use both manual and dialer-based calling strategies. We use a segmented collection strategy which prioritizes higher risk and higher balance accounts. For severely delinquent, high balance accounts we may pursue legal remedies.CompetitionWe face considerable competition in our business. The most significant competitive factors in our business are the breadth of product and service features, credit extension, payment terms, customer service and account management, and price.  For certain payment-related products, we also compete on the respective size or nature (i.e., open versus closed loop) of each product’s acceptance network.  For certain payment processing services, systems and technology are also significant competitive factors.  We believe that we generally compete favorably with respect to each of these factors. However, we may experience competitive disadvantages with respect to each of these factors from time to time as potential customers prioritize or value these competitive factors diffe