 AOT stands for Advanced Osteotomy Tools, and we're a start-up and the first company who is cutting bone with a laser. The genesis of the idea was that one of our founder's daughters needed a correction osteotomy in the maxilla and when he consulted the surgeon he was showing him all the tools there: the saws and the chisels and the hammer. And he was afraid for his daughter and thought that there must be a better way of cutting bone. Laser has been around in the medical field for quite a long time -- 40 years plus. So you have ophthalmological lasers, dermatology, oncology... But it's all soft tissue and with the hard tissue the problem was always that you bring in too much energy and with the energy you carbonize the bone and in the end the bone is dead so you have a nice cut but it does not grow back together. With our laser we can do cold cuts -- cold ablation -- and with this we can do any geometry, any shape, it has open pores, it grows back quicker. The laser requires that we are cutting an osteotomy several times, and this cannot be done by a human. So you need super-human precision. And for this we need a robot which can interact with a person. For us, the KUKA LBR Med is the perfect robot for the job because if something goes wrong in the OR and the surgeon has to react he does not have to think about pushing an emergency button or releasing the trigger button but he can touch the robot and the laser will stop immediately. Our graphical user interface is completely independent from KUKA, but of course we have to drive the robot arm and for this we need interconnectivity and this was actually also a very important part for us to choose KUKA. The CB report from KUKA is taking away a lot of work for our regulatory and quality people. The documentation per se is taking a lot of efforts and if we can profit from the work that KUKA has already done then we'll gladly accept it and so far it has worked very well. Robotic surgery has been around for quite some time. In 1995, around then, we experienced the ROBODOC, where we had a robot driving a mechanical instrument -- and that did not go too well because with the robot we take away the haptics from the surgeon. But with the laser and the robot combination we now have the possibility to do things which could not be done before. It's an exciting time. People believe in the robot, and we have the device that the robot can be used in the OR. Our current focus is of course CE Mark, but then what we are having is like the iPhone of the OR. So what we need to do is build content and more or less an app store for it. With the laser we can cut everything -- we can cut all bone. So our plan is to start in the head and grow from the head downwards and in five years I hope that -- I don't know -- 1% of the hospitals already use KUKA with the applications that we provide for each single indication. 