 (upbeat digital music) - Hi, I'm Chris Chidzik with IMTS TV and I'm here with Niels Jul Jacobsen of Mobile Industrial Robots and we're going to be talking about the MiR500. Niels, could you tell us a little bit about Mobile Industrial Robots and what you guys do? - Yeah, we are a company out of Denmark and we have been here for five years now. And we make mobile robots for industry. Basically, that's transportation stuff from point A to point B. And then you interact with different machines. - And about how many countries are you guys currently in? - Oh, a lot, we are in more than 40 countries now. We have distributor and partners all over the world. I think we are more than 145 now. - And now the Mir500, that debuted in North America today, right? - Yes. - And is it M-I-R or MiR? - [Niels] It depends on you, MiR is like a name in Russian for peace, so somehow we like that, but I think in America you call it M-I-R. - [Chris] Okay, and could you tell us a little bit about the MiR500? - [Niels] Yeah, it's our newest product that we have been working on the last couple of years, based on feedback, and it's basically a robot for pallet transportation. - [Chris] Okay, and who is your typical customer? Who buys this product? - [Niels] It's a whole variety of customers, but our main customer, right now, much national companies that really have been looking into how you can optimize logistic and this is one part of it. - So, I see all of these robots moving around amongst people. How safe are they? - Oh, they're very safe. Safety is one of our core values. From the start, we have concentrated on making this safe as possible, because it has to be in an environment together with persons. And that's what we see this couple of years, that robot is now being collaborative robots, and our mobile ones are really good example of that. And I think you can see it here in our booth, that it's just natural for people now to operate together with a robot. - And I see that the one you have right here is setup with a pallet. How much can it lift? - We call it MiR500, so that's 500 kilo or about 1,100 pounds. And it has this capability there. And it's also about safety. So, it's not how much you can lift, but how can you save, brake it. If something happens, if someone jumps in front of it. - Awesome, and what is the battery life like on it? - Right now, we have battery lifetime of more than 8 hours, of course, it depends a little bit on your driving pattern, but we guarantee at least 8 hours. - And could you tell us a little bit about how it works? - The robot itself has a basic map it operates on. And then it comes from one point to another with a kind of global plan. And then when it drives, it's like you being a driver in a car, it looks at it's surrounding, it has some basic scanners, it has some 3D cameras, it looks into the objects to determine which way is safe to move, then it will move around you in that way. - And so does this come with software or any other way that I can program how the robot moves about? - Yeah, I think all our robots are inherited with all the software. So basically, we have web interface so you can access that from your phone, or your tablet, or your PC. That makes it very very intuitive and easy to operate on. That's another of our core values actually. - So are they fully autonomous all the time or can I also manually operate the robot? - They're basically autonomous, but you can take control of them anytime you like. We have like an adjusting interaction, so you can just take control, and then you can operate it around. Like a big play toy, but it's really really useful, if you just want to move it a few centimeters to the right or left. And then if you want to change something, you want to update its location, you can drive it to that precision, and say this is my precise location that I want it to be in. - Awesome, and so I noticed that the MiR500, right now, is setup with a pallet loader. Is there any other applications I can use it for? - Oh yeah, we saw the pallet as the main market for the MiR500, but as all of our robots, it's a basic platform, so you can put conveyors on top of that, you can put robotics arms on top of that, or whatever you can imagine. And I think our partners has this kind of ability to come up with a new solution all the time that we also are amazed of. But I think, that's the nice thing about humans, we really imaginative, how can use robots the best way. - [Chris] And I think the question on everybody's mind, right now, is how can I get one? - [Niels] Oh yeah, you can get one here from one of our partners. In the U.S. we have more than 35 partners. And elsewhere, we have office in Long Island and in San Diego, and you could just get in contact with them, and they would definitely help you. - So do you guys have any specific goals that you want to accomplish at IMTS 2018? - Yeah, we actually want to show people that collaborative robots are not the future, they're here now, and you can come at our booth and see them, operate with them, touch them. - Awesome. Well, that was Niels Jul Jacobsen of Mobile Industrial Robots, and I'm Chris Chidzik of IMTS TV. Thanks for joining. (digital music) 