 Hello, my name is Kristofer Hivju and I'm inviting you to watch "Twin" on MHz Choice. 'Twin' is about two twin brothers who have been alienated for about 15 years. One of them is an irresponsible surfer bum, and the other one is a responsible father. They meet up after 15 years, and something happens. And it forces one of them to live his brother's life. My name is Kristoffer Metcalfe. I'm the creator of 'Twin' and I also directed four of the eight episodes. 'Twin' has been an idea that me and Kristofer have been talking about since college. I met Kristoffer Metcalfe about 20 years ago at a party and we just started to pitch stories. He can think something, and I can say it. Or I can just show something in my eyes, and he can write it. It's like... a very strange thing we have. Some twin brothers actually have! Hi, my name is Rebekka Nystabakk. I'm playing Ingrid in 'Twin'. When I came to the audition, the task was that you have killed your husband and you're now in front of his twin brother and you're trying to convince him to take over his brother's life. The children are about to wake up, they're going to school and you have to make their breakfast. There was so many things that I was supposed to play. Of course, it's very hard to play very many things at the same time. After the audition, I felt really like I will never see these people again. Hi, I'm Erika Calmeyer and I directed 'Twin' Episodes 3-6. We started shooting while Kristofer Hivju was still on another show. We just had to get the production going and so we were filming basically without him. He called me and said, "Oh, I'm dying" because I'm falling off that stupid wall. So, we're rolling in March... A couple of months later, he says, "I didn't die on the wall." But the good part then is because we had cast a lot of actors who had not done films (before)... we started with their scenes because we couldn't cut his beard until 7th of June, 2018. That was the deal with HBO. And I think also it was great for him because when he came back, he came into a small studio set... I told the crew, everybody get on stage. Kristofer is back, and he was looking around and he was turning to me and said, "Is this everybody?" And I said, "Yes, welcome home!" We are not 500 people. The idea we fell in love with was that a twin brother is taking his twin brother's life and has to live it. And this is a concept very often used in comedy, but we wanted to examine what could really happen. If it happened, how would it happen? The interesting thing is not how to not get caught, the interesting thing is how to deal with the circumstance. How do you live with that? This has been a passion project for me for 13 years. When the idea first came up, we made a short film and it was set in a Western world and Erik was a criminal in prison and Adam was a priest, but it was like very Hollywood-ish and it was very, very simple. For us, we understood the show was maybe more about how to keep a family together in difficult times than it was about the crime story. Since Erik has been alienated from this family, he now gets a chance to get to know them and to be a part of this family and to understand the values of a family, and take the responsibilities you have to do as a father or a husband. Of course, this is a Norwegian show and the characters speak Norwegian... But the situation is very clear all the time. So I think actually this is a show that is very easy to watch because you understand what you see all the time. And when it comes to the subtitles... I just want to say... Don't fear the subtitles. Love the subtitles. Because they will open a world of entertainment you wouldn't imagine. 