 Announcer:  Coming to you from Los Angeles,  it's the Internet's  biggest night,  and it all starts  in three, two, one. - Girl, 2020 was trash. - It sure was. But you know what, though? I'm ready to move on. - What have we got? - Um, Joe Exotic. He's in a better place. ( scoffs ) He's not dead. But did you see his life before? ( laughs ) TP shortage. You know, this didn't faze me at all. I haven't wiped in probably 10 years. - ( snickers ) - Oh, Kardashians  birthday party. Super-spreader event. Would you go? Of course not. That would be so irresponsible. ( whispering ) Yes, we'd go. Oh, Karens. This might call the police on you. Ugh, get this to the Yankee Candle. The Internet? Wait, this has got to be a mistake. Who would throw away the Internet? It's arguably the only good part of 2020. Dare I say, it was probably the best thing about the whole year. And dare I say, I wish we had an opportunity to honor all the content creators who made 2020 bearable. Great idea, but how do we do that? - ( honking ) - Oh, that's right! We're hosting the YouTube Streamy Awards tonight. - On a party bus. - Wow! Announcer:   Buckle up, because we're about  to take you for a ride.  ( music playing ) Announcer:   This is the 2020  YouTube Streamy Awards,  brought to you by  "The Croods: A New Age"  and CarMax,  with special appearances  by David Dobrik,  Charli & Dixie D'Amelio,  Liza Koshy,  Bretman Rock, MrBeast,  James Charles, Lilly Singh,  Marques Brownlee, Tabitha Brown,  Camila Loures, and more.  Plus, musical performances  from Lewis Capaldi,  Doja Cat, and Tones and I.  And now, here are your hosts,  Trixie and Katya. Welcome to the YouTube Streamy Awards, brought to you by CarMax and "The Croods: A New Age." - Ooh! - And it's  the 10-year anniversary! Ten years in Internet world equals about 100 years in the real world. Honestly, anything from the Internet lasting 10 years is just inspiring. The show tonight is all about the creators who managed to accomplish so much in 2020 despite everything that was happening all around us. And, because of the times, we're obviously not at an award show venue. We're in a bus. And most of the people participating in the show tonight shot their own footage, which, honestly, for us Internet people, Mama, ain't no thing. Sweetie, we thrive in the ring light. Tonight, we're taking the Streamys on the road, since nothing says super-spreader event like a ballroom full of young creators yelling about their accomplishments for an hour and a half. Yeah, so much safer to do it in a moving vehicle in a city with some of the worst traffic in the world. But, seriously, anybody you see in the show tonight has been tested, both emotionally and physically, and it's all super safe. Corona is not ruining this party. We've all been tested, and no COVO! But some homo. It's gonna be great. Not only are we taking this show on the literal road, we're gonna look back at 10 years of the amazing Streamys, we're gonna give out some awards from the bus, and for the first time ever, we're gonna give creators an opportunity to honor each other. - Wow. I honor you, Trixie. - Thank you so much. I'd like my award, because I prepared a speech. Uh, you lose every year. I hope you remember that. I sure do. It's time to give away the first Streamy of the night. 2020 definitely didn't make it easy for any of us to live our normal lives, but this next group of nominees managed to adapt to the circumstances and keep us entertained even when nothing normal was normal. And I don't know about you, but I was living for it. So, here are the nominees for Lifestyle. Announcer:   Alexa Rivera. Basically, they have to wear leotards - for the rest of the night. - ( music playing ) Announcer:   Calle Y Poché. ( speaking Spanish ) Announcer:   Jennelle Eliana. I live in a van with my pet snake Alfredo. - Announcer: Larray.  - I hope you guys  are all thriving. I hope you guys are all feeling exhilarated. A lot of you guys started school. Ha! Can't relate. Announcer:   And Rickey Thompson. We shooting for the stars, baby. Hello! You know what I mean? Hello! Announcer:   Lifestyle. And the winner for the Streamy Award for Lifestyle is... - Larray. - ( popping ) ( applause, cheering ) I hate you guys so much. That was the most annoying thing ever. - Are you serious? - ( laughs ) Wait, so, we're not filming a video? Is this live? Like, hey, guys. Wait. Ooh. Um, I just want to quickly say thank you guys so much for, um, allowing me to win. I really appreciate it. I'm not really used to winning things in life. Thank you so much for caring about me. All my fans, I appreciate it. It feels weird that you guys care about me, but you do. Thank you, Dixie, for being such a good... - What are they called? - Dixie: Presenter. Presenter. Okay, bye! I just wanted to take a moment to acknowledge the situation we are in, which is this is a moving vehicle. Yes, and it does not have shocks, suspension, the transmission is gone, and we are probably gonna die any moment. I don't even think we have a driver. It's just a watermelon with a little googly eye on it. - So if you say any... - ( gasping ) - ...it's not just  for sexual energy. - Or drunkenness. So, anyway, welcome to a very special bumpy ride. Let's take a look at our first Creator Honor. Here's Lilly Singh. Oh, I'm so glad I have a huge zit for this. Yass! So, this year, the Streamy Awards are a little different. Hashtag COVID! So, check this out. Instead of a typical show, they're getting past winners to pick a creator of their choice to honor. So let do this. Flex. It says, "The right recipient is a creator who helped you get through a rough time during this unprecedented year." "A rough time." LOL, wasn't the whole thing rough? So, a couple months ago, one of my friends slid into my DMs and they were like, "You have to watch this girl. She's hilarious." So I did. I'm obsessed. Her name is Elsa Majimbo, and she's everything. I'm not late. I allow everyone else to arrive first. I just found $5 in my trousers, and I'm wondering if this is how Jeff Bezos wakes up feeling. I'm really not sure if I should wear green or black to the diamond ball. She takes a concept, laughs at it, eats chips, and I've never related more. It's so feel-good. So I then I decide to DM her, and I'm like, "Oh, my God, I love your videos." And, get this, she responds to me saying, "I don't think you understand.  Half of the humor  I got from you.  Like, you made me grow up  seeing so many things  in light, funny, and amazing  ways. You are an icon." And I'm like, "Nah, sis. You the icon." Here's the plan. Check it out. We're gonna surprise Elsa. We're gonna create a video, put it in a video card, ship it to her in Kenya, surprise her, give her the award. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. Hey, Elsa, Lilly here. Thank you so much for letting me send you this. Unh! Unh! Let's put it in a video card. So, every once in a while, I get these video cards in the mail, where you open it and a video plays. "This is so cool." And I've been waiting for the day that I'm important and bougie enough to do this myself. And guess what. Today is that day. Next stop, Kenya. Okay, this is-- this is nice. I'm really hoping it's money. It's feeling expensive. Hey, Elsa, Lilly here. Thank you so much for letting me send you this. Now, when I messaged you, I made it sound like I was gonna send you merch or something like that. Here's the thing, right? I lied. What I'm actually giving you is an award, because this year the Streamys are allowing past winners to pick a creator of their choice to honor, and, girl, I am honoring you. So I am giving you an award that I am calling Best New Comedy Creator of 2020, 'cause, girl, you have helped me laugh so many times this year. When I messaged you, I was so honored to find out that I inspired you, and I remember when I was starting out, I didn't have a lot of equipment, resources, or straight-up money. - I mean, you said it yourself. - My PayPal is still at zero. I'm not sure if it's a mistake. So, Elsa, send me your PayPal information, because I'm going to personally support you with an equipment fund because I believe in you so much. Congratulations on this award. I am so proud of you. I am cheering you on,  and I'm so grateful that you're making us all laugh. In other words, you thought I was just gonna send you merch? ( laughs ) You played yourself. You got pranked! You just won an award. You taste that? Victory. This is so nice. Best Comedian to come out of 2020. Oh, this is amazing, considering, you know, I didn't even consider myself a comedian. I mean, I'd make videos and I'd be like, "OMG, I'm so funny," and I would laugh so hard. But this is amazing. Thank you so much. I appreciate you! Winning awards is so emotional. - So is losing them. - Oh, don't I know it. It's just an honor to be nominated again. But, honestly, if there ever was a group that could turn on tears for the camera, it's content creators. So when you need to cry, how do you do it? Easy, I take a small knife or a letter opener, and I just stab myself in the side right here. - Tears flow right away. - Love that. Sometimes I'll just induce my iPhone dying. - Oh! - Five percent. - Yeah. - I'll just run out of stamps. - ( laughs ) - Oh, that's just... ( imitates sobbing ) I'm tearing up just thinking about how good I am at tearing up. Well, I hope these nominees watched our lesson closely. Aloha, it's me, Bretman Rock, and this year, I will be presenting the Breakout Creator of the Year. To be the Breakout Creator of the Year, you have to work it, bring it, and most importantly, you gotta post it. And after all you do all that, you have to, you know, break the Internet, period. I mean, it's really hard considering all the content out there. So much respect to this year's nominees. Let's take a look. Announcer:   Breakout Creator.  Addison Rae. My eyes look so light right now. What's going on? Announcer:   Charli D'Amelio. I can't have coffee until I'm all healed. Announcer:   Dream. Dream:   I'm sick of being on fire  all the time.  Yes! This is so annoying. Announcer:   Spencer X. What's up, everybody? ( beat-boxing ) Announcer:   And ZHC. For the first laptop, I'm gonna paint our house on it. All right, guys, so, I drew the Humble House. Announcer:   Breakout Creator. This year's Breakout Creator of the Year is... Are you serious? Oh, my goodness. Thank you. Um, a speech? Oh, my goodness. Okay. Um, thank you. Thank you. This was you guys, not me. Um, I have amazing supporters that got me to where I am, so I'm obviously very, very thankful for each and every one of you. I'm thankful for my parents for letting me do this, letting me move to LA, being there for me every step of the way. I'm extremely thankful for all of them. My team, my family, my friends, every single person that supported me to get me to where I am today. Every single dance teacher I've had, every single person I've grown with and that's made me the person that I am. So, just, thank you to everyone, really. This is insane. Announcer:  The 2020 YouTube Streamy Awards  are just getting started.  Coming up, we look back  at 10 years of the Streamys. This is gonna be amazing! Streamys are the premiere award show in digital achievement. Really appreciate-- You have not responded to all of my personal Snapchats. Oh, wow, there are so many more of you in here than where I was sitting. I can't-- out of my mouth. - Yes! - Yeah! You changed my whole life, so thank you very much. We are paving the way for a new generation. Announcer:   Plus, a ton more  of your favorite creators,  like Juanpa Zurita,  Patrick Starrr,  Amber Whittington,  Jay Shetty, Mark Rober,  Kyle Exum, AsapSCIENCE,  Casey Neistat,  and Brittany Broski.  We're celebrating  the best of the best  of the Internet.  Happy Streamys.  Don't go anywhere. And we're back, but I've lost my other half. Oh, welcome. What are you doing? What is this, a mukbang video? - We can make it one. - In a second. But first, as we all know, 2020 was rough. Like seven bags of Funyuns rough. Yes. Since it's been such a challenging year, we invited creators that we admire to give us their take on some of the biggest issues we've all struggled with. In the first spotlight, Jay Shetty tackles wellness. So while Katya eats her feelings, let's see what he has to say. You know you're gonna get in the pretzels as soon as the camera turns off. Jay:   Dear 2020.  When you began,  we had no idea what you had  in store for us,  not only in terms  of our physical health,  but mentally as well.  The number of Americans  suffering from depression  and anxiety tripled this year  due to the pandemic.  Many were already  on the edge of burnout and already feeling a sense of loneliness and disconnection, and the pandemic pushed us into overload. A journey means there's ups and downs, and I have downs, too, and that's real and that's human and that's life. Yet there's another side to your story. TV host Fred Rogers once said, "When I was a boy and I would see scary things  in the news,  my mother would say to me,  'Look for the helpers.'  You will always find people  who are helping." From the challenges of 2020 have arisen today's helpers-- creators, who have opened their hearts and their platforms to offer support to millions, sharing their stories and offering solutions for dealing with mental health. You are not alone, you are deeply important, and just because you are not okay right now does not mean you won't be okay later. Jay:   Creators including  the Merrell twins  and Cascina Caradonna  offered advice to young people  on how to stay healthy  and grounded  when interacting  with social media. You know, if you're sick or injured, you would go to the hospital or you go to the doctor when you're ill. With mental health, you also have to take this daily action to be healthy. It's working. Though levels of depression and anxiety skyrocketed  in the spring,  they have since fallen. Through their own compassion, these helpers and creators are showing us what are perhaps this year's greatest lessons-- that our vulnerability is our greatest strength and that we  are all stronger together. So, let us find ways to work with and for one another and to serve and help one another, especially the most vulnerable among us, and let us make it out the only way we can-- together. So, thank you, to each and every single one of you that has used your passion with compassion this year to help so many. Thank you, the helpers. Thank you to the creators. Thank you to you. Welcome back. Surprise, this thing is still eating. - It's good. - It's actually perfect because we're gonna get to announce the Food Award. - Right now? - Right now, yeah. - Well, I'm eating. - What a shock. Here are the nominees  for food. Announcer:   Alex French Guy Cooking. The best place to learn how to make Italian meatballs is the US. How do you deal with this? Announcer:   Babish Culinary Universe. Babish:   We gotta make us  a graham cracker crust.  I am really bad  at decorating things.  I like to think  it's part of my charm. Announcer:   How To Cook That. There's no way you can make it in that time. The cakes aren't gonna be able to cool, it's not gonna work. Announcer:   Joshua Weissman. Joshua:   Okay, let's first address  our chicken.  As you can see,  I'm firmly addressing mine. Announcer:   And Tabitha Brown. So, y'all been seeing the photo of making bacon out of a banana peel? 'Cause I can't just bite a banana. Well, my goodness today. That's a banana peel. Announcer: Food. Okay, we've arrived, so let's go give the winner their award. Great idea. - Sorry. It's time. - Okay. She's never gonna see this coming. Shh. I don't think she can see us. - Ooh, it's a red carpet? - Congratulations, Tabitha! You won the Streamy Award for food. - Wait a minute, I won? - Yes, you won! I thought I was just nominated! You won! You won! Congratulations. We rolled out the red carpet for you. Oh, my God! I thought I was just being interviewed 'cause I got nominated. Wait, is this for real or no? - Yes! - You 100% won. Shut up! Oh, my God. So I'm supposed to have a speech or something? Trixie: Have a speech, girl. This is your moment. Lord have mercy. Well... And, list-- I was excited to meet y'all. See, I wore my Queen 'cause I was meeting the queens. Oh, Lord, okay. So, I was not expecting this. At all. Um... Oh, my Lord. I don't even know what to say, but thank you. I'm so full of gratitude. I'm just grateful that I can do something and be myself and tell stories through food and be accepted for that. We live in a world where acceptance is a big thing and everybody's not always accepted. And so for people to love me just for me and present this to me, I say thank you, so... And I'm gonna keep on cooking this vegan food, I reckon, huh? Very good, thank you! - Yay!  - Congratulations! Tabitha: Oh, my God! Thank you. Announcer:   Go to the Streamys YouTube  channel  for even more winner  acceptance speeches,  brought to you by CarMax. What were you up to when we dropped by? Trying to eat. Stuffing my face. That's why I tried to put a mint, 'cause I had some onions. So, forgive me, all right? Announcer:   Our next creator uploaded  his first YouTube video  in 2013,  and seven years later,  launched his own  beauty brand, One Size.  Please welcome  Patrick Starrr. Hey, Streamys. It's Patrick Starrr, makeup artist, beauty guru, and founder of One Size Beauty. I'm so excited today, because if you guys don't remember, I am a two-time Streamy award-winner for fashion and beauty, and if you know me, I love surprises. And today I have been given the ultimate honor to surprise and award an amazing, special individual in the beauty community. His name is Jose, also known as Laviedunprince on social media, and we're gonna surprise him today. So he thinks he's coming in to film a mukbang for my channel, but that's not the case. What he don't know won't hurt him. Let's get into it. Hey, guys, it's Patrick Starrr. Welcome back to my channel today. I am gonna be doing a mukbang with a very special guest by the name of Jose, also known as Laviedunprince. - What's up? - I missed you. I missed you, too. Are you excited to eat? There is a lot of good food here honestly. Well, I'm excited to eat, but today we are not eating. - Although I am hungry... - Oh, my God. - ...today I noticed  you have a hunger... - What are we doing? ...for working very, very hard. So on behalf of the Streamys, I'd love to award you with a Streamy Award! - Are you serious? - Yeah. So we have an award for you. It's very, very cool. We have a crown. ( overlapping chatter ) Oh, my gosh, how cute! ( speaks Spanish ) So, on behalf of the Streamys, I have another surprise for you from your number-one fan. It goes, "My son, you are a very special person. You are a miracle, and I am proud of all you have done for me and yourself and your whole family. You have no flaws to me, and you are very special. Your dad and I will always give you all the support we can, with love and comprehension at all times. Jose, you are an angel that God sent us. You deserve all you've accomplished, and I'm looking forward that, God willing, you will always have happiness, health, and friends that reciprocate the same love you give, because you deserve it. I hope you are accepted in the world the same way I have accepted you in my heart. I love you, and may God help you accomplish your dreams. Wish you all happiness with your marriage, and may God give you both respect and comprehension to one another. I love you, I love you, my ray of light. Sincerely, with all my love, Mom." Is that why she was like, "Make sure you look nice"? - Aw, congratulations. - Did you guys really  talk to her? - Of course.  It's Patrick Starrr. - What? How? Both: Aww. Patrick: Congratulations. Honestly, I am so speechless. I cannot believe I just won this award. First of all, I want to thank my mom for being part of this, too. Like, I didn't even know she was being part of this. No wonder, when I was on my way here she was like, "Make sure you look good." Thank you, Mom, so much. I love you. To Noel, my husband, you literally, you-- oh, watch when I get home. And I also want to give a huge thank you to Patrick for always believing in me and for everything that he has done. And, yeah, thank you guys so much for this. Welcome back to our channel. I love the idea of making our show - on a party bus from now on. - It's not the worst idea. Now, as extremely talented musicians ourselves, I feel we are the perfect people to introduce tonight's first musical performance. Me? I mean, I'm not ready, but I could be ready. I could be ready. I can do it, I can do it. I'm afraid we're gonna have to sit this one out, but any producers listening, we are available for a 2021 booking. Yes, I do have a dentist appointment next August, but otherwise I'm open. - I'm so happy  you told me that. - Thank you. Please welcome our first musical performer of the night. This song was number one  on the Billboard charts  and has over 129 million  views on YouTube. Hello, Streamys. My name's Lewis Capaldi. This song is called "Before You Go." ( music playing ) ( music playing ) Announcer:  The 2020 YouTube Streamy Awards  are on a roll.  Coming up, Marques Brownlee  gives his Creator Honor.  And later, Liza Koshy,  David Dobrik,  Doja Cat, Tones and I,  and more. Oh! We just passed where it all began! Oh, are you telling me your parents did it in a theater? No, we talked about this. You know it was a steamy motel room in Milwaukee in 1989. I mean, it was definitely was a game-changer, but another game-changer happened here in 2009. Oh! A local production of the mega-hit off-Broadway sensation "Stomp"? No-- uh, probably. But, no, this was the site of the first Streamy Awards. Oh. That makes a lot of sense. Feels like this is a good time to start replaying some of the best moments from the Streamys over the last 10 years, - don't you think? - I sure do. Let's travel back to 2009. James Charles was just 10 years old, the worst thing Kanye had done was interrupt Taylor Swift, and people were finally starting to figure out that the Internet was a place you could build a career. The original work-from-home. Love it. Take it away, Felicia Day. As an actor, I want to thank all the casting directors and directors and producers who rejected me horribly... - ( laughter ) - ...and never hired me, and didn't like the way I looked and thought I was nerdy. Because without them, like, beating me down into the ground and making me depressed, I never would've picked up a pen and written my own thing and did it myself around the system. So, uh, this is what this night is about, to celebrate people not waiting for permission to make their art. Announcer:   He started posting videos  when he was just  14 years old,  and today he's one  of the biggest  tech creators  on the Internet.  Here's Marques Brownlee  with his Creator Honor. Hey, what's up? MKBHD here. So, this year the Streamy Awards gave me the opportunity to choose a creator I admire, and present them with a Streamys Creator Honor. Which is a lot of pressure, but pretty much right away I knew who I wanted to pick, and that's Kurzgesagt. So I watch a lot of videos myself on YouTube. And as a creator, I feel like I have a pretty good sense of when what I'm watching was very difficult to create. And when I watch their  "In A Nutshell" videos,  I definitely get that feeling.  They are incredible. They're actually everything  I aspire to make with my own "Explained" videos,  but just taken to  the absolute next level  with research, storytelling,  and animation. And then they've tackled the absolute biggest topics imaginable, everything from "What is Intelligence?" to "Wormholes Explained," to the "Reality vs Simulation" argument. But their best video, in my opinion, was called, "Can You Trust Kurzgesagt Videos?", in which they detail  their entire research  and writing process  that goes into making  just one of their videos.  And it's impossible  to watch that and not gain  an entirely  new level of respect for  the people behind it. So, to those people, thank you for what you do, and you more than deserve to be recognized for it. Oh, man. First of all, thank you very much. And, like, just from a personal level, you're a high quality creator I respect. I wish I had my team here. Many people work on that. There's nobody on the team who does something that's not important. On behalf of a lot of people who are obviously subscribers and watching the videos, thanks for making them. Thanks for all the team's efforts in making them as good as they are and as entertaining as they are when I as a creator know you don't have to such great lengths. - So, thank you for that. - I mean, thank you very much and on behalf of all of the people at Kurzgesagt, thank you. Thank you very much. Announcer: Uh,  did you get your vote in?  It's time for the Fan Award.  Here's Rebecca Zamolo  with more. As someone who loves a squad-- hey, ZamFam-- I was fully onboard when I heard the Streamys were giving fans a chance to vote for their, you guessed it, Fave Creator Squad. And no matter which one you are a part of I think we can all agree that winning an award is actual #SquadGoals. So, good luck to all the squads out there. The finalists for the Streamys Fan Award for Creator Squad are... Announcer:   100 Thieves.  2Hype.  Faze Clan.  HypeHouse.  Sway LA.  Vlog Squad.  Creator Squad. And the Streamys Fan Award for Creator Squad goes to... 2Hype! - Oh, we won? - We won a Stremy? - Let's go! - Hey, 2Hype, baby! Bro, 2Hype Army spammed the vote! We got Cardboard Cash here. He's with us. He's in Louisiana, but Cash is here. And we just wanted to say thank you for everything, all your guys' support. Yeah, man, we love you, 2Hype fans. 2Hype Army, y'all are the most dedicated fans. We beat out a lot of bigger groups, but we got the most loyal fans in the game. Got the best fans, man. Thank you guys so much. Okay, let me go off-book a little bit. It's always a good idea when you go off-book. Here's the deal, any YouTuber that touched this microphone tonight, is a millionaire. Don't you ever forget that. Maybe it was June 2011, but it's 2014. Anyone that touched this microphone, is worth millions of dollars. Everyone is rich on YouTube! Announcer:   This holiday season,  the world's favorite  prehistoric family is back,  and they'll be facing  their biggest challenge yet.  Check out this  exclusive clip from  "The Croods: A New Age." This place is changing everyone. We don't sleep-pile anymore. We don't wake up together. And Thunk just stares at that box. Ohh... Not now, Douglas, the birds are on. - ( whines ) - Dad, relax. It's been one night, and a little change can be-- Guy? - Hey. - Guy? Wow, you're you, but you don't look like you. ( sniffs ) And you smell like flowers, - and-- - And soft rain. More like a clear mountain stream. With just a hint of vanilla! It's called a shower. You should try it! You want me to smell like vanilla? - Just a hint. - What happened to  your clothes? Oh, we burned his clothes while he was in the shower. In fact, they were so dirty that we washed them and then burned them. ( slowed laughter ) ( laughter continues ) Come on, Thunk, we're going outside. I don't wanna! I'm watching birds! In my day, we didn't stare at birds, we fought them! Let me live my life! Announcer:   Enjoying the ride?  Even more Streamys after this,  with Julie Nolke  and Kyle Exum.  And still to come,  Trixie and Katya  swing by  David Dobrik's house.  Liza Koshy presents  her Creator Honor,  and musical performances  by Tones and I, and Doja Cat. Announcer:   Welcome back to the 2020  YouTube Streamy Awards,  brought to you by CarMax  and "The Croods: A New Age."  Here to present the award  for Learning and Education  is comic book artist  and creator ZHC. 2020 was a huge year for learning and education. After all, I'm guessing most of us never had to cut our own hair, bake our own bread, or sew anything before. And if you did, kudos to you. But the rest of us turned to the Internet and the creators who gave us all the important answers for all the questions we had this year. There were a lot of questions. Here are the nominees  for Learning and Education. Announcer:   ChrisFix. Now I'm going to show you how to replace your engine coolant. Announcer:   Mark Rober. It just seemed like a cool idea to make a cage to get in the middle of a feeding frenzy, until this moment. Announcer:   NileRed. So it is dangerous and it definitely has to be treated with respect. OnlyJayus. I'm just kidding. The 2010s were cringe as ( bleep ). Truly, culture has evolved. And Peter Sripol. This'll probably send it to the moon. Or destroy it completely on takeoff. We don't know. Learning and Education. And the Streamy goes to... No. What? Man, I wasn't sure what to expect, but I was really nervous when you're like, "Come out here, I have something for you." Wow! That's fantastic! Acceptance speech. Holy cow. You know, I quit my job at NASA and Apple 'cause I realized I could reach tens, and even hundreds of millions of people, especially young people, and get them stoked about science and education and engineering. It's one thing to get feedback when people watch the videos, and clearly they like them 'cause it gets views. But it's another to kind of get recognition from other folks who make these videos. So, it really feels good. It makes me feel like this was the right decision. It makes me feel like I'm on the right path. It makes me feel like I wanna try even harder to continue making content that just motivates people to realize you can understand the world around you with math and equations. And if you want to make a thing, if you're an engineer, you could just make the thing happen. So, this means a lot to me. I really appreciate it. Thanks, everyone. And the winner is... Emma Chamberlain! Um, I'm scared, but I just want to say thank you, guys, for being so welcoming, 'cause I'm new, you know? It's been great. Thanks, I guess. I love you, Mom and Dad. My speech was definitely not as good as I think, um-- you can hear in my voice the discomfort. Obviously, what I said didn't really make much sense. I was just trying, okay? So, I give myself credit for trying. And at least I said thank you. That's always good. Saying thank you is good. Katya, do you feel ready for tonight? Yeah, I mean, we're going. Awards are gonna be won. We are doing this. All right. Well, there's a lot of creators out there with a lot of channels and a lot of videos, and apology videos for those videos. - And the reactions to-- - Yes! I know, I know.  I make them, too. - Come on, hit me. - All right. This is a dancer who blew up from dancing online. - She's very pretty.  She's part of HypeHou-- - Addison Rae. All right, this guy loves tech-- he loves technology. - Oh, I-- - He loves tech. - Marques Brownlee. Wow. - Okay! All right, this person just released a diss track that blew up, rhymes-- - Is it Larray? - Folks, she came ready. And, finally, he gives away lamborghinis-- - David Dobrik! Incredible. - Yes. I don't know how you did that. Well, you can see the names of the people right on the front of the card there. Announcer:   Our next Creator Honor  comes to us from last year's  Streamy winner for writing.  Please welcome comedian  and rapper Kyle Exum. What's up, Caleb? It's Kyle Exum. The Streamy Awards gave me the opportunity this year to honor a creator of my choice, and I decided to honor you. The quality and just creativity that you bring to the platform is just crazy, and I feel like it needed to be highlighted better. With that being said, I hope you enjoy the video. - You got the beat? - I just finished it  10 minutes ago. Turn it on. Put it on. Put it on. You ready to record it right now? Yes! I'm ready, I'm ready! Put it on. - All right. - ( music playing ) Get out! Get out! Congrats on your nomination, Caleb, and good luck. Appreciate it, bro. That was crazy. Bro, Kyle, you did not have to cut up like that. Bro, that genuinely went hard. Like, I'm trippin' right now. I can't even imagine how many videos you had to go through to get all of these references, but, bro, thank you for this masterpiece. I still can't believe or comprehend the amount of support I've been getting over these past couple years, and by other creators as well. It's jarring, but inspiring at the same time. It inspires me to keep going, and I appreciate that. So, hey, shout-out to Kyle Exum for this. This is crazy, and thank you Streamys for nominating me this year. From growing up with seven siblings in the slums of Baltimore to living in Hollywood, being homeless in New York to writing music for some of the biggest artists in the world, dropping out of school to become an Olympic athlete and receiving an Emmy and Streamy nominations, having no father and losing a mother to cancer, to gaining love of millions around the world, I use my story, the good and the bad, to create and mold the world around me. So, whatever your story is, use it to inspire, to motivate, and to create. Creators are really going for it during this pandemic, I will say that much. Girl! And there's no excuse not to make things when you're locked inside your house with a ring light and a bunch of great ideas. Some really good stuff being made out there. And speaking of good stuff, we've got a Streamys premiere of Julie Nolke's latest video. Let's check it out. Whoa. What's the occasion? - What? - Seriously? I don't-- Pants. You're wearing pants today. Oh, yeah, wearing pants. She's wearing pants. Okay, wow. They're just pants. It's not a big deal. Mm. Well, it's-- you know. Are we all supposed to be wearing pants now? I just-- you know, 'cause we haven't worn pants in months, you know, except for strictly on Wine Wednesdays when we do Zoom yoga we wear stretchy leggings, and you're just gonna-- you're gonna spring jeans on me. Wow. I'm not springing anything. Well, you look real put together, so it must be nice. Pretty uncomfortable, I bet. Actually, they're pretty, um-- they got this stretch-- Just a little tone deaf, don't you think? Well, how? How? Okay, wow. Look outside, babe. You think this is an appropriate time to be wearing pants? Is it-- is this because of the pandemic? Disease? Death? Civil unrest? - You-- name something bad. - I don't know, like what? I don't know. Anything. Name it. - Murder. - Bingo. Those are  happening right now, and yet somebody in here thinks it's an appropriate time to be wearing pants. I don't deserve you people to treat me this way. What do you mean, "you people"? Pants people. The people who rub it in our faces that they have the energy and the willpower to put on pants every day, as if they've somehow magically overcome the 365 days of fear, anxiety, anger, outrage, exhaustion, depression, unemployment... - Okay, okay. - ...unpaid bills. No, I won't stand for it. I can't. I can't. I won't put up with-- not in my house! What are you doing? - It's obvious, isn't it? - Stop! No. You're-- You're gonna wear pants again. Nope! From now on, this is a pants-free house. Announcer: Coming up,  the award for gaming,  and later, a performance  by Tones and I.  And now it's time  for some more winner reveals.  Congratulations to these  2020 Streamy winners.  Indie series-- Chris and Jack.  Live series-- Verzuz.  Animated-- Jaiden Animations.  Beauty-- James Charles.  Comedy-- Sarah Cooper.  Commentary-- Contrapoints.  Cinematography--  Peter McKinnon.  Editing--  Hayden Hillier Smith  for Logan Paul. The murder of George Floyd at the hands of a police officer earlier this year spurred unprecedented protest and calls to end systemic racism across the country. Trixie:   As a result, in 2020,  the Black Lives Matter  movement was further amplified  across the nation  and across the world. And the creator community did their part to bring awareness to racial justice. Here's Amber Whittington  from Amber's Closet  with our next spotlight. What's up, you guys It's your girl, Amber. And if you give me a moment, I want to sum up this eventful year. First, we started with us going into quarantine, and a few months in, we experienced a death on camera that changed our country. We witnessed the murder of George Floyd, and it started a movement. It finally woke people up to understanding the violence that black and brown people have to face with the police daily, and enough is enough.   Don't shoot   - Say his name! - George Floyd! - Say his name! - George Floyd! - Say his name! - George Floyd! Amber:   We decided that we weren't  going to let this death  come without justice  and that change  needs to happen now.  People started  marching and protesting  and uniting  more than ever before. - Justice! Now! Justice! - What do we want? Amber:   The country's division  became more evident.  There was violence  against protestors,  hate crimes,  people against  the Black Lives Matter  movement, and Karens. Woman: This is not a black woman who's putting "Black Lives Matter." Amber:   And the creator community  amplified the movement  by using their platforms  to speak out against injustice  and the need for change. We're so desensitized to black death at this point. I am so sick and tired of living in such a hateful world. This place is ugly, and it's making me nauseous. Racism is a cycle that has been handed down from generation to generation to generation, and we are the generation to break that cycle. Amber:   The moment felt different.  It was much bigger  than it's ever been,  and the moment became global  and became historical. We are deciding for humanity, what's right versus what's wrong. We call it systemic racism because it's a system. I'm trying to figure out how to turn this now emotion into a thoughtful action. What do we do? Amber:   Inspiring people to be  a part of change  also came with wanting  to motivate people  to use their voice to vote. While the adrenaline is still high, we've got to figure out what we're doing after this, the ideas we want for legislation to be implemented. Amber:   More and more YouTubers  and influencers  were stepping it up  and using social media  to encourage people  to register to vote  in hopes that we can change  the leadership of this country  and take us down the path  of unity rather than division. I'ma need everyone to grab their boots, their coat, and their mask, and to hit the polls and to go vote, okay? Amber:   And with record numbers  of voter turnout,  we were successful. But we have so much work to do. Our fight for justice is nowhere near finished. We've only scratched the surface, and it's up to us to hold our leaders accountable for actual change. But we got this. For the first time in a long time, I think we have hope again, and our future looks bright. I love you guys. Take care. Stay amazing. Stay proud. And stay woke. Announcer:   Please welcome  Streamy winner LaurDIY. In a year where almost everyone was looking to escape, gamers offered us the perfect solution. Fans watched billions of hours of gaming content in 2020, finding themselves in magical other worlds that let them forget what was happening in the real one. Here are this year's  Streamy nominees for gaming. Announcer   Dream. Dream:   I just killed myself.  I hate myself.  I'm gonna kill myself. Announcer   FGTEEV. Kiss. Excuse me? Announcer   Jelly. I'm gonna do it with the boost. - Oh, yeah, that's-- - ( screaming ) Oh, my God! Announcer   Laurenzside. All right, well, I guess it is harder to make the world better. You know how you can make my world better, though? Leave me a like on this video, please! Announcer   And PrestonPlayz. Oh, dude! This is crazy! Look at all of the horses! Announcer:   Gaming. And the Streamy goes to... Whoa, okay. Well, thank you so much for this award. I would've never thought that I'd be winning this award, or any award, honestly. But it means the world to me, and I'd just like to thank the entire gaming community. Whether you like me or you've never heard of me or you're a fan of mine, you've really helped shaped this community into what it is today, an amazing, loving, creative community, including all the other creators who were nominated or weren't nominated. It's just an incredible place. And I'd really like to thank my friends George, Sapnap, and Badboyhalo, because without them, I really wouldn't be anywhere near where I am right now. And to everyone watching, I love you. You're important, you're special, and thank you for nominating me. It's absolutely unreal. I hope you guys enjoy the rest of the show. - This bus is amazing. - ( music playing ) I bet, like, so many bachelorettes have puked on this bus. What? I think bachelorettes have puked on this bus. - Huh? - So, I think women   about to be married puked on the floor of this bus. I can't hear you. Okay, so, bachelorettes partying, drinking alcohol, booze, and pills, came on this bus, throw up on the floor. You want me to sing? I'm not ready right now, but I can be. Our next performer is here to sing her hit single, which not only reached a billion views on YouTube earlier this year, it became the most streamed song on Spotify by a single female artist. - Performing-- - ( music stops ) Performing "Dance Monkey," it's Tones and I. ( music playing ) ( music playing ) Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you so much. You're all so inspiring, and I'm honored to be here with all of you. So give it up for yourselves first of all. You're all awesome. I got to thank Team Super, my fans. You are the most loyal, dedicated passionate, wonderful people. My friends, my family, my parents-- who let me not be a doctor, thank you. Also my team, who helps me be better every day. And lastly I want to say, huge, huge shout-outs to Google and YouTube for not being scared to put a brown girl on a billboard. Thank you. Appreciate it. Announcer: Still to come,  MatPat and Stephanie  present the Streamy  for Technology,  and Trixie and Katya stop by  David Dobrik's house.  And later,  Liza Koshy, Juanpa,  and the Streamy  for Show of the Year.  But first, congrats to these  2020 Streamy Award winners.  Crossover-- Will Smith.  ( no audible dialogue )  Live Special-- MrBeast,  "$250,000 Rock, Paper,  Scissors Tournament."  Podcast-- "On Purpose  with Jay Shetty."  ( no audible dialogue )  Dance-- BFUNK.  Documentary--  "The Secret Life  of Lele Pons."  ( no audible dialogue )  Fashion and Style--  Wisdom Kaye.  ( no audible dialogue )  Health and Wellness--  Chloe Ting.  ( no audible dialogue )  Visual and Special Effects--  Aaron's Animals.  Go to the Streamys  YouTube channel  for exclusive interviews  with tonight's nominees,  brought to you by  "The Croods: A New Age." Ugh, social media is so stupid. Ugh, the worst. I mean, look at all these people. So cringe. I can't stand it. Don't they know what they look like? They look like absolute idiots. Oh, my God, are those angel wings? Stop the bus. Please. I lost a shoe. Yass, queen. Serve, serve, unh! Let's see, well, 500 pictures should last us a few days, huh? Oh, I already posted, like, 10 stories. - Oh. - What a great night. ( speaks Russian ) What? Why are you speaking Russian? ( speaks Russian ) Uh, no idea what you said, but that means it's time for the International awards. ( speaks Russian ) Sure. ( speaking Portuguese ) Announcer:   International.  Hikakin. ( speaking Japanese ) Mikecrack. ( speaking castellano ) Mythpat. ( speaking Hindi ) Sandra Cires Art. ( speaking Spanish ) And Whindersson Nunes. ( speaking Portuguese ) Announcer:   International. ( speaking Portuguese ) Whindersson, this is Drew Baldwin, I'm the founder of the Streamy Awards. You're the winner of the 2020 Streamy Awards for International! Bada-bing. You're the winner of International. Yeah, baby! Oh! Y'all give it up for Epic Rap Battles of History!   Never ever catch a virus on an Apple     You could still afford a doctor if you bought a PC   This guy is crazy. His name is Mike Tompkins. - Give it up. -   Lay down that boogie     And play that funky music till you die   Break it down. ( music playing ) Give it up! Mike Tompkins! Get your hands up! I wanna hear ya! Yeah, yeah.   Go, ninja, go, ninja, go   Crowd:   Go, ninja, go, ninja, go     Say, go, ninja, go, ninja, go   Crowd:   Go, ninja, go, ninja, go   I can't believe y'all remember that. Announcer:   And now, a mystery  with Streamy nominee  Bailey Sarian. - Hello. - Man: Hey, Bailey.  Surprise! What is this? Oh, gosh. Eww! What's this for? - What does it mean? - Looks like there's a note. Where? Oh! It's a riddle. "Murder, makeup, mystery, and fun. Who gets a surprise? I think you're the one. One creator to another, I think you're the best. Guess the name of my channel to find out the rest. SecretStrange.com." You know, riddles really weren't my thing. I'm putting the pieces together and I think this has to do with NikkieTutorials. Right? Oh, do I go to this website? Oh, okay. "Password. If you've got it, enter it." NikkieTutorials. Nope. Is "cake" the password? No, it's not "cake." Skull? Nope. Murder? Nope. I don't know! Oh, it's, like, in here. This. This! Let me grab a knife. Is this a cake? Is this a cake? There's nothing. Unh-uh. No. Oh. NikkieTutorials with an "E." Oh, my God, I've been spelling it wrong this whole time. - Did we just waste the cake? - Yeah, we really did that. This year, the Streamy Awards gave me the honor to choose a creator that I look up to and that I love, and wanted to present with a Streamys Creator honor. And guess who that one is going to. Bailey, I choose you because every week-- most of the weeks-- every time you sit down for one of your videos, you truly captivate your audience with your Murder, Mystery, and Makeup Mondays. From serial killers to unsolved cases to even paranormal stuff, you truly know how to tell a story while doing makeup. That takes a lot of skill, okay? Bailey, when I watch your videos, I truly forget about time and about the world we live in for just a second, and I'm entered into your world, into your world of spookiness and craziness, but most of all, glam. - Congrats. - Oh, my God! This is so-- did you see it? Oh, I didn't show you. She looked fierce. ( muttering, mock sobbing ) 2020 has been the weirdest year ever. I won? I won an award? I want to take this moment to say thank you to all of you guys for subscribing, watching, liking. Even the people who dislike, it really means a lot. And I never imagined when I first started my Monday series that it would turn into what it is today. I can't say thank you enough to all of you who have been here from the start and just who are new. Just all of you. Thank you! Too bad that we don't have cake to celebrate with. Announcer:   Here to present the Streamy  Award for Technology,  please welcome  the first couple of gaming,  MatPat and Stephanie. - Hello, I'm Stephanie. - And I'm MatPat from the YouTube channels Game Theory, Film Theory, and now Food Theory. And we're delighted to be here to present the Streamy Award for Technology. You know, honestly, I think this might be the most important category of the night. In 2020, technology has honestly been the thing that's held us all together. It's allowed us to continue working. It's the thing that's kept families united even if we have to be socially distant. It's also the thing that's allowed us to play more games of Among Us than we could possibly count. It is the only thing getting us through 2020. I like to think I know a thing or two about technology. - Yeah? Like what? - Yeah. Uh, computers. - Uh-huh. - Yeah, your SDs and your HDs and your SSDs. - Your HDMIs and your-- - You're just saying  letters now. - HDRs, your HDD plusses. - You just read that  on a box or something. You know, Steph, I'm trying to be serious here. I just-- I'm sorry. I just wish someone would take me seriously for once. I need a minute. Cut to tape or something. We should have put on pants. But in the meantime, here are the Streamy nominees for Technology. They are gym shorts and they are quite breathable, thank you. Announcer:   Technology. - iJustine...  - This is actually running  the A13 Bionic chip, which is the same chip  that is in the iPhone 11. Announcer:   Marques Brownlee. I'm very impressed by this functional prototype. Michael Reeves. I am very short. Simone Giertz. Today is the day where we put things on fire. And Stuff Made Here. I don't really see a reason why this wouldn't be regulation. Technology. Both: And the winner is... Oh, wow. The tables have turned. Well, thank you. I didn't expect that. I mean, it has been quite a year. And I feel like I've been very lucky that making videos about tech hasn't been as affected as many other jobs. So just the fact that we have this crazy thing we get to do, which is make videos about tech, is awesome. So, yeah, shout-out to everyone who watches the videos. I mean, this is-- I think the tech community on YouTube is one of the most vibrant and diverse and underrated communities out there, so I'm happy to be a part of it and represent it in any way I can. So, thank you. Okay, so we're about to get off the bus... To surprise one of the biggest creators on YouTube. Let's go. - ( dog barking ) - We're going. - Hmm. - You get behind him  and I'll push. - Hi, David. - Hi, there. We're Trixie and Katya, the hosts of the YouTube Streamy Awards. - Thanks. I'm David. - Guess what? What happened? You won the Collaboration Award. - Oh! - Yay! - Thank you guys. - Of course. - This is for you, too. - Thank you so much. This is where I give my speech? - Yes. You did it. - Yes, do it. - Give her her moment. - No, no, wait. Stay in here 'cause I don't want to do this by myself. Oh, wow, this is so crazy. Oh, this is with Justin Bieber. - Yeah. - Was he nice? Where is he? Is he coming? - He passed on. Yeah. - He pa-- Bet his house is next. Guys, thank you guys for this. This is-- Natalie, get in here. I'm so nervous. This is like the scariest thing to do it right here. Like this is the first time two ladies of the night have approached your front door. - Have lurked at the door. - In the last six hours,  this is the first time. - But, yeah. No, this is-- - You can cry if you want to. I really appreciate this. This is a really weird thing to accept at your doorstep. It's really weird to get in the moment, but it does mean a lot. And I'm sure it means a lot to Justin, and thank you for letting me able-- or letting me create the videos that I create and it means a lot. This is so, so bizarre doing this at my door. Usually, it's like-- I'm thanking the Postmates guy or the food delivery, but now I'm thanking a lot of people. No, this means a lot. Thank you guys. I thought it was such a dead giveaway, that big bus. - You see the YouTube bus  out there? - No, let me see. Yeah, it's over there. Here, we'll show you our bus. - It's where we live now. - Wow! What an upgrade from last year's Streamys. - I know. Pretty glam. - Can I have a Lamborghini? - Please? - You got a Lamborghini  out there? Come on. Can I have one of those Priuses? My two cars are both in the shop. They're both broken. I don't have a single car. - A scooter? Vespa? - So, I actually-- I'm going to the airport soon, so I may need a ride. - Absolutely. - If you'd like to sponsor  David Dobrik, - you can send a dollar today. - Yeah. - Thank you, David. - Thank you so much. Get him some shoes, please. Please, shoes and a new car. - Anything will help. - So humble, so modest. - Well, thank you, David. - Thank you! - Bye! - Have fun. Announcer:   Still to come,  Brittany Broski  stops by the bus  and an amazing performance  by Doja Cat.  Plus, James Charles,  Mark Rober, and Casey Neistat.  But first, congratulations  to these creators  who won Streamys tonight.  First Person--  Emma Chamberlain.  ( no audible dialogue )  Live Streamer-- Nickmercs.  Scripted Series--  "A Heist With Markiplier."  Kids and Family--  Ryan's World.  News-- Hasanabi.  ( no audible dialogue )  Sports-- Ryan García.  Writing-- CalebCity. Well, comedy was really the savior in 2020, and we have proof of that. Welcome to the bus, Brittany Broski. ( cheering ) - Oh, sorry. - Yeah, sis! ( screaming ) Hi, everybody. - How are you? - Hi, gal. - Hey, girlies. - Nice to have a drag queen  in the bus for once. Right. You know what this feels like? It feels like we're going to prom. Like, formal in college. - College formal. - Oh, God. What kind of prom are we going to? I'm scared. We're almost to the end of the show and we need touch-ups. - Can you help us? - Yes. I brought my bag. Could you buff out my corns? - Oh, my God. - Isn't this cute? - Um, no. But... - Okay. - I do have something. - Oh. It's a gun. Could you imagine? - That would be so-- - So, I have my powder. I don't know if I can show logos, but, um-- you guys kind of won for Best Unscripted Show. - Are you lying? - What? - I don't think I'm lying. - Are you lying? I'm being serious! You guys have won Unscripted Show. - Are you lying? - Hold it. I'm not lying, bitch! - Are you lying? - Nine years in the making. - Are you lying? Are you lying? - I'm not lying! Yeah! - Not bad. I'm not lying! - Are you lying? - Wait, are you pranking us? - Are you lying? - Do you want to see  my butt sweat? - Are you lying? - Yes, I do. - Are you lying? - Congrats. - Wait. Let me see. Oh, it's-- yeah, it's the one. - There's so many  people to thank. - Who? - Oh, we have to thank people. - Yeah. - Okay, let's see it. - Both: Pete Williams. Ron Hill, Jeff Maccubbin, and, of course, Chris Smith. And everybody at World of Wonder. We have been at-- I've been seeing unscripted shows win where they go, "Thank you to all 300 people who were on set." - Yeah. - We have a green screen  and two wigs. - Yeah. - And we do a lot  with very little. And thank you to all the editors and-- oh, my God. Thank you to Fena Barbitall, our fabulous assistant. And thank you-- yep. And thank you to people like Brittany who watched us over the years. Thank you, thank you. I can't believe-- is this really-- is this real? It's very real. You gonna cry? And thank you to the Lord God, without whom none of this would be possible. - Or something. - I'm so happy  it wasn't a gun. This is so much better than that. - I'm really excited about this. - I am, too. - Congratulations! - ( cheering ) I can't believe.   Snapchat is to Insta stories     As Lilly Singh is to Liza     They do the same thing   Just one did it first. But now people prefer the other. Okay.   You wouldn't want to be me, eager to leave the   The Streamys-- the Teen Choice Awards for everyone who wasn't invited to the Teen Choice Awards. The Streamys! It's the Streamys of awards shows. Thanks a lot, guys. Thank you so much. What is up, Streamys? This is me, Juanpa. And today I'm gonna go prank my friend Brent Rivera. So, basically Brent thinks I'm gonna go to his house to shoot a normal YouTube video, but there's one little detail, and it's the fact that I'm actually gonna give him a Streamy Award. His first Streamy Award ever. And he has absolutely no idea. He is clueless. I don't even know if I should be touching this 'cause it's technically not mine and I kind of already opened it. But, Brent, here we go. Huntington Beach, one hour away. But, hey, that's what friends are for. So, I've probably known Brent for about five years. And I've seen this guy work every day, hustle every day, create, innovate, and this guy never stops. So I think this is very well-deserved. Brento, here I go. ( music playing ) Okay, what is up, everybody? - Here is Brento.  Brento, welcome. - What is up, guys? Juanpa: So, basically,  I explained to Brent  the dynamic of the video.  I tricked him into thinking  it's like a best friend  type of thing  where he says things that  he likes and dislikes about me  and vice-versa,  But he has no idea  what's about to happen. Actually, the Streamys reached out to me to be able to gift one person in the world the Streamys Creator Honor, and I chose you. - Wait, what? - You won a Streamy! - ( cheering ) - You won a Streamy! ( bleep ) ( all shouting ) This is your Streamy! - ( cheering ) - Yay! The only thing was that you weren't supposed to get me, guys. Thank you so much, Juanpa. Thank you so much for this. This means a lot. All of these people have been helping me along the way. So, thank you guys for dealing with me and being in the content and stuff. I love you guys so much. I don't know who's gonna clean this up. - Enjoy the award. - All right, thank you. Whoo! I'm Shannon Martin, a YouTube streaming superfan. I want to thank the Streamys for ten years of awards to honor our favorite creators. But most importantly, I want to thank the creators for the content that's made us laugh, made us cry, and everything in between. But I'm not the only one who wanted to express my thanks. Take it away, guys. ( music playing ) - When do we get to do  our costume change? - Right here? - Yeah. - You're telling me you want  to do a full costume change - on this moving vehicle? - I absolutely could. - Go off, sis. - Yay. But you know the show's almost over, right? It's fine. I'll keep my boobs on. Announcer:   Challenging times require  outside the box solutions.  Our friends at CarMax,  who continue to challenge  the status quo,  now offer the option  to buy online,  and they're bringing you  this next spotlight.  Here is AsapSCIENCE to show us  how the spirit  of adaptability and innovation  has never been more evident  in the creator community. - Hi, I'm Greg. - And I'm Mitch. Both: And we are AsapSCIENCE. Usually our little science and education corner of the Internet is v-chill, no drama, no tension. For example, if we were at an in-person event, you know, other people might be vlogging, flirting, you know? Starting fake fights for clicks or whatever. And we're usually in the corner with our nerd science education friends trying to figure out, like, how exactly will the universe end? But this year was different. We were thrust into the spotlight, all eyes on us, baby, thanks to this little thing called a global pandemic. - Yay. - But for real, the world needed information, so our community adapted and dropped everything to provide. Greg: Jordan Harrod taught us  how fitness trackers  could potentially  predict COVID symptoms. Activity trackers are one of the many solutions that are being thrown at us in a flood of COVID-related information. Mitch: Mark Rober used  glowing powder and blacklights  to show how easily  germs can spread. I genuinely have no idea when any of this came on. Oh. Well, there you go. Greg: Physics Girl  interviewed a COVID nurse,  an epidemiologist  for on the ground information. Why is it that that would be the symptom that indicates you need to go see a doctor or medical professional? These patients can deteriorate very fast. Mitch: And in a video that  we made in February called  "What Happens  When There's a Pandemic?", we edited out the words "physical distancing" because we thought, "That's too technical. Who would ever use that word?" Only to go on saying that for 73,492 times this year. But it wasn't just the educators on YouTube Teaching during this public health crisis. We had Jackie Aina teaching you  how to do your makeup  so it won't smudge  with a mask on. I think I redid that yet again, if I might say so myself. Mitch: LaurDIY taught you how  to make DIY masks at home. Because obviously the goal is to cover your nose and mouth as much as possible. Greg: And Lilly cleared up  coronavirus myths  with our king-slay daddy queen  boots the house down daddy,  Dr. Anthony Fauci. Is this just the seasonal flu? No. It transmits much more rapidly. We'll never forget this year and how our entire community got creative and innovative with scientifically accurate information when people needed it the most. Also...   The pandemic isn't over     Just because you're over it   Come on in the back! Sing it with me! Both:   The pandemic isn't over just because you're over it   No, for real. We are in the midst of it still. So let's teach our friends, family, and followers the importance of wearing a mask, physically distancing, and above all else, learning about the new up to date scientific consensus from health care and medical professionals. Plus, learning something new is the direct antidote to boredom and sadness, something you might be experiencing right now. So, let's continue to teach and learn from each other. Because education is power, so never stop learning. Mwah! Announcer:   Please welcome 2018 Streamy  winner Shalom Blac. This next musical performer has dominated the charts and the Internet throughout 2020. She's straight killing it. You might even say she's a boss bitch. So, without any further ado, here to perform her hit with over 240 million views on YouTube, here is Doja Cat with "Say So." ( music playing ) Yeah! Streamys. Come on! Yeah. Announcer: Up next, a surprise  for Show of the Year,  Mark Rober drops off  the Creator of the Year Award,  and Liza Koshy has the final  Creator Honor of the night.  Don't go anywhere.   We'd like     To thank     Next New Networks     The Academy     Fellow nominees     And our families     Thank you     Good-bye   We've got a very special guest joining us. He is the princess of palettes, the contessa of contour, the monarch of makeup. Trixie: He's beauty queen James Charles. - What's up, sisters? - ( cheering ) - How are you guys? - Welcome to the bus, Mom. - Nice to see you guys.  How are you? - You look fantastic. - Wonderful. - Thank you. You look fantastic.  I love our matching pants. Oh, my God. We're coordinated, honey. Look at the nails. - Yes, go on. - You're putting me to shame.  You're putting me to shame. - No nails? Katya! - Shh! Shh! - Oh, my gosh.  How are you guys? - Fabulous. And we thought it'd be fun to play a game with you, and it's called "Magic Box." Not my magic box. That's a different game. We can play that later. So, here's how it works. - You will reach into  our magic box. - Oh, God. And see if you can guess what's inside. - Just touching, no looking. - No looking! Well, I gathered that. Anything alive? - I don't know. I don't know. - You'll have to find out. - Do you know what's  in the magic box? - I don't know. - We'll have to find out. - Liar. - So, here we go. - Oh, God. I'm so-- This isn't how you lose your hands. It's not that scary. - So reach into the box. - I'm not used to shoving  things into holes. - Oh, come on.  I've seen your Xtube. - Let us know what you feel. - Is it alive?  Vegetable, animal, mineral? - Nope, it's, um-- oh. Oh. Oh. It feels gooey. Oh, it feels hard and gooey at the same time. - Oh. - Cut the cameras.  It's not that kind of show. - Um, oh! Oh, wait. - Hard and gooey. What else? You guys, I have no idea what this is! I feel-- I feel a cord? - A cord of some sort. - Oh. Hard, gooey, and corded. Oh, my God. This is taking too long. Let's go to Casey Neistat. Hey, guys. Casey here to present the Streamy for the Show of the Year. Show of the Year. You know, all of these creators are part of a community of extremely talented, hard-working, and brave individuals. All rock stars in your own right. So, with that, here are the nominees for the Show of the Year. Announcer:   "A Heist With Markiplier." Be back in a flash. "Binging With Babish." Babish: This was the dish  I was least familiar with,  and to answer your questions,  I'm doing it on the table  because I thought  it was funny. Announcer:   "Challenge Accepted." Woman: And for  a split second I think,  "Should I get up?  What do I do?"  If you fall, you get up  and you keep going. Announcer:   "Epic Rap Battles Of History."   Redundant, but that's enough about Mary B.     Let's turn to my favorite subject-- me   "Game Master Network." It's really strong! What is Mr. X and our thin twin doing? They're doing a ceremony. They're summoning this gem. You guys! - Oh, no. - It's Matt! "Good Mythical Morning." - Cut into-- - Let me cut it. You know what? So, I mean, don't hurt yourself. Don't hurt me. "Instant Influencer." Our first ever Instant Influencer is... "Liza On Demand." Can I just call you back? 'Cause this is more of a two hand job. Ew. No. That's-- that's not what I do for work. "Nikita Unfiltered." - Okay, pose. - Wait, what? You're not gonna be with me? Lift up your shirt or something. And "UNHhhh." I miss the old days where you had to drive around their, you know , their house a few times a night. Stakeouts, hello. Okay, and the winner is... Just kidding. That is just a box I got from Amazon. They didn't tell me who actually wins, so I guess back to you, Trixie and Katya. Oh, there's slime on the bottom of the box, too. Well, guess what it is. I'm just gonna go ahead and tell you. - I truly have no idea. - You won a Goddamn Streamy Award. - Oh, my God! You're kidding! - You won for Show of the Year. - You won. - Show of the Year! - No way! - Yes, you won. - What is this? - That's my placenta. - You're so stupid. - You won. - Oh, my God! Thank you guys. - See, no fake-out, yeah. - This time is no extra charge. - Congratulations. I love that. Thank you guys so much. "Instant Influencer" is so amazing. - You guys were on it.  Trixie was. - Yeah, congratulations. Thank you. Thank you for being a part of it. This is, literally, so cool. And "Instant Influencer" is the first time I ever produced a actual TV project, which I know you two are both experts in, clearly. So it was just so much fun and thank you to everybody who voted. Thank you to all the sisters. Thank you to my amazing co-creator Louis, who worked on it with me and the entire team. ( overlapping chatter ) Yay! Oh, my gosh. Announcer:   She won Breakout Creator  at the 2016 Streamys,  and then she took over  the world.  Here's Liza Koshy. I'm glad this video interrupting your scrolling. - Why? Tell me! - Some of you have forgotten... - Oh? - ...how bad of a chick you are. That power you just witnessed goes by the name of Taylor Cassidy. She deserves to have a prize in her possession. And it is my honor to give it to her. But first, I gotta pack it up. ( music playing ) Taylor Cassidy, my queen, this is for you. Okay, now recording. I'm Drew. I'm one of the founders of the Streamy Awards. Liza: So Taylor thought  she was being interviewed  by the Streamys about breaking  into the creator space.  But nope,  it was all set up by me. Okay. Oh, my God, my heart. - I think the biggest challenge  is separating-- - Yeah, what up? - Hi, guys. - Man: Liza, you're up early. Hey! Oh, my-- Am I early? - You're early.  - Yo, I'm so sor-- - You did not. - I'm so sorry. - Is that Taylor Cassidy? Yo! - That's Liza Koshy. - That's Taylor Cassidy! - That's my twin. Hi, Taylor. I'm such a fan. Hi. You're a fan? I'm a fan. I'm a fan. Oh, I'm so sorry for interrupting. Sike! No, I'm not! You know why, girl? 'Cause I'm not interrupting. This was a very intentional Zoom call. - I think you have a little  something-something. - Yes. Yes, I do. What's in the box, Taylor? Ooh. What? Okay, first of all, and second of all... So, that is your Streamys Creator honor. This year the Streamys did a little something different. They gave me the opportunity to choose a creator that I admire and that inspires me, and that is the Taylor Cassidy. And there's a little something-something that you also saw to help you keep creating your wonderful content. Ooh. Oh, my-- Bye-bye, girl, that's your Streamy! Ah! Miss Deserving Cassidy! Yay! Oh, my gosh! Thank you! - I'm so speechless. - Good. Because I have an idea. I want to help you write your speech. - My speech? - You gotta make a speech, girl.  You won a Streamy. - Oh, okay. - We can write a speech together. I would love to be your hype woman and hype you up like you hyped everybody else up. Yes. This is very ironic because I was doing a yearbook article for my school and one of the questions was, "If you could co-op with any creator, who would it be?" And I said Liza Koshy. Today. Today. Affirmation. Speak it into existence. So... thank you so much. - Manifestation complete. - Exactly. My heart is full of such deep gratitude. My heart is fit and juicy with love! There is no telling the celebration that I'm about to have. Oh, I'll tell y'all! I'm about to pop-pop, see double, make it jiggle. I've only been a creator for a year. I'm a baby! I'm a successful baby! You. You did this. Look what you did. This is just the beginning. Because, bro, I just won a Streamy! - I just won a Streamy! - Oh. - Thank you! - Okay, all right. Chill. - Thank you. - Collect yourself, Taylor. - Yeah. - Make it jiggle.  Get it, girl. Go, Taylor. Girl! Yes! Girl won a Streamy! And to many more. Congratulations, Miss Taylor Cassidy. You're a queen! You knock me out! As creators ourselves, we know what it takes to start something with no guarantee that people are gonna like it. Or like us. The Internet can be very harsh. And despite the occasional mean comment from an angsty 11-year-old in Ohio, we, the Internet people, continue to post our videos for all of you out there. And that's no easy feat. So give it up for us. - First, specifically us... - ( cheers and applause ) ...then all the other creators out there. Here's Mark Rober with the award for Creator of the Year. I'm Mark Rober, and I'm here to present the Streamy Award for Creator of the Year. Let's check out the nominees. Announcer:   Creator of the Year.  Addison Rae. Someone should take this away from me because I will just-- I won't stop. - Charli D'Amelio.  - Hey, guys, it's Charli, and I'm super excited to be sharing with you my first ever YouTube video on my YouTube channel. - David Dobrik.  - We're doing this science  stream that we did a couple of months ago, but this time we're doing it three times bigger. Right now in there is acid. - Dixie D'Amelio.  - Welcome to the Dixie D'Amelio  show. So let's bring in our first guest right now. - Emma Chamberlain.  - I am gonna take these pairs  of jeans and I'm gonna kinda revamp them, you know what I mean? - James Charles.  - Turn off our LED lights  and switch back to our normal beauty lighting and see what the heck we have on our face. - Larray.  - I got my coffee,  got Instagram, let's begin. Marques Brownlee. Same quality, 720p webcam, and goes all the way up to four terabytes, which is sick. - MrBeast.  - We started with two people  on each team, now this team has four people, at that team has four people. These towers are about to get big. - And Sarah Cooper.  - You have to go downstairs. My responsibility is your welfare. They didn't limit you at all in the house? Nope, they didn't tell me that at all. Creator of the Year. And so to reveal the winner, I'm just gonna go ahead and hack into the mainframe of this drone here. And then we'll autonomously  deliver the award  and then just Facetime me  when it gets close. And so now, we just wait. ( music playing ) ( phone chiming ) - Jimmy! What's up, buddy? - What's up, man, What's up? - I need you to go outside,  okay? - Yeah. All right. I have some news to deliver to you. You have to step outside. Okay. You make me nervous. All right. - Computer: Side entry door.  - Side door, all right. Why are you looking up, Tariq? All right, I got-- I got Mark here. Come out? Okay. You keep looking up. Oh, what-- oh, wait. You won the Streamy for Creator of the Year. - Aww. - All right, man,  congratulations. It's looks different. Did they remodel it? - Uh, that's a good question. - Yeah, I like this design.  Thank you. You're welcome. You like my drone delivery system? Yeah. Thank you. Seems like something Mark would brainstorm. Hey, we should have a drone fly across America. Am I supposed to do a speech? Feel like the lighting's not that good. Yeah, speech, speech, speech, speech. Mark, thank you. I guess I gotta give a speech. All right, all right, here. I'm gonna hang up and give 'em a speech. All right, now that we got rid of that Mark guy, it's windy out. My neighbor's out mowing his lawn. Thank you for the Streamy. Shout out to everyone who helps me make my videos. And, yeah, we were recording "Minecraft." I kinda gotta get back to that, so... Thank you. Thank you so much to everybody for being a part of the show tonight. The creators, the winners, the nominees, the people at home watching us. Thank you so much. Ten years of the Streamy Awards. We are so grateful. - We love you guys so much. - And we're especially  grateful-- - We won. Wow. - We won. And that's really what this was about for me. It's not about losing. It's about winning. And the pandemic is not over, so please be safe and wear your masks, and as creators, please continue to subscribe and like and watch. - We appreciate it. - Thank you so much. - Good night! - Drive safe. 