 In the early 2000s American Boeing company nearly revolutionized civil aeronautical engineering. The brand new passenger Boeing 787 with its striking name - Dreamliner - ushered the industry’s new era. The basic feature of the aircraft was extensive use of carbon composite materials, which had never before been employed so excessively for creating passenger jets. Boeing 787’s announced fuel-saving characteristics and a completely new passenger ride quality predetermined a record of the plane's orders long before it took its maiden flight. In order to fulfill its obligations on Dreamliner delivery to all the customers, Boeing had to establish a new assembly area. And to accelerate the production rates, a cargo aircraft, capable of airlifting fuselage sections and wing panels, was built. The development and creation of the largely innovative jet turned out to be a really complicated and expensive undertaking. The commercial use of 787 craft was delayed by several years, and Boeing suffered tremendous losses. But in spite of all complications at the start, production of the aircraft continues even now. Only a short time ago the thousandth craft hit the skies. And it took only 8 years of a full-scale series assembly. “Aviasmotr” Channel featuring Boeing 787 Dreamliner – history and facts of the composite revolution in civilian aeronautical engineering. Maiden flight is one of the most important episodes in any aircraft’s history. For the 787 project it was important both practically – it was necessary to make sure that everything worked out well, and psychologically, as, by 2009, Dreamliners should have been on airlines for already a year and a half. The maiden flight which had lasted for a bit more than three hours, inspired the hope that the airlines, some of them already openly expressing irritation, would soon start receiving the pre-ordered airplanes. But Boeing didn’t manage to meet the deadlines: due to multiple troubles, the flight testing lasted twice as long as it was supposed to. Commercial airlines started exploiting Dreamliner as late as October 2011, when All Nippon Airways was the first to receive the aircraft. It was a major contractor, having placed an order for fifty aircraft as early as 2004. The Japanese not only purchased Dreamliner in bulk, but also took an active part in design and production of the airplane. Widest global cooperation was the crucial feature of the 787 ambitious project. Late 1990s and early 2000s marked one of the most successful periods in Boeing’s civil aircraft engineering sector. The narrow-bodied 737, the Boeing’s principal earner, was delivered as a Next Generation derivative and collected multiple orders. The huge wide-bodied Boeing 777 had a more capacious 300ER upgrade and a cargo version – they would twice outnumber the initial 777. At the outset of 2000s a couple of other promising projects were under discussion. An upgrade of the legendary Boeing 747 and creation of the industry's first craft, capable of flying at hypersonic speeds. The latter received the name of Sonic Cruiser, and its production prototype was introduced in March 2001. Following the designers’ intent, the cruising speed of the craft was supposed to be about 15 per cent faster than that of the classic-type mainliners. But the project didn’t arise much interest with airlines, mostly because of it was too risky from the technical viewpoint, and the announced performance data fueled skepticism. The company later upgraded the Queen of the Skies, creating the new 747-8 Intercontinental, to compete with the new European giant Airbus 380. The Sonic Cruiser project was eventually neglected – airlines were not enthusiastic about the potential increase of the cruising speed. Against the background of constantly increasing oil prices and decreasing traffic due to the notorious events of 9/11, the saving matters became the priority for the liners. Boeing decided to play this by offering its prospective customers a brand new airliner project which had the advantages of fuel efficiency and improved passenger convenience. Record pre-orders number long before the bird’s maiden flight was due to the major advertising campaign and what is most important, appropriate market positioning of the wide-bodied aircraft. It was vital for Boeing to demonstrate its superiority over its European rival. The new American airliner was a direct competitor for the Airbus 330, built in the early 1990s. Thanks to its enhanced engines and the prevalence of composite materials, the promising jet was supposed to have increased flight range and reduced fuel consumption. Boeing 767 300ER mass production model was selected as the reference point among Boeing's homebuilt airplanes. It was stated that the new aircraft, replacing it, would consume 20% less kerosene per passenger. The operators of the 777 earliest modifications and even narrow-bodied Boeing 757 were viewed as prospective buyers. The former would be interested in the enhanced fuel efficiency with a similar seating capacity, and the latter would be lured by the increased range. After two decades passed, we can be sure that the company chose the right competitive environment for the promising airliner. This is evident against the background of how both Airbus and Boeing viewed future mass passenger traffic, back in the beginning of the XXI century. The Europeans invested in the A380 enormous double-Decker, assuming that a 500-600-seat airliner would be a great success. It was believed that the traffic among major hubs would intensify largely, and it would be cheaper for the companies to employ one hyper capacious aircraft over two conventional wide-bodied airplanes. The Americans in their turn chose to develop the concept of the twin-engine aircraft, as it could be landed in a larger number of airports, hence, the airlines could use it in a more flexible manner. As time has passed, we are now well aware of the outcome of the large capacity pursuit. Airbus A380 and the upgraded Boeing 747-8 were both commercial failures, having attracted much less orders than it was planned. But, this result had yet to be seen. A new liner’s commencement of operation is a hard time for a company. This is the period when most engineering challenges, related to the so called aircraft "infantile diseases", occur. It can be the happiest time as well, especially, if the airlines are looking forward to purchasing the craft. So was the case with Dreamliner. The delivery ceremony of the first Dreamliner to the launch customer - the Japanese ANA - took place on September 26, 2011, at the Everett aircraft factory. A month later the craft performed its first commercial flight from Tokyo to Hong Kong, and in a few months, the aircraft started performing long range flights on a regular basis. So it turned out, 8 years passed from the official launch of the project to the start of its commercial use, compared to the initially estimated five years. Attempts to maximize the efficiency of the dream airliner’s production became the projects's major problem right at the start. By the way, Boeing 787 could have received another name. At the dawn of the project an online poll was taken, involving about half a million people. "Global Cruiser" option, closely echoing the name of the hypersonic plane, that was never built, ranked only 2,500 votes lower than "Dreamliner". Wide production cooperation, aimed at reducing all parties' expenses and aircraft’s assembly time, has become the major 787 project’s feature. Boeing Company and its American partners produced about 35% of Dreamliner's units and assemblies, the rest of them were commissioned to contractors worldwide, which was the first time for the America’s largest aircraft manufacturer. Components of the plane's airframe and units were manufactured and delivered from Europe, Asia, Australia and North America. Japanese companies played a special role in this cooperation. Their supply rate was roughly the same as that of the North American manufacturers. And the parts, delivered by the Japanese, were critical items - carbon fiber for the fuselage and passenger cabin composite components, as well as prefabricated wing panels and centre sections. Japanese companies, involved in Being 787 production, even received grants from the Japanese government for modernization. The total funding amounted to two billion dollars. All this together accounted for the large-scale contracts with the Japanese airlines - ANA and Japan Airlines ordered nearly 150 Dreamliners in total. Starting with the 787 project, Boeing was determined to introduce a new organization model – largely similar to the one used by its major European competitor. Most aircraft units and components production was allocated to countless contractors, but the final assembly was conducted at Boeing’s North American plants. With this pattern, logistics became vital, as cooperative production areas were located on different continents. Delivery was also complicated by the impressive size of some Boeing 787 airframe components. They could have been transported by sea, as usual, but it would have taken too long, given the huge distances. The problem of bulky components delivery was solved by analogy with the European rival. Thus, Boeing 747 LCF cargo plane was built. It was nicknamed Dreamlifter, to emphasize its relation to the Dreamliner project. The airlifter could barely be called beautiful. Boeing President even jokingly apologized to the 747 chief designer Joe Sutter for what they’d done to his legendary airliner. But with respect to its main mission, Dreamlifter turned out to manage quite well. Its cargo compartment with a record capacity of 1840 cubic meters could hold several fuselage sections or two wing panels. Large fuel capacity allowed their transportation from Italy and Japan to the North America without stopovers, the routes being as long as 8,000 km. Four transport Dreamlifters were built in total. They were constructed based on the passenger Boeing 747-400 planes, previously extensively employed by the Chinese and Malaysian airlines. This approach ensured great manufacturing cost reduction and permitted to achieve certification sooner, though there were significant changes in the aircraft design. The ingenious solution to make the tail section swing to the side, is worth mentioning, as it significantly facilitated loading and unloading of Dreamliner's bulky components. Nowadays, a rare ambitious large-scale project goes without major issues. Unfortunately, Boeing 787 Dreamliner was not an exception. The production model, based on a wide global cooperation, caused a lot of issues in practice, despite all its advantages. Here's a telling fact: since the prototype’s ceremonial unveiling, it had taken the plane 28 months to make its first flight, compared to the two months, announced by the officials at the ceremony. The flight was officially postponed six times, and the 787 program chief executive lost his position soon after one of these delays. Preparation to the maiden flight was being postponed due to the aircraft components delivery problems and the absence of essential documentation. It turned out that some of the airframe components couldn’t be joined, or there were no fasteners and necessary toolware to do that. A two-month workers' strike at the Boeing factory in autumn 2008 made things even worse. Initial production stage didn’t do without surprises, and the contractor issues were there to stay. There was a moment at the Everett factory when dozens of unassembled aircraft were waiting for the missing components. Reports added fuel to the fire, that those Dreamliners were overweighted, figures varied from 2.5 to 4 tonnes, and this drawback deteriorated the declared fuel consumption and range data. The problem was fairly easily solved by replacing some of the aggregates with lighter versions, more titanium alloys had to be used. However, about a dozen craft still had this defect, and Boeing faced difficulties selling them, as customers simply refused to purchase them. It stands to mention, that despite a more than three-year delay in delivery, there was no mass purchase refusal – cancelled contracts were isolated instances. To make up for the shipment delays, in October 2009, Boeing announced building another factory to assemble 787 aircraft. Three years later, the first Dreamliner, intended for Air India, rolled off the production line at the factory in Charlestown, South Carolina. In 2013 both its assembly lines began full-scale operation, and produced on average ten airplanes a month, combined. Boeing managed to solve the horrible issues at the initial production stage, but this cost the company total project expenditure rise. Original outlays were estimated at ten billion dollars of Boeing’s proper funds. Nowadays the expenditures are estimated at thirty billion dollars minimum. In 2000s selling only 1,000 aircraft was believed to recover the costs, but now the worst-case scenario implies about 2,000 planes would need to be sold. Composite materials, or if we put it simple, composites. This is the first thing to be mentioned when we talk about Boeing 787. When Dreamliner appeared, it held the record of using composite materials in its structure, they amounted to 50% of the airframe weight. Another 30% were traditional aviation alloys of aluminum and steel, and around 15% of its total weight were titanium alloys. The question that has to be answered is: what was the reason for such an extensive use of composites in creating the dream airliner? The answer may seem a bit presumptuous, but after all, Boeing 787 is quite a daring attempt to get the most efficiency out of the conventional modern mainline jet arrangement. Airlifts are, first and foremost, a large-scale business, and cost optimization is the top priority for airlines. They append up to one third of their budgets for fuel, so they always strive to have a fleet, composed of the most fuel-efficient aircraft available. Aircraft manufacturers, in their turn, more or less regularly release new airplanes, consuming less fuel as compared to the previous generation craft. But it is becoming more and more difficult. The capabilities of reducing aerodynamic resistance within the traditional approach are practically exhausted, and the remaining potential for turbofan engines development is estimated as relatively low. Generally, in order to build an airplane with high fuel-efficiency rates, designers have to reduce its take-off weight, enhance its aerodynamic characteristics, and install engines with low specific fuel consumption. In creating Boeing 787, the designers summed up all the three conditions. Composite materials allowed to reduce airframe weight and create better wing shape, and the cutting-edge high bypass ratio engines consumed less fuel providing the same thrust as the previous generation motors. Here is a comparison to help estimate the scale of composites employment. For manufacturing Boeing 767, about 1.5 tonnes of composite materials were used, mainly for fiberglass cowlings and control surfaces. A much larger Boeing 777-200 contained 10 tonnes of composites, which were used to manufacture horizontal and vertical stabilizers. According to Japanese Toray Industries, the carbon fiber manufacturer, there are about 35 tonnes in the Dreamliner structural system, and they are used throughout the whole airframe - including the wings and the fuselage, tail unit and control surfaces, pods and passenger compartment, etc. Composite materials allow not only for weight reduction and absence of corrosion, but also the capability to develop primary structural units with the intended structural characteristics. Carbon fiber is laid down in certain directions to compensate for the torsional and bending forces, which becomes more obvious in the process of manufacturing fuselage sections. And it’s best evident if we look at the ready-made Dreamliner wing. Due to the composite panels, it has a relatively thin airfoil and a longer aspect ratio, and it also has a fairly high unit area loading value. All this is done to improve the aerodynamic characteristics and fuel efficiency. The wings have a rather wide plate curvature positive dihedral angle which gradually increases in the wing tips direction. It is also very flexible - during a conventional flight the wing tip can deflect upwards by two-three meters as compared to the plane’s ground situation. Wing integrity was confirmed by static tests in which it endured 150% of the maximum planned strain for three seconds, and the tips deflected upwards by 7.5 meters. Improving aerodynamic characteristics is only one side of the fuel-reduction issue. Aircraft propulsion plays the crucial role here. Boeing 787 is powered by two turbofan engines, 32 tonnes of take-off thrust, each. The aircraft’s customers could select propulsion unit composition from two contractors located in the UK and in the USA. Rolls-Royce offered Trent 1000, the latest Trent engine of that time, originating from the famous three-spool RB211. General Electric presented GEnx-1B, a development of the legendary GE90, the most powerful aircraft engine of the time. Both engines had similar performance characteristics despite differences in structural organization. As compared to the previous generation engines, their fuel efficiency was approximately 15% higher. They also succeeded in noise reduction. This was due to a very high bypass ratio and special chevrons - the sawtooth-shaped trailing edge of the pod. They are made to allow the airflow, passing out of the bypass duct to mix with the surrounding air smoother and quicker, causing less acoustic vibrations. Dreamliner’s reputation as an innovative aircraft is confirmed by another engineering solution - the designers didn't reuse the compressed air discharged from the engine. According to Boeing this resulted in another 1-2% fuel consumption reduction. You can call Dreamliner an "electrical" aircraft, both engines generate 1 MW of electrical power, and another 0.5 MW is generated by the auxiliary power unit. 2013 was a special year for the Dreamliner project. The airlines which were the first to receive the aircraft, had an opportunity to flight-test them, and the much anticipated continuation heaved in sight. On September 17, the Pain Field airfield in Everett saw the Boeing 787 9th variant evaluation flight. For the average person this might have looked like testing of another more capacious aircraft variant. But in fact, the new aircraft was a result of major error-correction, the concentrate of all the positive and negative experience, gained while developing Dreamliner, in order to perfectly represent the idea. To obtain the intended result, the engineers had to introduce major changes to the airframe structure and systems. Here are some figures. The standard two-class arrangement of Boeing 787-9 held 20% passengers more than the basic model, to be more precise, 290 passengers vs 242 passengers. At the same time, it had only 10% increase in fuel consumption rate per hour, and its maximum take-off weight also increased by approximately 10%. As compared to the basic aircraft version, the maximum flight range also increased by 500 km, and it now amounted to 14140 km. The situation is far from typical. Normally, shorter aircraft fly much longer distances. Because of its flight performance, 787-9 became Dreamliner’s bestseller with time. The orders for 787-9 outnumbered the basic version twice. As of the beginning of 2020, there were around 900 such aircraft on the list, and more than a half have already been delivered to the airlines. An interesting detail about the test flights: there is a small cone hanging by the tail fin of Boeing and other manufacturers’ aircraft. It is used to measure static air pressure, mirroring the data from the standard onboard sensors in the aircraft’s nose. For more precise measurements, the cone can be moved further away from the aircraft by unwinding the cord. The 787-9 modification became commercially operational in late 2014. By then, some airlines accumulated basic Dreamliner model operational background, and were able to share their experience. Twenty airline companies had almost 200 Dreamliner aircraft. According to majority of their representatives, Boeing 787 had generally met their expectations, and they were satisfied with it, even despite the "infant disease" period. The average availability rate back then was 98.3% with all operators, though there were airlines already attaining 99.5%. A relatively fair rate, bearing in mind that during 3 years of the aircraft’s operation there were many incidents. Including the four months, when all aircraft pool was put out of action, because of few cases of lithium-ion battery inflammation. In order to fix this issue, several changes had to be made to the aircraft structure, including extra protection in case of smoke and high temperatures. The Dreamliner’s catch phrase is reducing fuel consumption by 20% as compared to Boeing 767-300. The aviation community was interested whether they succeeded or not. It might be a coincidence, but the average fuel flow rates of both Boeing 767-300 and Boeing 787-8 is about 4.9 tonnes. But Dreamliners has a higher cruising speed, and it can carry more passengers and payload. The Japanese ANA and JAL were the first to confirm that Boeing 787 consumes 15% less fuel per passenger, than 767-300. And even 20% less on intercontinental flights. Other airlines demonstrated similar figures, specific values depended on the business model the company used, all had different passenger compartment arrangement and disposed routes. The Dreamliner’s prevalence over its rival A330-200 was not a surprise. The European competitor’s fuel flow rate is more than half a tonne greater. Reduction of fuel consumption was appreciated by the airlines, and passengers came to appreciate the improved cabin design. The number of positive media reviews, soon after Dreamliner appeared on routes, confirmed the efficiency of the company’s solutions. Perhaps the most evident improvement that most travelers mentioned, was their well-being even after long-range flights. Thanks to the well-built and robust composite fuselage, a higher pressure was sustained in the cabin, as compared to earlier generations of aircraft. The air conditioning system provided significantly more humid air, which was no longer diverted from engines. The composite skin coupled with aircraft soundproofing and the new engines significantly reduced noise exposition. As for the visual aspect of the cabin, it was represented by diode adaptive lighting, multimedia system for every seat, and record-setting windows which were made possible by the solid carbon fiber fuselage. Special glass with electronic multi-stage light transmission regulation was used instead of the conventional extensible window shutters. The cockpit was reequipped at a state-of-the-art level, too: cutting-edge avionics, large LCDs, and even head-up displays for flight information imagery – all borrowed from military jets. Long before 789-9 was developed, Boeing had an idea of creating Dreamliner’s most capacious version. After firm contractual commitments with customers for purchasing more than 100 craft were reached, the development program was launched. On March 31 2017, Boeing 787-10 prototype made its first flight. Because of 5.5 m longer fuselage, its capacity grew to 330 passengers in a standard two-class arrangement. The derivative's structural design was 95% similar to the preceding 787-9 model, and there was little trouble in building it. Maximum take-off weight remained the same, but the longer fuselage required more thrust from the engines, resulting in a moderate fuel consumption increase. In fact, Boeing 787-10 became a competitive response to the European composite Airbus A350-900. But having a similar capacity and fuel flow rate, the American aircraft fell short in terms of maximum range, therefore, it was positioned as the best choice for 7-9-hour flights under full load. Taking into account the strong competition and later development, a little over 200 orders received can be considered satisfactory. Because of the issues with bulky fuselage components delivery, the 787-10 production was launched only at the second assembly line in Charlestown. However, starting in 2021, this line will become the only Dreamliner construction facility. Events of 2020 made Boeing cut down Dreamliner production in Everett. Boeing 787 can quite literally be called a great phenomenon in civil aviation history. It pioneered the composite revolution. And creating new highly efficient aircraft can hardly be imagined without using such materials. This is “Aviasmotr” channel. Thank you for your attention! Until next time! 