 It’s time to take your business to the next  level, the BOSS level! These are the premiere   Business Owner Strategies and Successes being  utilized by the industry’s top talent today.   Rock your business like a boss, a VO BOSS!  Now let’s welcome your host, Anne Ganguzza. Anne: Hey everyone, welcome to the VO BOSS  podcast. I’m your host, Anne Ganguzza,   along with the audio engineer extraordinaire,  Mr. Tim Tippets. Hey Tim Tippets! How are you? Tim: I’m good, how are you, Anne? Anne: I”m doing great. Tim, I got a question  for you, which I think you’ve probably received   multiple times in the past. But it brings me back  to when I first started in voiceover, and I was   on the Voice123 pay-to-play. And the first time I  saw this term was to normalize my audio to -3 dB. Tim: Right. Anne: And I get the question all the time  from people new to the industry like “what,   how do I normalize? What is normalization?  Do I need to do it, and at what level do I   need to do it?” So I thought it would be  a good time to maybe talk about, at least   begin the conversation about normalization, and  what it is and why we need to do it. [laughs]   I know that I have been normalizing my audio  to -3dB, but maybe I don’t need to. Thoughts? Tim: Well, why did you think  you needed to normalize to   -3 db? Back in the day, what did they tell you? Anne: They basically said all auditions  had to be sent in and normalized to -3 db.   And my understanding was so  that, you know, all of the   submissions came in at  roughly the same volume level. Tim: Right. Anne: And that was what helped to do that. Tim: So the -3 dB is so that people  can hear you at a certain level — Anne: Right. Tim: — regardless of the device that they’re on,   right? But these days now, you’re  hearing, what, anything from — Anne: Oh my goodness! I’ve  heard, you know, 0. I think   next in line, I heard 0. Then I heard -6, -1.   I’ve heard all different values. And so, is there  a standard? Is there a right answer for that? Tim: Well, let me ask you a question, ok? So  -3 dB has always been the broadcast standard   for normalization, right? Which  means whatever the loudest peak   is in your audio, it’s going to  look at that, and if it’s louder   than -3dB, then it’s going to lower  that. Like let’s say it came in a -1dB. Anne: Right. Tim: It’s going to lower that to -3 dB, right,  which is a total of 2 dB. And it’s going to take   all of the other audio down with it 2 dB, right?  So that’s what peak normalization is all about.   Now if you were well under at -6, and that was  your loudest peak, then it’s going to lift that   3 dB to get it to -3 dB. And the rest of the audio  is also going to be lifted by 3 dB. Make sense? Anne: That’s peak normalization. Tim: That’s peak normalization. Anne: Right. So there’s a different  — there’s another normalization too   that I learned about when I  was doing some audiobook work. Tim: Right, and that’s RMS, which stands for  root mean squared. It’s a fancy way of saying   averaging. So you’re averaging the overall   volume of the entire thing.  And that’s fine for audiobooks,   right? But when we talk about normalizing whether  it’s for an audition, or for a job, or whatever,   let’s just talk about — let’s say it’s for  auditions. Let’s just put it there, because that’s   really where the conversation is today is, is  at what level should I be normalizing so that   the people on the other end are listening to me at  level X? Ok? So you’re hearing anything from 0.1,   which is the absolute highest that you can pretty  much go, or -6 dB, right? If you come in at -3 dB,   and we’ve got two Annes, ok, not with the same  talent level — if one comes in at -1 dB and is   not so good, but the other Anne comes in at -3  dB, which one do you think they’re gonna choose? Anne: Oh [laughs] that’s a good question.  I never thought of it in that way! [laughs] Tim: If you’re not so good, yeah, if you’re not  so good, do you just want to suck 2 db louder? Anne: Yeah, I don’t want to amplify that. [laughs] Tim: We’re assuming a lot when  we say “hey, send it in at -1 db”   or whatever. You’re assuming that  everyone has, is equally talented. Anne: Right. Or the other thing too, Tim, is that  I’ve had people, when my students are submitting   homework, and I have them record mp3s, I always  make sure they normalize it so I can at least — I   don’t have to play with the volume all the time.  But sometimes that will bring up not just their   voice but the, all that audio and  that noise in the studio as well. Tim: Right. Anne: So not just the talent [laughs] maybe not  being as good, but the talent and all of the audio   environment as well being brought up to like — a  lot of times, the students will be like, “what? I   don’t know where that came from. Let me just — if  I don’t normalize it, it sounds better.” [laughs] Tim: This is one of the misunderstandings  that we should really clear up, because   if your input levels are at -6 to -12 dB when  you’re voicing and you’re watching your meter,   we’re now near that -3 db level. If we’re  listening, we can hear if there are noise makers,   right, because we are up at that level. I’ve  actually had some people record at very,   very low levels because they say  “hey, it lowers my noise floor.” Anne: Sure. Tim: That’s all good and fine, but reality  is you have to bring it up to -3 dB,   and using the math, if you lower it to where your  peaks are at -22 dB let’s say, ok, without getting   too far into the math of it, and your noise floor  is quiet, well when you go to normalize it to   -3 dB so that it can be heard nice and loud,  all that noise floor goes up with it. Whatever   the difference between -22 and -3 is, that same  level of noise floor is now going to be increased   by that same dB level. All that noise  floor is just gonna get louder and louder.   So that’s why you — that’s one of the reasons why  you want your input levels to come in somewhere   between -12 and -6 dB. Not consistently. You  can go over -6 here and there and under -12.   We’re just talking about an average. But we  want to understand what our noise floor is — Anne: Right. Tim: — before we voice, so  that when we do normalize,   we don’t have this big problem of all  of this noise coming back up with it. Anne: Sure, and you know what? You’re  the first person that I’ve actually   like heard talk about “this is where your  voice should come in at.” I’ve always thought   I look at my levels and I definitely don’t want to  go into the red. I’m looking at the colors of my   levels. I’ve never actually looked at the values.  That’s a good place to shoot for in terms of   where we should be recording at in  the first place, so that when we do   normalize, it’s not gonna — well,  we’re not surprised, let’s say, with   a lot of noise or a lot of other unexpected  things that we didn’t think we heard. Tim: Right, well if your interface,   if the interface that you’re going into  has an indicator of green, yellow, red,   you don’t want to be going in the red on that,  because that means you’re clipping that interface. Anne: Right, right, which is what  I was always taught to look for.   Just don’t go into the red. Be in  the yellow. That’s what I was — Tim: Right, but you have to look in two  places. You have to look at your interface   to make sure that that’s not happening, and  then you need to look inside your software — Anne: Yes, yes. Tim: — to make sure that’s not happening. Anne: Oh, good point. Good point, yeah. Tim: You can go into the red in the software.  That’s not a problem, like I said. You can go   over -6, and you can hit -3 here and there.  But you just don’t want to go to 0. You just   don’t want to clip, because that is the digital  equivalent of distortion that a human would hear   in real life with dB, right? If something were 140  dB, and you were next to it and listening to it,   your hearing would just, I mean, it would hurt,  ok? And 0 is the digital equivalent of that.   The problem is is we have no scale above that  for the computer to relate to, because what is   pain? Pain has to be something, so let’s call  it 0, and then we’ll move backwards from there.   Because in real life, dB can go  infinitely louder and louder and louder. Anne: Right, right. Tim: Like if a star were to explode,  the dB level would be absolutely insane,   right? There’s no way to measure that beyond 0. Anne: [laughs] That’s a good example. I like that. Tim: Yeah, so we have to use this negative in  order to kind of get an idea of where we’re at   with things. But anyway regardless, if  you do go into the red here and there,   that’s fine. That’s not a  problem. Just don’t clip. Anne: That’s in the red on your software, correct? Tim: Yeah, in your software, in your meter,  yeah. Just don’t clip. Clipping is when you   hit absolute zero, and you look at the wave  form, and it’s, you know, it’s beyond the ruler. Anne: Right. Tim: And that’s not good because  it will begin to distort. Anne: Gotcha. Tim: Yeah. Anne: So then normalization  is a thing that we must do.   And so if we have to pick a  number, what number do you pick? Tim: I use -3 dB again, again.  We’ll use me as an example,   ok? If I come in talking like this,  and here’s my audition, and hey,   please hire me because I could really use  the money. And I come in saying that — Anne: [laughs] You got it, Tim! Tim: I got it, yeah. You know, so the  other Tim comes in and says, you know,   “Tim Tippets,” slates, “hey, I’d really like this  job,” and it’s for Mercedes Benz or whatever,   and it comes in at -3 dB — sorry. The guy at -3  DB is going to get the job because he’s not lame.   Again, this concept of coming in at, you know  higher and higher levels, this is part of   what’s called the loudness war, as far as how I  look at it. And the loudness war started in the   late 80’s or 90’s or something like that. A lot  of us audiophiles really didn’t appreciate it,   because what radio stations were doing is they  were maximizing the volume across the board   to be as loud as they possibly could,  because louder is perceived as better. Anne: Oh interesting. Tim: Right? So I believe it  was Metallica, I believe,   I think, it’s the loudest record in history. And  I took a listen to it, and it doesn’t sound good. Anne: Woww, ok. Tim: Having heard Metallica from  the 80s and listening to that album,   I was just like, “wow, you guys are really  like, you’re doing it just to do it.” It   was like a spinal tap moment, it  was almost like a comedic thing. Anne: Sure. Tim: Ok? And when you listen to dynamic  music that is well mixed, and it has   really nice lows and really nice  highs, you get this sense of,   you know, being brought down to  that emotion where it needs to be. Anne: Sure. Tim: Just like if I’m whispering here  and then trying to convey an emotion.   And then if I get louder, and I get angry, you  get an idea that there’s dynamic range there.   If everything that I just did there came  in at the same volume level, you’re not,   the stuff isn’t gonna be conveyed correctly. Anne: So it’s interesting to me that you  mention that louder was thought to be better. Tim: Well… [laughs] So… Anne: Back in the day. Tim: Louder being better is just  a thing. It’s human nature, ok? Anne: Yep, yep. Tim: That said, when you take something that is  louder, that is consistently loud, and you put it   over something that is meant to be dynamic, and  then you mix them together versus a dynamic VO   that is not necessarily consistently louder,  you are going to have more of an impact overall   with the one that was done  correctly, where there are dynamics — Anne: Dynamics. Tim: — versus the one that is  just crushing, hitting the wall   consistently and is just driving  things as loud as it possibly can. Anne: Yeah, and when everything is loud, like  nothing sticks out. Nothing is unique. Nothing   is brought to light, so I think  it’s hard for the ear to discern,   you know, different emotions  and nuances like you’re saying. Tim: [quietly] What do you mean, Anne? Anne: [laughs] Now my question is — so we  talked about peak normalization. When — I   heard that you use the RMS when you’re  using audiobooks, and why? Why is that done? Tim: Because — ok, so RMS, the reason that you  want or they want consistent volume across the   board is because people will be listening on their  iPhones, in their cars, on their computers, etc.   And while audiobook quality is  important, what is more important to   audiobook producers is that the end user is  not constantly reaching for the volume dial — Anne: Right. Tim: — to increase or decrease the volume. Anne: That makes a lot of sense. Tim: Yeah, they want it to be consistent.  They don’t want it crushed, right? Anne: Right. Tim: Like we just talked about, but  they do want it to be consistent,   and RMS provides that, because it  averages the loudness across the board   versus using one target value, and  then using that as the measure. Anne: Here’s a very elemental question  then. Why not use, in some audio editors,   like I have amplify. Right? What’s  the difference between amplify,   amplifying it in a negative  direction or doing a normalization? Tim: Well, if you use amplify, you don’t really  have kind of a under the hood thing to look at,   right? And/or if you do, you really  need to know what you’re doing,   because amplifying something may get  you the levels that you’re looking for,   but you may not have the ear or the knowledge  to be able to get there responsibly. Right? Anne: Amplify responsibly. [laughs] Tim: Yeah, amplify responsibly.   But are we really amplifying, or are we  averaging? The answer is we’re averaging. Anne: Right. That’s the question. Because I  will actually take something, if I happen to   have a peak that just is one peak in my  audio. I will de-amplify just that one peak. Tim: Right, but now, you are  running on the Manley VoxBox — Anne: True. Tim: We have that just a little bit of  control with that compression, right? Anne: Right. I haven’t done that since  I’ve been using the Manley, you’re right. Tim: And we’ve had that conversation about  responsible compression. Now responsible   compression is going to take care of  that little peak that you have so you   don’t have to go in there manually  and fix it. That’s the whole idea. Anne: That’s right! I love it. [laughs] Tim: Yeah, so again, when people say, you  know, should you send in your audio effected?   If you know what you’re doing or you have someone  you’re working with who knows what they’re doing,   then the answer is yes, because it’s  going to save you a ton of time.   It’s going to emulate better mic control.  You’re going to sound better because of the EQ   and so on. Again not the “hey, I’m gonna go  on YouTube and learn this version of it,”   but an actually educated and/or person  helping you who knows what they’re doing. Anne: I think that there’s also something that  comes into play when we’re talking about having   to normalize our audio before we send it off, and  that is a little bit of mic technique, in terms of   if you’re going to be overly emotional or  excited or a little bit loud. I think that   mic technique really plays a role  in how your normalization takes,   because your peaks might be higher if you’re not  using proper mic technique. Thoughts on that? Tim: Well yeah, hat’s correct. If you  back off the mic, and you do not have   an effects rack in play — I will do it  now. I will get far away from my mic.   And I will get very loud.  Now you can hear my room. Anne: Yep. Tim: Ok? Anne: Yep. Tim: And that’s a problem. Anne: Right, exactly. Tim: If I were able to decrease my  output volume, which I’ll do right now,   ok, with realtime processing, and I get  that loud, then you don’t hear my room. Anne: Correct. Tim: So it’s really all a matter — in this case,  I’m on the Manley VoxBox with the Apollo Solo.   It makes all the difference in the  world when you’re able to do that. Anne: So that’s controlling it, software. Now what  about physical? Like if I just — I think also we   can turn away from the mic a little bit. Like if  I were, like right now I’m kind of in the mic,   a little bit side, slightly angled. But  if I were gonna be a little bit louder,   I’d turn a little bit more. Thankfully I don’t  have room noise because you built my studio. Tim: Yeah, right. Anne: But I think that for me  would be quicker than me like   doing — using a software control. But then again,  I never even thought, because it’s my first   month or so with the Manley. So I didn’t  even think about doing the software control. Tim: Yeah, well, that’s the thing. I did a  commercial for Bazooka brands where I did   a very, very quiet read, you know, the leaning  in type of read on my 416, and then I had to yell   “Bazooka” very loud, and all I did was simply take  the output of my Manley, and I turned it down. Anne: Aha, yup. Tim: Yeah, and the people in London, I was like  “how’s my level?” They were like, “fine.” I go,   “great. Let’s do it,” right? And then I turned  it back up for the end of that commercial,   so I could do the softer parts  again, because it goes soft, loud,   soft. A lot of that does have to  do with mic technique as well. Anne: Sure. Tim: Because a lot of people will  have the mic right in front of them,   and then you get plosives, plosives, like that. Anne: Right, exactly. Tim: But if you angle it off to the side like  this, around 30 to 45 degrees, depending,   and crosstalk the mic, then plosives, plosives,  Peter Piper all day long, no problem, right? Anne: Exactly, and that’s why I had  to do before. And maybe we should just   explain about the Manley, because  not everybody has the Manley VoxBox.   Explain like what that is and how  voice talent will be able to use that. Tim: Sure, ok. The Manley is a plug-in,  and that’s software inside of the   Apollo console. Apollo makes various interfaces.  They have the Twin, the Duo, the Solo, etc.   And these devices come with plug-ins that act  like real-time studio rack units, ok? It could   be compression. It could be cue. It could be all  sorts of things. But the Manley in particular has   a built in de-esser, it has a built in EQ and a  built in compressor, so that when you’re hearing   me, you’re hearing me in realtime being dialed in  to sound the best that I can sound or as much like   I can like myself, right? Or to say it correctly,  to sound as close to my real voice in real life. Anne: Sure. Tim: Because each mic has its own  properties that will make anyone sound   any different way. And that may  not necessarily be optimized. Anne: Right. And so being able to control our  loudness with a Manley VoxBox is specific to   the Apollo interfaces. Can you use, is  that plug-in available anywhere else? Tim: No. Anne: Ok, so it’s only for people that  have Apollo interfaces. But I assume,   is there something equivalent  in other interfaces, or? Tim: Yeah, sure, sure. Anne: Plug-ins? Tim: Yeah, sure. There are units out there, and  I have experimented with those. Of course I work   with clients all the time who have various units.  I’m just gonna tell you in my personal opinion,   there’s nothing that even comes close. It’s,  you know, I mean, it’s good, don’t get me wrong.   We also have people who are using DBX units and  racks that sound fairly decent, but again, nowhere   near the type of control that you have here for  several reasons. One is again, the Manley VoxBox   is a $4600 unit in real life. This a faithful  emulation of it. When it’s not on sale, it’s $300. Anne: Right, right. Tim: When it does go on sale,  which I think you got it on sale — Anne: I did. Tim: — for like $129 or something. Ok? We  talked about that in the interfaces episode.   And yeah, it’s just you have control right here   in real time. The thing pops up, and  it’s like the rack except you take your   mouse and move the knobs around and you  adjust them until it sounds fantastic. Anne: So then a combination of normalization,  and depending on your performance, right,   if it’s super dynamic, super loud, super  soft, those sorts of things, a combination of   your, either Manley Vox or your software control  and mic technique and normalization can create   a winning audition and even just something that  I would submit to a client as my final product. Tim: Yeah, as final product, they’re more than  likely going to want it at -3 dB because you   need to give them what’s called head room.  You need to give them some room to work with.   If they have to lower you overall, that’s going to  be an annoyance. I know it is for me when I have   to do a project, and someone sends it up to me,  and it’s just been blasted and it’s clipping and   all that. The bottom line is this. When you’re  normalizing, and you’re sending your stuff out,   if your agent, or if the P2P is saying, “look,  you must normalize to this level,” then go   ahead and normalize to that level. That’s  fine. That’s what they want, ok? But again,   what you should really be focusing on when it  comes to sending in your audio is quality of audio   and performance, bottom line. This concept of 2  dB louder or whatever is distracting everybody,   in my opinion. I’m hearing it a lot lately, and  I just, I don’t think it’s something we should   be focusing on. So as far as normalization  goes, that’s all I have to say about it. Anne: Alright. Well, that sounds great.  Well, thanks for clearing a lot of that up.   I think it’s gonna help a lot of people that  have had questions in the past and are wondering,   what do I worry about, what number? I think -3  dB is a good place to be. That along with proper   mic technique and a good environment  is going to get you that winning gig. Tim: Bingo. Bingo. Anne: Good stuff. So I’d like to give a  great big shout-out to our sponsor, ipDTL.   We can communicate in a very controlled quality  loudness situation. And you can find out more at   ipdtl.com. Alright, guys, you have a great week,  and we’ll see you next week. Thanks so much. Bye! Tim: Bye!  Join us next week for another edition of  VO BOSS with your host Anne Ganguzza. And   take your business to the next level. Sign up  for our mailing list at voboss.com and receive   exclusive content, industry revolutionizing  tips and strategies, and new ways to rock   your business like a BOSS. Redistribution with  permission. Coast to Coast connectivity via ipDTL. 