 - Please help me welcome, the personal advisor to Donald Trump, my new friend Larry. (upbeat music) (audience cheering) (audience laughing) (audience cheering) - How you doing? - What? - How you doing? - I'm fine, I'm fine, everything's fine, it's all going great, it's all really good. (laughing) (Larry grunts) - And your name's Larry. - Yup Larry, just think of Larry, just Larry, Larry. - Yeah. (Larry grunts) (audience laughs) - But sometimes he calls me Bob, there's not Bob, it's not freaking Bob, it's just Larry! - And you're referring to President Trump? - Oh my God, is he here, where? - No, he's not here. - Oh, okay, ha, that would've been shocking. - If he were here? - Yeah. - Why? - Because he didn't tweet about it first! (audience laughs) (Larry grunts) He never stops. I can't leave him for a second, I turn my back and he's tweeted again. And he does it from the Oval Office, from the front lawn, from the back lawn, from the side lawn, the lawn lawn, the kitchen, and the toilet. (audience laughing) Do you how many times I've begged him to stop the toilet tweeting? (audience laughing) Oh look, everybody agreed on something. (audience cheering)   Kumbaya, my lord   - So you don't really help him? - Actually one time, I tried to help him by stealing his phone. - What happened? - His hair attacked me. (audience laughing) - His hair. - It's alive! - Do you have any influence on what the president tweets? - Are you kidding? I'd have better luck convincing Walter to stop passing gas. (audience laughing) - [Walter] Not gonna happen! (audience laughing) - Did that come outta your ass? - No. (audience laughing) - You need to work on that. Sound like your ass is talking. (audience laughing) - So Larry, how long have you worked for the president? - 'Bout four hours. (audience laughing) - He hired you four hours ago. - Well, he fired me before breakfast and rehired me after lunch. - Oh. - You heard of Taco Tuesdays? - Yeah. - Trump had firing Fridays. (audience laughing) - And what does Melania say when people get fired? - Take me with you. (audience laughing) - Do you think it's true there might be a problem in Trump's marriage? - Oh, no no, he just went through a stormy patch. (audience laughing) Ah screw you, that's a good joke! (upbeat music) 