 The crisis has created almost a magnetic field  of pulling all these functions together such   that we actually deliver a much coherent  journey for our customers and consumers.  Massimo Rapparini, he is the chief  information officer at Logitech.  So, brands in our portfolio you  may be familiar with are Jaybird,   Blue Microphones, ASTRO Gaming, obviously  Logitech, Logitech G, and Blue Microphones.  I think, just briefly, the scope of  what I do, yes, like you said, I lead   the IT function at Logitech, but I also head up  customer experience, which is basically running   our contact centers around the globe, providing  support to our customers and workplace service,   managing about 80 offices across the globe. Now a quick thank you to Productiv, a SaaS   management platform that unlocks the power hidden  in your SaaS applications to bring you higher ROI,   better team collaboration,  and lower license costs.  You are a walking, living, breathing  representative of Logitech right now.   Tell us the equipment that you've got. [Laughter] Yeah, well, as you can see,   I'm using a Blue Microphone, a Blue Yeti, which  I think you're familiar with as well. I'm using a   BRIO Webcam that is immensely popular,  of late, of course. Then I have   in earphones, headphones, from Ultimate Ears PRO,   and then, obviously, mice and keyboards that  complete the whole setup here at home for me.  Let's talk about managing change. We are all  experiencing this global crisis situation.   Tell us what the impact has been on Logitech. First of all, just to start, I think I want   to express obviously our sympathy with a lot of  people that have been impacted by the epidemic.   I think a lot of people are in way  worse situations than, for instance,   I personally have been and a lot of the employees  at Logitech, so I definitely feel for them. With   everybody else, we're all hoping and praying  that pretty soon this pandemic will be over.  Stepping back and looking at what happened  back in March, I think, like everybody else,   we responded when the pandemic started spreading.  Immediately, the impact was more in Asia,   obviously, and we have a large operation there  that is where a lot of our production happens,   a lot of our design engineering teams, and I  think our first reaction was trying to figure   out how to maintain the ability to operate. But then, at some stage, that shifted to,   as we resume the ability to manufacture products,  how do we actually figure out how to distribute   them? Borders were closing. A lot of restrictions  were being imposed in different regions, and so   how do we look at different sales  channels to still get products and,   often, products that are really essential  and critical to customers across the globe?  I think, for us, there is definitely a silver  lining. In so many categories that we were   already playing, we became even more relevant  with the crisis. You probably know we've always   been in the personal collaboration space. We have  always promoted things like streaming, gaming,   and all of these areas have seen a huge increase,  obviously, since the start of the pandemic, which,   like I said, a silver lining in a good way for us. You've got demand exploding for your products.  Yep. At the same time, you have   to be closing your offices and, therefore, ramping  up production while all of this is taking place.  Yes. How did you do that?  Like you said, looking back, it feels like  a herculean effort, and especially, I think,   like I said, in Asia. Kudos to our team members  there who very quickly adapted to how to, in a   safe way and in a secure way, still be able to  maintain some of that operations and production.  Initially, for sure, I know consumers  noticed. As I run customer support,   I have first-hand experience of people obviously  being desperate to get their hands on products   essential for them to be able to do their work. I think we've been able to get over the hump there   and I think, especially after the summer,  around the summer, been able to ramp up.   Also, we tried to leverage different ways to  create that kind of production capability.  I think the challenge with people being in  a whole different setting and working more   remotely was something a little easier for  us to overcome since we've always been a   very distributed company. We have, like I said, 80  offices in pretty much every region of the world.   But also, we'd been adopting distributed  collaboration, using video collaboration   within our four walls already for years. I  think that's also obviously a benefit that   we had that we could quickly pivot to that. Really, the trick for IT, as an example,   was mostly us scaling, but not so much  about how do I educate people about   how to use Zoom or how to actually get into video  calls. I think different kinds of ways to adapt,   but that's pretty much what happened. For you, ways of working, working from home,   working with a globally distributed team, you were  already doing that, but the challenge was scaling.  Yeah. Yeah, I mean I think, as an example,  before the crisis, we already had a very   high utilization of video collaboration. On  average, we were doing 30,000 video calls a month   with more than 80 sites connecting, with about 3  to 4 … (indiscernible, 00:05:10) every video call.   If you translate, if you do the math, that  translates to at least one or two video calls for   every employee of about 3,000, 4,000 employees. I think, since March, we've seen   almost a three-fold increase in that. We're now  looking at 75,000 to 90,000 video calls a month.   The good news is, since we're already pretty  cloud-centric, we were able to really leverage the   quick scaling up and scaling of the infrastructure  to be able to meet that type of demand.  At the same time, I think it's starting to create  also a burden on IT in terms of being able to   respond to this. But I think that's, like I said,  a great example of how we've been able to leverage   some of the things we already had in place. Tell us more about that role of IT and some   of the challenges that you faced  in IT during the transition period.  We had an impact both internally in terms of,  like we talked about, the infrastructure and   scalability, security, how to enable people who  are already used to working remotely to be doing   this more securely. As well as externally, how do  we partner with sales and marketing leaders so we   can actually shift to different channels, a lot  of increase in our direct to consumer channels,   and adding capacity for things that  impact our partners, our operations,   and as well as supporting our customers? We've seen a huge increase in demand from   customers asking us for support. Finding  ways to more flexible and provide, again,   that ability for people to also work remotely.  Those are obviously some of the things.  I think the cloud infrastructure,  like I mentioned earlier, was a big   benefit to us, the fact that we were already  pretty heavily in the cloud. Also, thinking about   just ways to enable safe, remote connectivity  in ways that you can also adapt to much more   video traffic or different ways of collaborating  with partners in different regions of the world.  What was the hardest part? The biggest challenge is really   rethinking the impact of an adapting operation to  the technology platforms that you have. You really   have already a collaboration tool. Maybe you have  a sales enablement platform like Salesforce.com.  All these tools work well in one setting where  you have a model, which I'm sure we'll talk   a little bit later about resilience, which is  really optimized for efficiency. Now you need   to shift to something that's maybe more flexible  that adapts to different channels, that adapt to   different partners. Really tweaking and adjusting  those platforms to a different business model,   I think, was probably the hardest for us. How did you go about accomplishing that?  Things that potentially seemed unassailable in the  past, right? There was such a focus on razor-thin   cost optimization. There was such a focus on  things that were really, again, how do I make   things more and more efficient? I think, all of a sudden, you see a shift to,   how do I actually embrace technology across the  whole value chain? How do I make it something that   pretty much leading the charge in terms  of adapting to the crisis situation?  I think being able to figure out how  technology brings people closer together   and finding ways that we can innovate and  build new products while, at the same time,   making operations more scalable. I think those  are all of the things that we've tried to embed,   let's say, in the fact that there's this once in  a lifetime, almost, opportunity to make change and   that's something that you  should grasp as a CIO, for sure.  Again, I'm very interested in the difficulties,  getting into some of the details of how you go   about driving this kind of change, shifting from  the focus, the historical focus, on efficiency   to now, obviously, you need to remain  efficient but now you need to do things   differently. How do you go about doing that? First of all, there are a lot of opportunities   to rethink how you've really structured processes  and the systems that support them. If you take an   example just on the manufacturing side, a lot of  the efficiency-focused outcomes mean that you have   just in time processes, you have systems  that have very little room for redundancy,   and so there's that risk around  reacting to shocks of those systems.  I think what you can do is really  step back and consider where is an   opportunity to build something different than  optimization without redundancy, to some extent.   What are the infrastructure gaps and the lack of  fallback scenarios that you're trying to erase   in that example, as an example with manufacturing? I think that's the approach, as an IT leader, you   can take but, obviously, fully in partnership with  business leaders. It's really almost a redesign, a   rearchitect, the way you're not just doing systems  but really the processes that they're supporting.  How do you separate the technology  dimensions from the nontechnology   dimensions, whether it's culture, talent,  anything else outside of technology?  I think you don't necessarily want to  separate them. I think you're trying   to bring those together. I think, as an IT  leader, you're trying to really make technology   the accelerator and the enabler of some of  these business changes that need to occur.  I think, if you look at, for instance,  again back to our value chain,   the opportunity now shifts to multi-sourcing,  dual suppliers, for instance, for manufacturing   operations in different regions. As an IT leader,  you're trying to really adapt to that and fully   align to the type of changes that business  operations are doing and find out how,   for instance, even things like what talent and  roles you want to staff in different regions   to lower the risk of new business interruptions. What kind of technology evolutions do you want to   do and upgrades and features that you potentially  have put on the back burner because of a focus   on efficiency? I think you just really need to  be opportunistic than jump into those types of   situations that are completing changing  some of the rules of the game, so to speak.  If you're rethinking the role of IT in  this innovating and adapting value chain,   what are the challenges in doing that? It kind  of goes outside the traditional role of IT.  Yes. Yes, and I think it leads to IT almost  being redefined as technology and not just IT.   Technology, in general, becoming almost kind of  the business itself, right? I think what used to   be traditionally, okay, we have business functions  and then there's IT and they bring technology   to try to support the business functions. Whether you're trying to innovate and build new   products, whether you're just executing a specific  operation, whether your business is hardware or   digital, and a full, online service, all of these  are more and more showing that technology is   essential. It's kind of almost what runs  those types of services and products.  I think that's where, as an IT team, you can think  about, okay, what can I do to bring technology to   bear in ways that are relevant and have a positive  impact on the business? It could be in regard to   building new services. It could be in regard  to applying technology for more intelligent   and automated operations. It could be mining  data to gain insights about things you couldn't   gain before because you didn't have  a direct relationship with consumers.   Yeah, I think, across the board, there's no  shortage of these types of opportunities.  We have an insightful, interesting question  from Arsalan Khan. Arsalan says, "The pandemic   created an urgency for IT to perform in various  areas all at once. Why does it take a reactive   approach from the business to understand the  importance of IT and is this going to last?"  I think what he describes is pretty much  the experience of traditional IT where   maybe it's somewhat—I wouldn't want  to exaggerate—a second-class citizen.   You're kind of like a back-office function  that, okay, yeah, it's a necessary evil,   so to speak. If things go wrong, everybody cries  and, otherwise, you don't really notice it.  Obviously, I think that's by now, hopefully, for  a lot of CIOs, something of the past. I think that   observation about the business really noticing  or somewhat appreciating some of the things that   technology can do with them is something that,  as a CIO, you can anticipate and, for sure,   the crisis, like I said, has accelerated it. You can create all the conditions and position   IT such that if not just a crisis, but a  huge business opportunity—maybe it's an M&A   event or what have you—arises that you set up  your teams. You set up your contribution to what   the business does to be super impactful. That's  the type of thing, like I mentioned earlier,   where we had embraced video collaboration and we  were showcasing it internally. We were showcasing   to prospects as an IT to IT team. I think those  are all the things that then pay off in dividends   when the crisis happened because it's something  that we could hugely leverage in that situation.  Yeah, I guess that would be my advice  is, don't wait for the crisis. Yes,   there is some frustration with how the  business looks at it. But I think you   can create the conditions such that you can be  much more critical and impactful beforehand.  Let's talk about resiliency. You mentioned  that a few times, but let's drill into that.   When you talk about resiliency, what  does that mean? What does that refer to?  Yes. Everybody has probably seen  this as an outcome of the COVID-19   crisis. A larger appreciation for previously  whether it's a dependency on superefficient,   lean, just-in-time processes, systems that have  very little redundancy, or can't react to shock   to those systems. I think, in supply   chain as an example, a manufacturer or customer  operations, I think a lot of businesses realize   that over-reliance on specific locations, for  instance, or specific partners or cost-efficient   sites where you could just get the best in  time, lowest inventory level, super cheap   way to actually get products to customers, all of  that has obviously a huge drawback when you start   experiencing a shock like COVID-19. For me, business continuity and   resiliency is about more than being ready  to handle something like a natural disaster   or a big cyber incident. It's surely about  the full resilience of business operations   and being able to flexibly reassemble processes,  people, and tools, and really show that ability to   rapidly adapt to changing conditions. That doesn't  need to be just about the crisis like COVID-19.  This definitely sounds like you are  extending beyond the traditional   boundaries of IT as we've known it historically. Yeah. Grab the bull by the horns, so to speak.   What better role IT can play in a situation  like this than truly driving and leading the   conversations and the opportunities for our  business, which could be both from a risk   mitigation as well as from a business opportunity.  I think both of these angles are valid.  Do you think about both of those angles,  the traditional approach of risk mitigation   as well as the business opportunities  created that IT can help create?  Yeah, and I think, for Logitech in particular,  obviously, I mentioned at the beginning   the Corona crisis is a disaster and obviously  has a huge personal impact to millions of   people around the world. We are happy that  we can actually not only contribute and help   with some of the products that people actually  require in this situation, but also the fact that,   again, our business is relatively unscathed  by what's going on with the crisis.  I think there is a lot focus on—you mentioned  at the beginning—scaling to be able to build   more products, meet some of the demand, and  that's very easy to get kind of sucked into.   But I think, as an IT leader, you also need to  be somewhat the guardian of, let's manage risk.  Let's make sure, as people  change the way they work,   we're looking at cyber risk. We're making  sure there are secure ways to connect   remotely. We're connecting with different  partners, introducing new technology.   You want to, obviously, grasp the opportunity but,  at the same time, keep an eye on the risk as well.  Let's talk about the technology aspects of  this because the rapid transition relies. you   said earlier that you have been a cloud-based  organization. Tell us about the technology.  Cloud, in this case, is for sure also something  that has demonstrated the importance of having   the ability to rapidly and flexibly adjust  to things that are changing. It could be   burst capacity that you need all of a sudden  with the ability to also scale down if you   don't need it as business conditions change. I think, for us, things like the redundancy   of cloud architecture is something that really  emerged as something critical because, yes, you   can, for example, have a ton of workloads all on a  Google Cloud Platform or AWS, whichever you pick.   But if you don't have something like multi-cloud,  the ability to shift to one vendor or another,   you don't have geographical redundancy. If I had put all my workloads in Asia   at the beginning of the pandemic, my  business would have been at a standstill.   But the ability to do things like  rapid provisioning, agile architecture,   and easily transfer workloads to new environments,  all of these pieces, I think, have been clearly   shown as the go-forward not just for crisis but to  go forward to build that ability to be resilient.  That technology foundation is just a  core part of the fabric, so to speak.  Exactly, and I think it becomes a much more  relevant, salient part of what IT does and becomes   something different than purely, let's keep the  lights on and make sure business can continue,   but how can I actually respond to opportunities  as well in a much faster and much more agile way?  I know also that, at Logitech, you used digital  twins, which I find interesting because I tend   to think of a digital twin as being part of the  design process for—I don't know—jet engines or   very heavy, large industrial equipment  as opposed to cameras and microphones.  Obviously, I think there are multiple ways to  define or apply things that account for a digital   twin. I think, for us, one of the biggest use  cases applications has been in the manufacturing   operation itself and the fact that, as  we, for instance, 1) had operations that   were impacted for our factory in China at the  beginning of the pandemic and then, 2) had to   be able to more flexibly engage and basically  partner with different contract manufacturers,   it really helps to have the ability to start  modeling, simulating large-scale operations,   collect real-time data on processes,  deviations from processes, looking at quality,   uncover weak links, single points of failure,  and basically use that to our advantage to then   decide where are you going to either invest  capacity, how do you staff things differently,   what systems do you need to implement, or what  capacity you need to add in terms of network   connectivity, all those different decisions that  come at you at a hundred miles an hour in a crisis   like this. A simulation, digital twin type of  capability allows you to deal with that, too.  How much do you use those kinds  of simulation capabilities?  I think, for us, it's early days, as in, again,  partly maybe luck. We have actually started   building this before the pandemic and able  to invoke a lot of this as part of a response   specifically to manufacturing impacts. I think we're now starting to see more   applications. Yes, when it comes to think like  design or building and innovating new products,   I think there's a huge opportunity there.  Especially, we need to adjust to not being able to   get engineers and designers in one room and  work together on tangible work and design   artifacts but having to simulate that all online. Building design workflows, journeys, and   design outputs that are used by engineers, all  those pieces become really something you need   to do online and digitally. I think that's  the area that I would say we would want to   turn our attention to next but, yeah, like  I mentioned, I think it's early days for us.  Arsalan Khan has another question. He's  concerned about the commoditization   of IT and these kind of value-added, value  chain discussions that you were describing.   Does that fight the commoditization of IT? One hundred percent, and I think, again, hopefully   for many people, IT as a commodity is something  of the past. The opportunity where businesses are   more and more turning towards digital as not just  a platform for delivering products and services,   but actually as the product itself I think means  IT and I think, obviously, some of that has led to   more sexy terms like chief digital officer  and people that are a hybrid CTO/CIO.  But, at the end of the day, it's that opportunity  where technology, whether it's traditional IT or   some of the things that are more emerging like  digital, starts playing a huge role that is   beyond, "Does email work?" "Is the wi-fi up  and running?" and "Can people actually use   the network?" I think it's that transition and,  for sure, something like a crisis like COVID-19   can be seen and hopefully used as an  opportunity to change the perception as well.  Many companies have found that the pandemic  forced transformations—and you alluded to   this earlier—that were slowly in play  anyway. Did you find that that happened,   to a large extent, at Logitech? If so, how? I think if people are familiar with Logitech,   you probably have noticed most of the time  people would run into our products—even if it's   the traditional mice and keyboards or headsets  and webcams—at places like Best Buy in the U.S.   or Media Mart in Europe, and those kind of large  retailers, physical, brick and mortar shops. That,   I think, was traditionally a big reliance for us  in terms of how we bring products to customers,   which then also got augmented with things  like Amazon, eBay, and all these other   large online platforms – JD.com in Asia. I think what happened with the pandemic is,   obviously, partly because of the demand for our  products but also partly because of consumer   behavior that changed. There was a much bigger  appetite and interest in our own direct to   consumer platforms. Logitech.com, you can go there  and buy products and you could do that always, but   again because of the demand in all  these other channels, we've never   invested as much or really focused as much  as a potential opportunity for growth.  I think that's really what's happened and  I think, again, that has obviously led to   a huge appreciation and realization that we  can do more with this and not just start to   respond to the demand but rethink what is the  purpose and the value of an e-commerce channel.   How can you design it? How can you set it up  such that it's the best value for our customers,   consumers to go there and it's also something  that is providing a whole different output for   the companies like us, instead of going  through traditional retail channels?  As you're looking at these different   technology aspects and different business  processes, how do you ensure that what   you want to do fully aligns with the business  owners in those processes or technologies or   customer interfaces, whatever it is? Yeah, this type of event creates a much stronger   attraction, so to speak, between all the different  touchpoints of a customer journey. Previously,   you maybe had silos and functions that were  pretty self-contained and isolated and, maybe from   a customer, your experience also came across as  quite fragmented. Now, I think something like the   crisis has created almost some sort of a magnetic  field of pulling all these functions together   such that we actually deliver a much coherent  journey for our customers and consumers.  I think that's really what I see as something  that doesn't necessarily mean IT needs to kind   of pitch for, "Hey, here is a point of view.  Here is what we should be doing or think   about how we design an e-commerce platform  this way," but you're really being pulled.  There's a huge pull for being able to  apply technology to develop channels,   allow for people to have a way to purchase  an additional warranty on their products, or   being able to have a connection between sales  and support. All these pieces are becoming, like   I said, a demand that you don't necessarily need  to offer yourself or offer opinions on yourself.  Well, it's very interesting for me to hear you  talk about the customer experience and customer   journey because that's something usually  the CMO talks about as opposed to the chief   information officer. Where is the link there? I have a great relationship with Heidi, our CMO,   because I think we do have a lot of  overlap. I think we've found a good way to   complement each other in the sense that  she's obviously very focused on what is that   brand experience we want to provide, what's  at the end of the day the way that we can   facilitate the marketing of our products to  all these different and more digital channels.  I think, selfishly, as I also run operations, I'm  also looking at the kind of back-end of all that,   which is, okay, what happens when somebody  actually has made a purchasing decision   and how do we ensure that those two pieces really  seamlessly integrate? Like I said, if you have the   right conditions in place, I think you'll see that  emerges as a great opportunity to actually make IT   much more valuable to the likes of a CMO. Then  there's plenty of opportunity for both sides to   really impact something positive for the company. Would be accurate to say that the CMO is   responsible for the brand and you as CIO are  responsible for the technology and processes   to enable putting that brand forth in the right  way? Is that a way to describe it that's accurate?  I think that's one way and I'm pretty sure  companies have probably different models   and a different way of looking at it. I think  there's an element of technology savviness that   is obviously individual to each company and  each of the people in these different roles.  If you take Heidi Arkinstall, in our case our  CMO, she is very technology savvy and she's been   a big evangelist for tons of ways that we can  implement better platforms for our consumers,   really use the data, and leverage the data to the  benefit of consumers in different ways. I think,   from that point of view, I have a somewhat easy  job where I can really actually rely a lot on her   to help drive some of these implementations and  these initiatives and, at the same time, try to   complement that with, well, what is the piece  that is beyond the brand, let's say, execution   but is also the consumer journey post-sales, as an  example. I think that's where we have a good fit.  I've always found it very interesting with you  that customer care reports into you as well.   That's unusual for the CIO also, in general. Mm-hmm. I think I've run into maybe a couple of   other people that have similarly this as part  of their portfolio. CIOs that, for instance,   own services I think is not that unique. Services  could include, in different industries, something   like consulting or implementation services  or training. There may be a support piece as   well. I think, more and more, we'll see that. My own explanation is, I think, as technology   again becomes so much more prominent as a way  to execute something like customer support and   deliver on a brand promise and deliver on  expectations of a customer that's purchased   a product, then there is nobody else, I think,  better placed to actually help customers have   a great experience. Obviously, there are still  a lot of other things that are not technology,   but I think where GenZ, some of the millennials,  newer generations are looking for engagement   with brands, a lot of it does involve things  they could do on an app, on a mobile device,   or on texting and things like that. I think that's  where also the future will go. Maybe in a couple   of years, Michael, you'll be interviewing  a dozen CIOs that are taking on support.  If you're not focused on more strategic  aspects and innovation aspects of   running the business, well, that is the  prescription for the commoditization of IT.  I agree. Yeah, I think so.  Again, obviously, there are   things sometimes beyond your control,  but there are also self-inflicted wounds.   I think being passive and somewhat expecting  people to commoditize you for sure will happen.  Another question from Twitter. Would you prefer  a CEO who is IT aware or a CIO who is business   aware, if choosing both was not an option? [Laughter] I think I would probably go for   the latter, so the CIO that is business aware,  I think, is a larger opportunity to influence,   impact, and drive conversations that maybe peers  at the C-level or the CEO, him or herself, may not   be thinking of. I think it's a little harder if,  let's say, the CEO is IT aware but then encounters   a maybe traditional IT shop that is very much  about, okay, we have rules and we're just about   devices and we're just about network and we're  about tools and technology for the sake of it.   It's a lot harder to try to make  that change and drive that change.  I think my observation is most  CEOs these days, obviously,   are technology aware. At the same time, I think  CIOs are evolving more and more into realizing   the value they can provide to the business.  Yeah, nice quite and a hard dilemma, for sure.  There are certainly degrees of this. For  example, in Logitech, you obviously have   an environment that encourages, that  enables you to take this more expansive   role. Not every company is like that. Totally. Yeah, I think the culture   matters. I think, also, the other element is  your own initiative in terms of claiming or   pitching that you can have a different impact on  the business than maybe traditional IT. I think   the third piece is also the business you're in. Like you said, obviously, at Logitech, we're in   the business of actual consumer electronics and  technology itself, so finding somebody who is not   kind of tech-savvy at Logitech is really hard. I  think that enables, again, the different condition   for the CIO to play a different role. This cultural element then   actually is really, really important. I think it matters both from what is the company   projecting outside of their own four walls for  the customers, the consumers that they serve,   as well as within the company and the employees  that you're able to attract and the role that   each of the different functions can play. For  us at Logitech, we're very tech-savvy, but we're   also very aware of what's going on around us. We, at the end of the day, are also trying   to make a positive impact on people's lives  directly. We want to understand what drives   our customers or consumers and what are some  of the even social issues that are happening   these days like a drive for equality  or sustainability and the environmental   impacts. Yeah, I think all of those are eventually  what shows up when you get to consumers as well.  We have another question from Twitter. E-commerce  and customer experience don't guarantee business   resilience. Is business resilience a matter  of how you use technology? Is it a matter   of the technology itself that you choose to  buy? What creates the business resilience?  Well, like I said, I think business  resilience, for sure, is not just about,   let me implement a bunch of technologies, and  then we'll be resilient. I think you need to   make that assessment of those operations,  those processes, and the pieces that are maybe   those weak links or single points of failure. I think that's where you then leverage technology   to understand, can it create more redundancy?  Can it create better distribution? Can it create   an ability to scale faster, more agility? Taking e-commerce as an example,   really, our play has been that we bring  products to customers in all possible   different ways that make sense for them to  receive. What we don't want to do is, okay,   everything goes through, let's say, Amazon  or it goes through JD.com. All of a sudden,   they have challenges, and now, all of a  sudden, our products never get to consumers.  I think we do see something like e-commerce as an  opportunity to go to market in a different channel   and it's an opportunity to build a technology such  that we can make it either an attractive channel   for people or something that is as competitive  as Amazon. Maybe, because you can personalize   stuff on e-commerce and you only get special  products from Logitech if you go to Logitech.com,   that's something that is a different  way to attract different consumers.  I think the resilience definitely starts  with the bigger picture of your business   and your goals. Then obviously, technology. Maybe the other example is when it comes to video   collaboration. We've adopted video collaboration  way before the crisis. Not as a standalone,   well, you know, maybe it's a good way to build  resilience because we have teams in different   parts of the world, but because it really emerged  as a much more scalable, much more appreciated   and adoptive way for people to actually work  across boundaries and in different regions.   I think, as you see that business opportunity and  what is able to innovate, to bring new products,   and then you see the technology piece  like video collaboration can bring to it,   then that's where you want to marry them  and, at the same time, get the benefits of,   for instance, having some resilience built-in. You could say that business resilience   is about understanding the business strategy and  the value chain, but then you bake technology   into the processes and the operations as you go. Yes. I'd say the difference is maybe from   how people looked at technology in the past.  Instead of technology as a way to just optimize   and super-efficiently build everything to be  super-automated with very little room for failure,   you're actually adopting technology to  create flexibility, to create agility,   to create that kind of resilience. For sure, you  need to change that perception, that mindset, too,   and drive a different role for technology to play. Could you summarize specific advice   for building business resiliency? Start with the business and understand   what is the strategy from an ability to scale and  ability to grow that you're aspiring for and what   does it translate to when it comes to things like  geographies, markets, industries that you want to   play in. I think, as an IT leader partnered with  all the owners of these type of aspects of the   business, to decide, okay, it sounds like when  it comes to go-to-market or when it comes to   innovating and building new products, we have a  very important need to be able to do that fast,   quickly, or be able to grow twice the size  next year. Understand that kind of strategy.  Then work backward from there to understand  the technology you have in place today.   Is it developed to optimize for that or  is it developed to be able to expand to   different scenarios that could happen  that you haven't forecast? You have the   kind of happy path of the business, the  happy path of the strategy you're pursuing,   then what are all these deviations that could  happen and how does technology respond to that?  That's maybe a kind of way of summarizing.  Obviously, it's a little high level.   I think, if you take an example of some  of the things that I described earlier on   our manufacturing in Asia, I think you  quickly see how that can cascade into,   okay, I'm going to build more cloud  operations, multi-cloud architecture.   I'm going to increase the capacity to connect to  partners in regions I haven't connected before.   Very quickly, I think it translates to practical  things you can implement as an IT team.  Somewhere along the way, you're in close contact  and collaboration with the business leaders from   the various domains or regions and so forth to  make sure that you're working in concert with   what's needed at that detailed level. Totally. Yeah, you want to be an equal   partner. At the end of the day, each of us plays  a role in terms of putting the puzzle together.   If you're just doing it standalone in a silo,  obviously it will have a negative effect.  As we finish up, how do you plan for  what's coming next, given the fact that   there are so many variables and we don't know? I think it's the keyword there that we don't   know and the variables. There are a ton of  studies. I think recently one from McKinsey,   for instance, just talking about the change of  how people work. Some of those will be permanent   changes and it becomes, I think, more of a work  from anywhere and flexible hybrid working model   versus we're all going to shift to working  remotely and stay like that forever just   like we are today. I think a realization that the  transformation of the models and the complexity   in different types of models that will occur. I think, yeah, you can't really predict. You can't   even say when is Corona going to be over  or what will the world look like after it.   But I think you can anticipate there are going  to be new things introduced that have emerged   as part of Corona. That acceleration has  happened that you can prepare and plan for.  As a CIO, you have a huge opportunity to lead with  technology. Whether you're focusing on resilience,   agility, or the ability to bring completely new  services and new products to market that have been   somewhat born out of the need of people operating  a different way because of the Corona crisis.   Yeah, I think we're all trying to look  in our crystal ball and anticipate   but starting to accept that there's going to  be different scenarios, much more flexibility,   and have IT be able to pivot faster,  I think, is definitely a safe bet.  How do you work with peers as an equal partner?  How much of it is a simple conversation   and how much of it is some sort  of structured planning process?  When I joined Logitech about four years  ago, I guess I would describe it as, you're   hired as a CIO. You're given the license  to be the person who is going to drive   the technology roadmap at Logitech. Now, the question is, what do you   do with that license? I think, if you want to  be of value to everybody else in the company,   whether it's your peers or your teams or other  people's teams, I think you need to proactively   take the initiative to, yeah, reach out and engage  and find out what are some of the things that make   them tick or are keeping them up at night. I think that's a role you can play that then   makes you the owner of the destiny of what your  role can be. I think that's partly what led to me,   at some stage, being asked to also run  customer support and customer experience and   facilities and real estate. I think not  because I'm such a smart guy but because   I think I've been able to engage with the right  people and have them feel excited, just like I am,   about compassion about customer support,  to feel like we could do something together   and drive an outcome together with the right  combination of the team members that we have.  I'm not sure if I answered the question. For  sure, some of this translates to structured   conversation. Make no mistake. I think some of the  things that we for sure experienced with working   remotely is the lack of these kind of spontaneous,  serendipitous conversation that happened if you   are in a hallway and run into somebody  casually. That's for sure, I think, still,   the biggest nut to crack is figuring out how  you replicate those in a virtual environment.  We just, last week, interviewed the chief  operating officer of Dropbox. She raised   exactly the same issue that there is no easy way  to have those kind of serendipitous conversations.  Again, no surprise there. I think, again, we've  talked a lot about video collaboration. I think   I'm a big fan, personally, but I think, obviously,   because of Logitech being a  key leader in the business.  I think that the challenge that  still remains is how do you   replicate things from real life completely.  I think you probably don't want to do that.  I think you want to highlight things  that are actually completely different   and maybe more valued in a different setting  like a video collaboration. But I think,   at the end of the day, even the things we're  doing now, video calls and behind Zoom, Teams,   or whatever your cloud platform is, it's a  whole different impact on you personally.   I see it with some of our employees as well. Like I said, stepping back, in the grand scheme   of things, that's probably an easier thing to  overcome than a lot of people who were personally   impacted by the crisis who either lost  their jobs or can't actually work remotely.  Okay. We are, unfortunately, out of  time. It was a very quick conversation.   Massimo Rapparini, thank you very much  for taking the time to be with us today.  Thanks. Great to be here. Thanks, Michael. We've been speaking with Massimo Rapparini. He   is the chief information officer  of Logitech. Now, before you go,   please subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit  the subscribe button at the top of our website.  Next week, we're speaking with the chief customer   experience officer of Comcast, so that will  be pretty interesting. Check out CXOTalk.com   and have a great week. We'll see  you again very soon. Bye-bye. 