 We are living in unprecedented times. Disruption is happening at an unseen pace. We all need to strike the balance between short-term action... and long-term sustainable planning; between managing uncertainty and providing confidence;... resilience and agility. Indeed, agility leads to resilience. To survive, it’s all about agility... the capability to adapt to changing environments. Agility is required in all functions:... in supply chains, engineering, production, manufacturing... but also agility in business models and customer relationships. Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, welcome to this year's SAPPHIRE NOW. My name is Thomas Saueressig. I have the global responsibility for SAP Product Engineering... which includes all business applications. The promise of SAP’s Intelligent Enterprise is to provide you the required agility... and resiliency you need. To give you confidence in uncertain times. Within the next 30 minutes... I will take you on a journey through our Intelligent Enterprise strategy. To follow the picture, I’d like to balance SAP’s vision of the future... and at the same time look at what we've delivered and what is available today. Big announcements will be accompanied by interviews with our customers and partners. So, let’s get started. Going into 2020, sustainability and climate change.... were high on everyone’s agenda. The pandemic forced us to refocus on life and business essentials. At least in the short term. But this crisis will eventually end. I’m convinced of it. And the medical researchers will find a vaccine and medicine. To cure infected people. After the current crises, we still will face climate change. The biggest challenge of humanity. If we look at the ten warmest years on record... we see that the last seven years are among them. That’s not a coincidence,... it’s a trend. But a trend should not be our destiny. The current crisis led to a short-term reduction of CO2 emissions. And I stress here the short-term. But we need to act now... to ensure long-term improvement. The United Nations defined the right tagline for it:... the decade of action. It is up to every individual and enterprise to take responsibility of the future. Intelligent enterprises turn insights into action. The action is clear: reduce the carbon footprint. CO2 emissions are part of the whole end-to-end process:... from procurement to manufacturing, through transportation and distribution to sales. And even further to disposal. After all... the carbon footprint of products accumulates along the value chains. Together with our 440,000 customers, we are predestined to make a difference. As the market leader in enterprise software... we touch 77% of the world’s transactions. We deliver end-to-end business processes to our customers. We are building on almost 50 years of experience. We came from real-time transactions to real-time analytics. We embedded machine learning, and have always supported new business models. SAP has always been known... for optimizing the top line... and the bottom line of its customers. Now... it’s time to take the next action. We as SAP are in the unique position to add a third dimension of success:... The Green Line. We will embed sustainability... as a new dimension of success. Into analytical and transactional applications... to enable an intelligent enterprise, to minimize CO2 emissions... across the entire value chains, from cradle to gate. And that is why I’m happy to announce Climate 21 as the new strategic initiative. Why the name Climate 21? Because it's the biggest challenge of the 21st century. It's at the core of business. Performing sustainably means performing. As company's we are all under pressure. We are convinced that sustainability... also represents a clear competitive advantage. And a financial and economic benefit. And it's not just us who are saying this. According to IDC, digital retail organizations with high sustainability... are outperforming their peers with medium or low sustainability scores. We can assume that a digital DNA coupled with sustainability... helps organizations to perform much better than their counterparts in the long run. So how do we get there? Consequently... companies want to know what their CO2 emissions are,... which products have caused them, and how they compare with competitor products. This is the beginning, and... SAP Product Carbon Footprint Analytics... comes into play. It is the first solution in the bigger Climate 21 context. It focuses on understanding the carbon footprint. In an agile delivery mode, we will add more and more capabilities to analyze... and optimize the carbon footprint. SAP Product Carbon Footprint Analytics... is generally available now. I promised you... that we would not just talk about our vision but tell you about down-to-earth realities. So let’s do that by getting first-hand customer insights... from our customer who is already live:... I am happy to welcome Andreas Klein, CEO of Doehler, as a speaker. As a global producer, marketer, and provider of technology-driven natural ingredients, Doehler is involved in complex and deep supply chains. With more than 15,000 applications on the market... and more than 5,000 different raw materials... it’s one of the industry's hidden champions. It’s a perfect setting in which we can highlight the complexity of getting... solid, reliable, end-to-end CO2 information out of the systems. Hello, Andreas, and thank you for joining me here at SAPPHIRE. You have been a customer with SAP for many years, can you tell me a little about the approach you have with SAP? Yes, we are really an all-in SAP customer. You know, our business is quite diverse and complex. We operate 40 plants, we have more than 5,000 natural raw materials, close to 20,000 products, more than 15,000 customers, we process volatile crops, we have 700 to 800 people in R&D that develop a lot of stuff that needs to go down to the factory. So, we need a lot of end-to-end and for that I think, for us at least, it works. It's better to have an end-to-end digital platform and I guess you guys are the only ones who have those things. True, that's the vision for the intelligent enterprise we have, so fully agree. And I just talked about sustainability and how important it is and that it's also on top of the CEO's agenda. So, what do you do about sustainability at Doehler? The beauty about our company is that we are sustainable by nature. It's not just about writing a nice sustainability report. But, why did you choose SAP in that? Why do you believe SAP is helping you to drive the sustainability topic? Honestly, I don't know how you could do it differently, rather than in an embedded solution. You don't want to digital twin the digital twin, so to say. That's a good one. I mean, it's actually great because you're already live with SAP Product Carbon Footprint Analytics, which we actually announced today. So, can you tell us a little bit about the implementation experience? Well, in this case, it was super easy because we have all the prerequisites. We run on S/4HANA and we prefer on-prem. We have the Analytics Cloud so it was pretty much plug-and-play. Now, it's about customizing a little bit more, getting all the data in, you see where you have gaps in the data, but the most important is what we do with it. What, in your perspective, are the biggest aspects and biggest benefits which you hope for? As we way, what you don't measure you don't manage, If you think about the project and the approach which you take... what would you recommend to other customers? The first step is always, do I have a sustainable product, solution, that the product makes sense or the solution makes sense for the customers? Do the customers really love it? But then, if you embed the CO2 element on top of it, just get started, don't wait. Plug it in and the digitization and sustainability go very well together. With digitization you make the processes more efficient, you get all the transparency in; just get started. It's a journey anyway, you won't be perfect first day on. We believe that even the smallest gesture can make a big difference. Let us do good for the world and for our children. So, we started a social campaign on my LinkedIn account. For every like we will plant a tree... for every share we will plant 3 trees. As they grow, they offer stability and protection for generations to come. Now... we need your help to make the most out of it. So, to sum it up... Climate 21 is the embodiment of the intelligent enterprise... because it spans across the end-to-end business processes... throughout our entire portfolio. With our Intelligent Suite, we are doubling down on our promise of integrated... end-to-end process innovation. When it comes to innovation and integration... it’s not an either or, it’s an and. Integration enables innovation. We have a clear integration roadmap. It’s a roadmap that goes far beyond just technical point-to-point integration. It’s a roadmap that focusses on business value on integrated business processes. Now it’s time to take stock of what we have achieved. We’ve delivered the first integrated processes for:... hire-to-retire, source-to-pay, travel-to-reimburse and quote-to-cash. We’ve embedded SAP Analytics Cloud natively into SAP S/4HANA Cloud... and SAP SuccessFactors for cross product analytics. We’ve embedded Qualtrics in SAP S/4HANA... to collect experience data and we have a clear roadmap... with more use cases to come. We’ve laid the foundation... for an aligned domain model on SAP Cloud Platform... with first domains available, including the business partner, product... workforce like employee and cost center. And now, with the groundwork done... we will accelerate integration in 2020 and beyond. And we won't stop until we've integrated all our end-to-end scenarios. We will also go one step further... and we will focus not only on cloud to cloud integration;... we also consider hybrid scenarios and will improve on-premise integration. As the former CIO of SAP... I’ve been, in a sense, SAP’s first customer. So, I know the integration challenges that come with hybrid, complex IT landscapes. You’ll find the detailed updated integration roadmap on SAP.com. Infusing the latest technologies will help you to increase productivity... and drive process automation. We leverage SAP HANA natively to be able to deliver new scenarios... which were not thinkable before... while being able to simplify the application and data model. We embed artificial intelligence and machine learning... in all of our processes... and provide active guidance and recommendations to our end users. We’ve already delivered more than 240 intelligent use case... for SAP S/4HANA Cloud alone. And there are more to come. SAP S/4HANA is at the heart of the intelligent enterprise. It is no question... SAP S/4HANA is the most powerful, advanced, and intelligent ERP in the world. More than 14 thousand customers have already chosen SAP S/4HANA. More than 86% of the BCG most innovative companies trust in SAP S/4HANA. So It’s not just about the size of the companies... but innovative and agile companies choose SAP. We talked about agility as a key for resiliency. Let's look at some examples. Openness is key for agility. In SAP S/4HANA Cloud... more than 300 APIs are available. Opening up more than 80 business objects and providing over 160 pre-built connectors... ease integration and extensibility with our Intelligent Suite. But also non-SAP solutions. Our SAP Cloud Platform is at the heart of this strategy... providing the integration and extensibility capabilities. Choice is a further aspect to provide agility. SAP S/4HANA can be deployed on any premise for maximum control. Or we can deliver SAP S/4HANA Cloud... as a Service for fast time to value and innovation consumption. We are modularizing our entire applications portfolio... which will further increase agility... as it accelerates and ease the implementation. But also will lead to the fact that we will be able to deliver... business processes as a service to you. As a result, you will be able to pick and choose the modules you need... to cover your individual business processes. We build consequently new applications... on SAP Cloud Platform. Let's talk about the key stakeholder: the customer. Investing in customer experience is a must. While interacting with your customers, think about the moments that matter. We’ll infuse Qualtrics in all of these moments... so you will stay close to the sentiment of your customers... across all channels. We combine customer feedback and operational data... to enable you to listen, understand, and take action in the right moment. The customer experience usually starts long before the point of sales... and ends much later. Our customer experience solutions support you to delight your customers. The tight integration of the front and the back office is essential... as the expectations of the customer is not only to be able to close a deal... but that the individualized and configured products... and services are delivered in time and in quality,... and serviced proactively with predictive capabilities. Only with the integration you are always able to deliver on your promises... and build a trusted long-term relationship. The expectations of your customers change... and in reality... it’s your customer who owns the customer experience. Customer experience is tightly connected to employee experience. There is an easy formula:... Happy employees make happy customers. The Millennials and Generation Z... expect more from their employers than just a paycheck. Therefore... we made a bold move in our “People” solution area. Putting the key persona at the center:... The person itself. Employees want their experiences... to be optimized for them, not for the HR professional. Together with Qualtrics and SAP SuccessFactors... we have redefined... the traditional human capital management category... to human experience management. We’ve embedded Qualtrics to gather sentiment and feedback and to facilitate process improvements... and to follow the improvement and optimization of the employee experience... along the journey on moments that matter. Our broader SAP SuccessFactors suite now has more than 160 million users... and in the peak achieved more than 1.2 billion transactions per day. We offer almost 100 local versions. If you are looking for a truly global and comprehensive HR solution... which puts the employee at the center, SAP is your partner of choice. You just have to look at the world’s current situation to see what I’m talking about. Within less than 50 working days, we have implemented 80 top priority changes to solutions, which are affected by new legal frameworks in various countries. And made them generally available to our customer base. This ensures that you are compliant and on top of the things... so that you don’t need to worry about software in these critical times. For many companies significant parts of their workforce are external workers. The pandemic has proven that we not only have to manage our own employees... but also our contingent workforce in an ideal way... a holistic total workforce management. But whether it’s SAP Fieldglass for services and contingent spend... SAP Concur for travel spend... or SAP Ariba and SAP S/4HANA for indirect and direct spend... Regardless of the category or the source of spend... SAP has a best-in-class platform that ties together all these applications... so customers can approach them holistically. We’re combining the strength of our portfolio and deliver one procurement... which delivers one buying experience across all channels... End-to-end procurement integration between Ariba... Fieldglass and S/4HANA. Integration of Direct Procurement into Network and the Strategic Procurement, common master data. Especially in times like these, agility in the supply chain is essential. Let me give you a quick example: A client came to SAP looking for hospital beds to set up a temporary hospital. 500 beds to be exact, not a small number, and this for COVID-19 patients in the New York city area. Time is critical, obviously. Within 30 minutes we found a supplier and got the two companies connected using SAP Ariba. And that is just a small appetizer about what our business network can deliver. And this now leads me to the next topic. Today, we are living in a global network economy. In the current pandemic, we truly begin to understand what it means. The impact to the supply chain is not just a local issue;... an issue that can be solved by changing a few suppliers within a day or two. Instead, this crisis is basically everywhere... on a massive global scale. Wouldn't it be great to use an entire network of enterprises... instead of being tied to company boundaries with a limited set of connections to solve supply chain disruptions? SAP operates the largest business network in the world. We have the largest procurement network, with more than $3.3T in commerce flowing annually through the Ariba network. We have the Logistics Business network. We have the Asset Intelligence network And all of those make a huge impact. And now, we are bringing them all together to create a “network of networks”. We are in a unique position to enable multi-enterprise business - the “network of intelligent enterprises". Fundamentally, we are enabling a new way how companies engage with each other. This improved collaboration will help businesses thrive in a global economy. And think about it: The sales process of one company, is the purchasing process for another company. Basically, all run through an SAP system... is it the purchase or sales order. So why not connect them on a totally different level... automatically to reduce complexity, improve agility, increase efficiency and drive productivity. Our immediate focus is to enable multi enterprise businesses to offer end to end visibility and collaboration capabilities across the entire network. SAP has always supported end-to-end business processes horizontally. In addition, one of our key differentiations has been the vertical dimension. We already serve 25 industries since multiple decades. But industries are currently experiencing radical disruptions to their core business models. Digital transformation led to the elimination of traditional constraints and transforms the rules of competition. As digital networks and algorithms are woven into the fabric of firms, industries begin to function differently and the lines between them blur. Our answer to this is a focus on delivering innovative industry solutions with our SAP Industry Cloud... which is based on SAP’s Business Technology Platform. We strengthen our portfolio with a vibrant ecosystem of partner solutions. It’s an open industry innovation space. An example of this is the recently announced partnership between SAP and Honeywell that will bring together... the massive amounts of data generated within the systems of both companies to the benefit of our mutual customers. Real estate is the first industry to benefit from this powerful union. Let’s take a look... As a long-time SAP customer, we at Honeywell are pleased to announce our partnership... with them to work toward providing an innovative solution set that will greatly help our customers. Our first area of focus will be the commercial real estate industry. Today, building owners and managers need to pull data from disparate sources, none of them normalized. This makes it extremely difficult to determine the true efficiency and utilization of their portfolios. Honeywell and SAP together will provide insights from the boiler room to the boardroom that make it easier for our customers... to get a true picture of how to optimize building performance... reduce energy costs, and enhance occupant productivity and tenant experience. For us at SAP... There is nothing more exciting than co-innovating with our customers. Since our first meeting, Darius and I recognized the massive impact that SAP and Honeywell together could have, starting with the real estate industry. SAP has been in the real estate industry for more than 25 years. Through SAP Cloud for Real Estate, we can connect with other operating systems that provide insights supporting greater operational efficiency... when assessing operational costs, compliance standards, capacity... floor planning, contract costs, lease agreements, and overall portfolio performance. When connected to SAP ERP or SAP S/4HANA, the dataset expands to financial, employee and maintenance data. While this has yielded incredible cost-savings, we recognize our customers want and need more... such as the ability to drill deeper into these metrics to precisely pinpoint not just what is happening, but fully understand the why. Our partnership with SAP will lead to unique solutions within the industry that provide... seamless access to the power of both SAP Cloud for Real Estate and Honeywell Forge. Honeywell Forge offers a set of enterprise performance management tools that help customers track, measure... optimize, and automate their operations from the edge to the cloud. Working together, Honeywell and SAP can provide customers with greater insight to decrease total cost of ownership... and achieve sustainability objectives... and enhance the occupant experience. Our announcement is only the beginning. Christian and I believe the benefits of our partnership will extend well beyond real estate. We can’t wait to show our customers the tremendous value our two storied brands can bring to their bottom line. Coming from the Industry Cloud Strategy, specifically think about manufacturing and Industry 4.0. Let’s be honest, this topic has been around for quite some time. Companies need to reinvent their production using intelligence to dynamically adapt to varying priorities but also be able to act in real-time in the production. We at SAP have been a front runner and active member in defining standards and business models from the very beginning of Industry 4.0. This is a great basis to work with you on moving your digitalization and Industry 4.0 from factory focused initiatives to a companywide... competition-beating business transformation. It’s not just urgency, it’s an opportunity. It’s time to move from concept to reality. To connect the shop floor to the applications with real-time process optimization. Having the end-to-end digital thread from the design and engineering of a good to asset management and service. We bring intelligence to the factory, products, assets, and empower people. This is something where all companies certainly have a huge lever to significantly optimize the output and outcome... reducing the costs and increasing the quality. We will naturally embed machine learning in all the processes like visual inspection in our quality management system. But also, to have the horizontal and vertical process for Industry 4.0. I am happy to announce a strategic investment with more than 100 Industry 4.0 innovations across our portfolio of Digital Supply Chain solutions. We turn Industry 4.0 to Industry 4.NOW. Partners are key to making this happen. Industry 4.NOW will only become a reality if we do this together. It’s not a topic that anyone can solve on his own and we need great partners to be able to support you in the best way. So, what have you seen today? SAP is at your side to handle the current situation. We are thinking long-term, we are taking enterprise software to the next level and continuously innovate. We can’t do this alone. It’s a joint effort together with you, our dear customers and partners. We bring together all the right pieces that belong together to turn the intelligent enterprise into reality. Sustainability as a new dimension of success, which spans across the entire value chain and embodies the intelligent enterprise. Integrated business processes, modularity to deliver business process as a service. Infusing AI and experience management in every process. We create a network of networks to make multi-enterprise businesses a reality. With SAP Industry Cloud we deliver innovative solutions on the vertical edge. Let’s do this together. Looking forward to see you at the Q&A session with the SAP Executive board. Don t forget to submit your questions. Thank you very much. Stay safe and healthy. 