 Hello, my name is Chris here I'm going to talk to You about what life as a Deaf person is like because alot of people quite often ask me as they don't understand what Deafness is like and they've asked me to create a video. Here I am. I hope it comes out well and So I have listed a whole heap of questions. That I thought you might be interested to know and I'll answer them as much as I can. Okay, the first question is a how did I become deaf? Okay, I was born deaf Never had a chance to hear. What happened was when My mother was having me when she was pregnant she caught a disease called rubella or German Measles That can cause many Cause of disability in my case. It made me lose my hearing and But nowadays it's uncommon To find German measles or Rubella Because many Girls in Year Seven usually have a vaccination to prevent Them from happening having it How do Deaf People communicate There is a number of ways of communication one is Oral Which I was brought up oral to do when I was younger I had lot of Speech Therapy which helped me to hear what was being said and that made it so much easier for my speech to be good. the other way that I have that the deaf people can communicate And which is more common nowadays than when I was younger. Is many deaf people use Auslan which is short for The Australian sign language which is basically using your hands like when they are talking they are using their hands to communicate with other people. Okay, so you're probably wondering why I don't Communicate with AUSLAN basically because the time I was born the theory of the way Deaf Children Should be spoken at the time was that all Deaf Children should learn to speak but in 1975 this theory was changed and now it is getting more common for more deaf people to use AUSLAN as a method of communication. Both of them have advantages and disadvantages and today I won't be discussing over that. Okay how do I hear? Okay I have Two Cochlear Implants I have one in that ear and one in that ear If I take them off I can't hear Anything I can't hear you. I can't hear my voice I can't hear the fan I can't hear traffic I cannot hear anything at all. To me it is absolutely quiet But when I put on my cochlear implant and I put the cochlear implant up there and up here. I now can hear you But it does not restore hearing All that it does is make it easier for me to pick up sound But the biggest issue with many of them is the clarity Now you probably notice that when I put my cochlear implant on if I give it to you. If I somehow I can get it to stick on my head just like that Do you know how that happened? Well, I had a operation which had put the internal part of the cochlear implant into my into my head and there is a Magnet a piece of metal and Here we have a magnet and the magnet sticks onto the metal part of my implant and the sound goes into the My cochlear I had it done on both ears but I'll talk more about that on another series. What the difference between a cochlear implant and a hearing aid? basically a Hearing aid amplifies noise it makes noise louder for the person that is wearing the hearing aid where with a cochlear implant it basically transfers sound into a digital code like when you're speaking on the telephone When you're speaking on the phone voice gets transferred into a digital code then it comes out as a voice. This is very similar to how a cochlear implant works where with a hearing aid you have a microphone and you pick up all the sound around you. Okay, you will probably notice when I'm speaking I speak a little bit differently Well that's basically because deaf people can only speak the way they can hear there is many Sounds that we deaf people cannot hear like the sounds sssss sound k sound f sound and the d sound They are very difficult to pick up So quite often when you're communicating to a deaf person Many of them would not pronounce those sounds. I was fortunate enough when I was younger to have a lot of speech therapy. Plus having the cochlear implant. All those have helped me to be able to hear and Comprehend sound and speak sound alot easier. Okay, now how else can deaf people communicate? As I mentioned before Deaf people have difficulty hearing with hearing aids and cochlear implant They also can use lip reading which basically means that I or many deaf people can read your lips Just remember not all deaf people can do it, but some of them can and Even if they can do to lip reading it is not easy to do it is estimated only one out of three word Can be recognised by lip-reading So when a deaf person such as myself uses lip-reading to communicate We only get one out of three words that we can understand There is a number of factors that we would need to use To help us to lip read First how clearly the person speaks for example if you speak without moving your lip It is very difficult to lip read so it is very important that when you speak to a deaf person you move your lips. The other thing we quite often have to know What are you talking about? What the background what the topic that you are talking about? When we know the information you make it so much easier for other people to be able to communicate Okay, you probably wondering what I went to school just like many of you people How did I survive in a classroom? Well when I went but when I went to school for the deaf for the first couple years of my education And then After that, I went to a normal hearing classroom which means you could have up to 30 other children in the classroom And with that it can be very difficult for a deaf person to hear. Because with any hearing aid or any device that they might have with a hearing aid or cochlear implant They might pick up sound that a hearing person might not pick up so for example in a classroom. If I'm in a classroom, and I'm wearing my hearing device. I will pick up alot of unnecessary noise such as people tapping on the table chairs Dragging up and down the floor. Especially when you've got wooden floor. Fan or air conditioner blowing air around those sort of sounds a deaf person can pick up and can be a distraction. So basically what happened when I went to school. I usually sat at the front of the classroom the Teacher would have a microphone. Which is similar to what I have here, there are different sorts of microphones. That are available and this one I have is specially designed with cochlear implant Basically what happened is I would have a teacher, wearing a microphone like this and they would have them around their neck. So when they were speaking to me, they would only be that far away from my lip so when they had a microphone. They would be speaking from here into the microphone and the sound could be transmitted into the cochlear implant or hearing aids which many people have and that made it so much clearer for a Deaf person such as myself to understand what was being said. Okay now After I finished school, I went on to University And I became a teacher So I am a legally qualified teacher I Had a lot of support both through my school year and through University I had special support with tutors that would that will help me to go through and understand my work They would also help me with my written work because being deaf I would have a problem with my writing because being deaf I would write the way that I can hear So if I make mistake with my speech. I will make mistake with my writing. I also when I went through University I had somebody taking note of what was being said and plus I have what is called real time captioning. Real time captioning is when you have someone speaking into a microphone and it gets transmitted over the internet and someone is listening to the speech and they type out what is being said and obviously what is being said is on My computer in front of me now. I can actually reading what is being said. This is a very similar way if I attend meetings. I participate in my community alot and sometimes I need to use Auslan interpreters or I need to use real-time Captioning they're used in the same format Do deaf people drive? Definitely! I enjoy driving I might not hear other sounds such as a car honking, Police sirens Ambulance They can be very difficult for me to hear but it does not prevent me from driving a car. We have two mirrors three mirrors sorry - Two mirrors on the side one over here one here You got one there So a lot of deaf people can use mirrors to help them to see what's happening behind them and we can see our surrounding. Do deaf people watch TV, of course I enjoy watching TV on live tv Netflix, Stan They all have real time captioning which makes it so much easier For me to understand and read what being said where if I just relied on hearing it can be very difficult for me to understand what is being said. Are deaf people making phone calls? Well there is a number of ways that can be done some deaf people are lucky enough where they can use a What is called a Phone clip which or they can organise to have their phone directly streamed Through their hearing device like cochlear implant hearing aids And they can speak into it that one theory that many deaf people use The other why a lot of it they pay me to communicate it video Face Time, Zoom Skype That is another way that can be used for communication by telephone with deaf people or a relay service which basically means. I can contact somebody Through the computer and I can type Could be a computer or on my phone. I can type it with my message and, there is someone relaying the message to a hearing person by voice? So you have voice You've got a message from me via voice to the relay officer the relay officer translates via voice to a hearing person The hearing person relays the message back to the relay person, who types it back to me. That is one way We can communicate as a deaf person. Do deaf people play sports? Oh definitely! I used to love playing sport. I quite often go swimming and when I go swimming I Can't hear the Instructor Like though if I go swimming they have the gun go off. I can't hear it There is a number of ways that it can be done first touch I could be touched on my leg to tell me that the guns gone off or lighting or a flashing light to tell me it's gone off Do deaf people listen to music? Of course they have, they might not understand what's being said But we enjoyed listening to music I mean, I have an advantage where if I wanted to I can stream directly from my Hearing aid or to my iphone to my cochlear implant I can stream directly via bluetooth, and I would not hear any other sound with me. It's a bit similar like you wearing an ear pod or headphones. I can have my phone streamed directly into the implant and you wouldn't even notice it now I hope I have given you a really good insight of what it's like to have a hearing impairment and please if You do have any other questions? please leave a Comment below and I will try and create another video about my deafness Thank you for watching. 