 Lucie: This is me. Stumbling into the bathroom at 6:45 a.m. to meet my sister. And this is my twin sister, Allie. She's a vice president at a Manhattan based investment management firm where she trades corporate debt. We have very different jobs... We're brushing our teeth... and... getting dressed... How much time do we have? Allie: What time is it? Lucie: I don't know... it's... It's 6:50. Allie: Okay. In 20 minutes, we have to be heading downstairs. Lucie: And I've been wanting to try doing her job for a long time now. But under more normal circumstances I wouldn't be able to just go into her office for an entire day with my camera setup... So, since she's been working from home these days and we overlapped at our parent's house for a few days, I finally got my chance. This is the the Jack and Jill bathroom in the house we grew up in. One door leads to her bedroom, and the other leads to mine. We've been following a similar skincare routine, so we went through it together/ And then we went into her closet to get dressed for the day. Time to get dressed! What do we wear? Allie: The beauty of the work-from-home... is that we get to wear whatever we want! Lucie: So, what do you wear? Allie: I wear leggings... I wear a nice, cozy T-shirt... Lucie: Okay... Allie: And a sweatshirt. Lucie: All right, all right... Let me pick my outfit... How long do I have? Allie: A few minutes... I have to get dressed, can you turn off the camera? Lucie: Yeah... bye. We changed out of our pajamas and both put on leggings and comfy tops. Her workday involves mostly sitting, and in the office she generally wears either a dress, or trousers and a nice blouse... So working from home clothing is definitely a lot more comfortable. Time to go... Allie: Let me get my stuff... Lucie: What stuff?! Allie: Phone charger... Lucie: Phone charger... What else? Allie: And chapstick... Lucie: Chapstick... I think mine's downstairs. Phone... Okay. Wait, I don't have my phone! Oh, it's in my hand... Okay. Okay... so... it's a little early for me... Anyway, we gathered up all of our supplies for the day and then we left her bedroom to begin our morning commute down the staircase to the kitchen. Hey dad! We're commuting to work! Dad's in the kitchen... Can I film you? Dad: No, not yet. Lucie: Okay. Good morning! You look funny in the morning. Allie: So... What we do now... We don't get our coffee yet. We're just gonna fill up our water bottles... and bring it down to the desk. Lucie: Okay... NO COFFEE?! I briefly started to panic... but I realized that she just likes to get situated at her desk as quickly as possible... Allie: Not yet. We're gonna come back and get it in a few minutes. Lucie: Okay... So we filled up our waters and prepared for the day. Both: Okay. Allie: We're off to work. Lucie: Down to the office. And THIS is her working from home setup. She has a laptop computer flanked by two large monitors, and a Bloomberg keyboard. Allie: When I'm in the office, I have SIX of these. Let's plug in! Get my work phone a bit charged from the night before... Lucie: Oh, you have two phones... Okay... Allie: Personal. Work. Airpods. Chapstick. Lucie: I'm gonna open the window behind us because it's a nice day...Get some fresh air... We moved the piano bench over so that I could sit alongside her all day. Okay... Allie: Be very careful with that... Open liquids... Lucie: Near your terminal... Okay. Allie: Okay, so I'm logging in to Bloomberg... which is how I communicate with everyone. Lucie: It is 7:16 am... everyone. Allie: Yes... I'm late... It's okay. Lucie: Okay, can you just like... In one sentence, what are we doing today? Allie: I work at an investment management firm that primarily invests in corporate debt. So, we lend money to companies that need it for business purposes... whether they need to buy another company... or they need to raise money for for capital expenditures and build outs of new products... we lend the money and then we trade that debt in and out of our investment portfolio through the platforms of the major big investment banks: Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Bank of America, etc. Lucie: Okay, so I'm nodding... but this is really all gibberish to me. I took a little bit more time to really internalize what she does for her job and then I made this visual diagram to help. Here is Allie, working at her investment firm. And here is a random company. The company needs money for their operations, so Allie's company would lend that company money by purchasing their debt. Then another person at investment firm B might want to buy that company's debt. In other words... he has debt ownership on his mind. So he would contact the investment bank and say that he wants to buy the debt of that company. The investment bank, acting as the intermediary, would offer to go purchase the debt from Allie's investment firm, and then sell it to investment firm B. And that is the general gist of what Allie's company is doing every day. And at the end of the day, everyone is happy and everyone makes money. Allie: So, when I log in to my platform every morning, the first thing I do is just go through my emails from the night before. A lot of them are just automated emails that get sent overnight that are just... data scrubs... Recaps of the news that happened overnight, or recaps of the day before from different investment firms that send out their their... commentary. So, if I see one that addresses me, I'll mark it as "unread"... I'm gonna pause here to give you a closer look at what we're looking at on these computer monitors. I wasn't allowed to film her actual screen and share any proprietary information on there, so instead I'm turning to Google and I'm pulling up some public images of the Bloomberg terminal. This is almost exactly what her right hand monitor looked like... Colors, numbers, stocks, percentages, chat boxes, and charts. Allie: He is wondering where we're able to source a certain loan... where we're able to buy it. What I do, is... On Bloomberg, there is a message portal. All of the messages from our trading counterparties get sent to us throughout the day. Lucie: To be honest, as someone who's not in this industry and does not understand all of this jargon... the screens are very overwhelming. Once your eyes glaze over everything and check out all of the various components and you realize that you don't really know what's going on... you can tend to lose interest quite easily. Allie: All of his markets are coming to me... Lucie: I'm just speaking from experience here... That's a little stressful... because it's moving so fast... Allie: Yeah, but you search... you type something in to search it... you don't just have to, like, dig back... Lucie: Now, remember: We haven't even had coffee yet... Allie walked me through how she would go about sourcing this information that her company's executive had requested. Lucie: Wait, should I be taking notes? Allie: No, it's okay. Lucie: I think I should! I decided to go with my gut and take some notes... I took notes on some of the terms she was using... Things like "bid", "offer", and what exactly she means when she uses the word "market"... What... How much they could offer for those... bids... Allie: No, no. An offer list... Lucie: Sorry, say it again from the beginning... Allie: Okay, an offer list... on the other hand... is all of the things that they want to sell... the price at which they'd sell it to you... and how much they have to sell to you. When something's a market, it means that it has size on it. If his market was 92-95... 2 by 2... that means that he's willing to buy 2 million of this name at 92... and he's willing to sell you 2 million of the name at 95. Sooo we'll respond to this email. Lucie: So you don't even start the email with "hi Mike"? Allie: No... Lucie: Okay... Good morning, happy Wednesday? Oh my gosh, we need coffee. After my camera fell and I nearly spilled water all over her Bloomberg keyboard... we decided that it was finally time for our morning coffee. Yay! Finally. Hey, Mike! So, I like iced coffee... but Allie has hot coffee, and today I'm her... so... I'll get a hot cup. This is a wild cat that lives outside my parent's house. We named her Missy and she hangs out with us all day. That was our break? Okay... We're going back to work everyone! See you later! Okay... I really hope I don't spill this on the Bloomberg terminal... After we got settled with our coffees, Allie walked me through how she and the other trader at her firm use a shared document to track all of the trades they've made. Why did you have to be here at 7:15 if the first call isn't until 9:00? Are you doing anything? Allie: Well, yeah... I'll start to do stuff... But... It's just... the way the industry works. Lucie: This is the face of someone who just does not understand WHY the industry works that way. Allie: It's just the way it's been, and the way it will be... Lucie: Okay... An hour and a half later, Allie took her first call of the day. We decided that I shouldn't listen in on the call since they were talking about proprietary information... so instead, while she took her call she set me up to read the financial headlines of the day and to take notes on what I was learning... And then once she got off of her call, I dove into some questioning. So I know that a lot of people out there who might be interested in a job like this probably have a lot of questions... Where did she go to school? What did she study? What is the path to a job like this? So I'm just gonna ask Allie some quick questions. Please state your name and job title. Allie: My name is Allie Fink... and I'm a trader at an investment management firm. Lucie: What's your official job title though? Trader? Allie: There's the functional title which tells you that I'm a trader... and then there's the hierarchical title which is the different levels... and my hierarchical title is Vice-President. Lucie: This is a desk of a vice president right there... Her scrunchie, her water bottle, her two phones, her headphones, her chapstick... and her beautiful face. Where did you go to college? Allie: I went to Johns Hopkins University. Lucie: What did you study? What was your major? Allie: I studied economics with a focus in financial economics. Lucie: Did you always know you wanted to work in finance? Allie: Sort of... I always had more of a business-minded brain, and was more focused on the maths and the sciences... The first time I took an economics course was in high school... I was a bit intrigued, so I followed it on a bit more in college. Lucie: What type of degree does someone really need for this job? An economics major? Allie: You don't even really need an economics major... There are tons of people in this field who specifically got finance degrees... There are tons of people who studied liberal arts... It doesn't really matter. There's a big melting pot of different backgrounds. It's obviously very beneficial when you go through the interview process to have a bit of a finance background to speak to... but it's not... it's not necessary. Lucie: What would you say to a young woman out there who might want to have a similar job to this? Allie: Go into this field with a thick skin. Lucie: Why is that? Because it's so male-dominated? Allie: It's very male-dominated and you have to recognize that you will, as a woman, be a minority in the field, who's constantly... you know, swimming upstream... But that is partially what's the most rewarding part about the job for me. So you have to face the challenge head-on and realize that it's going to be difficult, but it will ultimately be very rewarding. Lucie: Do you love your job? Allie: Is my boss watching this? Lucie: I don't know who's watching... Allie: I don't have the quote-unquote "passion" for finance and the industry... but that being said, it's something that I realized that I'm good at it will provide me a good foundation to build the life that I want for myself. I get satisfaction out of some other parts of the job, like what I spoke to you before about being a female in a male-dominated industry and being able to break down barriers and reach levels that I didn't necessarily expect would be reachable... Lucie: When's breakfast? Allie: Are you starving? Lucie: No... But I never wait this long... Allie: Usually after I have my coffee it, like... Lucie: holds you over? Allie: Yeah, it holds me over for a little bit so that I don't have to eat until I get my day underway a bit more. Lucie: Okay, got it. Allie: I just got this email which is a BWIC. A BWIC stands for Bids Wanted In Competition. It's like an auction. Lucie: This incoming email had a tight turnaround time, so Allie spent the next chunk of time scrubbing through a long list of company names determining if there were any companies that she'd want to put in a bid for. I peered over her shoulder as she went through the list and highlighted the companies that were interesting to her. I had never heard of most of the company names before... And then, thankfully, it was time to eat breakfast. Allie: Do you wanna go eat breakfast really fast? Lucie: YEAH, kind of... I was having dreams of a long, enjoyable breakfast eaten outside in the sunshine... A nice homemade dish that we could enjoy together slowly while we talked and laughed... Allie: Well, we just bring our breakfast to our desk, unfortunately... Lucie: Okay... Allie: But let's go get it. Lucie: Okay... going to get our measly breakfasts and bring it back to the desk... Call's in 10 minutes? Allie: Yep! Lucie: So, we ate breakfast together at her desk while staring at three computer screens... Not the most relaxing breakfast I've ever had... but it was fun to be with Allie. I'm just gonna sit here cuz I'm not allowed to listen on the call. Allie: How's it so far? Lucie: Plowing away... I've been reading Wall Street Journal articles and learning a lot about the markets... I'm still confused by the screen... but we are starving, so we're gonna take a quick break... go eat lunch... and then it's back to the desk... for another five hours? Six hours? Allie: Six? We'll see. We'll see how it goes. Lucie: All right! Allie: We'll see when I release you... Lucie: Lunch time! Mid-day update... My body hurts. We haven't stood up pretty much all day... I'm sore from our workout yesterday and I haven't really moved too much... Um... I'm starving. I'm tired. And... Like, we need to do something outside... but she can't leave the desk, so... Allie: At the end of the day, you've gotta get up and move. Lucie: Yeah. This is rough, Al... Allie: And get some fresh air... Lucie: So, uh... We'll see you after lunch! The rest of the afternoon went by pretty slowly... Allie was basically on calls for hours on end... facilitating trades using big words and big numbers... and a few hours later I was exhausted just from listening to it all... And the truth was I hadn't even done any of it myself! I forced Allie to stand up from her desk for a couple of minutes to do some partner stretches with me. So, I am taking a CNBC quiz called: "Quiz: You think you understand markets? Prove it!" Know your stock from your bonds? Your shorts from your longs? Start the quiz. If you buy a company's stock... A. you own a part of the company, B. you've lent money, C. you're liable for their debt, D. the company will return your investment with interest... I think the answer is A... YES! Okay, next question. I continued... occasionally asking Allie for some help and definitions... Allie: Preferred stock is like... uh, an instrument that's kind of halfway between... Lucie: When you say "instrument"... do you mean a cello? And I finished the quiz with seven correct answers out of 14... In other words I got a 50%... In other words... I failed. Allie: Congrats... Lucie: So... what do you think? Allie: I think you got bored pretty quickly... because I couldn't really give you attention all day... and I had to be in the zone, and there's a lot of time I would need to spend with you to give you more of a basic understanding before you're actually interested in what I'm doing... because it's easier to zoom out when you don't get it. Lucie: Yeah... You're on phone calls for a lot of the day which I couldn't be a part of... which is kind of why I was tuning out. You sounded really smart! But the truth is your screen is overwhelming and gave me a massive headache... Allie: Yeah... I end the day with a headache... very frequently... Lucie: And we also couldn't go outside all day... my lunch was a measly grilled cheese... I didn't get any greens, or anything healthy... by the end of the day we traded millions of dollars of stocks...? Allie: No, not... Lucie: Of loans? Loans. Allie: Mmhmm. Lucie: And it wasn't exciting to do... BUT, it was really exciting to watch you and... observe you... because I could never really do that normally. You're normally in an office... I'm not allowed to just pop in... I'm not allowed to bring a camera in there... So this was a great way to see what you do, get a handle on my badass boss twin and her life everyday... and I probably won't be joining you tomorrow... but it was great to be here. Allie: Great. You can just deliver me snacks. Lucie: I would love to. So I can't say I'll be coming back anytime soon... but one day was certainly enough for me for now. Comment below and let me know what other jobs you'd like an inside look into, and I'll see you next time right here on my YouTube channel. Allie: Thanks for visiting! Lucie: Thanks for having me! BYE! 