 Ryan Jin: Okay, so we we are live. Ryan Jin: Welcome everyone to morning, good afternoon and good evening, everyone. Thank you for joining us for the collapse webinar series. My name is Ryan Jade and I'm leading the smart cities and future mobility. Ryan Jin: And Equinox center of innovation for energy or Eclipse partial I'll be moderating the session. Ryan Jin: Before we jump into the sessions, kind of, allow me to do a quick introduction of equals, because that's joining established by nine Technological University. Ryan Jin: And depressing Nepal and Sustainable Energy Association circle in the bill and accelerated tech energy innovation capability itself or to support the nation's future energy transition Ryan Jin: officially launched in 2019 this joint initiative aims to have Singapore based energy startups and SMP successfully commercialized and scooter innovation effort by providing translational research living tested innovations programs, finding partners and community platform. Ryan Jin: The core of our value propositions can be summarized in four years. Firstly capability building true technology translation and with and quota Berman with SME and startup. Secondly, establishing global tested for pilot scaling up and grow next focusing on demand replay co innovation. Ryan Jin: And corporate innovation programs. And lastly, and sometimes. More importantly, the business commercial aspect where we facilitate funding and market and she acted Ryan Jin: In terms of our technology focus era, our capability lies in renewable energy integration circular economy, how they reduction fusion mobility, such as electrification and alternative energy efficiency digital Greece IoT AI and big data. And finally, smart cities deployment. Ryan Jin: As at the start of this year, we have over 100 startup in our direct network with over 20 ecosystem partners internationally. Ryan Jin: Running model for Co innovation programs right now. We also have for success, who's been off who raised follow on funding and has been doing great work. Ryan Jin: Globally, but also establish over nine tested in Singapore and globally with different testing arrow for different startup applications. Ryan Jin: Over 20 co innovation projects in the pipeline and has force nine major energy innovation centric events with our international channel partners in just last year. Ryan Jin: So we are organizing it collapse webinar series to continuity engagement and interaction with our partners, especially with this code execution happening where we invite industry experts to offer that insight on respective topics. Ryan Jin: This Webinar Series comprises of five to Startup Series incisive research Havasu is invested serious and ecolab series ish focusing on the different aspect of innovation ecosystem. Ryan Jin: Today we have a special sessions on how startups and SMEs are doing their part to fight the cove igniting Titanic. Ryan Jin: This fashion tighter because our webinar series fighting over it with technology will feature tree promising technology company. Ryan Jin: Salus nano technologies have a concert hall and activity in these sessions, they will give a quick overview of our company and highlight two products and service offering. Ryan Jin: On how they are fighting Corbett. You will also learn more about our respective technologies and how to how beans and community to war against Corbett 90 and SF to the new normal. Ryan Jin: To do we have true presenter. The first one is to push Car. Car hurry co founder and CEO of sellers nano technologies. Ryan Jin: Because God has eight years of experience in product development technology management and venture building. He has expertise in technology techno commercial analysis fundraising and business. The battle in 2016 He co founder Sanders nano technologies to race and race it fun of for Ryan Jin: For her 50,000 US dollar. Ryan Jin: He also led a team or tree to develop quoting technology was easy clinic features for healthcare energy and other applications. Ryan Jin: Next we have TS where the director for energy partnership ever concept. Ryan Jin: Is a clean tech professional who successfully transitioned himself from a corporate fight copper fintech environments you high growth startup environment and Ryan Jin: He's an accomplished strategy consultant and a project management professional with 20 years with over 20 years experience in Digital Banking across the Asia Pacific Ryan Jin: He has worked in covert technology companies like IBM and enforcing technologies prior to ever call as a founding member of ethical Ryan Jin: He has contributed in different aspects of the organizational group to this current stage. Ryan Jin: It is instrumental to building in building partnerships with top management and energy consulting firms that McKinsey and Company G essential is an MBA graduate from Asian sensitive of management Manila, Philippines, Ryan Jin: And lastly we'll have one Ryan Jin: Meeting she hip hop managing and operations director at activity upon is a passionate and technology experts in telecommunications and Internet of Things. Ryan Jin: He has participated in traffic innovation in Asia, helping European companies to center grow the business and punish it, in particular in Japan in Southeast Asia. Ryan Jin: He joined the IoT revolution at actually 35 years ago was the visions at low power wide area network technology could have a real positive impact on human resource consumption. Ryan Jin: From making the grid smarter to reducing the energy and resource with as if hacked manager and operations director. I've been open to activity Asians HQ in Singapore in 2016 Ryan Jin: About horse masters in electrical engineering a Masters of computer science and an MBA from I I eat french business school. Ryan Jin: A gentle reminder to all speakers to kind of limits your presentation to 10 minutes. So do we have sufficient time for q&a at the end. Ryan Jin: If any of the attendees have any questions during the presentation. You can clean your question in the trend a pattern or raise your hand so that we have a new to voice your questions during the interaction session. Ryan Jin: Now without further to rely to invite Dr push her, her, her a co founder and CEO of sellers nano technology to give an introduction. Ryan Jin: To the advanced coding for dogs for public hygiene and how to crush copies Pushkar Kanhere: Okay, thanks. Thanks, Ryan. Thank you very much for inviting me to the cities. It's quite exciting to be here. I'm also very keen to listen to the other speakers today. Let me just share my screen. And we'll start the presentation bit Right. Pushkar Kanhere: Okay. I hope I'm audible. And you can see my screen. Pushkar Kanhere: All right, thanks. Pushkar Kanhere: We can open them. Pushkar Kanhere: Yeah, give me a moment. Pushkar Kanhere: Yeah, okay. So yeah, my name is Oscar and I'm co founder and CEO of Salus nano technologies and we are into antimicrobial antiviral coatings for public health and hygiene and so in 19 has been a great driving force for us where we have Pushkar Kanhere: You know, we have Pushkar Kanhere: We are driven Pushkar Kanhere: To develop new products innovative products that will help fight this crisis. Pushkar Kanhere: Little bit about our company we are. We are spinoff from NT you actually we are not from energy research institute an empty you. Where are you Pushkar Kanhere: I used to work as a research scientist and functional coatings is really our core expertise we are funded by an adult ventures and National Research Foundation and supported by into you and plug and play tech center in California and we're headquartered in Singapore. Pushkar Kanhere: Well as physical presence. Nowadays, don't matter. Doesn't matter a lot. But we have we have a small r&d facility in India and a manufacturing unit again in India and Mumbai. Pushkar Kanhere: With FST 10% capacity we hope to exceed that capacity and deliver more and more products which will benefit the community so Pushkar Kanhere: Coming coming to the right to the point that as we are in the business of coatings, which are anti microbial we are tackling a with the issue of how for with 19 is transmitted and how we can Pushkar Kanhere: How we can basically stoppage transmission or minimize it. So it is believed that this whiteness is transmitted mainly to what droplet respiratory droplets Pushkar Kanhere: And contact roots and probably the most recent understanding suggests that it may be even airborne Pushkar Kanhere: So our idea is to develop coatings or code the objects which we use which we touch in our day to day life with Pushkar Kanhere: Active antimicrobial and anti virus materials which are durable and integrate the growth of or survival of those microbes on the surfaces so that you know in case of an exposure of Pushkar Kanhere: Fall off a virus or bacteria on that surface it is immediately killed say within few minutes so that that is the basis of this of these coatings and I'm going to spend few a few slides on what the core technologies and what are the applications we have developed and commercialized. Pushkar Kanhere: So coming to the core technology we have a technology called Sal chill, we are promoting it by that name, and it is basically a proprietary binding system. Pushkar Kanhere: Which with the active silver eye on as antiviral an anti bacterial material. And we also make use of micro encapsulated disinfectants which work with in synergy with the silver I am Pushkar Kanhere: Okay, the molecule over there is doesn't belong to our system, it is, it was just nice looking so I put it, but essentially it is a complex system of nano composites where proprietary mixtures and functionalist molecules have been used and Pushkar Kanhere: It is understood that the the actual mechanism by which the technology works is by destroying the envelope of dividers so Pushkar Kanhere: Courtesy of Jones labs. I have borrowed this representatives pictures from their website. But you can see that Pushkar Kanhere: Any active compounds like ordinary ammonium salts or upsides metal ions, which we are primarily using Pushkar Kanhere: The attack the envelope of dividers break the envelope and essentially divided is exposed to limits and on the right side right hand side, you can see that these are the actual Pushkar Kanhere: Team photographs electron microscope photographs that physically, you know, it is it is destroyed. So an order image on the Pushkar Kanhere: Left side before picture and a completely disordered image on the right side picture that's how the that's how the mechanism works. That's how the technology works. Pushkar Kanhere: And I'm going to, I'm going to show you a few applications in terms of capabilities and products which we have tablets. The next few slides. Pushkar Kanhere: So one of the prime applications which we have developed is invisible voting for hard surfaces and we have commercialize this through a license. We are the middle of signing the Pushkar Kanhere: closing the deal, making it formal wear a Singapore based company would be launching products for personal use, as well as for businesses. Pushkar Kanhere: Where a coating like water based and safe and easy application kind of floating will be introduced for hard surfaces, the surfaces could be table tops, you know, hand. Pushkar Kanhere: door knobs handles toilet seats even cell phones to certain extent or cell phone covers all those Pushkar Kanhere: Normal surfaces or I would say common services where we are likely to touch where the transmission is most likely, and it is proven to be 99.9% antiviral Pushkar Kanhere: Against the envelope widest by recognized international standards. It's also anti microbial and it lasts up to seven days. So the idea is, this could be a long lasting. Pushkar Kanhere: Could be used as a long lasting disinfectant where people will keep using it in in for personal as well as public kinds of applications simple spray on product for the product will not be killed by us but simple spray on application. Pushkar Kanhere: We believe that coming. The next application is quite important to the community as well as you know for first personal hygiene is textiles. Pushkar Kanhere: We wear them all the time. They are close to us. We are always in contact with them. So we have developed a factory level. Pushkar Kanhere: We have developed a product for textile factories where they can use it and have 99.9% antibacterial protection up to 20 washes Pushkar Kanhere: We are working on viral test. It's still under development and it is an easy again a low temperature kind of an easy processing and skin safe material. So our vision is Pushkar Kanhere: To introduce this as a laundry additive where everyone can use it and make their clothes antibacterial antiviral if it's that easy. That would be that would be a really scalable and helpful product. So this is under development. And last but not least, the recent development as Pushkar Kanhere: Well, the air we breathe must be sanitizer disinfected to. And the idea is can we tackle this issue. Can we make the air filter air conditioning filters or Pushkar Kanhere: Other you know space cooling devices filters antibacterial antiviral so that they keep filtering the air and they keep disinfecting the air for a longer time. Pushkar Kanhere: So again, the. This is a preliminary work. But what we have found that our products to to decrease the airborne bacteria are 2.1%. So that's essentially 99.9% kill within four hours in a typical setting of Pushkar Kanhere: You know, a split AC of 3600 black and a room of 10 by 10 by 10 feet. So we hope that we could scale this up to even commercial buildings. Pushkar Kanhere: And even finally find a way to treat the air in the domestic or household air conditioners. So this material is strongly adhering to the substrate, it doesn't come off with Pushkar Kanhere: Airflow and again it could be of simple spray on process which people can do it just like they maintain or the service. The air conditioners every three months, they could probably spray this along with that or you know more frequently as needed. So Pushkar Kanhere: Salus nanotechnologies recently focused on anti microbial coatings. But along with that, we are also into water repellent and stain resistant coatings. We have been selling Pushkar Kanhere: A product for carpet industry in India and we recently have added anti fault coatings to our portfolio, where we are working with a hotel chain in India. Pushkar Kanhere: When they open, of course, they would be considering this to coat the mirrors, which usually get fog when people take shower in the bathroom. Pushkar Kanhere: This could be also applicable to cars and glasses and probably helmet wises. So these are some of the applications we are we have right now. Pushkar Kanhere: So last couple of slides, and I'm going to focus on what is our go to market strategy, I think. Pushkar Kanhere: A lot of deep tech startups have this issue and there is no really good answer, but it's case to case basis. It's quite complicated. Pushkar Kanhere: But we have adopted technology licensing as our main go to market strategy we have set out two licenses and we have a few more in the pipeline, and particularly when it comes to B to C kind of products. I think it's very difficult to tackle. Pushkar Kanhere: The whole Pushkar Kanhere: I would say the go to market for small startup deep tech startup. So technology licensing SAYS THE BEST SERVE best way Pushkar Kanhere: When it comes to be to be products of bulk assignments, then we do intend to make our own program. We have a franchise shield am 10 which we are supplying to textile factories, which for anti microbial fabric finishes so Pushkar Kanhere: Right. So going forward, I think we hope to make an impact with our technology, mainly in improving hygiene on the other symbols refer to the other products which we have Pushkar Kanhere: In our portfolio, but considering the school with 19 situation. It's not a. It's not a few months situation, I guess, hygiene is going to be part of our life and Pushkar Kanhere: sanitization disinfection not taking more and more precautions to stop the spread of Pushkar Kanhere: In general, diseases, not just for word, but you want to be, you know, tell them during this time is going to be again a new normal. Pushkar Kanhere: So yeah, we hope to we hope to scale up and we hope that our products are useful to the community all over the world. Okay, thank you. I think I really made it within 10 minutes, I hope. Pushkar Kanhere: Yeah, okay. Ryan Jin: You're right on time. Pushkar Kanhere: Yes. Ryan Jin: Thank you so much. Thank you for sharing right nice on we'll have visits are active. Ryan Jin: For energy partnership at have a consumer Singapore to share on remote digital Pushkar Kanhere: Assistant Ryan Jin: And essential tool for SME for new booking normal so new normal looking condition field employees. Ryan Jin: Will and you're on mute. Ryan Jin: You might want to unmute yourself. Ryan Jin: Let me see if I can, I can do this. TS Velan: Hello. TS Velan: You guys hear me. Yeah. TS Velan: We're definitely everyone TS Velan: Thank you very much for a introduction and we thank the equal labs team for inviting us for this webinar. TS Velan: My name is villain as brief to buy ran the director for energy partnership you never come. So how our solution is all about occupant performance management. TS Velan: Just give a brief introduction about ourselves. Basically, we also an interview spin off company and we started in 2013 and the last seven years we have gone through a long way and TS Velan: We have been our solution has been created by IMD another confusion team and we had our CBC in 2017 and we have our multinational clients in Thailand. I want so TS Velan: We our headquarters is in Singapore. We have a joint venture partnership in Thailand and we're expanding in Thailand. So in Taiwan. TS Velan: And we are planning to set up an r&d center in Israel, along with him to you in Israel. And we also very tightly work with us. TS Velan: So what do you see on the top is, is basically some of our partnership that got able to do over a period of time in Singapore. We work with D in Thailand. We work with PDT and when the vibe. You work with the energy TS Velan: Energy authority okay articulating the authority in Dubai. So this is a brief background. Okay, these are some of our success stories high level we partner with the TS Velan: Singapore semiconductor associations, if we were to look at our client industry. We work with the semiconductor industry. We work with commercial buildings like a pan Pacific TS Velan: Capital land and we do work with data centers and other buildings, also on basically improving the performance. Okay. TS Velan: So some of our international success stories, your work with TS Velan: Several government or non non committal authorities in worldwide. So if you look at, we work with the info call media Development Authority here in Singapore and we are partnering with them. TS Velan: To TS Velan: Distribute the cobija systems package to SME and this is where eco Labs is very tightly partnering with us along with the Eco labs, we are planning to TS Velan: distribute our solutions to 20 plus SMEs, whereas the collapse. Come on a research perspective, they're going to take the TS Velan: Data from us to do the matrices equipment performance matrices for SMEs. TS Velan: And we work with emerging market authority. This is more towards a virtual power plant. It's a kind of a research project we partner with some sleep on this because the whole the whole the VP license here. TS Velan: And in Taiwan. We work with the Taipei City. Okay, so we are trying to come up with what all city level smart city level solutions for them. TS Velan: Focus more towards the asset performance. Yeah, in Dubai. We work the Dubai authority. You're just signed our mo you with the divine authority. TS Velan: And what we're trying to do to help them is we are planning to build the marriage deterred remote digital assistance for the for the energy authority, whereby they can see TS Velan: All the energy details on WhatsApp okay and you a little bit diverting was moving towards a food waste which we work with national and regional agency. TS Velan: And we are working with ADB in the Philippines to basically roll up green tourism solutions in Thailand. So this is more towards the impact fund that they are getting us based on that, we are going to roll it around 50 plus hotels and Thailand. TS Velan: Yes, because of code that has an impact on that we are restructuring it how we can work with add on that. TS Velan: And last but not least, we work with the UN DP. So we are building AI tools to do a city level assessment of assessment of how the Cuban performers are doing and how we can actually help in this TG goes. So this is our experience internationally. TS Velan: Coming back to the waters are today's problem, right, so this is this is a day to day problem that you're facing everyday last three months social distancing and split teams and staggering hours out of the pretty much the problem today in SMEs, so if you ready to look at an SMS TS Velan: The product, you will be becomes a bit challenging if you read the specifically if you think Singapore. Most of these SMEs have TS Velan: Employees coming from 14 employees say that they're coming from Malaysia, or they're coming from other countries. So because of the CO Ed shoes. These people cannot come directly into the TS Velan: What premises and most of the work premises are unable to bring that productivity, because there is a physical presence needed TS Velan: So what kind of solutions. We look at right and that's what we are the solution that we use to implement to large organizations like pan Pacific hotel or capital land. TS Velan: We our customers in that solution specifically for these kind of SMEs. TS Velan: And and so that it is easier for them to implement these solutions. So, the solution is all about remote digital assistants, what do you see in the left hand side. TS Velan: Is nothing but I will be senses. Right. So these are power meters. It doesn't need anything. You just need a plug and play the whole transmission happens to be TS Velan: Gay no wearing needed and based on this information, what you see on the right hand side is nothing but a chat bot. TS Velan: So on a real time you get to know what are the performance of your equipment so it can be monitoring different parameters like energy temperature TS Velan: Flow vibration, etc. And whenever that is a deviation, you get an alert also. So what are the advantage of the solution. Fundamentally, if you were to look at these SMEs doesn't need to come to the factory. TS Velan: Right, they can sit in their home or their own convenience. They can retrieve whatever data, they wanted TS Velan: About what they do actually in the in the plant. They can do that from their home, they can view all the things, the most important thing is TS Velan: They have a virtual collaboration platform. This is pretty much no rocket science is pretty much a standard market product. TS Velan: And we have integrated our solution to that market product, everybody can use it, it's all free available and and they can actually chat directly. So we are trying to build the virtual TS Velan: Meetings here on the chat bot so they can do a video conferencing to do whatever it is. And the whole point is we are moving the whole work environment to the chat box. So that's part of the solution. TS Velan: So how do, how the government is helping government is the challenge for the government today is how am I going to distribute the Corbett. TS Velan: Packages right and how they're going to push this opportunity to digitize SMEs, so now digitalization is becoming a mandatory to most of these SMEs. TS Velan: Right. They want to be depressed because there is no option because of corporate and and we work directly with AMD and equal labs on this and packaging. This for them. So what are we packaging it if you were to look at. We are packaging different things. TS Velan: Like we are packaging, the people not only just a solution right yes solution is one part where you have an hardware you have a software. TS Velan: And along with this, we are bringing in money for SMEs in the sense TS Velan: Yes him. He doesn't need to do a kind of a go to go to government and apply for a grant. This is a pre approved grant something like this sign up with us. TS Velan: It's already done so, all the assessments are done by them. So we are bringing in money and lot last but not least, TS Velan: We are even bringing skills. We work with dieters like into you in us and politics in Singapore. We take interns and we put them on a real time projects. So in an innovation perspective, we are building a and I would be TS Velan: Capacity in a in a specific customer's point of view, to help them to adopt because these TS Velan: Interns we work full time for six months with the customers. Okay, if they really like to use in terms. They may recruit them or they are available for them to do that application point of view. TS Velan: And that's what it's a complete package where we are telling the solution with all the competence involved in TS Velan: Okay, so this is a high level, what you can see here, this is a kind of your model. TS Velan: based solution. And what you see is nothing but an alert. Okay, so these are the different types of equipment like chiller palms. It could be a CNC lathe or cooling towers, whatever it is. So what we do is we collect TS Velan: Data like energy temperature flow pressure, etc. Based on this, we do the analysis and from that analysis we told these kind of TS Velan: Alerts these alerts are specific what kind of the potential defect that are there in the segments. It could be a defect in the equipment or it could be a defect to the census. Right. TS Velan: So this is a kind of automated reports, you can see you can see a lot of dashboards around there. So this is all about the solution. TS Velan: If you were to look at the key point of the solution is you can implement everything in two weeks time TS Velan: Everything is pre built. Okay, you have a predefined sensor is something like a McDonald's food. TS Velan: Everything is predefined we just plug and play within two weeks, the whole system is up and running. So you get the money, all you need to place maybe like seven key and with equal labs. They can even TS Velan: Monetize to beta right Eclipse each data for research purposes so they can get the data and the I can even sell the data. So process data can be sold to a. So, that is where we are looking at now and everything is like predefined TS Velan: Okay, so some of the use cases I've explained here. So this is six pieces. Explain how when the manufacturing factory using an ideal state and and TS Velan: And active state. What is the profile of the cube. TS Velan: So it tells how these equipments of performing this is a semi colon industry. So we have benchmarking, a real time benchmarking of equipments. TS Velan: So equipments which does well which equipment as well in terms of the energy performance. So, second is, this is a pretty much any use case in a hotel industry. TS Velan: Right, we have centralized chiller plant for panthers equal to five different hotels. We have centralized all the information to a common platform. TS Velan: So we got the computer equipment provider which chiller is working well for this type of really is a cave utila works fine or a train to explain TS Velan: This kind of profiles. We build and help the hotels to optimize that cap so they really know when they're buying for a new equipment what capacity to buy TS Velan: And which model bills. So for me, which pump will suit for my district of chiller this kind of information to get basically we help them to TS Velan: Find them the best available technologies in the market. TS Velan: Okay, so this is more towards the temperature monitoring today temperature monitoring is becoming the key, key parameters, because of the code all environmental temperature TS Velan: Heat Map is becoming a very, very solid use case that is coming in there and it is very timely for us. We are making a problem as an opportunity TS Velan: Right, so we are trying to draw heat maps inside the SME factories to figure out how the temperature levels or even both of the human, even if they invite so there's some of the common. So that's part of my part of it. Thank you very much. Ryan Jin: Thank you so much for sharing. And then you will have Albert Ryan Jin: Is how energy and operations director from actually to share on post call the IoT digitalization system, they can contact waiting solution Allah Alban Médici: Hi, thank you. Give me one second. So I can share my screen. Okay readings. Alban Médici: Thanks, everyone. Very nice to be there to let me introduce our flattering that activity with something that are complimentary to the previous presentation. Basically, what is actually so cheeky. You see my screen right now. Alban Médici: Yes, we can see us okay right so actually it is a French funded company of you might have spot with my accent. Alban Médici: From the 10 years ago at quadrillion berries. We have a production at country on what we're doing is digitalization I UT digitization. So we have a more than 40 or 50 I think public network IoT public network like Alban Médici: Mobile looking at all. Using all solution we have been from data. Alban Médici: Hub 200 million services and we have offices in 10 country I'm based out of Singapore and I'm managing the APAC Alban Médici: my slide deck is not so what we are doing. So basically we are doing one part of the IoT, which will call now the Wi Fi of the IoT, which is local one and you might have heard of this technology which is a wireless technology. Alban Médici: Or call network was to and business was to manage wireless devices on the network and push that out, who had digital twin and any usage of the digital twin like the smart homes factories to light. Some of the examples that have been state before as well. A Alban Médici: Few years back we have a quite other mobile assets trucking company that is Colby way that are looking at one good things, and we're going to see oh it held Alban Médici: In the today's topic. So just a little reminder. And the last one, and no alliance is a open technology alliance or four is communication. Alban Médici: That is most growing new wireless technology in out of there and we have been co founded this with IBM and 17 that has the shape of buttons. Alban Médici: And now you see that there was more 400 members, including some few big ones around journal recently, like a Google, Amazon content intelligence for Alban Médici: So IoT deployment for the people, not knowing really well IoT which one you can deploy public nationwide network really big, big, big, big network managed by the open adorable you value connectivity, and that's it. Alban Médici: But you can do as well. Fully private network, not even connected to internet or sometimes network with like the example we have seen just before Alban Médici: The good thing with low on a low technologies that we can interconnect public and private network. We even have a nano satellite company like harbor and users that are in technical solution. So you can literally it'll benefit of all the college worldwide. Alban Médici: We had as well before and I said before, because today's topic is how can I help with coming Alban Médici: Trucking Company that helped to know your assets. So we started with industrial assets to know, where are you track where your AV industry. Alban Médici: Component. Where is your focus for issue, whatever. And we have as well a portfolio level that was used to enforce a worker safety and efficiency. So you have a button, you can push for SOS button and Alban Médici: That was the beginning but but then can we check everything right. Alban Médici: And it came with a lot of new challenge that mono everyone agree would be permanent challenge and not few months or one year challenge to various we talk about the unhealthy, but the coating of faces. But yeah, it will be a permanent challenge. So we need to bring resiliency, we need to Alban Médici: Facilitate or is remote working actually digitization. We have also send into your concern about physical people to people, but people to things. So now we all have new rules that we know well mask on. I can help with that plateau check on might help. Alban Médici: Save distancing Alban Médici: Often we hear social distancing or something that I really I this word. Sorry for that to use it but safe is better. I mean, we also should people. We need to continue working together, but in a safe way. Alban Médici: Especially if you based out of Singapore as well we you know a lot about contact racing because Singapore have been at the the the front of the innovation in terms of efficiency of the contract racing. We see it every day in what's up. Alban Médici: Firma graphic. Alban Médici: Contextual thing is a thing. But as well. You have concerning decent fiction, with all those things you easily understand why. Well, the challenge or to Alban Médici: Manage this into your company, but there is still a problematic that is not there is the special temple factor was well when we form. What did you touch that became very big challenge. Alban Médici: So I ot engineer also on network and our technology can help a lot of resilience. So this is a full action from resilience from a new and you can see that the first one is Alban Médici: People, safety first. So need to have people distancing, we see that support team reduce the movement. I mean, when you are in remote working on walk home yeah you have a lot of Alban Médici: Less Fisk Alban Médici: To be infected. For sure, reduce costs infection with cleaning. We've had been skirting but then need to continue working so remote management IoT of it so Alban Médici: More and more, we know especially no country which is very advanced you have smart factory without locally smart and they are globally not connected. So we call it the Alban Médici: Smart but isolated. So you need to be able to without redoing everything quickly being able to connect them. Alban Médici: An AI to do preventive maintenance to reduce the needs of people visiting and maintaining those assets to do only the needed which will lead to poor efficiency and a lot of other great thing. Alban Médici: You will then have to manage your supply chains monitoring of the supply chain of the Alban Médici: Only build culture and but the tracking, as well as the different floor of supply chain. We've seen that in a lot of countries, very important. Alban Médici: And the. Lastly, we talked about a lot AI or 20% digital twin is really what bring resilience. So I use it as a global community bring that on network. I'll in all of these more especially when we jump to call it. Alban Médici: We need to understand the risk exposure of contamination, so it's it's a combination of distance and time. Right, this is a FCC studio opens to the water. What else organizations, Judy. Alban Médici: You need to have a combination of distance and time to stop being at least right so it's quite easy to understand that some of the solution that we have already and I do have various together and some on doing a lot of new Alban Médici: Help to do conduct facing reduce risk exposure, but it's not enough. It's missing the special to call factor. So let's take the example you see here I'm all my taking the train I good work. Alban Médici: All those application or token right now they know if we are each was a close by. But if I take the train and I'm sick I caught Alban Médici: I live the train you just enter the trend, just after you are really is because you touched the same surface than me, potentially, if we don't have the wonderful protein that we have heard of before. But you do know that so right now. Alban Médici: I would go there. If we look at the the nation mind state token application like the traits. Okay, so, so this is example of Singapore and this is an example of friends. Alban Médici: You can do certain things, but not not all like you are missing the indirect exposure, right. So this is why we have had a safe entry and then Alban Médici: You as an employer SMEs on whatever you don't know nobody. You don't know if your employees at fiscal not but maybe for you big factory for Alban Médici: A big plans like a Nexus plant or something that you need to know who are you on for you at risk. Alban Médici: You can hope they'll be in contact racing because everything is centralized you cannot measure or the community, the risk, you cannot do. Alban Médici: Advanced density enforcement zoning in these infection. So our car girl. So I go back there or tracker that we were using. First, they have been requested by Hospital in New York. Alban Médici: To Do you know an advisor for the curvy the versions in the field hospitals that have been built very fast. And then they asked us to work on solution. So we did and what we have done is that we put some intelligence not tracker so valuable to do proximity Athan monitoring so Alban Médici: Two people wearing or tracker that will be notified, but not stupid. The community by notified about Alban Médici: Entering a risk zone. So it's not just a distance maturing it's a distance of the time and the accumulation of all those so Alban Médici: You have these at the edge, but we are pushing the data to to application. So you can do contact tracing after Alban Médici: We do some mechanism we can enforce density. It's not because three people are safe distance that it respect your business school to continue business. Alban Médici: Or business Holywell say I don't want more than one people for five square meters. Even though you are at two meters distance Alban Médici: I don't want too much density in my meeting rooms, so the same things the same asset can help you managing that Alban Médici: You can do ZONING AS WELL. SO zoning in term of okay this is Tim be, you're not going to go into an A. So if they cross the zone, a Alban Médici: Inside the plan because when you have the weight loss very big clients, you cannot we talk about efficiency before it's very difficult to Alban Médici: You know, do the same thing we've asked the people. So maybe you can see by you plan to do. We're trying hard but you need something to enforce them. And as well. If you have a forklift a sharp assets or whatever tool. Alban Médici: You might want to know or to do advanced disinfection because we talked about quoting that do one week one month we call will see that later. Alban Médici: Prevention or virus killing things. But what about the fact that, okay, you can put business will say if I use this asset, which is the same asset more than three hours accumulated I need to Clint disinfect Alban Médici: Or if it's more than five people or 10 and to disinfect so with the same cost of Alban Médici: For killing Alban Médici: People, you can do it way. In a way, right away. Alban Médici: Those, those information if you have them digitalized you can help me making contact placing one, one day, the government will tell you all your employee. Alban Médici: Is sick. Do you know if either. I've been in close contact with someone, then you can tell it because you can go and do private police enforcement and contact racing. Alban Médici: It's a resume and it helps with zoom with a lot of Brazilians, your, your walk Alban Médici: So it's very much used in construction site in every industry right now, but in SMS as well. It will come, maybe with not with all the contact racing because when you are 510 people. Yeah. Alban Médici: Well, your contact as the 510 people. But when we're talking about thousands of employees, that's another story. Right. If it's a construction facilities. Alban Médici: So, it helped in the office for the density enforcement and all solution is already available. Alban Médici: We have integration with, you know, very famous CRM like Salesforce and and a lot of integrator and application maker integrating right now solutions. So I think I'm pretty much hitting my 10 minutes time Alban Médici: I'm ready to go to the question sessions. Ryan Jin: Right, thank you so much. Ryan Jin: For sharing. So as we proceed with Ryan Jin: The training sessions, our audience to keep your questions in the Korean box or raise your hand so that we can give you two boys have questions of Ryan Jin: Life. I think we have one questions from Dr. Jan 20 months which would like to unmute yourself and for some question and allowing you to talk Dr. Dien Pandiman: Hello. Hello. Ryan Jin: Hi, we can hear you. Dr. Dien Pandiman: Yeah, this, this question to Dr. Push car about your decision nano the hygiene coating Dr. Dien Pandiman: Yeah, sorry, I missed. I miss. You're not the first 10 minutes of your talk, because I don't know whether you have mentioned about the anti virus efficacy test of your material. Pushkar Kanhere: I guess I did. So the coatings has proven to be antiviral 99.9% both in suspension test as well as on the surface test. Yes. Dr. Dien Pandiman: So this one is mean. Yeah. Do you follow this say now there's a common international test method is so to, you know, Dr. Dien Pandiman: 27 or to remember the number which is a well known adopted by the independent life. Are you following death patrol Hacienda Pushkar Kanhere: Yeah, so we are falling to test methods, one which we have tested is as per GIS Candace 2801 is for bacteria a modified version. Again, I don't remember the number is for viruses. Pushkar Kanhere: And for suspension test we are using one of the STM standards, not exactly. I so but yeah SDM standards. The tests are done according to either STM GIS or in other cases back the data ISO standards. Dr. Dien Pandiman: Okay, a dirt mileage question way to death related to the coffee maintain what type of virus that your tester is a human coronavirus two to 95 Pushkar Kanhere: Right, so we have tested done the tests on herpes virus herpes wanted to address week one and week two, and in Germany, we have started testing on human coronavirus that exact number. You said to. Yeah. Dr. Dien Pandiman: Right, okay. So it's very interesting. I mean, maybe we'll keep in touch. Dr. Dien Pandiman: Personally later on I will, I got an email, I will Dr. Dien Pandiman: read to you right on, because we are we are in the midst of developing this hygiene coating for hospital and for doc Excel application. Yeah. Pushkar Kanhere: Okay, great. Yeah. Dr. Dien Pandiman: Yeah, so just yeah just by the way, I'm from the PDF, which is quite a multinational company for Indian based. And so it's in Singapore. We have already center. So I'll keep in touch with you. Pushkar Kanhere: Sure. Sure, absolutely. Yeah, yeah. Dr. Dien Pandiman: Right. Thank you. Thank you. Ryan Jin: Right. That's great. So while we wait for another question coming in from the audience. Actually, I have a question in my mind thinking from a buyer perspective. Ryan Jin: Could, could your share some indication of the cost of potential cost saving or value creation from adopting your solutions, whichever point maybe Ryan Jin: Push back john. You go first, followed by our band and Pushkar Kanhere: Okay, sure. So Pushkar Kanhere: What Pushkar Kanhere: The solutions, pH, we are building our for mass scale. Okay, so if you if you take an example of, for example, heart. Pushkar Kanhere: Coatings it's not going to be well it was a few cents per square meters per square foot and that order, and even for the textiles P. It's going to be compatible with high end fabric softness, so we we would be really looking at a cost effective solution because he would be looking at We're looking at abundance of tax. Yeah. Pushkar Kanhere: I hope that's good enough indication. I don't have an individual pricing at the moment but Ryan Jin: Show, for we should work on that. I'm sure that they'll probably some Ryan Jin: further inquiry coming soon. All right thank so much Ryan Jin: Alan Alban Médici: Yeah, so we have a good example, really, of the of the oil for solution because Alban Médici: It will very much depend if you are very small as me. Alban Médici: Having one employee or to Alban Médici: Being sick and not being as because of this expo well not fighting against the virus itself. We are preventing the risk and measuring the risk and the digitization. So it's a slightly different than then pushed out but Alban Médici: We have seen, for instance, one day of non pollution in Alban Médici: Interest yeah blend Alban Médici: Almost cost millions the plant cannot open. So if you enforce with those kind of solution and you have the workforce. I mean, your ally is few days days because you can open faster and you can, you are more reliable. Alban Médici: If it's a small company can be even worse because a small company. Alban Médici: If you lose 10% of your workforce, you might be a very high risk of bankruptcy depend on who is missing. I mean, that's a, that's the global challenge we're facing right now. Unfortunately, this is all Alban Médici: Very small company are going bankrupt. Recently, most of the country because because of this. So, Alban Médici: digitalization as as a cause, but we have seen that now nowadays it became quite low cost, very fast and easy to deploy and when, if it Alban Médici: Really fast. We have last one thing, if I may say on on the wearable solution that are compatible with the government one Alban Médici: Is that Alban Médici: Hopefully soon. One day, this could be one topic will be over. Alban Médici: So we might for a long time. I hope not have to have social distancing enforcement. So you say, Yeah, but I lost my money sort of didn't last because you are having resiliency, but Alban Médici: Or legacy more that we say okay advantage and fiction security Walker. If he says yes was can be still be done with the same solution and technology. So it's Alban Médici: Instead of being a lot. We have modified and tune it right now for addressing the challenge that I've been Alban Médici: Not only we are we are great, but not that. I mean, it had been asked by our customers. So we try to figure out, they asked problems and say, Can you help us solving this I say, Oh, yeah. So this is a yes or no. Very well. The weapons, but Alban Médici: It's really much depend on on on your business needs or your processes on Alban Médici: What would be the future. Ryan Jin: Right. Thank you. Ryan Jin: Would you, would you care to share some indication of the cost of value creation from the top to your solution. Ryan Jin: Really yeah yeah unmute TS Velan: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. TS Velan: I think you can hear me all right. Okay. So from our point. It's a pretty much straightforward is all about optimization of the Catholics and the op x. So when you look at the Catholics point of view. TS Velan: What we tried to do is we collect both NTT data and the process data from your documents so that this TS Velan: Information, we were able to do analytics and come back and really understand how your recruitment is performing TS Velan: Right. And from that we can actually do the right size and specifically, if you look at buildings. TS Velan: Most of the places that you know Prancer oversights right so if you need a 1020 years, sometimes people use for retention or TS Velan: Something like that. Five times which is affecting the efficiency of the overall system so we help them to right size their equipment by doing that they can actually optimize their CapEx so they can bite the right size of the killer when it comes to op X is pretty much straightforward. TS Velan: The kind of data we provide helps them to manage their vendors. Well, okay, so most of the time they outsource vendors to manage the maintenance of the operations. TS Velan: And maintenance activities happening, then we can come back and see how the efficiency of the equipment can do or not improve TS Velan: Before and after we can kind of do that kind of analysis that helps them to manage their vendors much better by having quantified data. TS Velan: And second is by doing the complete social distancing it same as like what Alan explain right so they may lose their employees. TS Velan: Employees doesn't need to be the acoustic business, business can still be operated because you have a complete remote system to operate off. So that's what I say. Ryan Jin: All right, thank you so much. We have a hand raised from our rural culture which are like I'm a yourself and voice of question. Arokiaraj Jesudoss: Yeah. Good afternoon, everybody. Sorry, I was not able to join the first part of the meeting, then I'm from 3am India. Arokiaraj Jesudoss: We would like to know what is the lifetime and the durability of the coating and when does a customer for a person comes to know that the coating is not there on any surface. Thank you. Pushkar Kanhere: Oh, yeah, yeah. Okay. Thanks for the question the durability of the coating Pushkar Kanhere: Case when it's case to case in one of the cases, it is up to seven days we have expose it to light abrasion and tested its efficacy after seven days. Pushkar Kanhere: We do have a binding system, which makes it doable for even a month. That said, if we have done accelerated weathering tests typically expose it to high temperatures. Turn it up and water. Pushkar Kanhere: So yeah, that is a range. Possibly it go could go about Pushkar Kanhere: Two months or more is still in testing. Pushkar Kanhere: Even Questions. Pushkar Kanhere: When it stuff in when it goes out to the customer side, it's hard to judge whether the coating is there or not. So we used to have a water the polenta. Pushkar Kanhere: Component earlier. Pushkar Kanhere: In our product and that that how we use under the surface energy as well as microbial Pushkar Kanhere: Property, one of the cases what we told the customer that you know Pushkar Kanhere: As long as the water repellent. He says the surface looks like a Pushkar Kanhere: Lot of Pushkar Kanhere: Meat perfect leaving or Teflon like then the pudding is there, but other cases, no. Pushkar Kanhere: Yeah. Arokiaraj Jesudoss: Thank you. Ryan Jin: Right, thank you so much. Do we have questions from the audience. Ryan Jin: Right. I think we have any Ryan Jin: Other question is directed to alpha. Can you explain the advantages and disadvantages of Ryan Jin: Activity around one technology competitor compelling solution. Alban Médici: Yeah, sure. So the Logan. Can you hear me. Hello, one solution as period. So, that is that is in the world of IOT quite similar technology out there. Alban Médici: You might have heard of narrowband IoT technology like that. Alban Médici: It's all the way issue of power. This is cost versus ownership, but doesn't mean now bonaiuti cellular base when you need an operator to be Alban Médici: You cannot have your private data, so no one can be building private so you own this is really the Wi Fi of the IoT, it's not Alban Médici: Nothing that why why is that that is the most way unless IoT technology alliance or dandelions is because it's really a ratio of hello world and the capability to have private data that's very important things Alban Médici: So if you compare Alban Médici: It to a one on one tends to use 10 times less battery. Then he and you can have it fully private means the data, your data, you can be fully, fully Alban Médici: Autonomous, it can be fully private. So that's the main difference. And when it comes to solo one company. Alban Médici: While we have confirmed it. The law firms who have corrected the, the lower one specification. It's, it's part of our baby that a lot of people join and we are very happy. But we have a 10 years of development and experience. Alban Médici: Making our solution. The best one. Ryan Jin: Right, thank you so much, are Ryan Jin: Just a last call to the audience. You have any questions from all for our speakers. Ryan Jin: If not, feel free to drop us an email, we can't. We're happy to connect us because we're few if any inquiries. The on the technology solutions or production service of Ryan Jin: Operate. So once again, thank you very much for everyone for attending to the sessions, and thank you, of course covenant. And how about on your shirt or your technology and solutions to help in the fight against quoted Ryan Jin: A right. Time flies. And as we come to the end of today equal last webinar sessions. Let's Ryan Jin: Give a round of applause to the presenters that audience and their own data center for making this Ryan Jin: Possible at the end a gentle reminder. At the end of this webinar, there'll be a service for for the audience to get fit back for Ryan Jin: Us to continue providing insightful equity webinar in future, so please follow us on LinkedIn patient. Join us live next Monday or the 30th July 3:30pm for the next Ryan Jin: Webinar Series discussion on public and private sources of funding for startup. Meanwhile, stay safe and be healthy. Thank you so much. And thank you, thank you again for all the speakers for sharing. Thank you and goodbye. Thank You. Bye. 