 Hello everyone this is Jules here thanks for joining us I hope you're all doing well. Well, I'm really excited to introduce you today to the myInvenio process mining solution that enables the digital transformation of an organization. First I'd like to give some background about the myInvenio company, introduce who we are, and explain what exactly process mining is, and its important role in driving digital transformation and robotic process automation or RPA. Then I'll give a demo of the myInvenio solution using a customer success story to see how myInvenio helped in the digital transformation of their organization. So let's begin. Let me start with the about who we are. The myInvenio company was established in 2013 we started from OT Group which is an Italian company established in 1996 with around 100 consultants that provides digital transformation and system integration services related to BPM, robotic process automation across banking automotive and fashion industries. This gives us over 20 years of experience in process management, system integration and digital transformation. Today we have more than 125 employees and we are continually growing. We are an international company. We have direct operations in the US, with an office in Boston, and we manage the European operations from Italy, and we also have direct sales representatives in the UK, France and Germany. We have an important partnership as well with one of the most prominent Japanese distributors from the Japanese market. The general availability of our core product the myInvenio process mining solution, became available in 2015 and that same year we were named Sample Vendor in the Hype Cycle for BPM. In 2016 we were named cool vendor in analytics by Gartner. In 2018 we moved from cool vendor to hot vendor for BPM thanks to Aragon Research. And as of 2018 we are a representative vendor in the market guide for process mining by Gartner. Here you can see some of our customers who have selected myInvenio as their process mining and digital transformation solution. Among them we have many leading Italian banks. And we've actually analyzed and deployed more than 50 processes in the banking industry. We also have a lot of success stories in the automotive and manufacturing sector, with companies like FCA Group, which is a worldwide automotive manufacturer, and Prysmian Group, which is an important cable manufacturer. We have success stories as well in the fashion industry with companies like Moleskine and Max Mara, and even with multi utility companies like Heracomm. We've created some really great partnerships worldwide. We have a technology partnership with Automation Anywhere who is a leader in our RPA. We're also partnered with a list of prominent management consulting firms like Deloitte, KPMG and Capgemini just to mention a few. And it's thanks to all of these partnerships that were able to deliver projects and distribute the myInvenio solution worldwide. We also participate in a project called Academic Alliance that aims to promote cutting-edge technology in the field of business process intelligence and to develop partnerships with universities all around the world. Here are some of the universities that we partner with, so students or academic staff members can learn about and get hands-on experience in process mining using the myInvenio solution. Alright let's begin on our route to innovation. In 2013, here at myInvenio, we had just completed a traditional business process management project, and we realized that we were constantly facing the same issues in all of our business process analysis projects. And these issues were creating a lot of limitations for us. For one, we didn't have a way to test out the changes that we wanted to make in the process before actually implementing them. And as a result, we were slow in making decisions and taking action because we couldn't understand the benefits we would be getting without having to reorganize the company first. We wanted a low-cost, fail-fast solution, and a way to simulate changes before implementation. But before all that we had to address the list of issues we kept encountering. Let's take a look at those issues. The first issue that we wanted to solve was process alignment, or in other words, what's the difference between the model of your process, how you expect your process to be and the real world, how your process really is. The second issue that we wanted to solve was process obsolescence and the cost of maintenance. What will the cost be in order to constantly keep the real-world process up-to-date with the model of our process? We then wanted to tackle the issue of how to cope with the speed of change, with the emerging stakeholders like AI, chatbots, RPA robots and so. On even if we did find a magic BPM solution that was able to address all of these issues, we had another question "how can you manage, analyze, and monitor what there is in your BPM landscape?" So, this was our list of issues that we couldn't solve with a traditional BPM solution, and we wanted to find the answers. We found our answers in process mining, and we created the myInvenio process mining solution. With process mining we can get information from all the different stakeholders of your organization like ERP, RPA, new technology like AI, bots, machine learning algorithms, CRM, BPM, Internet of Things, all of these, as well as, of course traditional stakeholders, like databases and flat files. With this data, we're able to provide you with an end-to-end process streamline. In this example from our solution, you can see an Order to Cash process where the first part is managed by Salesforce, the core is managed on SAP, and we've automated the last two activities, invoice and payment, by using the Automation Anywhere RPA solution. Now if you want to see what's happening with each single stakeholders such as Salesforce, they can already provide you the detailed analysis and monitor what's taking place for that stakeholder. But, if you want to analyze the entire end-to-end process streamlined behavior, like in our example you need a solution like process mining myInvenio. We believe the myInvenio solution is the process mining solution for an organization to discover and analyze, constantly monitor, and improve their business processes and drive digital transformation. We automatically discover the process from all company data and stakeholders, providing the end-to-end process streamline. We monitor process performance and compliance by identifying the best performers, happy paths, bottlenecks, critical activities and resources, deviations, and we perform root cause analyses. We identify process improvements, define the To-Be model, and simulate process savings, enabling informed decision-making in actions, allowing you to optimize your process. But myInvenio didn't want to stop here. We wanted to go beyond traditional process mining. We wanted continuous improvement, and a way to continuously monitor and test the result with a solution that's able to keep up with a new technology and a constantly changing market. In order to do this we would need to create a dynamic model of a process. We decided to become a Digital Twin of an Organization solution, or DTO solution. What takes myInvenio from being a traditional process mining solution to being a DTO solution is our capability to provide additional information that transforms your process model and to a really dynamic and precise model. Gartner defines Digital Twin of an Organization as "a dynamic software model of any organization that relies on operational and/or other data to understand its state, respond to changes, improve operations, and add value." So, in other words, a perfect digital copy of your process model that uses your current business data to always show you how your processes are now, and because it's a dynamic model, the ability to act quickly, implement changes relevant to the current market, and guarantee that you're adding value. Let's discover the journey that drives the transition from process mining to Digital Twin of an Organization. We start from process discovery. During this phase we identified the frequency of your process, the main path of the process. But we also want to analyze the manual activities, activities without a digital footprint. To do this we need a BPA platform that can add those manual activities to your dynamic model. And this can be done with myInvenio, using our Task Mining feature which is able to get user interaction data directly from a user desktop. The next step is to analyze the performance of your process, including related resources and roles inside of your organization. But we don't just want to analyze the performance and frequency. We also need to consider the costs, like business hours. And with myInvenio you can get this level of insight. Then we move on to business rules. Now, a standard process mining feature will derive the model of your process, and can tell you just the probability that you'll follow a specific path. myInvenio has a key differentiator here related to business rules that sets us apart from other process mining solutions. We have a feature called Decision Rules Miner that automatically derives business rules according to your business data, to tell you not only the probability but also why you're following a specific path. And with this insight you can create precise scenarios that you can later simulate, so that you aren't wasting time on implementing a change that isn't actually feasible. Next comes, the monitoring phase. With our conformance checking feature, we can compare the reference model that the organization provides as input with the real model derived from the data, identifying deviations and the weight of each deviation in terms of time and cost. We can constantly monitor your running processes with a real-time monitoring approach. We also provide predictive analyses which allow us to automatically identify the probability that your running processes will be late, or not aligned with your cost Key Performance Indicator. We're also able to suggest what next activities should be followed in order to reduce time and cost for the completion of the process. Onto automation, with myInvenio, we're able to automatically identify the level of automation and reworks, and identify the activities that provide the most ROI from an automation, and identify the level of automation. If you have an incremental rollout of your automation and digital transformation journey, it's important to constantly monitor the evolution of your automation level on your overall organization. Last but not least, myInvenio has a key distinctive feature called Simulation. We run a simulation of your To-Be process using our Simulation engine that lets you define What-If scenarios using the BPMN and Decision Rules Miner in order to identify the Return on Investment before moving forward with the implementation of your desired changes, in this way you can avoid the risk from implementing changes without knowing what benefits you'll be getting from the changes. Another key differentiator that sets us apart from our competitors is our Multi-Level Process Mining. Multi-Level Process Mining is a feature unique to myInvenio. So what is a Multi-Level Process? Well, not all processes have the same complexity. Some of your processes might have entities that contain many to many relationships. We call these Multi-Level Processes. An example of a Multi-Level Process is Procure-to-Pay. It has four different entities: purchasing, ordering, invoicing, and payment. These entities aren't always linear. They can occur at the same time, and activities within an entity might need to be repeated. If you have multiple invoices for a single order, you'll need to repeat certain activities for each invoice. Traditional process mining techniques fail to deal with data divergence and convergence issues that you so often find in a complex business process like P2P. As a result, these processes can't be analyzed correctly. In our P2P example, activities that need to be repeated for each invoice in a single order would be seen by a traditional process mining as rework when they really aren't rework at all, and the statistics would be biased and misleading. Multi-Level Process Mining solves this problem. It can map several derived processes within a single comprehensive model, providing in two end visibility on complex Multi-Level processes. Here we'll take a deeper look at what the myInvenio process mining solution and Digital Twin delivers in RPA projects. In a typical robotic process automation journey, you'll probably involve a management consultancy firm, and together define your priorities and objectives. Then you'll identify what you expect the savings to be, in terms of FTE, and overall costs related to your robotic process automation journey. After that you normally implement the robot and monitor the results. Process mining can take you a step further. With process mining we can automatically analyze the behavior of your process, your robot, and the end-to-end process streamline, so you can see the impact that your robots are bringing to the overall process. But myInvenio doesn't stop there. Thanks to the Digital Twin of an Organization and our Simulation feature, we're able to anticipate the ROI related to your RPA implementation. This Simulation is able to generate millions of cases that you can import directly into myInvenio and run the comparison between the As-Is and To-Be processes. This is especially useful if you want to automate multiple, like five or six activities, and you want to identify the Return on Investment before starting on your robotic process automation journey. So, to summarize, we can analyze the As-Is process, simulate the To-Be, identify ROI, implement your robot, and constantly monitor it. And all of these elements together is what provides an important enablement for your robotic process automation. We've created a precise Digital Twin, a dynamic model of your process to play with in order to make informed decisions and take action. So looking at the graphic here, you can see everything that myInvenio provides in blue compared with what you get without in the yellow. We've just seen how myInvenio works and, I'd like to again highlight the Key Differentiators that really make myInvenio stand out as a leader in process mining solutions and digital transformation. myInvenio provides your organization with a low-cost and fail-fast approach, which is of course the goal of your improvement initiatives. myInvenio's capabilities let you create a Digital Twin of your Organization, which is a precise and dynamic model of your process. We enable you to simulate the benefits from the changes you're going to apply to the process before moving forward with implementation, and so that removes any risk. We have a unique feature for Business Rule Mining that increases the accuracy of your decisions with the use of contextual data. And our level of analysis is quite profound thanks to tools like Multi-Level Process Mining that give you an accurate model of your complex processes. And it's once you have all of this information that you can really start to discover where the problems are, see what changes you can make, create your To-Be process, and transform your As-Is process to receive the benefits that you've simulated, and most importantly, be able to repeat these steps so that you can continuously discover, constantly monitor and optimize your business processes. The myInvenio solution provides you with the most comprehensive and advanced process mining solution and Digital Twin of an Organization, giving you a holistic approach for business process management, analysis, and improvement. Our Key Differentiators transform your process beyond what traditional process mining can offer, and we're leading the way in your organisation's digital transformation journey. Now that we've seen how myInvenio can guide an organization in their digital transformation journey, we'll move on to our customer success story and demo to see myInvenio in action. Today we'll see how myInvenio brings indispensable value to a Procure-to-Pay process from an automotive manufacturer. Here's a quick look at the company. They had over 100 billion euros in sales in 2017, and over 230,000 employees. And in 2019 they decided to analyze their P2P process using myInvenio. Thanks to our experience in the process mining landscape and, in specific, the analysis of P2P processes, we created a standard collection of dashboards with well-defined sets of insights that myInvenio is able to extract from the data analysis. These dashboards focus on five areas that have the biggest impact throughout a P2P process. Those areas are: maverick buying, deviations, automation, reworks, and cash discount losses. Using a low-cost and fail-fast approach we determined that by concentrating on these areas of the P2P process we can get the quickest and most impressive results in proving time and lowering costs. I'll be taking you through each of these areas. Before we started on this project, we talked to the company about their goals. They told us they wanted to analyze their As-Is process, monitor compliance, analyze performance, and have a clearer picture of their spend under management. We confirmed that their goals did in fact match our proposed, standardized dashboards and insights, so we knew immediately what we were going to focus on in this project. I'll be taking you through each of these five insights. But before we start with the process analysis, we wanted to get a forecast of the expected potential savings we could get with myInvenio. We have the P2P Expected Savings Calculator for this. We utilize the insights I mentioned, earlier maverick buying deviations, reworks, and potential for automation to identify the potential inefficiencies related to a series of average benchmarks that we've already obtained for Procure-to-Pay. In the case of this company, the lost cash insights isn't applicable, so we simply don't add in expected savings for this insight. We ask the client to give us just a few pieces of information that they already easily have access to without having to go through their data. You can see this information in the assumptions, so, average salary for the person that handles P2P, how often they believe they were making purchases outside of their policy, the total cost of those purchases, and the number of invoices. You simply enter in this information into the calculator to get your expected savings, and after you go through the whole process analysis with myInvenio, you'll be able to verify if the real potential savings in fact match what you expected to get from the Savings Calculator. Here's a quick overview of the project, starting from the company's business goals. Their data are coming from SAP, we can see the departments involved, which reference model we want, and the period of analysis with a number of invoices that we'll be analysing. Ok now it's time to see myInvenio in action. First, let's see how myInvenio is able to display the P2P process starting from the data extracted from the company's IT systems. In this case, the data are coming from SAP. We have standard scripts that are able to extract and transform the data automatically so that it can be analyzed with myInvenio. Thanks to its powerful algorithms, myInvenio elaborated the dataset and automatically mapped the streamlined P2P process. As you can see, a lean approach is used to represent the process. The rectangles represent the activities, the arrows point out the paths between the activities, and the colors and thickness of the arrows indicate their frequencies. In this project we're going to deep-dive into the process using one of our key differentiators, Multi-Level Process Mining. As I explained earlier, myInvenio Multi-Level Process Mining allows you to map several derived processes into a single comprehensive model and analyze them in one picture. Traditional process mining will take your four entities related to, purchasing, ordering, voicing, and payment, and analyze each one separately, as its own process. With a Multi-Level Process Mining we can provide that holistic view, analyzing all four entities in one end-to-end process, so that you can easily find correlations. You don't have to switch from analysis to analysis, and when you simulate a change in one entity, you'll immediately be able to see how it affects all the others. myInvenio is able to automatically discover the different path variants of your process. And by variant we mean the groups of cases that follow the same path. Here, the most frequent pathway, or variant, occurred 32.8% of the time during the period of analysis, and had an average lead time of 112 days and 21 hours. And each variant can be ordered by frequency or average lead time and drilled down for analysis. So now let's see where we have any bottlenecks. With a lean approach, myInvenio displays the most critical waiting queues within the process, indicated by the thickest arrows that you can see here. Between the activities Order Approved and Service Entry Sheet Registered, it takes on average about 71 days, or 156 days if the activity Order Changed has occurred. myInvenio's biggest value is its capability to discover specific insights and provide the expected savings when improving your process. Now we'll see how myInvenio does this with maverick buying. Maverick buying refers to any company or employee purchase that doesn't meet a company's purchasing policy. This includes off-contract methods of procurement, and also non-authorized purchases. Maverick buying makes the agreement with the supplier more expensive because the volume of the framework-agreement decreased or because the goods are purchased at too high a price. Following this broad definition of a maverick, myInvenio has developed two standard insights to help business analysts identify this kind of buying, order without a purchase requisition and invoice without in order. So first we'll find out which orders don't have a purchase requisition. In the order maverick dashboard, myInvenio displays the total number of orders without a purchase requisition. You can very easily check the most involved suppliers or purchasing groups, and also the resources that routinely work in this way. myInvenio also calculates the expected savings that the company can achieve by managing these orders according to their purchasing policy. Now let's find out which invoices don't have a purchase order. Well have a look at the segment maverick dashboard "Invoices without a Purchase Order". Okay, so with the same approach as the previous dashboard, myInvenio displays the total number of invoices that don't have a purchase order, allowing us to drill down through the vendor, purchasing groups, and resources. And just like before, you can see the expected savings. In the Deviations Monitoring Insight, we can monitor the cost of activities that are carried out when the process is not following the happy path, or the expected behavior. Here we can also discover the root causes and the impacts of those deviations. With the conformance checking feature, myInvenio highlights non-conforming activities in the process model. In this process, 12,500 cases, or process instances, were non-conformant with, on average, a lead time 19 days and nine hours longer than the lead time for conformant cases, and an average cost 16 euros higher per case than the cost for conforming cases. Here, you can also see a summary with statistics for conformant and non-conforming activities, and check the performance and cost of each deviation. You can even discover which are the main influencers of the deviation by viewing the Root Cause analysis. And for an overview of the cost of the deviations, myInvenio also provides you with the deviations cost monitoring dashboard. In this dashboard you can find a list of activities that were identified by myInvenio as deviations, with the total cost for each activity. And from this list you can quickly understand the impact of each deviation in terms of cost - the total cost of the deviations, and the expected savings after minimizing these deviations. In the Reworks Monitoring Insight, myInvenio monitors the cost of the activities that are executed more than once within the same case, so activities with at least one rework. So let's discover the reworks. A reworks view is provided in the process model, and again, using a lean approach, myInvenio displays the most reworked activities. On average, the two change activities "Item Price" and "Delivery Date" have the highest rate of rework. Now let's have a look at two more of myInvenio key differentiators: its capability to identify candidate activities for automation, and its capability to simulate What-If scenarios of our process. Thanks to myInvenio automation dashboard we can see a list with the cost of activities carried out by both humans, and robots, and that lets us quickly and easily identify where we're spending the most on human-based activities, and where we can get the greatest benefits by adding robots. Here we can see the two most expensive activities that haven't yet been automated are Order Approved and Invoice Registered. We decide that these would be good activities to simulate with robots. myInvenio Digital Twin of an Organization solution let's us generate a very precise process model thanks to the discovered BPMN and Decision Rules Miner, and that is what enables us to simulate future What-If scenarios of the process. So starting from the existing business data, the Decision Rules Miner extracts the business rules on each decision point of the process and adds them to the BPMN model which was already discovered before. Okay, so now we'll open up a new simulation scenario, and confirm it. Starting from this Digital Twin of the process, we can easily configure the scenario we want to simulate. We can configure our scenario by changing the number of human resources assigned to a specific activity, changing the expected processing time, adding bots, and even adding or removing activities. Once we configure the scenario we want to simulate, the BPMN automatically updates to reflect the changes we've made. myInvenio works like a time machine. It generates future instances of the process by creating a simulated event log. And this simulated event log can be compared with the data-derived model. myInvenio also looks for the expected Return on Investment. So let's have a look at our expected ROI. With Process Diff we can compare our simulation with our current process model to discover the potential benefits we can get from implementing these changes. We can compare the average lead time, total cost, and we can drill down on each activity to compare the expected reduction in lead time. After we execute a simulation, we can continuously monitor the automation trend. The automation dashboard provides you the distribution of human and robotic workload over time, allowing you to understand if the automation implementation is going according to plan. And in the Avoid Cash Discount Losses Insight, we're able to monitor the activity "Spend Under Management" to see if there are potential discount losses due to late payments. The "Spend Under Management" dashboard lets you monitor payments by simultaneously giving you an overview of the total amount that is paid on time or late, and the distribution of the payments among the vendors. So potential discount losses can be easily identified. Alright let's look at the final results myInvenio was able to tackle 500,000 euros worth of maverick buying, saved 55,000 euros from reducing deviations, saved 2,000 euros by reducing reworks, and drastically increased the automation level of the process. myInvenio improved the company's P2P business process, guided them through their digital transformation, and helped them save a total of 672,000 euros. Here is the breakdown, by insight, of the savings that myInvenio achieved in the Procure-to-Pay process use case shown in this demo. Thanks to its unique approach, myInvenio maximizes the value in Procure-to-Pay processes and enables you to save millions. All right thanks for watching our demo. I hope that you enjoyed it and that it was helpful for you. And now I'm going to hand the microphone back over to our sales rep. Thank you. Bye 