 Yes, everything is clear. Perfect, so thank you very much for the invitation and hello from sunny Turkey today and it's very good it's a privilege to be here with you talking on this important topic. Just quickly i'm part of this education technology company called Twin Science and Robotics and also I'm a volunteer and an advisor for an international educational NGO Young Guru Academy, YGA. Like United States, Covid19 has affected all of us in a similar way. Like schools are shut down and we see  that the gap in education become wider during this process. I mean within YGA we have been working with underserved children for the last 15 years. We design programs to develop their soft skills such as self-confidence curiosity for them to become more conscious people but we have to notice that it's not enough. In the last five years, we have shifted our focus to spark interest in science for these kids. Because we know that it's these children are the ones who will solve these problems. Like there are a lot of problems that can be solved by using technology and more innovative perspectives but we also need the hearts and brain work together for that. Otherwise you'll not know that the people who created gas chambers and the bombs in the wars, they were scientists. They were very capable people. But the one who works together with heart and brain then they make the difference. And within that SDGs give a perfect framework like all of them are like very noble goals they're perfect missions to pursue but the question arises are who will solve these problems? I mean we are part of the problem as our generation. And also hopefully we are becoming the part of the solution. But it's actually the next generations with these competencies and the consciousness who will solve them. Therefore what started as an social responsibility project turned into an edtech startup that focuses on this heart division. We like to empower children through science and encourage them to solve the problems. So just in a nutshell, we produce education technology products and contents. We have physical robotics and coding kits and also in digital applications for hands-on learning. And I just wanted to share how from an educational technology company perspective how we responded to this covid19 period. So in, I think it's in a similar time frame. In March the schools were closed in turkey. So we, in one week, we designed and launched a program to continue these live online free youtube class classes in Turkey. And we see a huge interest from children and also from the families and we started this in turkey in March and like in the first session there were 50000 kids watching it so there was a huge interest because also families were looking up alternatives to check to what to do to spend the quality time with the children. And in April we took it on a global level. We are partnering with Imperial College in London and in order to spark and keep the children's interest we started this STEM Quest Show that we have hosted many students many co-hosts from all over the world. There is a short video i would like to show you. So like this we had more than 80 live sessions and during the start of this Covid19. And we are still continuing doing the process. We have, you know created maybe more than 100 hours of live classes on coding, robotics on the curriculum of the relevant age group but we noticed that live classes are just one part of the equation. We need more interactivity we need more hands-on learning. That's why we developed a mobile application called Twing and we give them we give the children fun scientific challenges that are aligned with SDGs. So for example in the one in the picture you see in the live sessions we mentioned about the SDG6 like clean water and sanitation., what's the problem there and the facts in the world. Then we want the kids to go into the application and this is also free by the way to complete a challenge there and the challenge is done via materials that they can find at home. And they can easily see how they can purify the water using these you know a napkin and two glasses. So there, where we see the children are starting to really understand the concept and it's a social platform so it's a huge part that children engage when they see other children post videos and they commented on each other and they get inspired from each other and of course there is another group who are really underserved. And don't have the internet access we accept we reach out to them with these physical science kits and like we started the science at home campaign and it was you know we reached out to 1500 students here and we not only sent the kids but also designed a specific curriculum. So that they are not left behind from their school. I mean the most important thing in this effort is to make sure we have the right impact . So we are working with like IPSOS some independent  evaluation company. We saw that our double wing approach really helps. So in one side the children comes up real competent solutions to real life you know problems such as they come up with smart cities, safe school cars, like mart farming solutions. And by doing so they gain empathy they gain more awareness about the problems. So that's what we want to keep both in physical and in digital of course as you know digital it's harder but now after this period finishes we will run another impact analysis and see how we can develop this one. And this is what i would like to share So thank you very much. 