 I'm ready to give to the next one the steps And everyone taking their role I want to be a grandfather now I will talk to you about digital transformation The revolution that... we call the "4th Industrial revolution" And a portion of that is a proccess, a time process that we call... "Digital Transfromation" And we will see what it has to tell us And I think to see some history things About 120 years ago, around 1900 Lord Kelvin, an English Mathematician... said -"Things that are not measured, cannot be improved" You will ask me -"Why is that so important?" Some other guy called Karl Pearson an English mathematician who said -"Those that can be measured, can be improved" And if we think about it Everything that we can monitor... how it behaves We can measure it We can improve it and he emphasised... that those that can be measured then their improvement can be significant An American businessman called John Terrans a contemporary investor in a great company wrote a book "Let's measure what's important" which was a best seller And he also said He gave out some objectives the "OTRS" the strategic objectives of a company and the key results Compare the key results of the activity of a company with the objective goals that are said And then we can draw conclusions For the philosophy here in this slide We have a doctor from Cambridge called David Menon who said... "It's worth doing great things that can be measured... and not those that can be measured to make them great" He is talking about hypocrisy here We can understand that So, in the digital reality that we face and each one of us has experienced it in the house, in the job, in entertainment, everywhere because of the high velocity that technology is evolving So, everybody knows that the computing power... is running... is getting higher... and the storage capacity, too We used to talk about a hard drive with 5 MB And today it can only contain one photo We are talking about means of production which in a business environment equipped with sensors We have technology and means that give us... the flexibility of receiving validating measurements We can validate them We can validate that those measurements... are real and they are not fiction or false alarms and we can use them for the process of the circle of information like high data transfer range... wire and wireless networking... dynamic data processing with artificial intelligence... mechanical learning and vision All these measurements can be measured with all these means we have So, maybe the theory of John Dare is demolished And measure whatever can be measured because everything is important and critical because the information from the measurements and the means of production... is critical And we can say that all of them... have the same importance... and value It doesn't matter if its parameter is more important It's one thing that covers all the process... with the artificial intelligence and we have conclusions By measury, we can improve the operating condition... of every mean individually... and we increase the efficiency of the production line... as a whole So, let's see what is digital transformation It's digital technology where it can be intergrated and used in daily lives with the philosophy and the ethics in all operational segments of a company in production, in sales, in storages, wherever and it will bring a substation change in company and it will benefit the clients The key features are that the company need to adapt ... really quick... on going developers which happens really hardly right now and we know that if someone starts using something and we give him something new he feels uncomfortambe to go to the new one There are more flexible people when they see something new they want to try it out This should happens to businesses as well So, we can have the ability with digital means... to test things with low cost There are some logics and some concepts... such as simulation You will hear the sense "Digital Twin" We want to create something? We make his relative digitally We test it And we check if we should do the project or not In that way we save money, time, effort The digital era will help us... because it data everything and we can learn from our failures If a machine works and see it works nobody now if it has bad timing or problems which will come up in future If we gather data and we analyze them and they are true Then we can analyze and solve those problems and the company and everyone can win What we request is more efficient and safer process of... decision making at all levels of administration and controlling the implementation the whole process the implementation of the decision because if we give an order and we don't control the implementation... is better to not give that order at all We told that in the army That's also true for the industry There is not set solution in market... of the digital transformation The digital transformation as a solution... is like a suit that need to be tailored in company's measures The same solution that we implemented and developed ... can't be used in a different unit even if they are the same There are always differences So if we want to go to the digital transformation era we need to find sollutions which will be tailored in our own measures... be developed in the logic and parameters of the company Today the digital transformation is a baby but if we run with it we will go even higher in great percentages Right now in U.S.A it is between 20-25% in Europe it is from 2% to 17% Great Britain is in the front line with 17% That's why they did brexit Germany is second with 12% In Grecce we are below 2% and that percentage is the early adopters who want to intergrate and make the next step... before anyone else So, the transition process from the current state... will create a new significant state than the current one but it demands effort, time, money it needs a transition plan, a great one You know that the better the plan is... the easier and cheaper the implementation is And, of course, we will consulting support specialists who know how to take you from... the one position and re-position And we can paraphrase Aristotle the friend of Mr. Economides who said that... -"The roots of education are bitter, but the fruits are sweet" The effort of digital transformation is bitter by all sides but the fruits will be too sweet So, designing the digital transformation transition we will take some steps In every business, like we said before because the parameters are different because the size, the orientation, the competitiveness the situation, the "want" and the musts of every business are different So, the designing must be different With great respect and caution we have to analyze everything in the strategic goals... of a company the endogenous and exogenous parameters... that govern and affect their course and then we can plan That planning need to captive the current fuction... the current situation with as much detail to identify the major and the minor changes we want to implement the priorities the timetable which is the most important thing based on which everything go around it will have the where, who, what, when, how, why preparation of the personel which is evolved and that's mostly the number one... the costing of the actions and what we always do in every project a risk management plan It is not in fashion but we didn't use it so far This plan is necessary and gives a lot It's not lost time So, our target from digital transformation... is a continuous and a consistant flow 24 hours, 7 days the week So, by using the platform of the industrial internet of things "IIOT"... we can take measurements of every mean and translate them into data Then, turn those data into information and analyze this information to produce conclusions With these conclusions take knowledge which will enable us to diagnose and predict In that way we will know the situation of all means which is very important and the results of the production not only what they produce but also what produced Two seagments, this one for the company culture which is the number one it needs everybody to understand the digital capabilities... and skills that will come about Everyone needs to understand that... we should rapidly go from one chapter to another There is the new version of software in ERP We need to do it immediately We can't let her because we will have problems Too many problems for many reasons Constant learning of the personel... to understand that the digital transformation is... not only a matter for the engineers which is common in a business This is wrong The digital transformation is not only for the engineers... or technicians but it's a matter for everyone from the first one, the president to the last one who serves the company The philosophy of everything that is measured and important, can be improved must be taken into account The company must show to everybody that in the medium to long term benefits will arrise and should all be accomplices, shareholdres, comrades and everyone should be on board for the benefits Apart from the culture, the human resources... should be a team that will work on the transition with basic and special training... the manager, the executives and the personel... should provide periodic training and everyone participates in relevant events With all that we can take the industry in a different level The company and the environment will not be the same Nothing will be the same with this situation and it will be better The company will classified among a modern operating This is very important when we have export activities or collaborations with abroad Everyone takes it into account and it is good quality in favor of the company everything will work digitally Digital transformation with the support of artificial intelligence... will have answers for everything and immediately And this is very important So we are very careful on the culture which will be developed by the administration and will insist on working with it or have it as a base but also the management of things by staff There will be some certain fuctional characteristics that more or less everybody knows about but I have to tell you something I am among the eldest ones in computing science since 1977 I worked a lot with computing science... since I was in the army I saw lot of things After 22 years in a high technology company I cannot accept what I hear... that we have computing system in company Most of them have not got computing system They just have a network and they just connect computer and peripheral Computing system menas a lot of things I think that the most people understand that At least the relative ones Some others don't understand it And there is a lot of companies which I think that they understand the difference... but they don't want to go further with this Nothing like that must happen with digital transformation We should carefully go to those steps that be asked It will help us in too much It will help us do things that we don't imagine The circle of command planning I gather information, I plan I choose ways to do, decision making, giving orders... to happen what I decide and then I check This is a circle of information It is very important and with digital transformation... it will happen faster, safer, more efficiently and it will be documented because... we will have all the information There are 3 more slides that they show the profits at the technical levels... in managerial and administrative levels Early situation warning for everything Alert! Alarm from a parameter of a machine that something is going wrong There is an alarm, the person in charge will go The problem will not get bigger We will hit if in its foundation, so less cost More efficient planning and implementation... of predictive maintain Everything will be in situation that anyone can dispute or refuse that will follow Faster process and fully documented in productive We will have fast and efficient intervasion... to repair every damage and try that it is effective We will have longer lifespan of the machines which we use for production and this saves us funs and effort And with all these we will reduce the sudden situations and then we don't know what to do and those who have hair will pull them I predict it and saved it And most of all the after sale supports We will have better technical support for the costumers In terms of management Unified programming of activities will help us to... improve the utilization of our resources It will be better to use what we can If we can plan We will make easier inventory checks the fixed, the available e.t.c. Fully schedule of supplies with full stock view something that everyone has a problem Everything that has a financial impact... can be monitored with one click direct support to budget and account management e.t.c. Finally, more efficience internal operation because everything will be viewed, monitored Anyone can dispute them And especially the one who works and the manager, the forerunner Reduction of eurocrasy, security and mobility of data Classical things that will come of Increased management ability of company crisis... and quality system support which will happen because of the documentation of data The management will take right decision e.t.c. Digits One and zero Everyone who brought them in our lives... was very significant, eventually With one and zero the mechanics can contact Can we? We use to make tobacco then something else then the swords, the cars e.t.c. I think that with one and zero we forgot everything And we go to the moon and further I have to say that the digital technology... is here and will stay We have to understand this It will ve evolved continuously So, we should learn how to adapt The second is that digital reality will shape... new situations and unlimited possibilities for innovation and antagonism Innovation is the basis, antagonism the produced We want extroversion Extroversion abroad or interior It is the same thing There is antagonism For some businesses is a solution for survival but the most of them it must be the top strategic priority Thank you for listening to me Allow me to say one more thing I am in Trikala I want to express my gratitude for the timeless effort That has done... The municipality of Trikala? Trikala? I think that it is the municipality of Trikala To be called "e-Trikala" and not unfair Thank you very much 