  MARCIA DAY CHILDRESS: Thank you. Good afternoon, welcome to the Medical Center Hour. I'm Marcia Day Childress. The Center for Biomedical Ethics & Humanities is my home here. And it's also the organizational unit that we produces the Medical Center Hour. Last spring, in a program on patients with passports, we focused on the ethical and legal dimensions of so-called medical tourism, as when US citizens travel abroad for medical care, usually at a reduced cost to them or their insurer. One physician who attended that session made a quick play on our title and suggested that we might address a similarly vexing topic. What are of US hospitals, clinics, and safety organizations to do about patients without passports? In other words, about providing medically appropriate care to undocumented immigrants. So now, in a season rife with political rhetoric about illegal immigration, but also with real concerns about how institutions, communities, and governments should best respond, we bring you "Patients Without Passports, Challenges of Caring for the Undocumented." Nancy Berlinger is a research scholar at the Hastings Center and co-director of that esteemed bioethics think tank's current project on undocumented patients. She joins us to explore some of the ethical, practical, and policy dimensions of health care access for this vulnerable population. Following Professor Berlinger's presentation, UVA Emergency Medicine physician David Burt will offer some comments grounded in his everyday experience of trying to care for undocumented immigrants here in Charlottesville and central Virginia. You'll find more information about both speakers in your handout, including the fact that neither has any financial conflicts of interest. We're grateful to the Institute for Practical Ethics and Public Life here at UVA for being our partner in offering "Patients Without Passports." Nancy Berlinger, welcome. NANCY BERLINGER: Thank you Marcia, thank you everyone for making the time to talk about this issue. Can you all hear me? Terrific. Since this is an issue that affects health care professionals and members of society in many different ways, I'm just wondering, how many of you are medical students? OK. Nursing students? Any other kind of student? And what would that be, social work? AUDIENCE: Public health. NANCY BERLINGER: Public health. Excellent. Fantastic. Any other students? Great. And how many of you are clinicians, are professional clinicians? So doctors, nurses, nurse practitioners, social workers. Anyone else? OK, that's a good selection of people who are likely to face this issue in a safety net health care system. So what I wanted to do was first to get us into the topic so we can get to discussions. This is a very discussion-friendly topic. I thought we would start with a few demographics about our population, comparing the US in general to Virgina in particular. And my sources for the demographics are two very esteemed research institutions on this issue, the Pew Center, which on all of these issues are free and publicly available on the web. And also Migration Policy Institute, which has fantastic state-by-state breakouts. So there is about 11.3 million undocumented immigrants in the United States, according to the very careful reports that Pew publishes every year. And that's less than 4% of the US population. So when we talk about the 11 million, that number has been stable for about 10 years. The high point of undocumented immigration to the United States was in 2006, so fully 10 years ago. Very important when you are reading different kinds of reports or allegations about surges or increases. There are sometimes changes, fluctuations. For example, we have seen unaccompanied minors from Central America crossing at different times over the past few years in response to violent conditions in their home countries. And being in a particular refugee category, particular asylum seeker category. But in the main, what we're talking about are economic low-wage migrants who are coming to this country, usually from a poorer country, to seek employment where there is employment for them. So these are economic systems that tend to benefit more than one country. In the United States, most of this population is from Mexico or Central America. This can break quite differently in different parts of the country. I live in New York City. An undocumented immigrant may be from Mexico, may be from Central America, may be from China. We have a very large Chinese undocumented population. May be from the Caribbean, may be from many other parts in the world. There was a very recent Pew report out on upticks in African and Afro-Caribbean immigration , including undocumented immigration, with the result that it was interesting about one's profile of a typical undocumented immigrant is beginning to shift in some cases. There was an interesting article in the Atlantic recently. It was an interview with an Afro-Caribbean undocumented student who said, a lot of the college programs assumed that you were going to be Latina, assumed that you were going to be Spanish speaking. And she was trying to figure out where she fit with that. So that's why it's interesting to read both the demographic literature and also this more experiential literature. And the New York Times, the Atlantic, and the New Yorker do great reporting on this particular issue. As I mentioned, this is a stable population, marginally an employed and a fairly young population. At least four million children who are citizens, who are born in the United States, have undocumented parents. So that type of family situation is typically called a mixed-status family. And they also include undocumented teens or younger adults, the dreamer generation, who were brought here as young children. Some of them have DACA status, Deferred Arrival-- what does the A in DACA mean? Anyway, Deferred-- I cannot remember what that second a means. Oh well. DACA mean that they have a state of deportation and different action, different action on childhood arrivals-- that there's a state of deportation. They are eligible for work permits, they're eligible so for certain other benefits, but it is not path to citizenship. In some states, a very small number of states, it means they have access to state funded Medicaid. But not in this state, and not in the majority of states. So the type of jobs that undocumented immigrants work in are often what are called dirty work, physically demanding jobs in construction, high rates of occupational injuries, farm work-- anything to do with food. From agriculture, to livestock, to slaughterhouses, to working in restaurants, and so on you are going to find undocumented labor. Cleaning, landscaping, childcare, elder care, casual work environments, people working as vendors, people working in sweatshops. Probably many other professions, those would be the ones that you consistently see. You have quite the mix in Virginia, I should add, both of the undocumented population, and in the work mix relative to other states. I've presented on this topic in North Carolina, and even though it's right next to Virginia that's quite a different profile. The undocumented population in North Carolina is largely Mexican or Central American. And I was interested to find that, according to a recent study from the Migration Policy Institute, the undocumented population in Virginia is more mixed. You have a very significant Asian population, African, and really from any region of the world that is populated by people is represented in your undocumented population. This may have to do with the fact of your proximity to Washington, DC, because there is an undocumented population in Washington as well. And that part of Virginia would be captured in your statistics. So when undocumented people get sick, they are going to come to a safety net facility. Academic medical centers, public hospitals, public clinics, and nonprofit clinics that are sometimes known as FQHCs are likely places where clinical professionals, including students on different sorts of rotations, are going to meet this population. So undocumented immigrants are not lawfully present under US law. That would be-- they're sometimes called ineligible. You see language like ineligible alien or something like this, very technical language. But because they're not lawfully present, they are ineligible for the nearly all federally funded public benefits. This is actually was a somewhat unintended consequence of welfare reform 20 years ago because there were many restrictions put on the use of federal funds. One of the categories that was excluded was, well, if you're not lawfully present, you definitely ought not to qualify for things. So if kind of squeezed the undocumented population, and also the resources available to caregivers. So that means that federally funded benefits would include Medicaid, the main public insurance for low-income people, Medicare for older people, and also certain disabled populations and certain diagnostic populations. The Children's Health Insurance Program, the ACA, the Affordable Care Act insurance subsidies, and access to private insurance would be limited because of the type of jobs that undocumented immigrants do. They may not be jobs where you get insurance. Some undocumented immigrants do have insurance. They might get it through their job, they might belong to a labor union. But you can see that the type of casual work, the person who is working as a day laborer, probably isn't going to be getting. They're not going to get paid time off, or any time off. And they are not going to have insurance through their job. This doesn't mean that no public money can be used on behalf of this population. So one mistake would be to suggest that they can't get anything. And that's one of the things that clinicians who work in the safety net have to know about is whether the restrictions work, but where is this population included and why. So there are federal mandates concerning access to emergency treatment. And the [INAUDIBLE] EMTALA, which is the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act, which dates to 1986 provides for medical screening of anyone who presents in an emergency room. So that would be any hospital with a community emergency room. Some hospitals don't have emergency rooms. Some may have chosen to close them, but that would include public hospitals and a typical academic medical center. So any patient who presents at an emergency room has to be screened. And if found to be suffering from an emergency condition-- and the definition of that is usually life-threatening, risk of bodily dysfunction, severe pain-- must be treated until stable, or if they're in labor, treated until the baby is born. So states have mechanisms, have created mechanisms called the Emergency Medicaid Mechanisms where a hospital that has admitted a patient for emergency treatment under EMTALA finds, through the financial review process, that this patient is not insured. The state can then apply on behalf of this patient for reimbursement under the fact that, I followed the law, I gave this person emergency treatment. I found that they were uninsured. Can I get cost recovered here so I'm not doing this out of my charity care dollars? But states can define these programs as they see fit. Some states use emergency Medicaid in much more liberal ways than others. Others, it's strictly what comes through the emergency room. So it's good to have an idea, whether it's the state you're being trained in now or the next state you work in, look through the Medicare manual-- Medicaid manual I should say. Look up emergency Medicaid. It's written in very bureaucratic language often, but it's good to have and idea of what is covered. And maybe someone will have written a sort of fact sheet so you can understand what it is. But that is a mechanism that hospitals are familiar with using to cover care for uninsured patients, not just undocumented patients. Their access to public clinics and not-for-profit clinics would be covered under block grants often from the Department of Health and Human Services or other sources that are meant to provide access for people who have difficulty accessing primary care. So this would be other low-income populations, the homeless, people with diseases of addiction, people with psychiatric conditions, people who move around a lot and find it difficult to maintain a relationship with a medical home. So undocumented immigrants would definitely be very familiar to primary care providers as well. But their access to diagnostic specialties, sub-acute, chronic, palliative, and hospice care is severely limited to non-existent. I should also add pharmacy. Because our medical lives, our health lives, are not lived with primary or emergency as the only two problems we ever have. So if you can imagine the situation of a person, for example, who is undocumented, has end-stage renal disease. Normally, that is covered by a quote "universal Medicare entitlement" that was lobbied for by nephrologists decades ago with the idea that people deserved access to this particular technology so that they could survive until a transplant. This has now become a chronic care system, and you see many dialysis facilities everywhere in the United States because there is this built in way to pay for it. But if you're not lawfully present, and that's a federal program, you are not going to be able to access it. And this is a problem, because how would an undocumented person with end-stage renal disease be treated if they can't be dialyzed three times a week in a scheduled facility? How would that happen? They would have to go to the emergency room where their potassium levels are very high. By this point, they have a terrible symptom burden. They have terrible shortness of breath, they have terrible nausea. They are at higher risk of death. They will dialyzed emergency, there will be a hospitalization. And this will have to happen every single week, or they will die. So if you hang out with nephrolgists, emergency medical personnel, hospitalists, dialysis social workers-- they will be very familiar with this problem. This is a national problem, and the symptom burden experienced by these patients has begun even be noticed in the palliative care literature-- that we are tolerating pain and symptoms that we would otherwise say would be medically inappropriate. We would say, what are you doing? Why aren't you managing this patient? So that's one challenge that's very difficult. Other challenges, cancer treatment, hepatitis C-- where the standard treatment is not financially attainable, even though the medical, how you would wish to proceed, the medical standards, would be pretty clear. Citizen children of undocumented patients are less likely to be enrolled in child health insurance programs, even though they're eligible for it, in part because their parents, not unrealistically, fear presenting themselves to any perceived authority, perceived of being out about their undocumented status. In part also because their parents work a lot of hours, don't have time off to attend to health care needs. So if you work in a primary care setting, if a parent is coming in with one child, you're trying to get care for as many people as possible during that visit because not sure when this family will be able to come in again. You can imagine if the family are migrant workers and they're following a crop. They are not going to cared by one person all the time. They may have to go to-- the next stop may be in another state. Children are also likely less likely to receive well-child health care compared to other immigrants, and compared to children of citizens. So there is a knock on effect of your parents being undocumented. This has also been tracked in the education research as well. It's harder for your parents to go to parent-teacher conferences if they don't share a primary language with the teacher. But it's even harder if you're undocumented, in part because of your fear of disclosure. But in part because you just do not get any time off, if you're working in a sweatshop, say. You can't just step up and take a phone call. So these are just some of the realities of what it's like to be a social citizen who is undocumented. The Obama administration's executive action of 2012, June 2012, authorizing deportation relief for child arrivals-- this is DACA-- did not directly create access to health care or health coverage. What it did do, the reason why some states are now using Medicaid to cover this population, is because it put those with deportation really into an immigration category called PRUCOL. And if you have a PRUCOL status, you are eligible for state funded Medicaid, a state has discretion to give that. So it gets very technical. But if you're a social worker or case manager, you're probably familiar with this. And that's why it's always important to find, if you are not the person who is situated to be knowledgeable about this, to find the person who is capable of being-- as one of the best clinical ethicists I know, Tia Power at Montefiore in the Bronx says, a ninja social worker. You need someone who understands these rules and regs because immigration is very complicated. And sometimes what happens, when you have a patient who is presumed undocumented, in fact they do fall into a category where you can get them Medicaid or other coverage. So it's very, very important. Maybe they're a refugee, for example, and there's an asylum claim, and they're under a different provision. So very important to do a very careful, knowledgeable social service work-up of these patients. So what are some of the ethical challenges that professionals or near professional students may face? How should I aim to provide good care to patients who are known or assumed to be undocumented? Assumed might be a patient appears to be low income but does not have a Medicaid card. It may be a language issue, there might be sort of a sense in terms of the patient's reluctance to give identifying information. Practitioners who are used to caring for this population tend not to ask a lot of questions because they're afraid the patient will leave because of their reluctance to give up identifying information. People may also be concerned about another person in their household. The patient in front of you may not be undocumented, but maybe there's an undocumented spouse or other person living in their household. And they're afraid if they give a phone number it's going to trigger problems. How should I respond to my moral intuitions, my gut sense of right or wrong about these patients? Is it appropriate or inappropriate to think of some patients as more or less deserving than others-- or less to blame for their situation? I urge you to think about that because these are all resource allocation problems. We don't have endless resources for health care. We never will. The richest person in the world doesn't have endless resources for health care. And in this situation, when you're dealing with a vulnerable population, who is innocent? And if it's competing with resources-- with other vulnerable population, other uninsured populations in our system. And they are, to some extent, at the mercy of how any of us think about their situation. Do I think of undocumented immigrants as, oh my gosh, this is going to be a time suck filling out all that paperwork? Or wow, they're so grateful compared to this psychotic patient who I find really difficult and is really abusive, da, da, da, da. And the problem is those little gut checks about right or wrong can introduce bias into these interactions. I remember once presenting on this topic to a group of social workers at a very prestigious medical center, and who said there was a presumption that their institutions had endless resources. And the medical staff had sort of said to the social worker, well I sure you can find something. And they would say, oh, that's the MSWS miracle social worker. I can't conjure a health care system reform out of thin air. But there was this idea of you's failed if you can't magically get our system to fund health care for this family that I've taken a liking to, or something like that. So this could create-- you can see tensions within a team or tensions across shifts, especially at discharge if it's hard to figure out how this patient could get appropriate medical care after their discharge. When is being a good advocate required? That can turn into, is it OK if I bend the rules for somebody, maybe hold back what I think I know about their immigration status, or try to write them into eligibility for an emergency provision when it really isn't an emergency? And what are the ethics of that? Because what about the next person who comes in who needs a crack at those resources too? And ought the system not put this on my back? Ought safety net organizations and deal with, frankly, with their safety net mission and say, OK, let's not make this up to doctor, nurse, social worker dujour to be our moral arbiter. Let's try to figure out. Let's put some fair rules on resource allocation. And how should professionals work across disciplines to solve complex care problems, with all the time constraints that you face? And I think when we hear from your clinical colleague a bit later, we're going to maybe hear some practical examples of how people can work together on these difficult cases. I just want to mention discharge planning. Because undocumented patients are frequently uninsured, they face immense difficulties in securing needed post hospital medical and nursing care. When they have insurance, it often isn't very good insurance. Because of their broad ineligibility for Medicare, the big funder of long term care-- for Medicaid and Medicare which might fund some short-term services. So a very fine discharge [INAUDIBLE] right now, one of those ninjas, will say, you know, when I'm working to discharge a patient from my hospital, and I'm getting a lot of pressure from the bed czars clear that bed. Because this is now an expensive patient who doesn't need to be in hospital, we're not getting any more support from emergency Medicaid for this patient. It doesn't help me to look at this is an undocumented problem. I look at it as an un-insurance problem, and that helps me not to stigmatize this population. I'm saying, OK, our society decided not to give you insurance, just like somebody else doesn't for whatever reason somebody presents without insurance. But the first thing I have to do is find a stable platform to give you the services you need. What I can do to get you that? Can I lean on a hospice, of lean on a home care agency to say, hey, you've got charity car obligations. I have a patient here. What can we work out? Hospice is another one of those universal benefits funded by Medicare that is inaccessible to this population. They can receive hospice services, but their reimbursement will not work through Medicare. So they have to be taken as a charity care patient. A hospice could refuse to do that. They could say, we don't have enough money for that. So at end of life, or when a person is in severe pain, they are often very dependent on hospital-based palliative care services. And the references, the suggested reading have some very poignant stories about these very difficult cases. So another thing that comes up is not just the list of things that I mentioned, your skilled nursing care, medical supplies, like diabetes test strips. Even to maintain yourself as a chronically ill person, you don't have a way to pay for things that a person that a similarly economically situated person on Medicaid would be able to pay for. So doctors, and nurses, and social workers can frequently face problems where they say, I'm telling someone what they to do, what they ought to do. And I know they don't have the money to do it. Because this is a population who is going to pay for their rent. And then, they're going to pay for the remittance, because the reason they're here is to send money back home. To support themselves here, maybe to secure their family here, but also to send money back home. And there's no disposable income. And over and over I hear from doctors in different states say, this population is really poor, really, really poor. They have very little money. And they tend to be very, very grateful for the fact that we're helping them. I remember when doctors say, sometimes they're too grateful. They're not critical enough of our system. But we work it out as we can. But also, this population may not have people at home to help them after their discharge. So the idea of family caregivers may not be a reality if you're a single man who's doubled up with many other people in the same household and has just an occupational injury, and need some home care and needs some rehab. I may not be feasible if you have two parents who work and have young children. So the family dynamics can be quite different. So organizationally, what the obligations safety net to its community. A few questions that might be helpful for those of you who wear administrative hats as well as clinical hats. Is it efficient to force health care professionals to plead with administrators. That's a word that doctors and nurses use. We bang on doors. We plead for medically appropriate resources case by case. Or when it's clear [INAUDIBLE] a population lives in this community and is going to be served by this community, what resource allocation decisions should be faced foreseeably. So just say this is going to come up regularly. Let's have an organized way of dealing with this. So Doctor X or Nurse Practitioner Y doesn't have to go in to ninja advocate mode every single time, or do bedside rationing and say, well, I want to help you because you're nice. Or I want to help you because you're a mom. Or I've decided you take too much time, so I'm not going to support you. When the undocumented patient cannot be discharged safely, the hospital will retain this patient at high cost to the facility, which can also block access for another person. So that can be a justice problem. How should safety net hospitals plan for and manage these situations, which really do tend to come to the attention of administrators because cost can be very, very high? Under what conditions is medical repatriation, paying to send a person back to their home country, their country of origin, acceptable. And when is it in-acceptable? There are situations where a patient will say, I want to go home. I can no longer work here. Maybe they're near the end of life, or they've been disabled, and they are consenting to it. But is it ever when the person cannot consent? How is that consent working if the person who is consenting is a surrogate in the home country? Or when you really are not sure into what medical conditions this person will be transferred into. Also, one problem that has been mentioned in the primary care sector is that sometimes a hospital discharge plan will suggest that an FQHC or a clinic will magically have resources that probably the person in the hospital knows that they don't have. Like let's say the person has cancer. There isn't an oncologist at a primary care clinic. So it's a kind of turfing of a problem from a hospital to the always under-resourced primary care sector. And the likelihood is that patient is going to keep coming back to the emergency room. So how can organizations, or institutions I should say, a safety net health care hospital, and an FQHC, which is a different nonprofit-- these are not part of the same organization-- how can they collaborate with each other as a type of organization as is happening in many major cities right now? In New York City, in LA, in San Francisco, now in Chicago they just announced this the other day-- where hospitals and primary care clinics are sort of forming as networks with health departments to care for this population. Basically to care for the residually uninsured population. But obviously the undocumented population is a big percentage of that. And everyone is interested in some of these efforts, and I've worked on the one in New York and advise the one in Chicago, I'd be happy to talk about that. A lot of the action around this is at the local level, and to some extent at the state level, because there's a stalemate at the national level. We can't magically change Medicare and Medicaid rules, and we can't magically fix the immigration system. But there is leverage at these other levels, and indeed within the social safety net itself. Hospitals can make resource allocation rules. So again, some of these I've already mentioned. In terms of C-suite level leadership challenges or chief medical, chief nursing officer, how should administrators and leaders of safety net organizations undertake to learn about the problems of access affecting members of their community? How should these problems be prioritized and addressed relative to other low income populations? What if in the same city you have an undocumented population, and you have refugee resettlement from Syria going on? Or maybe you have a lot of patients who are dealing with the consequences of the opioid epidemic. You've got a lot of different things going on. How do you prioritize this? It isn't by saying one is more deserving than the other, but it has to be dealt with in a multidisciplinary way with perspectives from the clinicians as well as from administrators. How should safety net organizations support the front line clinician who is grappling with that individual complex case, that patient who is sicker than they should be because medically appropriate care cannot be provided? How should safety net organizations engage with other sectors-- dialysis, hospice, rehab, diagnostics-- to provide better care in the community for undocumented patients? This is very challenging because some of these are for-profit providers. Some of them do not view themselves as safety net providers. But they may be where the resources are. And how do you engage with state and local policymakers around these issues? When you go to Richmond, when you go to Washington with your legislative agenda and say these are our priorities, how do you talk about an issue that can be very politically polarizing and hard to talk about? And yet, it represents part of your bottom line. So that's an issue as well. So a couple of suggestions. I know we don't have too much time, but I'm just going to run through these quickly. In the admittedly imperfect system we have-- and this is geared toward case manager-- but anyone at discharge planning could be a case manager. The hospitalist, the social worker, the nurse all play a role in safe and effective discharges. So one is making sure you're reaching out to primary care to make sure that any referral can be a good referral, and that you're not just sort of turfing the patient along. Collaborating with immigrant advocates in the community is incredibly important because the advocates in the grassroots organizations maybe with the trusted resources in information about health care. Go to UVA. They won't as you a lot of questions. Go to UVA. They're pretty good at Spanish. Whatever is being passed along, that's probably how you're getting these referrals. So it's important to have good, trustworthy ties. And to hear from the advocates where they say, wait a minute, we've got another population moving in. And they're having a not so good experiences in your clinics. What can we do about that? See if you can cross train health care professionals and immigrant health advocates to share knowledge about effective advocacy in immigrant health. If you look at-- go to the web site of the New York Immigration Coalition-- that's an organization I've done work with, and their brother and sister organizations around the country, you'll often see really innovative things that people are doing. Because one of their target areas in the Immigrant Coalition is always going to health care. So sometimes it's very this town and this hospital. But there's interesting things going on. Closer to home, the LATCH, which is a program at Duke, which was a grassroots organization that sort of got absorbed into Duke, acts as a sort of liaison for the Latino the community. I think the L stands for Latino, but now it stands for Local. So the idea that it's inclusive. So there are interesting models. You don't have to invent everything from scratch. Discuss frequently occurring problems with colleagues in other types of institutions. Sometimes hospitals are not willing to talk about this because they're afraid if they talk about it openly they will become a magnet. The idea even though all of them have a safety net mission, so that what that results is a kind of turf to the public sector. The idea, well, go there-- they're public. They have to serve you. But in fact, the not-for-profit academic medical centers, the not-for-profit hospitals, have a similar mandate and similar obligations. So talk with your colleagues who work in-- whether they're in Virginia, or whether they're other states, and saying how do you manage this? Sometimes there's groups within professional societies. Sometimes you can come together in an interdisciplinary way. And I'm always happy to connect people who are interested with other people who are interested. And sometimes that just helps you not feel burned out or alone with the issue. And then, keep trying to-- if you see something that's working in one place, try to adapt it for another place. Or find out, if something has hit a wall, who didn't it work for? Who can use one approach for, but then for another population it doesn't work so well? There is a research literature in immigrant health. It often includes scholars who are working in health policy but also in migration studies, human rights. So it's kind of interdisciplinary. But there are leaders in this field. It's a very interesting field, and it's-- really, it's inspiring to see what people are doing. And one resource from the Hastings Center are the Undocumented Patients Project website, which has a searchable database. That includes hard to find literature, or these grey literature reports that are very interesting. And we Tweet interesting things. And we're going be adding a lot more literature very soon. You can also find an account of our work, and the bibliography also includes the citation, about our work in New York City where we informed their program. And we have commentaries, we have of all kinds of things. I should add, our little tiny project frequently uses very motivated student interns. We've had interns from UNC Medical School, John Hopkins Public Policy, and CUNY School of Public Health. So if anybody is looking for an interesting capstone project and wants to work remotely, I can sometimes help with that. And a couple of few things on the bibliography you all have. If you're looking for interesting journal [INAUDIBLE] type articles, or you want to talk about this further, the articles about-- they're number four, five, six-- some very interesting studies that counter this idea that undocumented immigrants haven't paid into the system. In fact, very careful studies by public health researchers have found that undocumented immigrants are pretty much keeping the Medicare trust funds afloat in many ways. And very recently, they're contributions to Social Security have become clear as well, because they are paying into the system using a false Social Security number that is verified, but it isn't really traced back in any other way. The money is deducted from their paycheck, but they have no way of ever accessing that money. So if you're caring for the Medicare population, and undocumented immigrant is, in effect, paying for your salary if you're being funded under Medicare reimbursement. It's a really interesting, eye-opening literature. And also, seven, eight, and nine on this list are some useful facts and stats of places to go. So in addition to our website, James Sabin's blog from Harvard Medical School on health care organizational ethics-- great on this topic, and many other topics in ethics. He phenomenal. And also, the Migration Policy Institute there has wonderful state-by-state breakdowns as well. So I am happy to take any immediate questions now, or we can wait until the discussion. Thank you all very much. DAVID R. BURT: Hello, can everybody hear me OK? All right. Those of you in back. My name is David. I work in the emergency department. That's my day job. So has anybody here been working in the ER before? Raise your hand. Ever been a patient in the ER? Ever not been working but not been beaten, but been there with somebody who is working or is a patient? So you all know what the ER is like. And the relevance of that is that every day in the ER we deal in real-time with all the issues that Nancy so appropriately brought up. And it comes down to that idea. Do all of you have a little bit of heartburn after this lecture, where you maybe feel a little bit distressed? Now you have some more awareness of maybe some of the challenges that undocumented clients face? It's a little bit different if you have understandable ignorance, right? But when you have deliberate failure to act, that's kind of where we're at a little bit more today. I think all of us kind of have a better of these things. So I'm just going to share one encounter. Let me give you the spectrum. All of you that take care of patients, have you had patients that you think might be undocumented? Raise your hand if you have. And then, as you learn more, you become highly suspicious that they're probably undocumented. And then, at some point does it cross over and it's highly likely or confirmed, at least to you, that they're undocumented-- and then all of a sudden all of this comes into play? And then, you say, well what can I do about that? Yesterday, I was in the ER and I took care of a child who had fallen and broken his arm-- see that all the time. And his father was with him, and their preferred language was Spanish. And we were doing our best. We had some Latino nurses and other who spoke Spanish. And it came up that dad was a construction worker. In fact, I believe that he's working on the new emergency department additions. And at some point, he had got a nail in his foot. And now he had a festering wound. And he told me that he had been diagnosed with diabetes 13 years ago. And for 11 of those years he had not treated. And why do you think he wasn't being treated for his diabetes? Didn't have insurance. But here he is working for us to design a new emergency department, and he's not able to really come in without fear. So it turns out that 15 years of uncontrolled blood sugars he was having raging diabetic neuropathy. He no feeling in the bottom of his foot. And so he had walked around with this wildly expanding ulcer that if he didn't get it taken care of, what's the likely outcome for him? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE] DAVID R. BURT: Yeah. But meanwhile, because his children had been born here in the States, they had access to the emergency department. But yeah, you can see there was this very designated reluctance on his part to take that next step to register as a patient, although, I'm looking at him and saying, you need an X-ray. We need to see if you've got osteo in your foot. Do you have a part of the nail in there? You need care, and once you leave the ER we need to plug you into a pathway. But once you leave the ER, once you leave the umbrella of EMTALA, then it's pay as you go unless you registered, unless you're documented, or unless we can find you a plug-in. And so, do all of you have a certain number of patients like that that are sticking in your memory banks? And [INAUDIBLE] having discussion today about this idea. When you start to think that your patient might be without a passport or name, there is lots of people in Latin America who have passports. They just don't have a visa to the United States. They can go to Mexico, they can go to Chile. They do have passports, but we haven't given them a visa that makes them legal. One other way to look at this is if you've ever asked people who are newly arrived immigrants how the get here. Think about it. They came on the plane, or on a ship. They're probably documented. They're supported. They have access to services. But if they came in on a pair of shoes, they very likely came over land. And the possibility that they're undocumented is extraordinarily high. So you start to think about these practical applications of what this [INAUDIBLE] means. And so, if you look at this at UVA, what do we have, or what could we do better in terms of uniting ourselves to provide better care for our visa deficient patients, for example? And that's maybe where we could hold a discussion today. Have any of you ever had a patient conversation where you wished that your Spanish was better? Did you ever have a conversation where you wished that you could begin it in your Spanish and then quickly segue into either the phone, or a living breathing interpreter, or maybe somebody on video that could make that encounter better? And do you not do that right now? Or do you wonder what happens to these folks when you make a referral to family medicine? And who is going to pay for it once they leave the emergency department? And sometimes I think the answers at UVA are here, but they're a bit fragmented. Kind of nod your head if you have that same feeling that there's-- you know there's answers out there, but we don't them all on one page. So today, we get to have a discussion about what we can do at UVA, what might be applicable from what we learn today. And on your way out, there is a article that maybe you could consider a call to arms for you as an individual. About two years ago something came out in the New England Journal of Medicine that said, culturally and linguistically appropriate service, class care. Here are these principles, here are these concepts, these essential elements of what we should be providing all of our patients. And what we might be able to do together here at the UVA to solidify that. So on your way out, take this article, if you would. And we'll also e-mail it to all of you if you felt secure enough in your documentation to put your email down. And I see a lot of familiar faces our here that are doing everyday work with what we might call practical class care, even if you are not a recognized leader, if you're not out there rabble rousing at UVA for better care. But a lot of you are doing these bits and pieces already. And so I thought would generate some questions off of that. MARCIA DAY CHILDRESS: So thank you so much. And now that our two designated speakers have taken a seat, it's your chance to speak up with your questions and comments. I think David Burt's suggestion that we might be experiencing some heartburn as a result of considering the points that he's made, the stories that he's told, and the points that Nancy Berlinger has made-- that these are serious and burning ethical questions, and questions of social justice-- and also of individual professional action. So we have a couple of mics. We'll bring to you to hear your comments and questions. When you have the mic, please identify yourself. And the floor is now open to you. All that head nodding out there-- there must be some words to [INAUDIBLE]. [INAUDIBLE] OK, [INAUDIBLE]. AUDIENCE: I'm [INAUDIBLE]. I'm one of the social workers here. Thanks for calling us coworkers. In all fairness, I think this institution has done a pretty good job of trying to care for the undocumented. I'm sure it's very difficult in the emergency room. But through our endowment-- not endowment-- our allotment from the state, we have a way of, at least at this institution, providing decent continuing care. There are areas where it's really deficient, but I think, in all fairness to UVA, we have done some things that does draw, like you said, from the Washington area. A huge amount of patients do come down here for the care. And I think most people try awfully hard to do at the clinic exactly what we would do for anyone who comes in. So I just wanted to plug that. Thank you. NANCY BERLINGER: The point you make that patients coming down from Washington-- AUDIENCE: Could you turn on your microphone please? NANCY BERLINGER: Oh sorry. OK. MARCIA DAY CHILDRESS: Yeah. NANCY BERLINGER: OK. Many undocumented immigrants do have visas. They have expired visas because an undocumented immigrant who's coming from Asia, for example-- and I mention this because there's a significant percentage of undocumented in Virginia who are from Asia-- would have been what's called a visa overstay. You would've come in on maybe a student visa, a tourist visa, and something happened. You got a job, or school didn't work out, somebody got sick-- whatever it was. Some people may intend to use those visa to overstay. But in some cases, something happened in life, and now they are undocumented. So sometimes you'll see down in the rules and regs there'll be the person who doesn't have any documentation, versus somebody who has-- they're not in status at the moment. So that's going to be another little social worker nuance. DAVID R. BURT: You raise a very good point that, I think, the work that goes on here at UVA, we are a epicenter of care for undocumented Latino patients from many, many areas. Often we'll get people in the ER who passed by seven or eight perfectly good emergency departments with, say a bad gall bladder. But they've been directly or indirectly made aware that if they come to UVA that they can get care. It might be costly. It might be in the emergency room. It might be meaning to drive. But strategically, if our country is able to reach for a way to deal with undocumented patients so that we receive some remuneration to take care of them, it's a strategic benefit to our institution, a huge untapped patient care client base that we don't think of yet as clients. AUDIENCE: Hey, I'm Ashley. I'm also a social work here. You both mentioned a couple times wondering if the patient's undocumented. And I just wanted to get your thoughts on this. I usually ask patients directly because I think it directly affects the resources and the support I'm able to give. Both the resource brokering, emotional support, and understanding what stressors are going on in their lives. And I just wanted to get your take on whether or not that's appropriate. I think I do it whenever I think rapport is established and all of those types of things first. But I know that there's so much fear. But I think understanding their documentation status directly impacts my ability to do my job. And so, I just wanted to get your thoughts on asking that question directly, and [INAUDIBLE]. NANCY BERLINGER: I'm thinking of a PA I know who has worked this population. She also would ask directly. And she made clear that the only thing she wanted to know was whether or not they were Medicaid eligible. Because she said it comes up, and it was easier to-- but she had figured out this. And she was also bilingual. She had figured out a sensitive way to say, I'm asking you this in context. What I tend to hear from professionals that they say, what we try to do is not ask lots of questions. Because that itself starts to feel risky. And so , how do you do it? How do you ask? AUDIENCE: I'm bilingual, and I just say there's a particular-- if it's a Spanish speaking person, so I'm bilingual in Spanish. And if it's a Spanish speaking person that I'm talking to, I say something like there have been a lot of-- and I try not to stigmatize. But there's a lot of clear things that trigger to me that they may be under documented or undocumented. So I would say, there's a lot of stressors going on in your life. And I'm wondering, I'm trying to understand what kind of resources might be available to you. And what might help me is understanding if you do you have opportunities for insurance through your employment. If you have opportunities through getting disability, and one of those things that would rule that out is if you weren't documented. So if you don't mind sharing with me kind of what your documentation status is. And then, if they're undocumented, then there is a lot of particular resources that might be available that might help them, maybe not federal resources, but otherwise. And then also, part of our role is just emotional support, and understanding, and empathizing with people's stressors. And that's just such a huge one, every day, such a burden. So love your feedback though. That seems to be completely appropriate. I mean ethically. So I'm stamping it yes, it's ethical. But you can see why it's ethical, what you did. And because you communicated to the patient, well, this is in the context of helping you. The reason I need to know, I'm not just grilling you, and marking it down, and sending it to some assistant. But either way, I'm trying to get resources for you. AUDIENCE: And I also make it clear I'm not going to document it. NANCY BERLINGER: Right, exactly. AUDIENCE: But so it's kind of trying to lay aside some fear [INAUDIBLE] that. And I also try to make it clear that I'm not going to document it. NANCY BERLINGER: Not [INAUDIBLE]. Yeah, the fact that you have not put down Medicaid is probably the clue that the next person needs. But also, I think also that what you mentioned-- and I've heard other professionals mention this-- is that being undocumented is very stressful. And that some might say that patients will somatize. They'll come in with a headache, or a stomachache, or whatever. And you can quite get to a course. And then, this is what emerges. And then, it's not just worrying about being deported. It's the conditions of your life are very uncertain and stressful. I remember talking with this PA in Chinatown in York City, one of the Chinatowns. And she said she was finding out that her-- that these men, especially, were coming to the clinic as patients, and with a Chinatown address. But really they were working as, I think it was waiters, in Michigan. There's a bus to there, and they were living in dormitories. And they would be totally away from their family environment for weeks at a time, for the summer season, and then come back and get all their health care. I'm like, oh, that sounds like a tremendously stressful way to live. I can see why you're here. So I think that what you've given us is a model of how to, again, whole person care. DAVID R. BURT: [INAUDIBLE] would be interesting, if you had a little script that could help you start to think about how to approach patients just like you mentioned. I'm wondering if you might share that, some thoughts with me, on that. You can email me. And then-- AUDIENCE: No, I would love to collaborate on that. I think that there's DAVID R. BURT: Wonderful because-- AUDIENCE: --a lot of-- DAVID R. BURT: --a script on how to sensitive approach people and say, this is a topic. I want to make sure that you understand we're not recording this. But in order to give you better service, what's your current eligibility for Medicare and Medicaid? And a surrogate for, and so forth and so on. So a guide, or something that people could use in a practical fashion to approach that. It seems, ethically, that that's what we should be doing. And to ignore it now that we're aware it's so important is now less appropriate than it was an hour ago. So if you'd share that, that would be wonderful. NANCY BERLINGER: It's also fair. Because I do a lot of work in end-of-life care. You know, and of you who have been trained in palliative care, you supposed to ask people about their hopes, and their worries, and their goals. Why couldn't you ask somebody who's obviously poor the same thing, or somebody you suspect is undocumented? This is a person in front of you. And they have hopes, and worries, and goals as well. So well done. AUDIENCE: Hello, my name is Chris. I work as a certified medical interpreter, Spanish, here at the medical center. Interesting statistic, 20% of all folks in the US that overstay their travel visas are Canadians. NANCY BERLINGER: Really? AUDIENCE: We tend to think more of Asians and more exotic countries. So they're all rounded up, headed north to Canada. NANCY BERLINGER: Thank you. AUDIENCE: Some of the population that we interpret for also overstay their visas. So they did come in on planes. But they are undocumented now. There's another interesting segment of the folks that we interpret for. They come traveling, with travel visas, visit their family in the area, and come to UVA for medical care. And they use the addresses of their relatives that they're saying with. Cannot afford medical care in their home countries. It's kind of an interesting dynamic to talk about as well. NANCY BERLINGER: Now that can be-- and I think that your previous one about patients with passports was about medical tourism. MARCIA DAY CHILDRESS: Reverse tourism. NANCY BERLINGER: Yeah. MARCIA DAY CHILDRESS: I think we've actually come to the-- oh we have a minute. NANCY BERLINGER: A minute. MARCIA DAY CHILDLESS: [INAUDIBLE] AUDIENCE: We have [INAUDIBLE]. MARCIA DAY CHILDRESS: Oh, OK. We'll go with [INAUDIBLE]. All right. AUDIENCE: I'm Katerina. I'm a public health student. So you mentioned there are situations like EMTALA where there are some resources available. But I didn't know you had any recommendations for cancer care, or longer term things that are more expensive, [INAUDIBLE] what we should do-- NANCY BERLINGER: That is a very vexing problem because EMTALA provides for the-- it sets conditions on emergency room setting, and hospitals in general, as the emergency room is gateway, saying you have to screen people. And you can't just turn them away. You have to screen them. And If they are suffering from an emergency condition, you have to treat them until stable. But it's not a funding mechanism. So that's why states have emergency Medicaid programs. But if you go to the definition, if you look up in the Medicaid manual online, you'll see probably and emergency condition is one that-- life threatening, bodily dysfunction, organ dysfunction, severe pain-- something like that. But then, there are conditions that are covered or not cover. It'll say, X is covered as an emergency service. So even in relatively liberal states, or liberal with respect to what their health programs cover, they may say, well, we'll cover chemotherapy and radiation, but not anything else. So and oncologist will say, well, those aren't the only two things I use. So that's a challenge as well. Does the state you're trying to get the patient help in actually cover what would be typical care? Or does it cover all the drugs that support that treatment? So if there's-- are you thinking about particular oncology or a particular setting? Really, if you would like to talk further, I'd be happy to talk with you about that. Because this is-- once you get primary care models down, we still have all of these other challenges around chronic illness that can't easily be managed in a primary care setting. So that's the next set of big challenges. So if a public health student is interested in working on that, I always want to talk to that person. MARCIA DAY CHILDRESS: So we're out of our official time, but both speakers will be down here and will be happy to take some individual questions. We welcome you back next week for a shared Medical Center Hour and Medical Grand Rounds with Bruce Hillman who's written a new book, A Plague On All Our Houses, Medical Intrigue and the Discovery of AIDS. It's also the first of our history of the health sciences talks for this season. Thank you again to Nancy Berlinger and David Burt. Thank you. 