 Moderator: -with the National Renewable Energy Laboratory. And welcome to today's webinar, which is hosted by the Clean Energy Solutions Center, in partnership with the United Nations Foundation's Energy Access Practitioner Network. Today's webinar is focused on Powering Healthcare and the State of Play in Health Facility Electrification. One important note of mention, before we begin our presentation, is that the Clean Energy Solutions Center does not endorse or recommend specific products or services. Information provided in this webinar is featured in the Solutions Center's resource library as one of many best practices resources reviewed and selected by technical experts. Before we begin, I'll quickly go over some of the webinar's features. For audio, you have two options. To  eliminate the possibility of feedback and echo. If you choose to dial in by phone, please select the telephone option, and a box on the right side will display the telephone number and audio PIN you should use to dial in. Panelists, we ask that you please mute your audio when you are not presenting. If anyone is having technical difficulties with the webinar, you may contact the GoToWebinars help desk at (888) 259-3826 for assistance. If you'd like to ask a question, we ask you use the questions pane, where you may type in your question. If you're having difficulty viewing the materials through the webinar portal, you will find PDF copies of the presentation at CleanEnergySolutions.org/training, and you may follow along as our speakers present. Also, an audio recording of the presentations will be posted to the Solutions Center training page within a few weeks, and will be added to the Solutions Center YouTube channel, where you'll find other informative webinars as well as interviews with thought leaders on clean energy policy topics. Today's webinar agenda is centered around the presentations from our guest panelists – Jem Porcaro, Michaela Pfeiffer, Dr. Ed Fitzgerald, and Carolina Barreto. These panelists have been kind enough to join us to discuss health facility electrification. Before our speakers begin their presentations, I'll provide a short informative overview of the Clean Energy Solutions Center initiative. Then, following the presentations, we'll have a question and answer session, where the panelists will address questions submitted by the audience, then closing remarks, and a brief survey. This slide provides a bit of background in terms of how the Solutions Center came to be. The Solutions Center is one of 13 initiatives of the Clean Energy Ministerial that was launched in April 2011, and is primarily led by Australia, the United States, and other Clean Energy Ministerial partners. Outcomes of this unique initiative include support of developing countries and emerging economies through enhancement of resources on policies relating to energy access, no cost expert policy assistance, and peer to peer learning and training tools, such as the webinar you're attending today. The Solutions Center has four primary goals. It serves as a clearing house of clean energy policy resources. It also serves to share policy best practices, data, and analysis tools specific to clean energy policies and programs. The Solutions Center delivers dynamic services that enable expert assistance, learning, and peer to peer sharing of experiences. And lastly the center fosters dialogue on emerging policy issues and innovation around the globe. Our primary audience is energy policy makers and analysts from governments and technical organizations in all countries. But we also strive to engage with the private sector, NGOs, and civil society. A marquee feature that the Solutions Center provides is the no-cost expert policy assistance, known as Ask an Expert. The Ask an Expert program has established a broad team of over 30 experts from around the globe who are available to provide remote policy advice and analysis to all countries at no cost. For example, in the area of energy access, we are very pleased to have Catherine Diam-Valla, the founder of Accessible Energy, serving as one of our experts. If you have a need for policy assistance in energy access or any other clean energy sector, we encourage you to use this valuable service. Again, the assistance is provided free of charge. If you have a question for our experts, please submit it through our simple online form at CleanEnergySolutions.org/expert. We also invite you to spread the word about this service to those in your networks and organizations. Now I'd like to provide a brief introduction for today's panelists. First up is Jem Porcaro, the Senior Director of Energy Access at the UN Foundation, where he is responsible for providing leadership, management, and project support to the Foundation's energy access work, with a particular focus on its involvement in the UN's Sustainable Energy for All initiative. Following Jem, we'll hear form Michaela Pfeiffer, who has worked in the health development sector for the World Health Organization for more than a decade on issues ranging from the coordination of donor assistance, to vulnerability impact assessments, to the analysis of the effectiveness of targeted health intervention, including in the context of humanitarian emergencies. Following Michaela is Dr. Ed Fitzgerald, who is a clinical advisor to the Lifebox Foundation. And our final speaker is Carolina Barreto, who is a renewable energy professional with more than 12 years of experience, and is currently on Tetra Tech's clean energy team. And with those introductions, I'd like to welcome Jem to the webinar.  Jem Porcaro: Thanks, Eric, for the introduction. I'm going to just pull up my few slides here. Again, hello everyone. My name is Jem Porcaro. I'm the senior director of Energy Access here at the UN Foundation. I'm going to keep my remarks rather brief, and just serve as an introduction to the webinar. Give you a little bit of a sense of what we're trying to get out of it, and what might come from it. This webinar is really designed to be an introduction to the topic. We really would like to use this time to explore the role that energy plays in strengthening health systems, particularly the functionality of health facilities, and the services provided in them. Give a bit of an overview of the state of play in terms of health facility electrification, including some of the major issues, barriers, opportunities, for providing in particular sustainable energy solutions in health facilities as a means of improving the quality and accessibility of health services provided in them. So in that sense, this is really meant to be relatively high level introduction to the topic. We know that there are several of you online who are probably a little more familiar with this topic, and others who are not. So bear with us as we get through this introduction. But really excited and very grateful for the speakers, our featured speakers, who I won't introduce again, who are all experts in their own right, in terms of issues related to this topic. So following me, we'll start off with Michaela and go from the. Also, just mention that this webinar is meant to be the first in a series of webinars that the UN Foundation and our partners hope to hold on this topic of powering healthcare. And the idea is that following this webinar, in the months to come, we will hold more topical, detailed webinars on sub-issues that could range from the sustainability of energy solutions in health facilities, how to better manage, maintain, fund the ongoing operation and maintenance of energy systems, within health facilities, as well as issues related to funding and financing, evidence based impacts, and I think Eric later on in the webinar will hopefully solicit your feedback on what topics that you might be interested in, so we can feature them in our webinar lineup moving forward. With that, I'll just say a little word about where this kind of webinar, the genesis of this webinar. This webinar is part of a program of work that we, along with WHO and UN Women are working on collaboratively, under a broader UN initiative called Sustainable Energy for All, which I'm sure many of you on this line are very familiar with. Together, along with our own partners, we're jointly leading an effort to try to increase energy access in health facilities, particularly in support of maternal and child health services. And this is one of SE4All's multi-stakeholder partnerships. And we're using SE4All's international framework really to do a number of things, not limited to the following, which is one, to make a stronger case for change to ensure that decision makers recognize and prioritize this issue. Also, to strengthen the enabling environment for health facility electrification, as well as supporting improvements and innovations in how energy solutions are actually provided to health facilities. And we do that in a number of ways – by championing the issue, brokering partnerships, mobilizing resources, and exchanging knowledge and sharing evidence, like we are doing in this webinar. So that's a little bit of background as to where this webinar series lives in the grand scheme of things. So before finishing up, I'll just mention a few areas of work that the UN Foundation in particular is active in, as it relates to this program of work on energy and health. I'll mention them primarily just to give context, as we have future webinars on more specific issues, we're going to draw on some of these programs and projects. So I'll just mention a few of them. One is a recent series of energy needs assessments that we've now completed for four countries, including Ghana, Malawi, Uganda, and Tanzania. Some of you on this line might be familiar with some of the results of those assessments, which we have shared in a number of fora. We hope to share the results in a more systematic way in a future webinar. Just to say that this was two years' worth of work, where we conducted very detailed, technical energy audits of roughly 300 healthcare facilities, primarily at the primary care level, across these four countries, really with the aim of trying to better understand the energy needs of un-electrified or under-electrified health facilities, and use that to make recommendations for how to improve the reliability and supply of power in those health facilities. That has actually led more recently to a couple of pilot programs, where we're trying to take some innovative approaches and solutions to health clinic electrification. I'll mention just the first, which is a DFID-funded health clinic electrification program we are now beginning in partnership with WHO, in fact, and I'm sure Michaela will mention this later, whereby we will be implementing some of the recommendations that came out of the energy needs assessments in Uganda and Ghana. And then to just kind of finish it up by saying there have been a number of knowledge-sharing, capacity-building, advocacy and awareness raising related activities that we have been involved in. And of course this webinar kind of fits under some of those activities. So just to give you a sense of some of the work that the Foundation in particular has been active in, and we hope to showcase some of the results, and some of this work, in future webinars and future fora. So I think with that I'll hand it over to Michaela to kick start some of the more substantive discussions around this topic.  Michaela Pfeiffer: Thank you, I'm here, I'm just getting my screen set up. Thank you very much. Just have to protect this up now. Technology. Okay. Can everybody see that?  Moderator: Looks great.  Jem Porcaro: Yes we can.  Michaela Pfeiffer: Okay, great, so thank you so much to the organizers. Thank you, Eric and Jem, for your framing and opening remarks. Just a little more context on where I'm coming from. So I work as a technical officer in the World Health Organization in the environment department, and I'm the technical officer responsible for our portfolio on advancing sustainability in healthcare, under which this work on energy and clean energy fits. So just to give a sense of how this fits into my package of work. What I'm going to be doing with my presentation is try to give a bit of a framing of how the issue of health facility electrification fits into a global public health context. Okay. So what I'll do is a bit of an overview of what we know about the energy access situation in health facilities, particularly in low income settings. I'll talk a bit about why we feel at WHO that there's a need to look at energy and in particular electricity as a determinant of the quality of healthcare given, so it's not just an infrastructure or buildings issue. And I'll do that using an example from maternal child health. But with the understanding and caveat that of course we know we need electricity to power all kinds of health services, we're just using this as a specific case in point. I'll then talk a little about what we see as some very interesting opportunities to address health facility energy issues, when you start to look at linkages and synergies between different sustainable development goals, in particular those related to health, energy, as well as climate change. And then I'll finish with a bit of an overview of some of the nature of work, some activities that WHO is implementing in this space. So as a point of departure, I wanted to clarify a bit the importance of energy, and particularly electricity for health services provision. As I said, it's not just an infrastructure issue. We need electricity, we need energy, to run health facilities, to make sure that they can run at night, to power medical devices, to provide a range of different services. We need it for administration and logistics so we can communicate between different levels of the health system. For example, if we have to refer patients from a primary level to tertiary level. We also need it for records management, case recording of patient data. There is a very strong correlation between access to electricity and hygiene. We know we need power to run water pumps, to run autoclaves, to run sterilizers, and sometimes even incinerators. And the overall hygienic conditions of the health facility and that environment have a very big part to play in influencing the degree of safety and comfort and security, sense of security, that both patients and staff have. We know that electricity is required for specific health services and interventions like vaccination. We need it for cold chain. We need it for certain laboratory tests. We also need it for e-health, or telemedicine, which is an area that the health community is really pursuing as a means of providing bigger and more extended access to quality diagnostics and medical advice, particularly in remote areas. And we also know there's a very strong correlation between health facility electrification and staff recruitment and staff retention. It has a big impact on staff morale, particularly if you're posting medical professionals out into remote areas. If they can have a facility that's well-lit and make them feel safe at night, there are also other benefits. For instance, if they can do administrative functions at night, if they can watch television, or even do continuing medical education. So you start to get a sense very quickly that it's very central to many, many functions that we perform, as part of the provision of health services. But when we look at the reality, this map shows available data on access to electricity, particularly in Sub-Saharan Africa. And this map is interesting, because it shows really two things. There's a lot of gray in this map, which tells us actually we don't have a full picture of what is the state of health facility electrification and access to electricity in a lot of countries. What it also shows is the data we do have shows the picture is quite alarming in certain contexts. So access to electricity is a significant concern. In this survey data here, as many as one in four health posts, primarily at the primary care level, were estimated to not have electricity at all. But it's not just a problem of access to electricity. It's also a problem of reliability of electricity. So while in many of these countries surveyed 100 percent of them might have reported they had grid connection, and therefore they have access to electricity, but only 40 percent of them reported that they had reliable access. So interruptions, regular interruptions in power, are a big concern. Now, shifting gears over to this example, using maternal and child health. Here's another map. This map shows the 75 countries around the world that together account for more than 95 percent of the global burden of maternal and child death. I've zoomed in on Africa mainly to make the point that you can see many of the high burden countries shown are also countries that have significant problems with access to electricity in their health facilities, which then begs the question – how are we going to address, how are we going to save these mothers and infants if we can't even ensure that the health facilities they're using have access to electricity, or in many cases, also even water? So now let's dig a little deeper and look into – what is it that the children are dying from? What are the causes of death? So this slide shows WHO data on causes of death in children under five. And what's interesting to note here is neonatal deaths are a very significant portion of the causes of death. And much of those neonatal factors are related to childbirth, or conditions up to or immediately after childbirth. So intrapartum events, or infections that may be coming as a result of child delivery. WHO estimates every year there are 2.6 million stillbirths, which is more than 7,200 stillbirths every day. And I'll come back to this point, but the point about the fact that childbirth is an important moment in the causality or timing, in the continuum of care, as we call it at WHO, for neonatal mortality. I'll come back to that point. Let's now look at what is it that pregnant women are dying from. If we're talking about preventing maternal deaths, you can see in this graphic as well, also WHO data, that many of the factors influencing maternal death are related to delivery. So things to do with bleeding, things to do with complications, infection. So here again you can see that both for the newborns and the mothers, the moment of delivery is a very critical moment in the continuum of care for these population groups. It's so important, in fact, that one of the major strategies being pursued in the area of maternal and child health is to really try and improve access to quality of care for mothers delivering babies. And to do that, the strategy is to try to bring them into health facilities where the idea is then we can improve access to quality services. So we're bringing them into the facilities, but then, again, it begs the question – if we're bringing these mothers to have their babies in facilities, we have to make sure that those facilities have electricity, as well as water and sanitation. This is where we start to see it's not just a building issue, but actually a critical determinant of the quality of care those mothers are going to get. The image here on the right is actually a new model for quality of care that's under development by WHO. And this is a specific set of standards around what needs to happen in a facility based delivery to ensure high quality childbirth and protection of the newborn and mother. And I should say before moving onto this slide that the issue of electrification is being considered in several of the domains within that standard. This, also – and I apologize if it's difficult to see, but maybe those who see the presentation or take a copy home, you can look at it more closely. This actually is derived from the UN Secretary General's new global strategy for women, children, and adolescent health. I wanted to put this here, because this issue of focusing in on ending preventable deaths, the first two targets around maternal mortality and newborn mortality. This is again where we're focusing in on improving quality of care within the facilities. And when this strategy was articulated as one of the three pillars under survival, they estimated if we can improve quality of care at childbirth, we could prevent an estimated 113,000 maternal deaths, 531,000 stillbirths, and 1.3 million neonatal deaths each year by 2030. So again, this idea of getting in, getting better quality of care, getting these mothers into the facilities, is central to this agenda. So now then, if we step back, I've been talking a lot about SDG3. And I've been talking about targets 3.1 and 3.2. Which is the maternal and newborn death targets. But actually the focus of this discussion is really around SDG7, which is around energy. So quickly you start to see there is a very direct interest in aligning these objectives, where we start looking at improving access to energy, enhancing the mix of renewables in that energy supply, so that we can address some of these health facility issues. And as I said before, there's also some very interesting linkages with climate as well. So if we're greening the health facility infrastructure using low carbon technologies, clearly there could be potential, depending on the size of the facility, to show some climate mitigation. So you move away from these very polluting diesel gen-sets, but also you have a resilience factor here. So you have facilities that are functionally autonomous in the event that the grid goes down. So you have a very strong resilience case to make for this as well. When we look at the sustainable energy sector, there's a lot of really interesting things going on there. Now this is for me, coming from the health side. You colleagues are obviously much more attuned to what's happening there, being that this is your sector. But we can see there's a lot of really interesting solutions under development, a lot of technology coming out, even in terms of on site or grid solutions or off-grid solutions, but also in terms of medical devices and medical technology. So this is a really, really big opportunity for the health sector to try to harness what's going on in terms of innovation in the sustainable energy sector. Depending on how the business case is articulated, and how the value proposition is framed, there are also some very interesting potential opportunities to get financing, to improve energy services in health facilities, particularly if we're looking at greening energy infrastructure – for example, using solar, or other low carbon solutions. So this is an area, as well, that is under a lot of exploration by WHO, because we see that this is a major opportunity for the health sector to express its priorities and needs for this issue. Jem already talked about this. I just wanted to make the point that there's also a lot of very interesting global partnership opportunities. There's an architecture of international initiatives that create a very nice umbrella, within which we can do a lot of this work. He mentioned that we have this high impact opportunity focused on energy for women and children's health. The point here is this is very helpful when working at the regional or country level, because it gives you, as I said, an umbrella within which to start working more in a more focused way on some of these issues. For instance, we have a project ongoing right now in Ethiopia where we're doing energy audits in hospitals, and one of the objectives of the energy audits is to try to raise the profile of hospital energy requirements, within the national Sustainable Energy for All process. And it's through this mechanism that we're able to do that. Finally, just a few words about what is it that WHO is doing in this space, just to clarify. We're not an energy implementer. We're not a private entity. We have specific functions that we do, but this is just to give you a flavor of the nature of work. So first we provide technical support to countries, and mainly to health ministries. That is our primary counterpart. And in that context, we would do things like the energy audits I was mentioning in Ethiopia, and the objective there really is to try to better understand what is the energy situation in these hospitals, and are there opportunities to improve the energy situation, for instance, using low carbon or greener energy infrastructure? We would also try to facilitate health sector involvement in relevant energy environment or climate fora so that they can express their priorities so that they can express their needs, and engage with different sector counterparts around these issues. One of WHO's core functions is really around building the evidence base. Jem mentioned the project that's the UNF DIFD project that we're collaborating on. In that context, WHO is developing and testing a protocol for evaluating the impact of electrifying health facilities on service delivery outcomes. In that context, as well, a typical function we'd play would also be to catalyze a research agenda so if we find gaps in the evidence base, we catalyze academia or partners or constituencies to start looking deeper. Another core function for us is monitoring. So I showed the maps, sort of tracking the energy situation. But we also work with organizations and institutions that conduct national health _____, and we try to work with them to incorporate better or more sensitive questions, so we can start to address this energy information gap. As I showed in that map, there's a lot of gray. So we're working with these institutions to try to minimize that gap and get a much more complete picture. And, finally, we also are looking into the possibility of developing standards, with the idea that could we, as WHO, try to articulate what would be the minimum energy requirement needed to ensure delivery of a particular service package, like childbirth, according to a WHO standard of care. So when a health facility is operating, they know, okay, if we want to have safe childbirth, according to WHO requirements or WHO recommendations, we need to have X kilowatt hours of electricity at all times to ensure the safety and quality of those services. So this latter area is sort of a new area. It's something we're developing. But we think it could be a very interesting contribution. Because it's a way we can help the health sector better express its requirements, its demand for energy. So that's it for me. I'll stop there and hand over to Ed, the next speaker.  Dr. Fitzgerald: Thank you very much. Let me just bring my slides up. Great. Let me just – can everybody see my slides okay?  Moderator: If you could just full screen, that would be great. We can see your screen. Yeah.  Dr. Fitzgerald: Perfect. One second. Where is it?  Moderator: Just while Dr. Fitzgerald is pulling up his slides, just a reminder to participants, if you have questions along the way, feel free to enter them into the questions pane, so we can get to them during the Q&A session.  Dr. Fitzgerald: Well, let me introduce myself, and hopefully we'll have some slides when they're available. My name is Ed Fitzgerald. Thank you very much for the invitation to join this webinar. It's really a fascinating topic that you're discussing. My background – I'm a general surgery resident based in London, in England. I work with the Lifebox Foundation, which is a group working to make surgery safer across the world. Our involvement in this area comes from the primary work that Lifebox has delivered over the last five years, since it was founded, which is around a pulse oximeter. So one of the issues around the actual delivery of care in all of these settings is the lack of access to basic supplies, obviously, including electricity and water. But also medical equipment that's able to work in these settings. Lifebox has developed a medical specification for the pulse oximeter, which is specifically designed to work in many of these austere environments. Through that, we've gained a lot of experience about the local infrastructure available in settings where we're working in lower and middle income countries. So my background is obviously clinical. Apologies in advance that the focus of this talk is a little more towards perhaps diagnostics and the actual delivery of care. I hope I can give some examples of what the actual impact of this is on the ground when working in clinical settings in these areas. This first picture I want to share with you I think exemplifies that perfectly. This is from a video we have available online. Filming in the operating theater while a caesarean section was being performed. You can see here this is theater, lights on, working normally, and just a moment later, the power was out, and you can see working in this sort of condition, very unpredictable, and very difficult to deliver any sort of standard of care, within the resources available to do so. Now, this is a very common occurrence, and I've certainly experienced this. I wasn't present at this particular operation, but I was operating in an operating theater in the Congo that didn't have the benefit of natural light. When the power was cut there, the operation was completed by the torch from a mobile phone. That's the sort of actual, practical, day to day difficulties that healthcare providers are having to work with in these sorts of settings, when power supply isn't reliable. And actually also the quality of that supply is not there. Now, one of the experiences we've had with our pulse oximeters, first of all, trying to design and build equipment for these settings that is able to cope with this is actually particularly problematic. I think we take for granted a lot of medical device equipment and supplies based on high income countries, high income hospitals, where this isn't the sort of issue you need to be concerned about. And so thinking about how medical devices are tailored to these areas – obviously battery supplies, particularly important. Enabling devices to cope when power is out. But actually just as importantly, when the power is present, and the quality of the supply isn't good, many sensitive medical devices aren't able to cope with that, haven't been designed to absorb variation in power supply. So we've seen certainly in one country where we've been supplying a large number of kits, that even despite building in very wide ability to cope with voltage variation, sensitive medical equipment isn't able to survive the power supply. And even when it relies on battery charging, obviously we need – battery will last 12 to 18 hours from one of these pieces of kit – putting it back on charge, unfortunately, when the power supply is variable during that period, even a rechargeable battery is very quickly damaged, unfortunately, which contributes to the equipment graveyard we see in many countries. And unfortunately one of the backdrops to this is the lack of supply of biomedical scientists who are able to offer engineering and repair to deal with what in many cases are often fairly simple electronic problems for them to deal with. Their absence, in these settings, really compounds the problem we see around the reliability and quality of supply in these areas. So you can see in this sort of scenario trying to deliver surgical care in the absence of lighting, working resuscitator, in the absence of working electrical – makes it a very difficult job. I think I'd very much echo the point made by the previous speaker around the wider impact this has on healthcare workers and their retention in these settings. Very, very difficult to – when we're working in our settings, and these things are taken for granted, very difficult to be someone working in these conditions, when you know it doesn't have to be this way, and you have the opportunity to work in other settings. It does contribute to healthcare working emigration. So this is the typical operating theater setting that we would often find. This is quite a luxurious operating theater setting in that you can see in the background there, there are air supply units to try and help, and there is also natural lighting provided in this operating theater. But for the work that we do, it's actually vitally important to have the lighting supply to help with this. Now, I think one of the important things we've looked into is the variation of electricity supply. Because, anecdotally, and _____ surgeons that I work with, very commonly find that the power is cut, affecting anesthetic effect in the provision of surgery. We've undertaken some work to try and quantify this. And we've looked into the literature in this area, and actually one of the stand out points for me is that power supply and healthcare delivery have very rarely been looked at together in tandem. There's a real paucity of information and knowledge out there. There's little recording about what the actual situation is. I think that situation is improving, but my broad understanding of this is if you look at Sub-Saharan Africa, around about a quarter to a third of Sub-Saharan health centers don't have a reliable energy supply. And by that, means they've not had a prolonged interruption within the past week. So that's really quite a trouble statistic that so many healthcare centers that are dependent upon the power for safe – everything from the safe protection of vaccines suits of delivery of actual surgical care, are very regularly without that. I'm aware that WHO has reviewed Sub-Saharan African and looked at electricity supplies within 14 developing countries in Sub-Saharan Africa and found electricity supply in those healthcare centers is very similarly variable from around about 50 percent of centers not having regular electricity supply to under a quarter. So it's a very pronounced problem, but very little information around it, and certainly most of our experiences, what we see on the ground is anecdotal, and what we hear. And what I think one of the big areas that needs to be addressed about this is getting a better understanding of what that situation on the ground really is, and the wider impact it has beyond just surgery. Now, obviously many listeners will be familiar with the typical setting in these areas. In this sort of situation, for a health center, in these areas, organizing the electricity supply is absolutely very, very difficult. There's not going to be a grid supply in these settings. And we certainly worked in a few centers where there are new, renewable resources being put in place, particularly around solar. But the cost of these is quite prohibitive, and often these have been supplied by charity donations, organizations working with these health centers to supply – to organize that supply. The costs are such that it makes it very difficult to organize this in a widespread fashion. I think one of the issues around that is if you look at the technology that is dependent on this, over and above general infrastructure, such as water pumping, if you're thinking about the actual delivery of care, and the diagnostic equipment in particular that's required, it is not generally designed with these settings in mind. Power supply could be a lot more efficient in terms of what is being used. Backup power supply built in, within devices, is certainly rare. Because these sorts of devices are designed to be used in high income centers. I think it is incumbent on the medical device manufacturers to think about how they can build their devices to work better in these settings. Certainly Lifebox found with the development of our pulse oximeter that there really wasn't any consideration amongst these issues amongst current equipment manufacturers, which is why we developed the specification and device from scratch, and found a manufacturer to put that together. And that's one particular piece of monitoring diagnostic kit. To attempt to do that across the breadth of what is required within these settings, extremely difficult. And needs the support of wider organizations, UN Foundation, and other groups, to actually bring home to manufacturers that in order to be able to meet the needs that are required in these settings, it has to be built into the device from the start, it has to be designed with these settings in mind. This is the pulse oximeter that Lifebox has developed. As I say, medical specification, battery powered, charges from mains, battery supply will last if the power is out for up to 12 hours, and built robustly for these settings so it can take the knocks and bumps required. And it's been very successful. Over 11,000 of these have now been supplied. The pulse oximetry needs of operating theaters in nearly 20 countries have been met. And it's been a process of design and delivery right from scratch, right from the start. Specifically for low and middle income settings, which his often what's missing from a range of devices available out there at the moment. Healthcare workers find it's very dependable. And I think from my clinical delivery perspective you need to be able to trust the equipment you're using, and the availability of it. And it needs to be able to stand the vagaries of the power supply that is available within that setting. And I think one of the things that becomes particularly trusted about this is the whatever else is happening, even if they're using an electrically powered anesthetic device, the pulse oximeter is going to keep working throughout all of this, as long as it's been adequately charged up. There we can see the pulse oximeter being used on the patient. Pulse probe in place there. And this is the typical recovery room that it would have to work in. So very different setting to the sort of high income area that most of my colleagues would be used to delivering care within. And I mentioned the equipment graveyard earlier. This sort of image is a very, very common sight you'd see in the majority of hospitals I've worked in. There'll be a corner somewhere of abandoned equipment. Now, there's many reasons for that. Thinking most recently where I was working, a lot of equipment is donated, and it's not suitable for the setting, as I say, hasn't been designed with it in mind. You're taking high income country equipment and trying to make use of it in low income settings. It doesn't – won't work for many reasons. But I think anecdotally a significant contributing factor towards this has been power supplies. And we've seen an awful lot of point of care equipment, diagnostic equipment that has – I'm sure there's a more technical word, but the electronics have been vied by problems with the electricity supply in these areas. So this is a very, very common site. And many of these centers rely on donated equipment, but it actually won't survive working in these settings. It's pointless if there's no electricity to use if there's prolonged power outages, but with the quality of the supply of available equally it often doesn't survive. And a lot of the gains that are there, a lot of the people donating this equipment, are unaware of these electricity problems that arise in these settings. And this is one of the typical hospitals we've been working in recently. So I think probably the final comment I'd make is from a clinical perspective. In order to actually meet the goals that we're working towards, and obviously my emphasis is around surgery, but that's just as true from other clinical areas, we take for granted the quality and consistency and continuity of power supplies in high income settings. My experience in low income settings is this is actually by far and away the exception. It's very, very difficult to build care capacity and actually deliver clinical care on the ground when that isn't available. These examples I've been giving are from surgery, but it's equally applicable across medicine and other areas of diagnostic and healthcare delivery. But actually if you talk to a lot of people working in this setting, electricity, everyone's aware of the problems. Very little understanding of how prevalent that is, and actually my experience is that not a lot is being done to specifically build, design, deliver healthcare equipment with these problems in mind. So I think there's a lot of opportunity in this area for looking at the model that Lifebox has done, and thinking about how we can work around in terms of designing, building medical equipment, but also how we can build more reliable and better quality electricity supplies for health centers in these settings. Very happy to talk more about what Lifebox has been doing, and please do have a look at the links here for further information and background about us. Thank you.  Moderator: Great. With that, we'll turn it over to Carolina.  Carolina Barreto: All right. Can you see my screen, Eric?  Moderator: Yes. If you could just full screen it. It looks great.  Carolina Barreto: Great. So my name is Carolina Barreto. I'm the Renewable Energy Manager at Tetra Tech. And Tetra Tech is an engineering firm with more than 16,000 employees and 300 offices worldwide. And we on this particular project I'm going to talk, we were a USAID contractor. And we implemented the project that USAID designed called Powering Health, from 2009 to 2015. So Powering Health. This initiative actually started with a PEPFAR, which is the Presidential Emergency Plan For AIDS Relief. And a lot of the funding going to AIDS testing equipment to Haiti was pretty much going to the graveyard that Dr. Fitzgerald just showed, the graveyard of equipment, because it wasn't designed properly for developing countries. And the grid unreliability and lower power quality of Haiti. Just didn't make those equipment last. So right now, I'm going to mention some issues that have been mentioned already during this webinar. So the main issues here we found in Haiti, and particular USAID found, when they were designing this program, was the unreliable grid, or just off-grid systems, right, not grid availability at all. And many of the diesel existing diesel generators actually had problems with maintenance, and even in power quality as well, due to the lack of maintenance, due to the lack of good operation. And then from the many of possibilities that could have been used, one of them, and the main one, and the one that we used in this case, was the installation of battery backup systems. And many of the systems, many of the hospitals, and actually all the hospitals where we worked on, they already had diesel generators, and most of these diesel generators were oversized, meaning they were really working at a low level, low efficiency level, and some of that excess power could be used to charge batteries, to prolong the use of the availability of electricity, since the generators were only being used for about five to eight hours a day. And in the systems where there actually was grid access, those battery [inaudible] will just charge with the grid. So the other issues I already mentioned were low power quality, low voltage, voltage fluctuation, surges, and all of this affected a lot to the laboratory equipment at the hospitals. And then when we do have hospitals that have access to electricity, this is what we find, right? Very poor workmanship, very dangerous wiring at the hospitals, and so it's the project was called Improving Health Facility Infrastructure. So we addressed not only the battery backup systems, but in some hospitals, we ended up rewiring completely the whole hospital, because of some of the pictures, the images you find here. So some of the main barriers when we are connecting for instance a battery backup system that we provide depending on the loads of the system, they could provide maybe weekend worth of battery storage. So two to three days. And if there are too many loads connected to a system, it could provide a few hours, just to be able to catch up until the grid is back on, again, but then we have to connect our battery backup systems to charge with the grid, with any power that is available, either the grid, either the generator, and so on. And these are the main breaker boxes that we find in many of the hospitals. Again, a lot of the existing battery backup systems prior to this project – this is the way they looked. So there were a lot of issues with improper training, improper O&M on behalf of the technicians that actually performed O&M at the hospitals, not only for the batteries' backup systems, that these hospitals already have, but also we can see that the different hazard, fire, potential fire hazard issues, the generator room. These are some pictures of the many generators we found in the field. This particularly is in Jeremie, in the southern peninsula of Haiti. Then we have several other issues, again, with existing battery backups that we found in the health centers, and it was also mentioned in this webinar, many of these health centers have multiple systems, from multiple donors, and that's another barrier that we find in the field. How to integrate this issue of many systems, each – in pretty much each unit at the hospital, if it is the maternal unit, will receive money from a specific donor, or if it is the AIDS lab testing, will receive money from another specific donor, and so on, and the hospital will end up with multiple systems, and with several issues. Some of the issues mentioned here – the lack of ventilation, which actually is a health issue for the operators, and other folks around the battery banks. Which in the hospital is also a big issue. Then we have the general overall maintenance problems from the battery, particularly the wet batteries, which are the lack of the still water availability to technicians to actually provide the proper O&M. And then lack of tools to actually provide the proper cleaning, check the voltage, to figure out the state of charge of the batteries, and so on. So these are just charts from the different voltage variation we have in Haiti. We ended up selecting an inverter that can actually deal – that can charge the batteries from the grid and actually deal with voltage fluctuations. So the inverters were able to be able to program actually we have here 105 volts, as a minimum. But our inverter had a capability to be programmed at 90, down to 90 volts. And in some grids in Haiti, we found, in Port-de-Paix, particularly, we found grids that had actually 60 volts in 120 volt system. So pretty much completely unusable grids. So then we also have the problem with the coverage, right? So these are pretty much intermittent times during the day where there will be grid access. But there are many hours throughout the day, as you can see, that there is not grid access. So a lot of these measurements were taken by the team. So then we have the different technologies, the battery backup technologies that we propose. The idea was to address the for instance nighttime safety concerns, and we wanted to address the operating hours of the system, and so on. The problem, the issues that they were dealing with, were the generators' fuel costs. So the idea, again, was that the battery backup charges with excess power from the generator, because they're oversize anyways. And with a grid. So all of this affects directly, like Michaela mentioned, the decline of morale, the technical staff, so affects directly the retention of these staff that is providing services to these very remote areas, and or urban areas, actually. So the different solutions, different activities of the project included the evaluation, so energy assessment throughout the 33 hospitals where we worked on. Then the selection of technology, what type of inverter is actually capable of dealing with those types of fluctuations. What type of inverter can actually charge the batteries from many sources, not only the solar but also generator grid. So that you can provide more resilience to the system. And then we have all type of retrofits, like LEDs, and so on. When the project started, it's important to mention that the cost per watt power in Haiti, and worldwide, actually, developing countries in particular, was $8.00 per watt. Now we can see prices in Haiti down to $3.00 per watt. In small scale systems like this. So originally that's the reason why we actually didn't install many solar systems, and most of them were just battery backups charging with existing generators at the facilities. So wanted to take advantage of the existing infrastructure, and improve it, and make it more resilient. However, towards the end of the project, with the drop of the price of the PV systems, we installed a few solar systems that definitely will address many of the other issues we found with the systems that were charged by the generators. So training, training, training, both not only for technical and hospital administrators, but also part of the enabling of environment, working with the institutions that would be in charge of taking this project beyond the life of EC and the USAID intervention. So these are just a picture of the different systems we assessed and installed in Haiti. These are the three technologies that I mentioned – battery backup systems. These are the inverters selected. One of the barriers and problems of finding the proper technology in Haiti was many of the inverters back then didn't have a balance assistance, the balance assistance is the wiring management cages that we see at the bottom and the top of the inverters, which are crucial to the actually the life of the system, because many of the systems that were assessed and installed previously to this project, we can see that they were out of operation just because pretty much somebody pulled the cable, and there was just not proper wire management. We have same thing with the battery bank. Yeah. It was very difficult to find the proper balance of systems to actually make the connections robust. And last longer. So a lot of this, even though there is equipment in Haiti that could have been purchased, and it was purchased in the beginning, when the systems were commissioned, we found that many of those products were very low quality. So we had to replace. And these included from logs and other type of connectors that actually make the installation more robust. Then there were some activities in LED, LED retrofit, and again, what I mentioned about the rewiring of complete rewiring of the hospitals. And one of them was Justiniene in Cap-Haitien, and the other one – will have the battery backup power systems, again, that I mentioned – one of them will provide a backup power to the lab. And the other – and actually will charge the batteries. The other one will not be connected to the grid, or the generator, or any other source of power, so that its power output is not polluted, and it's pure sine wave, and it's good quality. So the problem when one charger or one inverter is used in the grid to charge the batteries is that is also providing power to rest of the loads, and is also just electricity goes past through. So the poor quality of the grid actually gets reflected, even though it's connected to the inverter. The second inverter is not connected to the grid at all, and that's the one we use to actually connect the most sensitive equipment. So, again, a map of the different installations, different pictures of the rewiring. HUEH in Port-au-Prince, the other hospital that was rewired. The different institutions that we worked with in Haiti. So we have inside of the ministry of health, we have UGP, which is the _____ _____ _____, which is the unit that was in charge of all the IP in all the energy – in the energy management issues, on behalf of the ministry of health. So CDC, as part of the PEPFAR program, was another partner. And the different institutional activities, we created the terms of reference, to hire, to contract companies in Haiti to perform these installations. So most of these installations, Tetra Tech, as USAID, and US engineering firm, could have done all these installations on our own. And however the idea was to create local capacity. So we hired many local companies to create this local capacity. We trained them on the national electrical code, and other workmanship issues we wanted to address when the systems were installed. And we can also address other environmental USAID compliance. In Guyana, so Guyana was another country where we implemented this project. And we again we designed the terms of reference, and installed 12 systems at nine sites. And I do want to talk a little bit about the path of the systems. So in Haiti, I'm going to go back and forth here between Guyana and Haiti, because these are two different models. In Guyana, all the systems were off grid. And the loads were really discrete, just to power certain critical loads, and mainly actually vaccine refrigerators, lighting, and pretty much lights and vaccines. So then we have in Haiti the different support systems. We have the hospital technicians that were trained whenever they have an issue, had a problem. They will call, go to the hospital director, or health center director. The health center director will go contact UGP, which is the unit, again, the energy unit, inside the ministry of health. Then we have the support path for the solar systems in Guyana. So which was actually more complicated. However, you can see both graphs. However, it was more integrated. It was a more integrated approach between the health – the ministry of health and the energy agency. So we have the health facility that will operate the system, and troubleshoot as much as they could, with phone assistance. They will have directly the phone number from the energy agency. However, when they would require some distilled water for the batteries, or lightbulbs for replacement, they would contact the regional health office, and then they would contact the regional executive officer. And they will contact the ministry of health, at the central offices, at the capital. So now even though the system looks extremely complicated, this is actually the same path flow of whenever they are going to require medicines at the health center, or equipment for the health center, or any other requests, the salary, paying the staff at the health facility, and so on. So every single request has exactly the same path flow. The only addition to this path flow is the Guyana Energy Agency, which is the energy agency we work with, very smart group of engineers that actually work as a full time staff at GEA. And whenever the health facility has an issue, they give them a phone call, and they can provide support via phone. And GEA also added in their budget the battery replacement for all of the systems in Guyana. The ministry of health added in their budget the cost for the distilled water, lightbulb replacement, and actually the ministry of health also pays GEA to perform the site visits. So every six months, the engineers will go to a site visit. Now, a very simple support path, like the one in Haiti, is actually not as effective as the one in Guyana. The one in Haiti, the technicians talk to the hospital director. The technicians are actually almost volunteers. Don't necessarily have a salary. And there are issues with the salaries of the technicians, and them being willing to provide support to the – and there's actually not really that much direct communication between technicians and the director of the hospital. So they need to go through other layers to actually reach to the director and request for support. And those other layers are really not paths well identified. And they actually vary from site to site. And then UGP receives funds from different budgets, different donors. Each donor has a particular request, a particular area. So the other thing is when they finally get funds, they will buy batteries, all the batteries at the same time, for instance, and store them for years. And all of these batteries have been activated. And when this happens, the life of the battery starts counting. And then if they are stored for many months, and almost two years, in this case, without charging. Even though those batteries are brand new, they will never be used. They're just not good once they reach the field. So I think we're going to talk – I'm going to talk quickly about the Guyana lessons learned. Originally, when these systems were extremely simple, again, solar system, charging batteries, and providing power to the whole facility, but only for lights, and vaccine refrigerators. The logic at the beginning – the engineers wanted to keep the loads as simple as possible, so to actually extend the longevity of the systems, and it actually did work. These batteries lasted longer, way longer than the systems in Haiti, the battery backups in Haiti, for instance. However there was an issue when we got there, and the health workers actually complained about not being able to connect their laptops, and actually not be able to manage power as much as they wanted to manage. So as a second stage GEA was going to install some plugs for the health workers. So in Haiti, we worked with several training programs, from administrators to staff, and so on. 150 technicians were trained in every single facility. We performed data monitoring. And a lot of this information is posted in the Powering Health website. So with this, I'm going to wrap it up, and turn it to Jem, and invite everyone to visit the poweringhealth.org website. Thank you.  Jem Porcaro: Thank you, Carolina, and thank you to all our guest speakers for giving us a taste of the state of play of health clinic electrification. I think Carolina in particularly provided a depth of analysis, drawing on a particular case study. Again, thank you to all of you. And I wanted to reiterate this hopefully will be the first of a series of webinars, with this webinar really taking – being an introduction to the topic, serving the issues at a high level, and we really would like to delve into some of these issues in more detail in the months to come. With that I'll maybe hand it back to Eric to kind of talk us or walk us through the Q&A and wrap up things.  Moderator: Sounds great. Thanks, Jem. And, as Jem mentioned, we're interested in hearing what topics among the many that were spoken about today would be of particular interest. So to attendees, please write into the question pain topics that you'd like to see in a future webinar. So just to turn to the Q&A session here, thanks again for those fantastic presentations. Great survey of a lot of the key issues here. The first question is about distributed remote rural off-grid solutions. And the question is – what is the current cost per watt of installed solar for remote rural Sub-Saharan African off-grid health centers, including transportation, labor, and everything else that goes into installing these distributed solutions? And then, if I could add to that, given those costs, how can they be financed?  Carolina Barreto: Hello? Hello?  Moderator: Yes.  Carolina Barreto: So I can [inaudibe] from my experience not only where with health centers, but also off-grid rural electrification in general. So for off-grid, given the cost of transportation, and actually for the types of systems we're talking about, one to two kilowatts, a ballpark number is between $6.00 to $8.00 per watt. And this really depends on the distance to the sites, and as Dr. Fitzgerald showed the picture, the access to the system is quite complicated. And also these systems are designed in a very unique way, so they're not really necessarily standardized. Many of the solar systems, in order to lower the cost, you need to standardize, and you really need to have a very large number in the number of thousands. So this is what we've seen with distributed generation and or the solar lantern pay as you method systems, from companies that have been able to lower it to $3.00, $4.00 a watt. But really when we're talking about customs systems, even if you standardize only 100 of them, it's really just 100, it's not in the thousands. So yes. I would say anything between $6.00 to $8.00 a watt.  Moderator: Great. Thank you. The issue of designing devices for the context has come up a number of times, and also is an issue that touches other categories of technology, like clean cook stoves, or agricultural technologies. This is really a question to all the panelists. What's missing in creating devices and technologies that are context appropriate, and which actors need to be engaged, and how?  Dr. Fitzgerald: Thanks very much. I think that's a really interesting question. Perhaps I can give a few thoughts from our experience with Lifebox Foundation. I think one of the fundamental points is that so a lot of device manufacturers in high income settings perhaps aren't aware there's a business case, or perhaps maybe aware, but perhaps don't see that there is value in designing and building medical equipment for diagnostic and delivery specifically for these sorts of environments. I think perhaps there's a lack of understanding about exactly what those environments are. That's for sure. But I think there's also a need for them to be encouraged to see that there's business within building devices specifically for these settings. And I think that is part advocacy, part business, ultimately. They have to be able to design and build and see a return on that. And unfortunately for the low income settings, I don't think that's currently what they see. So the incentive for them to actually to look into that, perhaps to get their own data on what's available, what's out there, and to specifically put together equipment that can survive and prosper in these environments, is something there needs to be a lot of work to do to try to promote, and Lifebox has stepped in to fill that _____ really, from the pulse oximeter perspective. So I mean certainly that's my personal view on that area.  Moderator: Any of the other panelists like to add to that? Great. We'll move onto the next question. We have a participant from Togo with a question about Michaela's tables about charts about electricity access rates at health centers. There's a curious question about just where the source, what the sources for that, and where the data gaps might be, and if I could add, it looked like I saw Namibia was both high electrification and low infant mortality. Maybe if that's a success story you've come across, Michaela, if you could speak to that as well.  Michaela Pfeiffer: Okay, can you hear me? I've been having a little difficulty with my internet connectivity. I just want to confirm. Am I coming through okay?  Moderator: Yes, we hear you well.  Michaela Pfeiffer: Okay, great, so, going back to the data sets. So I think it's really important to note there is actually no formal correlation that's been established between electricity access and the high burden. So I just showed that as a visual to make the point that we need to be thinking about these issues together. So could we say that there's a success rate in one country because of the state of electrification? Maybe. But there's a lot of variables and things that happen in between that it's hard to pinpoint that electricity access in health facilities main cause of that. And I think Dr. Fitzgerald also pointed to this issue that there's a real lack of evidence showing exactly the linkage, what happens when you electrify, because there are other things like do you have the right commodities, do you have the properly trained staff, and so on, and so forth. So this is actually why _____ was trying to develop this research protocol. But as far as where did that data come from in that first map, that data came from the WHO service availability and readiness assessments, as well as the routine health surveys, health facility surveys, that are used by USAID. So the SPA, which is the services provision assessment, as well as the other relevant data sets, for example, the health community will do assessments of emergency obstetric facilities or EMOG facilities, and we'll look at service availability service readiness in that context. So the data shown was data coming from actual nationally representative health systems' performance assessments. So there could be other data sets out there, but I wanted to show the picture from the point of view of how is it that the health sector is actually looking at it, and what we see.  Moderator: Great. Thank you. Next question is about monitoring and evaluation. And how you go about monitoring the performance of devices, and how you can basically address the challenge of ensuring ongoing functioning of devices.  Dr. Fitzgerald: Perhaps I can say a word about ongoing evaluation. It is complex, actually. Because from the perspective of either the charter organizations such as ourselves, or from the manufacturer, you don't have the same supply chains, and you don't have the same biomedical technicians working on site to be able to monitor what's going on and to feed back when there's a problem. And I think that's part of why the equipment graveyard we mentioned arises. It's that often perhaps something relatively minor can go wrong with a piece of equipment related to power supply. And that isn't necessarily fed back. Often, the piece of equipment and be simply discarded at that point. So there aren't actually easy answers to that, because I think ultimately a lot of it is based on revisiting the site to check for yourself the state equipment is in and what is required. And so I think it's quite a complex area to try and develop the system that can sustain electronic devices in these settings. In tandem with securing the electricity supply to run them. So I don't think there's any easy answers yet. But I think that system needs to be thought about as this is developed. Because one without the other doesn't perhaps realize the benefit you otherwise perhaps might hope for.  Jem Porcaro: I might just add –  Michaela Pfeiffer: I think – go ahead, Jem.  Jem Porcaro: This is Jem. I might just add to that, and I think Michaela is well placed to talk about the evaluation side of things, given the work in that space. I will just pick up on what Dr. Fitzgerald was saying in terms of monitoring. And I think that's actually a space where the use of remote monitoring technologies, which is certainly not a new technology, but the application in the health sector may be new, and we're seeing increased use of the technology as a mechanism for remotely monitoring solar PV systems, or other power systems, in health facilities, to make it easier to identify and address complications or issues with a power system. And the obvious benefit of that is, given the remote nature of many of these facilities, and the – as Ed was saying, the frequent dearth of staff or qualified staff to troubleshoot these systems – it allows for a ministry of health, or a stakeholder, to centrally monitor the functionality of power systems, and send alerts through text messages, or send instructions through text messages, for individuals to check or troubleshoot a system. And that's actually an innovation we're looking to pilot in some of our work moving forward, as we believe it's a part of the solution, certainly not the entire solution. And I actually think we hope to have a whole webinar series on the sustainability of systems, and I think remote monitoring will play a critical role in that discussion. So we'll maybe reserve that discussion for later, but I did want to mention it as a promising option for monitoring systems. Michaela did you want to add to that?  Michaela Pfeiffer: Yeah, I'll just jump in quickly. One – I'll make two points. One is that I think as far as experience for looking at this issue, I think there's been a lot around cold chain, and that there's a lot around innovations in terms of monitoring the reliability of cold chain and power within cold chain. So I think the vaccine story could be a very interesting device story to look at a little more closely to see what's been happening there, because I think they're probably progressed further than most devices in this space. The other point I wanted to make – in addition to having measures and alerts and systems that can be put in place at the site, where I would see that there is opportunity, there's possibility to do a more holistic monitoring at the system wide level would be in the context of the quality of care assessments routinely done by health systems. So for example in the area of maternal child health, there are maternal child audits, death audits, that are done, pediatric death audits that are done, in facilities. So there are different types of survey instruments that are broadly used within the health sector to evaluate quality of care, to evaluate service delivery, and I think it's within those metrics and those methods, those processes, that there's a significant opportunity to bring in the device story to make the device story more clear.  Carolina Barreto: I just wanted to add to the remote monitoring and what Jem mentioned. We actually installed out of the 33 systems in Haiti, 16 of them had remote monitoring. And but however all of them, both in Haiti and Guyana, had an internal data acquisition system. That even though – so when engineers or clinicians visit the site every six months, as soon as they get there, they download one year worth of data, and once they go back to their offices, they can analyze the data, even if it's not completely done remotely, they need to access that, download the data. However, they have one year of history, and if there are issues with the data, they can contact the health technicians and administrators to find out what happened with the system. So on the remote monitoring, the 16 systems that we actually have online, we're actually – have different issues. And one of them is internet reliability. All of them require internet. And most of this internet is via cell phone companies. So however even though the internet is unreliable, the data internally still gets logged, and as soon as the internet comes back on, it continues showing the data. So it's interrupted, but it still can give you a picture of what's going on with the system. However, again, it's another layer of training, not just about the installation of the data acquisition system, how it's also about training staff to actually analyze the data and understand what is that they're actually logging.  Moderator: Great, thank you. We have one last quick question. There's a lot of great questions coming in, we won't have much time to get to all of them, but we'll reach out to those attendees after the webinar. There are also some who asked for more information who we'll connect with. So there's two related questions that just came in from participants that I'll ask together, and the panelists can take whichever one. The first is – what role does partnering with local organizations play? And developing local capacity? And the other one is what role do government partnerships play specifically in potentially being a part of this solution to the issue that Edward brought up, that manufacturers don't feel motivated to make devices for particular contexts?  Jem Porcaro: So, Eric, this is Jem. I will maybe take the former question, around what role do local partners have? I will answer that from the perspective of designing a program whereby we're trying to implement some of these recommendations, some of these solutions in a couple of countries. And we know that the success of these programs hinges on the participation and ownership of local stakeholders. And that ranges all the way from government ministries, district governments, all the way down to the health staff that work at the health facility, to the supply chain that provides equipment and solutions to communities. So just to kind of go back to the question around what is the cost on a kilowatt basis for solar, and Carolina had mentioned $6.00 to $8.00, which is very consistent with our experience – once you factor in all the soft costs associated with engaging training local partners to be part of the design implementation and ultimate ownership of these types of interventions, obviously those you have to factor those costs in as well. And they do play a very critical and significant role within those costs. And so I think moving forward as stakeholders think about designing interventions in this space, one really needs to put local stakeholders in the heart of the program and factor in the costs of engaging them, whether it's on their own dime, or it's part of the program.  Dr. Fitzgerald: Thank you. It's Ed here. I'm happy to take the medical device question. Sorry. Could you just recap that, please?  Moderator: Yeah. The question was just what role the government might play in spurring innovation and increasing demand that would bring medical device manufacturers into the African markets to make kind of context specific devices.  Dr. Fitzgerald: It's an interesting area. I would actually perhaps not _____ but I would say that this is more than one government, beyond one government, to try and answer this. And my own personal feeling is local solutions are required for local context. Now, for perhaps the most high tech advanced medical devices, I guess first of all perhaps those are not necessarily what's actually required in these settings, but, if they are, then that might be beyond the capacity of local industry to design and build those. But I think if individual governments are looking to promote these issues, then I think there's a lot to be said from trying to design and build locally wherever possible, because I think the needs are much better understood, the context is much better understood. I think trying to relate to some of the major international manufacturers, and specifically encourage them to build for these settings, difficult. And I don't think there's any – I haven't got any easy solution as to how that can be done, I'm afraid.  Michaela Pfeiffer: Sorry, I wasn't able – this is Michaela now. I wasn't able to jump in earlier on this question. I had some issues with connectivity. But I also think that a very obvious player in the mix there has got to be WHO, in that we do a lot of work around influencing standards, influencing prequalification requirement for specific medical devices. We advise member states, ministries of health, who then often set their essential medical devices list, on the basis of WHO recommendations, or on the basis of quality of care metrics that they want to influence. So I think as a key actor in the mix of who has a responsibility and who has a power to kind of move this issue and draw attention to it, I think WHO certainly is one of them. Another point I wanted to make as well about the role of government partnerships is goes beyond just the device story. I mean I think that's part of it. But I also think that governments, given that they often set the national regulations, national standards, national priorities, there's a huge part to play around dialogue. And quite often you'll see in the health sector that that dialogue is not as articulated between different ministries as one might think. I referred before to the Ethiopia project, and it was fascinating, because it was one of the first times there was a formal discussion around the findings of these energy audits between the ministry of energy and ministry of health. And there the objective was to try to make sure the ministry of health's energy priorities were reflected in the national energy sector plan. So I think there may be an assumption that interfacing, that dialogue, is actually happening, when, in a lot of cases, it's not. So at the government level I think it's really about making sure that there's adequate exchange between the different ministries to make sure that the needs are fully expressed, and potentially even with industry. But I do think I agree with the point made that local production is can be ideal, given that it can be very context appropriate. However, I see the constraint that often decisions will be made on the basis of international standards, and sometimes it's difficult to work around that.  Moderator: Fantastic, thank you. Thank you again to the panelists. We'd like to ask our audience to take a quick minute to answer a quick survey on the webinar. We have five short questions for you to answer, and the feedback is very important to us, as it allows us to know what we're doing well, and where we can improve. So the first question. The webinar content provided me with useful information and insight. The next question is – the webinar's presenters were effective. The third question is – overall, the webinar met my expectations. The next one is do you anticipate using the information presented in this webinar directly in your work and or organization? Great. And the last question – do you anticipate applying the information presented to develop or revise policies or programs in your country of focus? Fantastic. Thank you for answering those questions. On behalf of the Clean Energy Solutions Center, I'd like to extend a thank you to all our experts, and to our attendees for participating in today's webinar. We had a terrific audience. We very much appreciate your time. I invite our attendees to check the Solutions Center website, if you'd like to view the slides, and listen to a recording of today's presentations, as well as previously held webinars. Additionally you'll find information on upcoming webinars and other training events. We're now posting webinar recordings to the Clean Energy Solutions Center YouTube channel. Please allow about a week for the audio recording to be posted. We also invite you to inform your colleagues and those in your networks about Solutions Center resources and services, including no cost policy support. Have a great rest of your day. We hope to see you again at future Clean Energy Solutions Center events. This concludes our webinar. 