 What New in 4.6 - Script Hello, I'm John Stamps from BMC Software. This video describes what's new in version 4.6 4.6 includes lots of new customization possibilities in the My Cloud Services console that we introduced in 4.5. In 4.5 you could customize only the cart checkout page By default, this page included two fields: the Charge Code and the Decommission Date. In 4.5 you could hide these fields. And you could add other fields, like we've done here. In 4.6, now you can use custom HTML and the Javascript API on service requests. Here we quite literally added a custom field for project information to the request form. and you can use custom HTML and the Javascript API as well on the resource tier. Here is the resource tier displayed in a requestable offering. When you create a blueprint for a requestable offering, the Blueprint parameters in drop-down lists can now be dynamic. In this example, the data source for the dynamic field is an AR System form. But that's not all. You can fetch dynamic values either from an AR System form or a BMC Atrium Orchestrator form! So when you implement drop-down lists for parameters that users must enter, you can make these lists dynamic. You can customize the My Cloud Services console with top-level menu and submenu items. We added all these menu items to the console. This menu item jumps to a different website. These other menu items include submenus. You can also include links to additional dashboards and reports or direct links on the My Cloud Services console. These top-level menu items can open custom content on the body of the same page, or they can launch a separate browser window or tab. Finally, you can configure permissions so that Browser Statistics is displayed if you're an administrator, but an end user won't see it. We've added features that fit BMC Cloud Lifecycle Management to the way that users actually work End users can apply labels to associate separate SOIs for any semantic relationship, for example, project or release You can now validate your users' passwords in the My Cloud Services console. This stops users from shooting themselves in the foot with passwords that will be rejected during request fulfillment You can add labels to categorize your resources in the end user portal. For example, you might want to label servers according to their purpose or to a project code. You can create filters for labels and use them in searches There are important changes with integrations with BMC IT Service Management: Out of the box, there is an initial data load of Corporate Remedy foundation data for all new deployments Creating new objects is guaranteed not to collide with Corporate AR objects. AR license type requirement is relaxed in 4.6. The license type that is set on the Corporate ITSM server is retained. You can now use full cluster, failover, or other robust features of Elasticsearch. Also new to 4.6, cloud administrators can resynchronize indexes for resources in the Configuration workspace. You can set compliance conditions in the context of CLM service offering instances. You can also configure compliance standards in new BMC Cloud Lifecycle Management installations or existing ones. Compliance is now not just another arbitrary deployment job. You can show compliance evaluation results in the My Cloud Services console. For example, Red/Yellow/Green are based on % of tests passed Support added for Docker Important changes to the AWS Software Development kit. For AWS, plumbing was included for external templates. Docker support is completely new in 4.6. In 4.6, you can now provision Docker containers on Docker hosts, which are located on premise or on the public cloud. This feature is available as a field kit on the BMC Cloud Lifecycle Management community. End users can provision applications as Docker containers. Docker allows better portability between different execution environments. Docker containers create more consistency in the behavior of applications across these environments. The Amazon Web Services SDK provides a new set of methods for API access to the BMC Cloud Lifecycle Management stack and the AWS cloud. The AWS SDK allows users to leverage all BMC Cloud Lifecycle Management capabilities like managing services and servers in a heterogeneous environment. This feature is available as a field kit on the BMC Cloud Lifecycle Management community. For more information about these features and many more, go to docs.bmc.com and review all the new 4.6 enhancements. I hope this video has given you a good overview of the new functionality you can find in BMC Cloud Lifecycle Management 4.6. Thank you for watching. 