 Welcome, in this module I'd like to talk about transformative learning for sustainability. In other modules, we already talked about the nature of wicked problems and that they require different forms of learning and public engagement than say conventional problems for which we can have a clear definition and kind of agree as to what we need to be doing, and agree on what how we should go about doing that. With wicked problems like climate change, loss of biodiversity and food security, this is a whole different story altogether. We've already talked about simple, vs. complex vs. wicked problems and you can go to the module where we talk about that and the resources for that module if you want to understand that better still. But I think it is very important to understand that we have different forms of education and learning that can address wicked sustainability problems. Let me go back to a slide, or a variation of a slide used also in the module on environmental education and ESD. If we look at those educations from a pedagogical or learning point of view, and you have say a narrow, or maybe a narrow focus or view of that type of education, EE- or ESD-, you could say that the learning tends to be instructional-oriented, more transmissive, where there are right answers that can maybe be reproduced or displayed in an exam or a test, but when we talk about dealing with wicked problems, that type of learning is not as useful as say more interactive forms of learning, where we need to learn from each other, where we need to learn to use from diverse perspective, maybe even, conflicting perspectives and values. And that type of learning will be more experiential, discovery-based and you could call it transformative. you're not just learning for knowing, but also learning for being and learning to make change and learning to transform. and that type of learning is critical for dealing with wicked issues. here's some key elements of transformative learning for sustainability, you could say, one is understanding change, complexity and transitions, two utilizing diversity, creating synergy, seeing connections, four, building agency and transformative capacity, empowerment and fourth considering ethics, values, empathy and care. let me quickly go through those. first, the complexity and change and transitions. you could say there are two perspectives on change: one is we need to optimize the current systems in which we live. take as an example, capitalism, you could say that capitalism or our empirical analytical sciences brought us many good things, the fact that I can speak to you in a room where I am being taped, you could say is a result of that type of thinking, it has been very powerful, it has brought lots of convenience and comfort to our lives. and we can just optimize it and green it. on the other hand, it might be that some of the issues that we talk about today: the wicked problems that we're talking about today, might be the result of that very same system and the values and the assumptions underneath that system. and if we really want to respond to global systemic dysfunction, we need to rethink those values and assumptions and maybe not so much do the things we do better but do better things, we might call it a transition perspective. so and we can look at it from a more technological perspective or a more societal perspective or from both. if you do that, and we look for instances about food and nutrition security, if you want to optimize, if you want to feed the world in 2050 with 9 billion people we could say well we'll just optimize our current systems minimizing food waste for instance, improving food literacy so that people make better choices or a more technological approach might better a transition towards a more GMO oriented society where we use less pesticides, less fossil fuels, and we are more efficient and productive but it requires a real, major shift in technology. or you could say no, we need to move maybe a transition to in the way we think about food and the way we distribute wealth and equity, fair food, food justice or maybe a mind shift or a cultural shift in what we eat, maybe we should be eating insects as an alternative protein to eating meat, maybe that's the solution. or a combination of a transitionary perspective might be that we say we need to have a real rethinking of our economy, a rethinking of how we integrate different functions, cradle to cradle, closed-cycle design, for instance in metropolitan areas we could use vertical agriculture, use solar energy in a better way so that it can be also high-tech but it also can bring people together around food, create social cohesion in the neighborhood so it's both. and if we do that, then we can feed not only the world in 2050 but we can also have meaningful and high-quality life so that's another perspective. now many of these these changes and transitions, they follow a certain stages and Geels and Schot have come up with this interesting way of looking at that, how niches, where there's a small incubator, some disruptive ideas, some counter-intuitive idea maybe even, where people try new things and experiment in those niches. look at guerrilla gardening for instance, as ecological restoration in abandoned lands or dysfunctional areas, trying to revive, revitalize that, that could lead to a coalescence between different initiatives, they could reinforce one another and that could lead to a whole shift in regime. look at school garden programs, community garden programs in cities and that could lead maybe to a whole green or urban agriculture where it's not just about food anymore, it's about mobility, it's about energy, it's about water, and the whole nexus has changed and the whole landscape has shifted. we could look and learn more about the kinds of factors that influence that type of learning. Second, utilizing diversity, creating synergy, seeing connections. this all has to do with systems thinking. not just learning to think in terms of categories boxes, disciplines, and trying to dissect the world, but trying to see the world whole, seeing the connections, seeing the relationships, organizing events in a way that different perspectives will meet, different time perspectives, inter-generational perspectives, but also inter-cultural perspectives that allow people to think about consequences here and in the future, but also here and elsewhere. seeing how, in this case an example of a single teabag, how it relates to economic, ecological, ethical, environmental aspects. so this is like the industrial cup of tea from the CDI here in Wageningen MSP Guide. Building agency and transformative capactiy, giving people the tools, the possibilities, to measure for instance quality of their own health, their own environment, using maybe also ICT and smartphones, but also giving them the opportunity to experiment, to try things out and to learn from trying things out. using citizen science or civic science. engaging them in disruptive activities, which may be needed not just in a, not just to adapt to the changing world, which we always hear a lot about, but also to disrupt the systems that caused this global systemic dysfunction in the first place. so that also has to do with change and transformation and being creative about drawing attention to important issues or being a little bit defiant in how we do things. this is a response to the ban on gathering groups of people in Paris at the COP 21 and this is how people responded, by putting their shoes and having their shoes gather on the square. it's an act of disruption but a very generative one. considering ethics, values, empathy, and care that's another, the final dimension that helps, I think in re-thinking the direction of our lives. also bearing in mind, what are the consequences and what could we do for the lives of maybe people living elsewhere? people mining the metals that we use in our cell phones, or when we eat food, or when we wear clothes, under what conditions were they made? in what kind of circumstances and how are the people affected by that and how can it be done in a fairer, more equitable way. but also looking at how ethics and values can enter schools and classrooms in a way that allows people to see that the values that we tend to emphasize and strengthen in our current education system tend to be beneficial for mainly economic interest. schools are becoming an extension of the global economy and they're not focusing much on arts, humanities, connecting with place or you know, developing better values like solidarity, empathy, or spirituality for that matter. or thinking about other species and recognizing that we are only one species on this planet. so that has to do with values and place and connecting also with other species and developing this kind of social cohesion around working on sustainability issues, and this is a neighborhood in the Netherlands that tries to be sustainable in many different ways, too many to discuss in just a few minutes. generally, dealing with wicked problems and having transformative processes and transitions require connecting to what we call the Big 5: connecting the world of businesses, to the world of education, to world of research, to world of the civic society, governance and to NGOs, societal activists organizations. how to connect these in a meaningful way how to facilitate that type of learning, brokering relationships that becomes the focus of people working on education in this kind of a context. if you look at schools, whole-school approaches, this is what a school might be looking like then, walking the talk, having energy neutral or CO2 neutral schools, having alternative energy but also having healthy foods in this school canteens, connecting with the place around the school, maybe growing your own vegetables as a school, having a bicycle repair or a shop or a phone repair shop, a little bit of entrepreneurship, connecting with organizations and groups outside of the school, small businesses, healthcare centers, the government and co-creating a school that breathes sustainability. 