 [Ringing Fence Noise] [Dog barking in background] Barking continues] So next we're gonna transition over to a gang truce that happened in El Salvador. Let me preface it by, our focus on the gang truce wasn't by accident. We'd been continuing to do some work in El Salvador. Violence had gotten to the point where it was massively out of control in El Salvador. And my particular interest as people started to talk about the truce was that when we looked at the gangs arguing that they had control over the streets, more so than others, and that they could actually head off problems that any deportees might be able to cause, because they had the kind of, they had the ability to impose control over the streets, or manage the violence that goes on in the streets. We really wanted to look at it, and one of the best ways to look at that is by looking at a gang truce. A gang truce is one of the very few interventions where what we're really doing is working with the gang for the gang to use whatever they do, whatever authority a leader has, whatever cohesion they have to self-regulate. Right? So if we want to see what kind of influence that they have on the streets, one way to do that might be to look at the gang truce. Now, the gang truce in El Salvador is a little bit different, and we'll get into why it was different. But there really have been very few studies that have looked at gang truces. Right? And gang truces are different. I mean it is like conflict interruption, or resolution, as some of you might be familiar with, but it's a little bit different in the the strategies that are employed, and the ultimate goals. With crisis intervention workers or whatnot we're oftentimes looking at dealing with a one off issue. So this gang has beef with this gang, and so we're gonna send these crisis intervention workers out there to stop the feud that's taking place. Right? It's at a, almost a neighborhood level, or group level dynamics. With a gang truce, what we're saying is right, for this area, we're going to agree between one another from the outset not to engage in whatever it is that we're not going to engage in. So it's not necessarily one specific incident you're trying to trying to not have repeat over and over and result in retaliatory violence, but really it's just a, think about it as a war and there's a truce, and we're just gonna stop, and we're gonna agree that we're not gonna engage in more violence. Period. Behind this, and it's sort of interesting why people think that a gang truce should work. For me when I hear about a gang truce, particularly in the United States, to me, frankly, it's almost laughable. Right? Like how do you expect these people to have any form of self-control whatsoever to stop others from engaging in violence when they can't even wake up at a certain time to make it to school, they can't really have normal, they can't have normally productive lives the way most folks would think about productive lives. Oftentimes we're talking about thugs, we're talking about school drop-outs. We're oftentimes dealing with people that have very little self-control, in general. So the idea of having a gang truce between gangs in the United States has always caught me as, "Geez, it's pretty tough.' I mean I have a tough time controlling my ten-year-old, let alone what it's going to be like when he's 16 years old. And having that 16 year old, which is the average age of a gang member, have control over other members would be really tough. Right? It seems hard for me to believe. Things are a little bit different in El Salvador, and some communities in the U.S. they might be different, but the idea is that gangs are like warrior societies. Right? That these that these groups have feuds with one another and that it can be these slight slights, somebody scuffs a shoe, somebody walks in somebody else's territory. It sets something off and so then we engage in violence and then to retaliate they engage in violence against my group, and it goes back and forth. And after a while it can be where you don't even know what's going on or why it's going on, but it's a point where you're just simply managing the reputation of your particular group. That you're retaliating to maintain your particular status in a neighborhood, in an area whatever it might be. What we also think that we know, we don't know this, but we think that we know that gang violence results in greater cohesion within the gang. So if my gang goes and shoots at your gang, that gang is going to come together, they're gonna talk, they're gonna smoke weed, they're gonna drink beer, they're gonna do whatever, they're gonna talk about it, for whatever period of time, but it causes them to come together and then they go out, they retaliate. My groups comes together, we talk their group comes back together for a little after-action report, so to speak, you know telling their war stories about what happened, right? They come together. We end up doing the same thing and so all of a sudden there's people having more contact with one another, there's more people looking out for others' interests. Right? That violence results in greater contact and a greater, what is perceived to be a need for the others, right? For my safety I need their help. You know I could be in danger if I'm leaving my turf, or I'm in danger if I'm not with my buddies because I need their help and to be safe or whatever it might be. And so that type of feudalism is believed to result in what some people have called more collective behavior, more collective liability, liability being if you're just in the gang, even if you're not involved in violence you could be the victim because you're you're involved with the gang itself. Because of the nature of gangs themselves, oftentimes being involved in illegal activity, oftentimes having to address issues of status or reputation. One of the things that's really difficult to address is gang violence through normal channels of responding to crime, right, like the police. If I'm the victim of a drive-by shooting and I'm in a gang my first thought isn't to call the police and report my victimization and work to prosecute the offender. Instead it's to take care of it myself, because that will not only enhance my reputation, it'll enhance my gang's reputation. And so it's really tough to have third party interventions. Oftentimes because we don't know about it people don't want folks to be involved. And so it creates this self-perpetuating cycle of violence. That's tough to slow down through normal methods. Policing and other strategies. And so we started to look at these issues in L.A., actually this whole body of literature is outside of criminology and criminal justice, most of it is in the public health field as a violence reduction technique. And so these doctors out of emergency rooms in L.A., after the riots in the early 90s, there was a truce between the Crips and the Bloods and these doctors wanted to look at it and see if it changed gunshots coming through their emergency rooms that were going on. And so they worked on it with the Los Angeles Police Department with some data, and they looked at things six months before the truce, six months after the truce, shootings declined by about 48% six weeks after, homicides dropped. The problem was, if you're familiar with emergency rooms, particularly trauma one areas, trauma one centers, they're huge. Right? I mean when we're talking about a gang turf and two gangs going at it, we're typically talking about a finite, small amount of space, This area that a trauma center can take care of is huge. We don't know if that was a drop in violence as a whole or or not. And then you have these other doctors that started to look at it, and they started to come up with similar results, and they wanted to keep carrying it out, what kind of an affect does it have? And they found that 12 months prior to the truce there were roughly 200 gunshots per month. Three months after it was 130 and then 11 to 4 months. This part isn't a footnote in the study, but in the footnote it shows months 4 through 11 that it increased up to about 400 gunshot wounds per month following the truce. And it takes a while for people to digest, if you're not familiar with reports and academic journals, you'll have thirty, or in public health, it's 3,000 words and tables that are really fancy. And then you'll have a footnote or endnote at the very back of the article. In a font size that's smaller than the normal text are these little notes that get buried. And that's one of the notes that was buried that homicides or gunshot wounds started to increase. And they looked at it in a couple different ways, and they kept reporting, 'This is a great strategy, we need to implement it.' The public health profession is saying we need to do it. Now it's sort of a weak study design, but nevertheless if you were to Google this in the news, you'll see these little discussions throughout the nation of people wanting to put together a truce. The idea of people trying to bring these groups together and say, 'We're not going to engage in violence anymore,' because people perceived that it worked. And then we were doing some work in Trinidad, a colleague of mine, I was working with him, his name is Ed McGuire. There was a truce that was put on by, he's a bishop now, but at the time he was Father Jason Gordon, and you had a part of the Ministry of National Security tried to bring together these different gangs in Trinidad to have a truce. We went back and wanted to just look at it for fun, to see did it even have an affect? And what we found was exactly the same thing in L.A. in that gunshot wounds, violence, and the such dropped for the three months following the truce, and then we saw a massive escalation in violence. So we see this, what we might call a boomerang effect, or unintended consequence of now we have a couple studies that we now see violence drops and then it escalates past where it was before. And so, I don't want to get into this in much detail but it's part of the same project a USAID, which is a subdivision of the state department. They wanted to know what was going on with the truce in El Salvador, and they wanted to be able to contextualize it with other places. So we also conducted an evaluation of gang truces in Jamaica and Honduras. In those two locations we found that there was no affect at all. And we used a little bit stronger models than had than had been used before. But while we were doing this, there was this major eruption in central America, because El Salvador had already started with a gang truce. The gang truce, depending on which story you want to believe, there was either friends of government officials or actual former government officials or others who helped bring together 18th Street, MS-13, and prison, the folks in prison discussed the potential idea of the truce. And then you have, if you're familiar with this group called the Organization of American States. They're like the UN for the Americas. Right? And they help deal with border disputes, they help try to resolve violent conflicts in the Western Hemisphere. They're an important player internationally, and they're well regarded, and Organization of American States flew in, said, 'We want to put our brand behind this,' they didn't say that literally, but they brought down some of their top leaders and wanted to work with, what some people argue- this was all done fairly behind the scenes to try to broker this truce within prisons in El Salvador. And to make a long story short, homicides went down massively. Beyond what anybody could have predicted, and I'll get into some of that in a bit, but the reason why this erupted into such a big deal in that part of the world is because it appeared initially like it worked, and it was really effective. And so, I'm not understating when I say presidential elections in El Salvador were based around this idea of this truce. And it was really, 'Okay, is it effective? Do we wanna use it?' And on the other side, 'Is this ethical?' Should we be bargaining with the leaders of the most powerful gangs in our society, making a deal with them so that they'll stop violence on the streets, and are we empowering them? Right? Because we are going to them, some of the most legitimate institutions, even internationally, are going to them, asking them for their help. So does that elevate them on a different stage? Does that give them credibility that they otherwise would not have is what some people argued. And so USAID was interested in understanding this issue. We talked to them before we started up and our thought was, if it follows prior research there's really two options for this, if it follows from the past four studies that took place, it will either have no affect, of it will make things a lot worse. That was our belief as the truce got started. Or at least what we argued to USAID would probably occur. No affect or it would make things make things substantially worse. And the reason for that is, at least as far as what my argument would be is most gangs don't have the authority to carry out that kind of control over the streets. That takes a lot of control. Thinking about all these people with low levels of self-control, low levels of education. They don't normally want to be told what to do by anybody right? They're out there doing whatever they're doing, and then now you're gonna have people, that theoretically are in prison, telling people on the streets what to do and what not to do. To me that seemed pretty highly improbable. It's a lot of young people, I always say. You know, how do you get two 16-year-olds to have diplomacy between one another right? They just don't have that kind of skills. I mean, biologically you're just a mess. I mean, a 16-year-old male? They don't know what's going on up here and the idea to get them to think rationally about some of these issues seems a bit far fetched. And then the other one that that a guy by the name of Malcolm Klein has talked a lot about out of L.A. is that this type of stuff may actually increase gang cohesion, because you're legitimizing the group. Right? You're saying they're okay, we're gonna work with you. So there's a lot of reasons to believe that maybe this isn't such a a good idea, or could be effective. And so what we wanted to do was really try to uncover what does the process look like? How did it happen? And what kind of an affect did it have? Because if you could pull off a truce like this, it would suggest something. Right? It would suggest something about the gang's capacity to have influence within their communities. And so when we were looking a these the reason why we selected these nation is they were the most violent in the world, at the time. The only nation-states that were more violent were states like Iraq, and Syria, and Afghanistan where you had some pretty active wars going on. You could see U.S. is down there at about 26. I always try to put Puerto Rico in there, because people forget that it's a U.S. territory and actually has really substantial problems with violence today. And we ended up taking a little bit of information, but what made this study unique was the fact that we had information that most other groups did not have, and that was we had some really solid information about what MS-13 and 18th Street looked like. So we could actually get it down to a small, local level and take what is a national truce and look at it within particular areas with different characteristics to look at its impact. To really look at the potential influence of the clique or the gang in that area. And when we're looking at all of this it shouldn't be surprising when we come to a time where we want to employ a gang truce, its because we've given up on everything else. If there is a lot of gang violence in the community the people do not run out with placards and signs and say, 'Let's have a gang truce, gang truce.' No. We say we want the police out there, we want them patrolling, we want them to make arrests, we want the bad guys in prison, we want to feel safe, I want my kids to be able to walk to school safely, right? And we demand police presence. When that doesn't work, then we start to think of alternatives, and we might put violence interrupters on the street, we might think about engaging in prevention activities, but then we get to this point where, people throw up their hands, it doesn't make any difference where it's at, they throw up their hands, and then they say, 'Hey, how about if we get these guys to just talk to themselves?' Because nothing else we have done works. We can't seem to put a dent in it. As a matter of fact, what we have done all we've seen is the problem get worse. That doesn't mean we made it worse, that we contributed contributed to making it worse, but it doesn't make any difference which location, whether it was L.A., where it was Honduras, El Salvador, Jamaica, any other place that's instituted a gang truce. Everything that they've thrown against the wall has not stuck. It's not worked, and things have continued to to get worse. And so, while the state, or the government may not be formally involved in brokering the truce, at a minimum they passively agree to it. They aren't gonna go in and pick up people that are typically going to have communication with the people who are involved in it to understand what's going on. At a minimum they're aware aware of it. [Audience member]: You were saying that [Continued]: one of the predominant ways that the El Salvadorian gangs were [Continued]: getting income, getting revenue, was through extortion, [Continued]: things of that nature, [Continued] what were the results as far as [Continued]: non-combatants? I see that it reduced [Continued]: the causalities for the combatants [Continued]: in gun violence and things of that nature [Continued]: but, what was the impact for the non-combatants? [Continued]: The people who were being exhorted? [Continued]: Just because they're not killing each other on the streets, [Continued]: how did that affect them [Continued]: as far as the non-combatants. [Continued]: The people who were asking for the truce [Continued]: it seems almost as though [Continued]: you know, there's less violence in the streets [Continued]: but how does it impact them? [Presenter]: You're right, you are you're way ahead, and you're right on. Many of the residents love the truce because they felt safer, and we'll get to that in a second, but they felt a lot better in their communities, they felt safe again. Some people argued that there really wasn't a reduction in violence. What really was going on was the gangs were just hiding the dead bodies. Right? And so they were still killing the same amount, they were just moving them and burying them. And we found a little bit of that evidence, but it wasn't huge. And then there was also that we're gonna move more towards extortion. Right? And we're just not gonna deal with this, we just need to focus on our energy on our business which is extortion. We looked at that, we didn't find much evidence of what, in our field we call, crime displacement where- So they moved from homicide and violence and then they moved to extortion. And a little bit of that, but it wasn't massive. The biggest controversial issue is we didn't find an issue with disappearances through, we used, it would be the equivalent of like, say morgue data. And looking through other, because those bodies eventually turn up somewhere, but we didn't find any evidence of that. But extortion was part of the truce actually. It was supposed to be the second phase of the truce where the first phase was going to be layoff on the violence, then after a period it was supposed to be, 'Okay we're gonna slow down on extortion.' They just couldn't do the two at the same time because it would disrupt their the economy within the gang. And so what what El Salvador did was to try to manage the truce through the management of the prison population. And they made a couple of deals, there have been a lot of stories about this so I apologize if I get some wrong, some right, but in general they had these key gang leaders, were transferred to a nicer facility, the prison that they were in was deplorable. They got moved to a nicer facility, they were given access to telecommunication so that they could communicate with the guys in their communities. There were some reports that they were given conjugal visits. There were other reports that they received other benefits. What I can positively say is that they got better living conditions to be in. At a minimum. And that was the deal that was cut. Now the government says they weren't involved in the truce, but these guys were transferred from a really bad prison to at least mediocre prison. So there was something that happened that people agreed that these people should be moved moved over to over here. And then long term the goal was that then we'll next work on extortion. And you're right, because that is a massive problem for the for the everyday citizen, for the local business owners, or the small business owners in particular. And so, you can ignore this, but, this is more for my memory and for my help than yours. So what we did was, just like we did before, we looked at all these social structure factors, poverty, their economic situation that they were in, this idea of internal migration. All the normal things academics do thinking about you know, all the academics all us want to talk about the environment in which somebody is raised, or the environment in which violence takes place, and how they may contribute to what different people might do. But what we did a little bit different here that that hadn't been done was what we really wanted to do was understand really where was the locus of control? Is it on streets is it in prison? Is it with 18th Street? Is it with MS-13? If things worked the way people sort of believed that they did, it would be that if you could control these small number of guys in prison who are said to have an impact on the guys on the street you can reduce violence. Because there really is that much structure. Even though it's informal structure, there's structure. So what we did was we broke it down and looked at the number of gang members by gang in each community based on those that are living in the community, active in the gang based on the number of people from that gang and that community that were in prison. So for example, if I'm from a particular community and I'm a member of 18th Street, and I was in the gang in 18th Street, then I went to prison, typically you go to your own prison, 18th Street prison there in El Salvador. And then what we did was we geo-coded which neighborhoods these guys were from. Right? Because they're purportedly- they play a major role in leadership informally within the group. And so some people argued that there was really no change in homicides, and there was actually a bigger group than you might think. In fact, we found that there was a substantial reduction in homicides 12 months following the truce. Homicides dropped from about 354 a month prior to the truce, to 218. Think about that cumulatively over 12 months. That's a lot of reduced homicides. So when a mother says, and you would run into these people, 'I'm really happy for the truce, my neighborhood is now livable. It's safe.' You would run into other people that would say, 'This is absolutely deplorable, we've empowered the gangs.' I mean this was a very heated and emotional issue in the nation, and what made it more heated was the truce had an affect. There's no doubt about it. The truce had a a major impact on reducing violence within the nation. This is what it looked like. So in about 2012 they signed the truce documents, or they agreed to the terms, they get transferred to another prison, 'BAM' violence is almost eliminated overnight. It goes down. That sort of tells you who's in control, right? It wasn't the police, it wasn't the courts, it wasn't even the prisons, it was those few guys in prison that called the shots on the streets. At a minimum. Right? Or what we think is that, because that's what the transfer was right? But, we see this massive reduction in homicides. Something that that country has been struggling with for over 20 years is addressed with the stroke of a pen and these guy's transfer. So we start to look at it a little bit more carefully, and we want to find out, okay that's the nationwide trend, let's look at it by neighborhood within the particular groups. This table is, I can't tell you how much me and my co-author argued about this table. Unfortunately, I'm not the stats guy, so he won. But so it's a little bit counterintuitive that reduction in homicides is towards the right. So, if you're looking at the far right right here you can see that in these communities there were roughly ten communities that had about an 80 to 90% reduction in homicides. You had about 50 communities, or 30 communities that had a 50% reduction. And you had some of these communities, where homicides actually increased. So that was somewhat interesting. Why do we have an increase in some and we have such a massive change in other communities? There's something going on geographically that is responsible for this sort of odd distribution in violence. Or at least how it broke down. [Continued]: Did they ever take into consideration [Continued]: they had actors from a third party taking advantage [Continued]: of the fact that the two major parties were no longer ... [Presenter]: You know, that's interesting you say that because there are other gangs in El Salvador. There's only about 3 to 4, I forget what they're called, but they're pretty minor players compared to these two. But, you're point is well taken, and I'll come back to it, because it does have a it does play a major role in what we just saw. And what we what we found was that the government led initiative that was going on at the same time that we had a control for. Had no affect on no affect on violence. And what we found was that the truce was associated with the number of gang members in prison from a community, not the number of gang members on the street. So that validated law enforcement's perception that the locus of control of these gangs was in prison. That this informal control is more than just a little bit. There's something going on that's more organized than what we previously thought. And what we what we also found was that in communities with, that were characterized as having more 18th Street homicides increased actually. This gives you- [inaudible] And so if you take a look at this chart the square is 18th Street. So if you had a 100 members 18th Street in prison, you had about a doubling in homicides. If you had a lot of guys in your community from 18th Street, your homicides doubled. Where if you had a lot of guys in MS-13, let's say a 100 guys, your homicides were almost eliminated. So if you lived in a community characterized by 18th Street, homicides went up. If you lived in a community primary with folks from MS-13 who are in prison, homicides dramatically went down. Dramatically. And so one of the things that we went back, because not too many people were, well nobody had really observed this, and we couldn't figure out why is this why is this taking place? And it had to do with in 18th Street there was a breakup around the truce, and people were duking it out for who would be in control, and so you had this inner gang conflict that was taking place within 18th Street gang. And there was feuding, killing each other. Whereas MS-13 for whatever reason, was more organizationally sophisticated, was more stable, they were able to hold control, hold the folks together, put them on the same page. Homicides dropped, and because the country is primarily comprised of MS-13, at least they comprise more communities and are more influential in more communities, we saw homicides decline within those within those communities. So we had a differential impact depending upon really the state in which the gang was organized. If the gang was more organized, the truce worked. At least for a couple years. If we had less organizational sophistication, it actually made things, what we think might be, worse. And so when we put it in the context of other studies right? We see in Los Angeles, I'm pretty sure it increased violence, in Trinidad I'm pretty sure it increased violence as a consequence of the truce, Jamaica and Honduras had no affect, and in El Salvador, for a couple of years at least where MS was violence declined. Now what I don't go into here, but what I could say is after the collapse of the truce, after about 24 months homicides went to their highest, historic highest levels ever after the truce collapsed. Yeah? [Audience Member]: [inaudible] [Continued]: ... Were they greasing the skids so to speak [Continued]: with MS-13? [Continued]: And then they fell out love with them and [Continued]: quit giving them money? [Continued]: And then they got back into the violence again [Continued]: to again make, [Continued]: ... they quit funding [Continued]: because it's all about money at the end of the day. [Continued]: So how did they, how were they able to, the gang member ... [Presenter]: I don't wanna get too specific with this going live on the internet, but what I what I can say is that the less love the truce got violence increased. And it wasn't like not obvious, it was obvious to the point where the international community was like, 'Woah, what's going on?' Massive levels of violence hit El Salvador when the truce collapsed, particularly with MS-13 I mean it's a it returned as the issue. And that's what led to the next series of elections with people saying, 'We don't care what it is, we need the truce.' Other people saying, 'No we can't give the gangs that much control.' Now the whole discussion is sort of ironic, because really, if you think about it the whole thing is ironic and that the people who are controlling violence in the nation are in prison. Right? I mean that's supposed to be where we put people so the rest of society can stay safe. But really it turns out those people are the ones who are maybe the only people in that country who can control violence, are those some odd people who are in prison. Because we know the police have very little effect on it. We know the courts. We know that the prisons sure aren't stopping violence. It continues whether they're in prison or not, just depending upon how the gang is dealing with it. And so what what my argument is that the real issue here is El Salvador itself and its system of government, or its failure to engage in governance. And you have a group that came up and filled the vacuum, or filled the void, that the government was not able to engage in. They weren't able to maintain law and order on the streets. They weren't able to deter criminality. The courts were not able to put people in prison to the point where it would deter people from engaging in criminality, instead income continued to flow in through tithing or whatever else it means. But the very fact that gangs in El Salvador have the capacity for greater control on the streets than the government by 50% if we want to quantify it right? They dropped violence by 50%. Police were never able to do that. The gangs could. If they have that level of control on the streets, what does that suggest for the government's capacity to deal with other problems. And so while MS-13, I would argue, isn't necessarily a transnational threat to the United States itself, I firmly believe it's not like an organized crime syndicate where they're ordering a lot of stuff going on in the United States and the such. I think they have control within their country, where there's very little capacity to control gangs, control criminality. People can make an income off of their criminality, enough to be at least average income. But once you get to the United States, you have, what I would argue, is at least reasonable institutions. We have police that are fairly efficient and effective, we have courts that aren't corrupt, they move fairly quickly. You put people in prison, it seems to dissuade their communication, at least a little bit. And we can't continue the criminal enterprise, due to at each stage we're able to effectively manage it in a reasonable amount of time. In El Salvador that's not the case. And that allows, in this case, MS-13 to flourish, and violence to flourish, and extortion to flourish. But, and so the question isn't so much, is MS-13 a problem? They're a problem for people in El Salvador. It's a horrible problem. I can't imagine it. But my argument is if that can flourish, what else can flourish? I guess I'm saying the solution isn't to deal with MS-13 per say. In terms of America, I would argue, in terms of national policy, our issue should be helping El Salvador address that vacuum in power, create greater governance, increase the rule of law, so that it will address problems like MS-13, along with what I'm sure will be other problems if they continue down the path with little government control. Sort of what we saw going on in Mexico for a period of time, particularly in certain pockets. And we could get into more extreme versions of this like what happened in Columbia down the road where the cartels were almost in complete control of government there for a period of time. That has not happened in El Salvador yet, but what you can definitely see is it's definitely a ground in which it would be fairly easy for problems to occur that could affect the United States, is what I believe. Any questions? [Audience Member]: The [Continued]: The powers that lead that were incarcerated [Continued]: that were kind of, you know the shot callers [Continued]: that were actually getting results on the streets, [Continued]: did you guys look into it as far as, [Continued]: I mean if the cops can't do it, [Continued]: it's pretty obvious if you [Continued]: you break a law what you deal with [Continued]: as consequentially with law enforcement as opposed to [Continued]: what you would deal with from somebody, [Continued]: I guess the level of violence. [Continued]: Did you guys look into that as far as [Continued]: how they were able to control them on the streets? [Presenter]: It was through violence. I mean it was the threat of, or. I mean from what I was told by a handful of individuals was that the few people that did step out of line were dealt with fairly rapidly. One of it was by from what I understand, it was almost like a demotion in the clique. 'Okay then if you can't control your guys, I'm gonna have somebody who will.' Other cases it was through violence. But it didn't take too many of those occasions that people understood. To me what's remarkable is just the level of control an organization like that or a gang like that can have on the streets. And so when we were looking at the deportees, I was like, boy that's a bit of a stretch to think that a gang can have that kind of control over the streets to stabilize it. I meant that's that's pretty high functioning in terms of criminal organization. This is, I think, just way beyond that, and it suggests that something needs to be done fairly rapidly within that nation to address that vacuum power vacuum. [Audience member]: That's one of those things that [Continued]: when you think about it when you're dealing with the confines of [Continued]: you know, proper law enforcement. [Continued]: I mean you can't, you can't affect [Continued]: those types of consequences on [Continued]: the individuals that you're attempting to control. [Presenter]: Well, and you know, I mean we we talked to them a lot about homicides that they carried out, and most of these folks didn't just engage in one homicide, it was, they were like, 'No. Who's gonna ...? How am I gonna get caught?' The only way I'm gonna get caught is if it's just bad, bad luck. And some of them would say they weren't necessarily worried about prison, they were worried about extrajudicial, you know. [Audience Member]: Right the repercussion of not having [Presenter]: From the police, well the police I mean, they can they don't necessarily always operate within the perimeter of the law in El Salvador. Any questions? [Audience Member]: So what was the solution? [Presenter]: Well, what we did was, and this gets into sort of a, what we ended up doing is writing up a series of recommendations to USAID and state that argued that we don't believe that a gang truce is the best approach to take when there are other alternatives are possible, if you have better means of addressing the issue. But if you have high levels of homicide, if you're government can't do anything, in terms of crime control or controlling violence, if your gang leaders have enough control, I could see that there's a case to be made that a truce could be like a tourniquet, right? You can use that tourniquet, and get away with using it for a short period of time, but you damn well better have the ability to deal with that problem in a more sophisticated way within a really short period of time, or it's gonna make things worse. And so that means, if you're gonna have a truce, you better be using that whether it's three months, one year, or two years, you better be using that time very productively to increase your capacity to engage in effective policing, engage in courts that are appropriate, have better prisons, and that would be a hell of a leap, given most of these nations have been around for longer than a few years for them to get their stuff together. But when you have the public, I mean I think about it as if I was a policy maker and I had to listen to families talking about their kids not being able to go to school, their kids being victimized, their businesses being affected by extortion. You would be in a tough spot if you knew that you could decrease homicides by 50% with a gang truce. I could see the pressure, it would be really tough to say, 'Yeah but it'll be really bad in two years,' when they just want things to be better today, right? I can understand that where's there's this competing needs between short term victory and and long term sustainability of an issue. I do believe that gang truces make things worse over the long run. I think that at a minimum they have no affect. We know that in some cases, a few cases, they make things worse. But in no case have we seen a sustained reduction in violence. Even in El Salvador it became worse, right? It got a lot worse. And I would argue that that's due to what folks like Malcolm Klein have argued, that these types of things result in greater cohesion, empower the gangs, give them more authority within the community, at least informally. And are able to address issues in different ways that the that the police can't. [Audience Member]: Is the... [Continued]: Is there still an advocacy for these in the United States? [Continued]: [inaudible] [Continued]: ... your problem has to be outta control ... [Continued]: [inaudible] [Continued]: ... you have to have prison control ... [Continued]: [inaudible] [Continued]: ... is there still advocacy for the gang truces? ... [Presenter]: You see it pop up in the newspapers. When you do a Google search on newspapers you'll see people trying to get people together. I argue that's only gonna make it worse, or worse case scenario is it'll make it worse. Best case scenario is it has no affect. But you do have other developing nations, like Jamaica where they have the Peace Management Institute which are government-led institutions that their sole purpose is to engage in conflict resolution and truce building exercises. So they're built in as a a formal way of trying to get this informal activity going. And so our argument is maybe that isn't such a wise choice to do. Yeah? [Audience Member]: With Honduras being a neighbor and [Continued]: having similar [Continued]: similar problem of MS, [Continued]: why do you think they had no affect, [Continued]: or a truce didn't, [Continued]: there was no affect to it. [Presenter]: That's a great question. I I think it's because they had no meat to it in terms of the benefits that they provided to the people in prison or to leaders in general. It was more like every other truce, and that is it's a handshake, or in Jamaica it's a sign a document. It's symbolic. In El Salvador, there were, people were gonna be in for life, they would get better living conditions, they had a real incentive to maintain a better standard of living in attempting to deal with violence. And some people argue, that's why extortion increased, because they had to sort of move things around and adjust. We didn't find any increase in extortion by the way, but some people were arguing for that. But in Honduras I think there was just no carrot there, and even though almost the same groups that were involved in the truce in El Salvador, they actually travelled to Honduras, trained them on how to do it. The same people, high level leaders in OAS came in to Honduras to help facilitate it, but I think that there just wasn't that same carrot dangling on the other end, and so there was no incentive. Or it could be that the gangs are just substantially different. We don't- It may be that they just don't have as much. They aren't as structured there. Any other questions? Comments? What I would really like to hear are some criticisms in terms of what you think is not right on, in terms of what you think is different. People oftentimes are there and they shake their head and they say this guys lives in a different world, at the top of an ivory tower, you know, that's not right. And then they just pat us on the head and ignore us, but we really would appreciate feedback that you have. I know, a lot of people are polite. I have a good friend of mine, Bill King, who always says criticism equals love. You know, it's the only way that we grow. And so any comments that you do have, I'm pretty thick, thick skinned about that sort of stuff. Any criticism? Yeah? [Audience Member]: How much do the studies show corruption [Continued]: or infiltration into the government [Continued]: by the gangs? [Presenter]: We did not get into that issue. If you take a look at USAID sponsors, a group at the University of Vanderbilt, it's a study called LAPOP, I forget what it stands for but they do citizen surveys of nations across the western hemisphere as well as others, and corruption is a massive issue in that people don't have faith in the police the courts, the prisons, and they really do have to put their faith somewhere else. If they can't count on these folks taking care of us, then we have to count on somebody else to take care of us. And in some cases like Jamaica, Brazil, very limited case, Trinidad, El Salvador, they can count on the gangs to take care of them. I mean I'll always remember there was a individual that I was talking to a church official in Trinidad, and he was like, 'Look, I had this old lady, she told me she was robbed, her purse was gone. The police didn't even bother to come to investigate it, so I went to the local gang leader, and he was able to get this old lady's purse back within 24 hours.' He didn't wanna mess with, that was outta bounds. It was this little old lady with no money. the gang did what the police wouldn't even talk to them about. In Jamaica, in Trinidad, in Brazil, you have these others where there are these informal community courts, because the police the courts just can't handle the workload or the, don't have the training or capacity whatever it is to get the job done. Thanks. [Audience Applause] 