 (Music) Ciarán: Great. Excited to be here and apologies for a business topic. Usually I, I go to sleep when I see something with business and blockchains. (Laughter) Ah, which is terrible because I was at a business school and am in business. Erm, I actually think the topic is a bit of an oxymoron because I would claim that as of today, or let me do this differently. Show of hands. Who has seen a blockchain out in the wild, in businesses, in production, solving a big problem and working. Show of hands. Okay so that's 4, 5, so you know I'd be really interested in what that is. But we're at something like I want to say 2 to 3% of the audience has seen a blockchain working out in the wild. So that just tells us that we are miles away from making blockchains work in businesses and that's something that I think we want to discuss today. The good news is, we are going to shorten the panel to 45 minutes or maybe even 30 minutes. The bad news is, I only have 5 questions written down, so if you don't continue to ask questions and be a part of the conversation, it's going to be even shorter. Because we have some time, I'm just going to let everybody do a quick one minute introduction of themselves. Kathleen please maybe you start. Kathleen: I'm Kathleen Olstedt and I think I fill here the role of the corporate. I work for Daimler Fleetboard, which is a telematics company. 100% out of Daimler which takes care of the commercial vehicles. So basically we build solutions for the logistics industries based on sensor data coming from the trucks and also more from the trailer. Obviously it's a really big playground, we have 220,000 trucks online. A lot of data, a lot of potential and for us looking into blockchain, of course it's a no-brainer. So and I think we are going to talk about, more about that later. My role there, is I'm a Collaboration Manager. In general I do venture developments with startups and also corporate partners, investors, and public stakeholders, but yeah in the context of blockchain, I think now there's a really huge passion and excitement about building blockchain ecosystems, because it's really like a greenfield and but something we are really interested in. Maybe one note, so I'm not sitting in Stuttgart, so we are a 20 people team sitting in Berlin in a co-working space, one of these typical innovation hubs, right. Let's do some innovation in Berlin, let's connect with the startups and erm so, but we have a close connection to Stuttgart still because in the end it's all about the integration and not building some satellites which then flying alone and erm yeah, don't do anything then just have a marketing effect. Ciarán: Excellent. Alexander. Alexander: Erm. Welcome everybody I'm Alexander Koppel, I'm working for Riddle&Code and the intro already put a big smile on my face because you know our founder always tells me I'm the only sales person in the company. And erm, Riddle&Code is the blockchain interface company as we call ourselves. So we, we're focusing on the last mile between the blockchain ecosystems and the physical object or the connected object. My background, I've been working in tech and media for the past 20 years. Erm, I had a bit of a, a greenfield pattern so to say. I started out in the cable business and then moved into 3G business and then into brand business. Erm and because as we heard this morning in one of the keynotes that erm, lifelong learning is not part of a corporate career, I, at some point I chose then to get back to lifelong learning and then I met Tom, the founder of Riddle&Code. So, be, exciting to be here. And sometimes I feel like 1996 when you know I finally understood that TCP/IP and OSI can also be translated into business. So glad to be part of the panel today and representing the business. Ciarán: Great. Katarina. Katarina: I am presenting on the one side business, but on the other side, the education part. My name is Katarina Adam. I'm a professor at the University HTW and I'm the program director or the industrial engineering program we're running. And I'm very glad that I can do every, or each Semester at least 2 courses with blockchain projects and we, we work a lot on blockchain projects and I try to introduce also my students into this topic. And on the other side, not you know, talking as a professor to the students doing stuff. I think it's very important to get the knowledge, what's going on in that business and startup industry. So that's the reason why I'm also a co-founder and it's erm, yeah it's a startup which is dealing with real estate issues. So we are trying to bring trust into the real estate market and yeah, that's the business part for me. Ciarán: Excellent. Well then let's dive right in and maybe I'll pick on you first Kathleen as a corporate here. Ah, you know, where are we in terms of what you described is the typical corporate blockchain adoption, the way I see it today. Some innovation department in Berlin, in a co-working space Kathleen: ...yes...as everybody seems... Ciarán: And and think it's exciting with some really passionate people. Erm, is is sponsored by the board? Does the chairman know about it? Is there erm, capital allocated to the blockchain that exceeds the expenses of the furniture of the chairman’s office? Is this for real or is it still just playing around because they feel like they have to do something in it? Kathleen: Well, so I think in general these kind of topics don't come like from a top-down order so it's bottom-up, so in our case it's 4 people. So our CTO, Business Designer, Data Scientist and I and we started of course, as everyone, like in the beginning of the years so we started this logistics track, where all, it's quite new our department. And then of course a lot of things come together, blockchain, logistics, a lot of problems, finding new solutions, so we filled a couple of Slack channels and got really an impression about it, every weekend, even then we worked on that. So and at some point there were all the use cases we collected and all the fragments and we kind of saw the bigger picture. So and we started to look into having more systemic approach, so how to look and how to go into fields which would potentially swarm logistics in the future, not just fixing here and there single pieces. And so it became quite clear that we have to work, not just on a POC and on a pilot, but have to reach for something which is like a decentralised supply chain protocol. Where all the single protagonists along the supply chain can connect, can have transactions, interactions so that at some point we again can on the smart contract layer or an application layer make use of our data. And this is what we are aiming for, we not go just for the POC, for the pilot we go for the supply chain protocol where we already have big other corporate partners on-board who want to go with us this way. These are bigger logistics companies, clients along the supply chain. Because you have to know in the supply chain, like just a cross-continental shipment of a container means you have 30 different protagonists. You have 200 interactions, each include several documents. So if you try to find, just a blockchain solution for one single part it means still, it stays fragmented, so you can't, you don't know even where to start. So and with this idea, of course we went to our CEO and she's an amazing woman, she is a computer scientist and she said, fuck don't be so conservative, so just don't think only about efficiency or transparency or all these boring cases, so we have to think about what a truly decentralised market place could look like. So what does it mean in matters of like visibility? Because if that's all decentral and we don't have visibility that we don't end up again in like a central platform. Erm however, so long story short, we get full support on this and this doesn't mean we still work on centralised marketplaces because obviously millions are spent, we built these go against Amazon and co But we get the go, to build something decentral which we don't own the IP on, but have maybe a future position to have no gatekeeping from other layers. Ciarán: Great. Katarina we had a conversation before where you said a lot of corporates, obviously not this one in this case, lack precision in understanding how they can use the blockchain. Katarina: Yes. Ciarán: So they're throwing the buzz word around they've workshops and an innovation department, but what's, what are your observations to make it real? Where are corporates on the learning curve to actually deploying blockchains? Katarina: I would like to say it depends on the industry. I would like to say it depends on the size of the companies. So small and medium sized companies, erm, the traditional ones, they do not look at blockchain solutions. They have no time, they have no HR resources, they can't solve the problem. So I think it's, it's up to the big ones that have to find solutions then there will be the big players and they will set the standards, of course. But, and that's the chance for startups you know, to dive into and to bring new solutions into the picture, into the game. So it's not so easy to say that in general businesses can use blockchain. I think we have to analyse the processes, we have to analyse what kind of companies are able to, to work with this topic and to, to deal with digitalisation itself with the whole, you know, blockchain is just one facet of it, not, not the whole system is on blockchain or we can use blockchain for all and everything. So you have to identify the processes, which is very very important and there are a lot of processes where there is still no need for using blockchain. It's nice to have, but there is no need. And you have existing solutions where you can you know, you can still do your business without using blockchain solutions. But there some specific erm, needs in a company, some specific processes where I would like to recommend very highly to say let's try and lets analyse how to use the blockchain technology for these specific processes. But therefore you need the knowledge, what is it about. And you need to have enough HR resources and education, again, in the game that you know what you are talking about and does it really make sense to implement blockchain in these processes. Ciarán: Great. Alexander, so you're in the trenches, in the field of reality. Erm, you said you're the company sales person, probably makes one of the few blockchain sales people in the world. Erm, what's the argument that gets your customers to be like, ah okay now I get it. Now I'll use it, of course. You know, what is it? Is it supply chain management? Is it other kind of things? What, what's the no-brainer beyond the buzz words? Alexander: Erm, I think there is no general answer to that. Erm, we've been discussing that, you know, the team's been discussing that yesterday. I mean, you meet a lot of companies, you meet a lot of people. Alright, okay and as usual there's people and they have interests and there's missions the company is on, and there's competition they're on. I think in general, I totally agree with you. It's erm, it's something, we don't do blockchain for the sake of blockchain, right. So we do blockchain because it makes more sense, full stop. Erm and I can only say that for the past 6 months, what we've been doing. We've been focusing on companies, who identified for themselves, the need for such technology. So erm, quite frankly if you know, a conversation starts with, we don't know if we want to do blockchain, that's the end of our conversation. Because we're not in the process of education. We are a solution partner, we are a partner to corporates, large corporations who want to solve a very specific topic. Erm, so you're back to square 1 of innovation marketing. You need to identify the need and you need to prepare yourself to be able to communicate to a completely different organisation which has a total different culture and sometimes it's also, in the process of establishing an idea of what to do with this technology. And erm, that means, at least for us, for Riddle&Code. We've been really really busy the past 6 months in trying to be as professional as required by the corporate partner to be able to partner with us. Because sometimes we just look at the corporates and think the corporates are in, they have no ability to make decisions and you know it's so difficult because they have so long processes. But at the end of the day, it starts with yourself and with your own organisation and the reliability you represent to your business partner and the risk he's taking when he's partnering with you and there's a whole package of risks associated with partnering with a startup which is not financial risk by the way. Yeah, it's erm and the, I think where we are now, if you look at the, where the industry is heading. Erm, I think now, agree, they understand a lot more why it makes sense and where it does not make sense. We've also passed the ICO boom and you know, now we all understand what that means and erm, I think now you see a clear focus in the year 2018 for first commercial deployments. Ciarán: Could we, so what are they? Without naming names, what are corporates actually doing? Alexander: Well, first of all I think that corporates are focusing on their pain points, always, okay. So if there's a great opportunity and a blue ocean ahead of you in 10 years it's fantastic for the CEO and, you know, the shareholders to talk about. But actually the people you talk to, they focus on their pain points, so you need to be able to, you know, to solve their pain points. Pain points these days are 95% sort of, a connected or at least there is a sort of a, an interdependency with the market status and their go to market strategies. So what we are doing, is we're focusing on companies that want to launch business and products which require blockchain infrastructure. Erm, because that's the promise they give to their end consumer or to their business to business consumers. And that's a very niche market to be honest, it's something which you only find in innovation and tech space anyway. So you're limited to a very small erm, small number of players. But they are very effective and to give you an answer it's you know, the whole electronic car industry, charging, energy, banking, supply chain, that's really something I, I can tell you in 2018 you will see the first commercial deployment. Ciarán: Kathleen, erm, if you look at your use case. You bumped into this really interesting thing, where you said hmm well to make this really work, maybe there'll be a re-centralisation to enable discovery and other kinds of things and maybe that's the future role of corporates, to centralise somewhat. But then again we don't really want that. And so you're working on something that is completely open source, you don't control but then what's the point of this ex-corporate organism? What is it doing in this new network? So, how do corporates survive in a decentralised world? And what kind of role to they need to morph in, to to, to exist? Kathleen: Okay, of course we broke our head on that. So we had, before we were pitching in front of our CEO, so okay what is the business goal in the end? We just can't go there and say okay, lets decentralise everything and then eventually we will be the first to then of course have analogies with the first, the guy who built the first website on the internet, so maybe that's a business opportunity which will arise for us. Like being the first to discover the first business opportunities. And I think we are still a bit at this status, of course we have some ideas of if we provide the data, then of course you can somehow monetise the data. But this is also boring and not really the long shot I guess Daimler is aiming for. But erm in the end of course, if you have this infrastructure, if you get out of this super fragmented market which we also right now can't in a way. So if you bring a solution there, if the whole market is broken based on price competition and everything is pen and paper, so we don't have a business anyway right now. So it's also a bit of a survival discussion we have, so it's first of all, let's have group therapy for the whole logistics, broken logistics market. Then let's see we have so many opportunities, AI implementations and so on looking into swarm logistics in the future, there might arise something but I, we can't answer right now clearly, so this will be the future business model. So, but we have the task of course, we said, okay we get the budget build the first POC which will be medical transportation from Netherlands to Africa and so, and then you have at some point, of course, the working group are like be, talk to the other partners and see what's on the horizon. Ciarán: Erm, one of the things, at the risk of it being self-serving erm is, you know, you, I guess corporates could do what startups are doing is create this network or protocol, issue utility value tokens on it and retain some of the tokens and capture value over time. Erm, Katarina, we had that conversation before and you said, yeah but first they need to get blockchain before we can talk about tokens, but it does answer or it does throw up the question is it just going to be much easier for startups to enter markets and compete and take business away from existing incumbents from the blockchain or is it a realistic scenario that these corporates can morph into entirely new animals which there's lots of innovators dilemmas and structural and cultural resistance? Katarina: I think that, that sort of, they are able to create completely new business models and work on completely new process structures or new processes itself so that there are a lot of chances in the market. But, what is, I think one of the biggest challenges for creating a new business world is that we have to, on the one side, convince people from the old traditional thinking that there is something on, that there is something going on. And on the other side, it is very important that a lot of incumbents, they do not want to have anything transparent. They do not want to have any thing done within just one second and make it reliable, trustworthy and so on. So, there are so many incumbents who really appreciate the position they are in and they will defence their position and for this it is very very difficult to implement new thinking in several industries so and I think that's the big problem we are in. Even the solutions are still there, you know, blockchain is, is a solution. It works, we have seen this with the Bitcoin. It's still working, so why not using the blockchain technology for several purposes? But so many people are afraid, maybe because of lacking the knowledge maybe because of knowing that when they implement this, that they will get rid of their jobs or their responsibilities or whatever. And that makes it very complicated also for new startups and I think that a lot of startups will fail because they have to, they will, see so many threshold they can't skip, they can't go over this because incumbents will block it and that's, that's difficult. Ciarán: At the risk of getting lynched by this crowd. Erm, you know, most blockchain technologies today are not great. In the sense that they're not very scalable, they're slow and there's lots of political, directional, things that throw up reliability questions for corporates. But so I resemble current blockchain technologies more to like, cockroaches, so erm, they're not very nice right now, but god damn it they're resilient. And they keep on improving and everybody says they're going to go away, they're going to die but no no no, I'm still here, I'm still growing and we're actually a little bit better. And then if you connect the dots, you just see this thing that just wont stop and it just keeps on improving and it's resilient and you can try and fight it, but it's just, you know, it'll survive. Erm and you know, survive maybe a nuclear blast like cockroaches. Erm, but having said that, there are concerns about scalability, transaction speeds, other kinds of aspects. How does the state of blockchain, and take any other, Ethereum, the Bitcoin blockchain, private blockchains. What has to happen for corporates to feel more comfortable? Is there still a stigma around, sort of, some of the dramas around the blockchains that keeps corporates away? Katarina: I would like to say yes, because a lot of people erm, here in that room, we all know all about blockchain or more or less all about blockchain and we are very familiar with, with the, what blockchain can do. So we should go into the real world and see what the real world is thinking and doing about blockchain. Erm, a lot of people connect this to, excuse my speech, sex and drugs and rock and roll, because it's Bitcoin, it's darknet and it's criminal, it's crime behind this. So for, for this, this is what people often connect to and we, we know more about this so it's I think it's our task to be like an ambassador to say we can, technology can help you so much, in so many ways. And we heard about this, this morning with the keynote speech, that there are so many things what we can do but education and to help people to get the understanding of what can yeah, let me say erm, technology can help us in our future that is a very important thing. Erm, and for this, when you talk to normal people you will very often hear that they can't get it. Maybe it's too much, it's too overwhelming, I don't know. But they, they think that when they can use Excel, well they're digitised, that's it. (Laughter) So why should we do more? Ciarán: Yeah I get it. Alexander what are you hearing? You're talking to these people. Do they know what Ethereum is? Do they know what blockchain is? Do they know what Ethereum is already or are they? Alexander: Can I just add to this? Ciarán: Yes please. Alexander: I think the blockchain community has done a phenomenal job the past years. Because it has created a counterculture. And for any brand in the world and I've been working with brands the past 20 years. Who's rooted into, any brand which is rooted into a counterculture there's a long, long, long, you know, bright future in front of you. Right. Apple was complete counterculture, just to name the most successful company and brand in the world. Erm, and I think what happens if you meet people these days is quite the opposite at least you know, in, in the companies that we meet. They, it looks like in their eyes, they go like, wow these are those guys who do these secret things and you know they are in the midst of this enormous and phenomenal development and to be honest with you, we let that sink all the time, for 10 minutes right. So and I think it's erm, again it's not different than any innovation marketing is, right. So you have to cope with a, a sort of misinterpretation of the reality. You know, if you want a misperception of the position or what it can do and what it can't do and it is on you to drive expectation towards the right point. I think in general, at least I can speak for Austria. I'm really surprised right. We Austrians, we are not known for being the most innovative people in the world, okay. The only thing we can do is compose music and ski, it seems. But. Erm. (Laughter) The past years, well, and do Redbull, erm, but the past years it's been, there has been I think a real ecosystem growing so it's interesting to see, you know also how politicians grab this innovation right. And you know, now startups are done, it seems like blockchain is the next big thing. At least that's what I sometimes feel. So it's also a bit of a, how can you add to the corporate? How can you add to the corporate in terms of positioning, product development, marketing. Also sometimes it's you know it's an investor or you know shareholder story you want to tell. So there's plenty of things. Back to business, to be honest erm, I think when it comes to business it's usual, you have to, you know, you have to commit, you have to deliver and this is what corporates expect. What I see is that we are starting now to talk to not only corporates but also to smaller players. Which is really interesting when they are privately held because then you can talk to the decision maker. Typically, the entrepreneur is a lot faster and smarter in making decisions with all respect to corporates. Erm, and erm if you speak the right language and you are willing to commit to the right risk portfolio then I think there is, there is real business in 2018. And to be honest with you, also thank you for BigchainDB for having us. You know, we, we really are relying on partners like BigchainDB to be able to make business and you know, I think that needs to be mentioned that this is an ecosystem, it's not a single play. Katarina: But may I intervene at... Alexander: Sure. Katarina: ...at this stage. You said at the beginning that you are connected to people of the tech industry somehow something and I'm more in the real estate industry and you might know that this is a very very conservative industry. And again, they see no need. They are very saturated and they see no need in changing their habits in any way. So to convince them and to talk to them and to make them aware that oh you can use digitalisation, you can use AI or you can use for instance blockchain and solution and so on. They will not, they will look very interested in and then they go back to the Excel sheet and say, hey that's it. So you need to be aware of what kind of industry you're talking about and again more, I'm more or less related to the real estate industry and they are so old fashioned it's incredible. And for this, just as an example, I went last week to a company and they asked me: well, we heard about blockchain. Well we would like to have a solution and this is what we are thinking about. Okay, sounds like a good idea, so lets start to talk about what kind of system you'll have, how should it be implemented in your processes. We don't know, we want to have a blockchain solution. So that's the industry. They just heard the buzz word. They just want to use this somehow as a fig leaf, we are so innovative, yes we know how to use the buzz word, blockchain for instance. And then that's it. So I only can talk from my experience I made and especially in the real estate industry which is, sorry for this, because I work very very long in that industry, they are far away from knowing what's going on. And it will take a long time to make clear that the future is, it's not somewhere on the outside, it's still here and if you don't care about this, they will overrun you. But sorry for that industry, they haven't got a clue about that, unfortunately. Kathleen: I think one of the biggest issues is that they were just told ah, it's all about leanstartup, (inaudible) methods, divine thinking, or customer-centric, you said that before and now we have to have a systemic approach which is like this really long term vision you have to do collaboration so before getting through a joint venture agreement in a corporate took ages. So these are like really new concepts for them to look into. But I think that's the beauty in consortium model or consortium models. So just 2, 3 start and then the rest will come on board, even later that doesn't matter they don't have to understand what blockchain is, they just have to understand, okay, that's really helping us. So that, of course in the first step it will be automised processes, it will save costs, it will digitise processes it never could do because there are all the other partners which have to play along. So for us, it's just okay let's do it. Let's get the first 2, 3 partners don't, let's not talk about blockchain or something, let's just just have a common approach to make the market healthy and just this... Katarina: Just start. Kathleen: Just start and that and you find in every corporate, I worked before for Axel Springer and so it's, you have these people within the corporates who understand. Who go to the meet-ups, and you just have to find them, you don't have to convince everyone. So and, and those will help you and said okay, yeah well we are not really used to contribute lines of code but well, if you do that we will support you and these kinds of people you have to find. And that's also then, if you have this consortium, like with the startups, it's, you have a better way to cooperate and so and then, it will solve so many issues, we are convinced it will work out. We have to, otherwise we wouldn't start that motivated. Ciarán: Great, so we have a 7 minutes and 45 seconds left, erm. Any audience questions, otherwise I'm just going to pick on a couple of people? Yeah. Audience Member: Hi, erm I have a question regarding to the topics you discussed and I'm not really sure to whom I shall address it, so I'm just going to do it to the 3 of you. You were saying that erm, you know, it's very difficult to convince companies to look into blockchain and to implement it and whatsoever. So, what are your arguments when you talk to business partners to really justify that this technology is actually better as current legacy solutions? Ciarán: Erm, you're selling blockchains out in the wild, so maybe you should... Alexander: So you see 1 of the 3 is selling right. By the way, we are looking for sales people right. (Laughter) Erm, depends on the client. Look you know, there is, and this is what I wanted to add is. It's the issue also of this industry is it's not standardised yet, right. So the corporates and sales people, they both love standardisation. You ship boxes from A to B, it's easy in-between, you make the money. So it depends on the client what you tell them and it is at the end of the day you are in the proof-of-concept phase, you are in the prototype phase, you are building something together which is rooted in a very specific requirement driven by the client because this is what he identified as his problem and he understands the technology which can solve the problem. He is looking for partners to do so, so there is no general answer unfortunately I can give you. Erm from all these conversations I had, at the end of the day, most time goes into explaining what we do, to be honest. And making sure that they really understand what we can deliver for them and that they see then with their perceived need, also the opportunity to working with us and do even more. Ciarán: I , you know I wonder sometimes if the blockchain needs cruder arguments, very simple ones and one or a group of people that get it, that convince themselves are actually investment banks, clearing houses and I had a, a dinner, I probably shouldn't name the bank, with a very big East Coast famous American investment bank with their co-COO and he said, you know we just did the math. We'll actually save 99.7% of our trading and clearing costs with the blockchain. And so if you open a meeting with saying, hey we can take like, we can increase your gross margin by 30x that's a conversation starter you know versus transparency and these things and so on. Sometimes I think we need to condense the arguments to specific business solutions and and impact on the bottom line, because ultimately big, especially publicly listed entities they're under this quarterly crunch thing and you know the crazy thing was and maybe I can name them, when I heard that Deutsche Bank is going to like cut down on their innovation costs to increase their margin and of course destroy their long term business that's the madness of the world they're in and so I think maybe we can hopefully help them come to a point where it's easier to make a business case. Alexander: But Ciarán if I may say. Ciarán: Yeah. Alexander: That's a typical argument you'll have with a VC. Okay. So what's the line of argument, you know how much money can you make? Profit, margin, etc. You won't have that with a business partner, because the business partner, he knows his business and you will not be in the position to discuss his core business with you. Erm he will, he will challenge you on what he's been seeing before and you know, if I may take Daimler, they have I don't know how many suppliers they have in the world and you know, they have procurement departments who know how to squeeze people and they now understand, they understand technology right. So this is also one of the challenges, right. On one hand you have the financing, the VC and the stories they like to hear to make the 10x multiples. And then on the other hand, you have the real business right. And I think that's the challenge to the entire industry if you want, can we bridge this gap? And can we develop real business before the funding dries up? Ciarán: Excellent. Any more questions? Say one more. Otherwise that would have been a great closing statement. Alexander: I have some more. Ciarán: Okay. (Laughter) Audience Member: Hi my name is Sebastien Couture. I'm co-founder of Stratumn. We build process traceability solutions for consortiums. And erm one of the things that we struggle with and I think it was Kathleen who mentioned you know, sort of, kick-starting this movement right, getting 1, 2, 3 consortium members. But I find that even this is a different, is a hard sell. Even getting 2 or 3 companies to change their thinking to want to build network economies is a big challenge. Erm, so I want to get your thoughts on how you feel about addressing consortiums at a higher level and working directly with industry associations, industry federations, trade organisations etc. Kathleen: Luckily we are in the position it's not such a problem. So we know, we also talk to startups who look into this solution, building these protocols or decentralised platforms if that's a thing. So and we know for them it's a real hard, they have a hard time to get all the partners on board which in the end have to do the transactions for us. We already have (inaudible) we have clients like big logistics companies who have like 7000 trucks and so on and they have all pain points and erm most of them are willing, not all like some are really old fashioned so but most of them are willing to join this kind of movement. And obviously for us also working with BigchainDB, they open us like, like another, like area working with all the startups who are active in this, in this field erm, I think if you, if they have real pain points, right, they have high costs, they lack transparency data and of course not everyone wants to give up transparency, we know that. So they, of course they don't want to have a reputation based system if they just usually can offer the lower prices. But it's a pull and push principle if you attack the whole system and the shipper is demanding this, you say okay, but now I want to have more transparency because then you get maybe incentive, it's not just a punishment system. But we build highly on incentives, if you do a good job you can, erm maybe get a bonus. And also this enables smaller players access to the markets which now are excluded because they don't have, yeah, they can't stand the price competition. So there's, there are too many incentives for like the players at the moment We have more to select who we take at the founding consortium and then who we take for scaling, but now we are in the lucky position that it's not such a problem. Ciarán: Okay great, I think unfortunately we are out of time. This was a really fun conversation. It seems like there's lots of good intentions, but we have a way to go for people to, to adopt blockchains in business and I'm looking forward to finding this panel I don't know if it's going to be on YouTube in 5 years time and seeing how wrong we got it, or how right. Thank you so much. Alexander: Thanks. Kathleen & Katarina: Thank you Ciarán. (Applause) (Music) (Music) 