 Let's welcome Jaime Sandoval He's going to be talking about Blockchain technology And cryptocurrencies Jaime is an expert and speaker on the subject, He is an advisor and writer In everything related with cryptos and digital currency We considered he's the right person to start this conferences cycle Due to his experience and knowledge He's going to help us to clear up doubts About this world So, let's receive him with a big applause Jaime Sandoval Hi... Is the sound good? Good? Good morning, I really... On behalf of the community of cryptocurrency users in Venezuela I want to thank you all for coming here! This is not just a conference This is a milestone for the cryptocurrency community in Venezuela A conference of this size More than 600 people I want us to applaud the people of Dash Caracas For organizing this event in such a perfect, clear And attractive way It makes you want to be here Especially, after... That great intro from the people of laughter yoga A lot of energy overwhelmed for all us Well, let's start with which we are here To talk about cryptos and Blockchain technology The trending subject right now In social media, On the desks of the banking people Of regulators, Entrepreneurs, Around the world and of course in our homes, we are talking about this, With our parents With our kids, with our brothers and sisters The truth is this world encloses All that, positive and negative And much more That first impression of cryptos, that you had, Was not wrong. It was just a point, In all that universe of opinions and tools about it Today we are here to clear up... To clarify all those doubts you have However, I ask you to... Contrast this information on the internet Look for more information I know internet looks like a dump with respect to these subjects Because you can find a lot of things there More negative than positive But go with the people that know about this subject Because Blockchain technology and cryptocurrencies Teach people to be totally Self-dependent, Responsible for themselves. So, We have to start with the information we manage, Without trusting the other person Quickly Search for that information ourselves Seeing how reliable it is Using it Because that's what we are going to do when working with cryptos OK, talking about cryptocurrencies... How did all this technology come about? This started... In the year of 2008, after the financial crash in the USA Which impacted internationally, even here in Venezuela Not so much, but it was greater in Europe, Latin America Do you remember that?... Don't you? When many banks went bankrupt in the USA Enron Corporation, Insurance companies, etc. All this types of things That's when the idea came up Of course, it was being worked on earlier in this, But that was the releasing moment, because... What better time than that? A different payment system That challenges all that financial, monetary infrastructure at that time, and that continues to exist Manipulated... Or controlled by the states and the banks Since there... This idea appeared Currently, money has important features to highlight First, the issuance of money... Is controlled by the states and private banks Which means, we can only access to cash, coins, Even digital money through payment instruments Such as credit cards Bank accounts on the internet, etc All that is controlled by the states and the banks Because they dictate monetary policies of each country Through... This parameters and interest rates, They go shaping what they think monetary policy of a country Should be. Payments and transactions... Are slow with high fees Have you ever made international bank transfers? More or lees, what are the fees? 50 dollars, Somebody else? Until 100 dollars, depending on the amount Sometimes, you make a transfer on weekend And the money arrives on Monday and if it is a public holiday, for example in China there is a week for... their public holidays, it will take longer In Venezuelan it happens, you have to make a transfer now, And you have to wait... Until the bank goes into operation So that the money gets to you and you can use it And with high fees There isn't almost any privacy at all Because they have a record of our information Our ID, every transaction we make For many people, this is not important at all The issue of privacy, but actually it's very important We usually, as human beings, We want privacy, there is certain information We want to share publicly with everyone There is information, we want to share... In a selected way, with certain people... With your family, with your couple With your children, it differs from public information So it should be with your banking information And other services we use You have heard about Blockchain technology, haven't you? Well, this is related with cryptos, basically it's the terminology... that emerged from this invention It is basically a record technology, Immutable, unmodifiable, hard to... Practically impossible to hack That's why it is so solid the use of cryptos It is a record impossible to hack and change You can protect yourself from this attacks And be confident that the information you have there, In bank account, in this case in a Wallet Belongs to you and it can't be... Modified. Well a quote from the CEO of Google Eric Schmidt, Talking about Bitcoin, The first crypto that came up, Based, of course, on Blockchain technology This is what he said... "Bitcoin is a remarkable cryptographic achievement... " "...and the ability to create something that is not duplicable in the digital world..." "...has enormous value." That's something new, we don't give it enough importance, but... For example, when you send a Word file "Final thesis" to the tutor, after different reviews, The tutor receives a copy from the original file, And you keep the original one This can't happen with money in the real world It'd be great, if I give you a 100 Bs. bill, and I keep the original one, and you get the copy That would be great!, everything would be duplicable! But value transfers with this mechanism don't exist Taking this to digital world is the great innovation The file is entirely transfered, The intellectual property of the asset, Is transfered to the other person As I told you, after 2008 financial crash, Cryptocurrencies started to appear The first one was Bitcoin , that why it's so famous, It is the pioneer The White Paper was released in 2008, it is sort of a... Technical, philosophical guide about this technology And the network started operating since 2009 With payments globally Satoshi Nakamoto was the pseudonym used by the creator of this technology Bitcoin technology was the name at that moment Then, the technology began to separate the name, Being called now Blockchain, From the coin, which is Bitcoin Because there are a lot of cryptos now Being Dash one of them, one of the most important, And Blockchain technology remains As the technical foundation for this new tools We don't know who Satoshi Nakamoto is There's no clear information about who could be We don't know if he's man or a woman, A group of people, an alien We don't know really, and we don't care about it Who knows the name of the wifi inventor? Maybe someone knows But we all use it, and it's such a great tool It makes our life easier It is the same with this kind of technology It does not matter so much who invented it But what are the advantages, features and how it benefits me To use this type of technologies Well, Blockchain... This is the basic part That makes this technology possible It's kind of a digital... And distributed ledger Where every page receives the name of "Block" Which means, every ledger divides in different blocks, Which are the pages where transactions are recorded As they take place It is important to highlight That cryptos are nothing more than information Just like when we access to online banking And we see our account number, Our name, and a number That's just information We give value to that information And we understand it. If i show you a bank balance, An online balance, To your 5-year-old son, to your little cousin They won't understand anything, because... That information doesn't make sense for them The same goes for cryptos That digital information, Is online, is in the cloud So to speak And people give meaning to that information Why do we give it meaning in a monetary way? Because it is a technology... That works a lot like money and other things And as it is a technology that works much better Than what we are used to, such as bank networks We give those networks a much greater value Next slide please Well, we can see the difference between Centralized databases, Descentralized, and distributed Centralized databases are pretty obvious For example bank records are centralized in a bank Because they need to have the database of all transactions, Users, all that information Protected in a... Private way, to guarantee privacy to their users And comply with the legal guidelines given by governments The problem with these databases is... They are vulnerable to hackers Because there's only one central point they need to attack And if they manage to make it, records fail, The platform collapses, users complain We all know how this ends If you decentralized the network, By placing other points, Copies of that central point, Making the weight be distributed in a better way To be protected However these networks are still vulnerable The best at this moment are... Distributed networks Where each point has the same amount... and weighting in information This technologies are based on this Cryptocurrencies technology are distributed networks Where every user Has a faithful copy Of every record and transaction made In the history of that cryptocurrency Why is this so beneficial? Because to attack, delete, or alter all the records I need to attack, at least, the half of the network At this time, to attack, for example Dash network The hash rate, which is the measuring unit of the processing power of the network. That number exists It is a very big number And it is impossible to match it with all the computers in the world connected It is impossible to hack with current technologies We have already heard about... Quantum computers, they are a new logic way to work Much more powerful than binary computers we use However, they are not tested in the market so we ca not know If they can cause this damaged Although there are already security protocols Being developed for this new... Computing technology Defense protocols are being developed to avoid attacks This is the strength of cryptocurrencies network They are distributed networks, where each user has an identical... Record... To the other users of the network Well, the Blockchain, Just as its name says, It's a block chain Think about a block like a page of that distributed record All transactions being made, are placed in that page, Once that page is full That's what we call to solve a block Then we go to the next page The difference we have, is that every block is connected With a unique serial, named hash It is a cryptographic mathematical term, Which makes it safer That unique hash is connected to the previous block So what happens? The block being generated In the crypto world, "being mined", at this moment, Is connected to the previous block, And so on until the first block at the beginning of the chain. The computing power to generate a block is very high Why? To register a transaction in a block, The user making the transaction, must enter the wallet private key To prove he has the secret password that accredits him as owner of the information In that file The miners network... Confirms that information belongs to that wallet, Created in certain moment, How do they do it? They looks for if that information is correct Then go to the previous block Until they reach the initial block Where that wallet was created to check if it's the same password Used during all these transactions until the first one To check if it's the same password That computing power is enormous because it has to run basically Not all the Blockchain, because there are wallets, not created since the 0 block, But there's a lot to go through Each block is generated in minutes it has to go through a lot of information This computer equipments have to check if the information Belongs to that user, and if it's correct... Their job is to verify If wrong data is entered on this Blockchain The system registers that wrong data but it is only one user doing this record What happens? He has to check and spread That information to the rest of the nodes If the rest of the nodes have different records They are going to tell him that his records are wrong "You are the only one with a wrong record" Most nodes know this information is not correct The information is canceled and the node remains as a rejected one At that moment it must self-correct To have same copy that the other nodes have in the network Remember this is a distributed network That is basically the security protocol used By a Blockchain The more nodes, people, are connected to that network, The bigger the security of the Blockchain This is a summary of the features of this technology It's a distributed,... Stored and updated database By the miners Miners connect computing equipments Some of them specialized, depending on the technology Of the cryptos mining algorithm They connect those equipments to that network To perform these certification tasks They are basically like public notaries Who are checking if the records are good, To be able to add that transaction on that block If everything is correct It enters to the \Blockchain record It is impossible to hack because what I said before The number of computers, the size of The network, someone must have to be able to attack, At least 50% or more, Exists, but It is too high and It's impossible to achieve with current technologies Cryptographic keys of each record provide security To this network If I'm a user and I have stored information in a Blockchain I have my private key... Which I active to prove I'm the owner... Of that information on that record One of the advantages of this technology is transactions without intermediaries Because they are peer-to-peer networks It means person to person There isn't a central node, Or a decentralized nodes with greater weighting Above the rest Therefore, transactions are made from node to node, Person to person, There are not intermediaries That could tell you: "Wait a second, I just work from Monday to Friday" Or "You have to pay this fee" It is totally direct That's why the speed, the low fees, And the liberty to transfer Value through that network At the time I want, Without limits... Without limits of value the other person wants to transfer me Obviously the limits according what you have in your wallet Next slide please Oh, we have two more points left They are irreversible, immutable, and impossible to be duplicated As I told the computing power to modify this network is too high It is basically unmodifiable Blockchains can be public or private That's an interesting point to know about Cryptocurrencies... Bitcoin, Dash, Ethereum and many others Are public Blockchains We can access those records Publicly, online, through block explorers Without using cryptocurrencies We can access to those records without being users, they are public. This records don't revealed... The identities of users They are simply serial numbers corresponding to a wallet That sent certain amount of money To other wallet, we don't know who's behind that record, But it is available, It is auditable, Which is very important. Bank records aren't auditable in a public way Only they can audit them Auditorium services, government services But we, as users, only have access to... Our personal bank record Not the case here, it is completely public for those cryptos with public Blockchain For private Blockchains being developed, especially for... Banking apps, because banks need... They work in that way, having a private database of their users And all transactions in a private way They work with private Blockchains So far, they are just doing experiments They are not engaged In developing these technologies Because they are very careful with the information they have They have to comply with legal obligations, etc. Therefore, they have a different way to work So they prefer private Blockchains Blockchain applications beyond finances As I said before this is a record of information We decide to make sense of that information The first application resulting from this technology Are cryptocurrencies, So the information has a financial and economic meaning of payment networks But it has bee found that these kind of records, By it features and advantages, Can be used for other applications For instance in social media, I can register an information... Being the author of that information Videos, serials... Hashes in this case Related to video I posted online Or a picture, an article I can add that information to the Blockchain, And as the owner, because I have the private key, I can prove I'm the owner or the author Of that record. In supply chain business, where they need to track Their goods and services, since they are produced, from raw material to their plants until it reaches the consumer All that tracking... Can be done through these kind of records Because they are very reliable, immutable and difficult to modify There is a British company called Provenance They are developing... These kind of applications Doing it with a tuna that is fished in Indonesia A very particular tuna. Through the Blockchain, With an app they have, You can see which place of the sea was fished Even the name of the person that fished it Then... The plant where the fish was processed, How it was transported to the UK, place of its final consumption And the markets that sell that tuna It is very surprising, but it already exists Thanks to those immutable records on the Blockchain Record of medical information, this has to do with privacy of records When we give medical information, that is... private and classified d information, trusting in... Our Doctor, etc. They use these records to transfer information between colleges, Other doctors, Laboratories, clinics, etc. But the users decide... With their private key, to allow that information to be sent To other people Internet of Things, have you heard about this? IoT consists in connecting daily use devices to the internet We can arrive home And the fridge can have cold beer already Before the game, that would be great Of course, this costs money, it costs energy And we can pay it with cryptocurrencies Many apps, based on cryptos, Blockchain and IoT are being developed nowadays Because they are very innovative technologies and they go hand in hand They are automatic electronic payments From computer to computer, you don't even have to program it Because one of the particular feature of this currency Is not only it is digital money but it is programmable money People can decide when a payment will be executed Through what we call Smart Contracts People can access to that network, to that protocol, And design a contract to be executed according certain Time, private key, etc. conditions On the subject of identification systems, it is very good As I told you records are immutable More than a third of world's population doesn't have An ID record They are not identified, legalized, government doesn't know these people exist But with these easy access networks, With a cellphone, Identification systems can guarantee... Adoption worldwide. It is one more advantage... This technology provides. This is very interesting, Blockchain technology can be use in election platforms To hold elections, there is a company, I don't remember exactly the name, they are located in the USA They did a simulacrum in the last presidential elections As I told you, it is auditable They showed the results in real time while people voted Without revealing people identities Which is important for the elections But information was being displayed The results and percentages were showing up Until the end of the election It would be interesting if... Governments use this initiative? To add transparency to... Notarizations are something quite good In Venezuela, we will use it pretty well Many people are developing technologies based on this applications I know some developed here in Latin America, in Spain, in Argentina, Where you can record a legal document, Without the need... of... a notary or lawyer It's as simple as registering it, in an unmodifiable database So you do not lose it if you have it physically If you save it in a decentralized server, so nobody can hack it It has no legal effects so far You do need a lawyer to present it to the government But you are sure that digital record is there Totally secure, because it's in the cloud And that cloud network is very difficult to modify or alter Good, we already talked about the Blockchain Let's focus now on cryptocurrencies In other words, the financial application of this network of immutable records There are a lot of cryptocurrencies There are 1000 currently And they are increasing more and more There is a difference between a cryptocurrency and a token I guess you've heard of that... We are going to talk about that difference later But basically on websites with the list of cryptos Cryptocurrencies and tokens are included There's just a small difference Cryptocurrencies features are that they are tokens based on cryptography They use cryptographic records with private keys To access the information and be able to transfer it They are open source Cryptocurrencies usually... have a public Blockchain The development code is available to anyone can take it or modify it, if you want to create another cryptocurrency Or apps based on it, etc. They are associated to a Blockchain network, as we saw They are use for electronic transactions And they are managed through wallets It is the equivalent of a bank account We usually call them wallets... That is the term use for the file where cryptos are stored The issuance of cryptocurrencies, as I said at the beginning... They issuance of Fiat money is controlled by governments and banks This technology, as an alternative to this The issuance is made through the cryptocurrency mining process Why does it call "mining"? Because the economic models of cryptocurrencies are basically based... on the gold standard, on commodity pattern Making an analogy with gold, gold is a good but it is limited There is a limited amount of gold in the planet Once all the gold is collected, there will be no more It is the same with cryptos They have an emission limit For example Dash... The limit is 24 millions, right? 22 millions, thank you very much! Once those 22 million Dash are mined The won't be more emission of the cryptocurrency Because it is a limited good That creates a shortage of that good And like real mining, when gold started to be mined, going back to the analogy, It was obtained in the water with a quite rudimentary process People extracted those little balls of gold Later... The gold was over in that way People had to dig underground with a pick and shovel Then due technology, they started to build drills Now there are big industrial machines And all these type of things This is what happens with mining technology We started with home computer, a laptop, Then we start to build bigger things Because we need more computer performance and processing, there is more difficulty. It actually is programmed to be perform that way, To simulate the behavior of gold. Today we have specialized equipments, which are computers, They are not use to go online, and check our Facebook But to mined cryptocurrencies, they are specialized equipments To execute these types of algorithms To verify the Blockchain, if everything is alright And write that information in the following blocks Miners earn money by this activity, because they are like public notaries. So, for doing this type of activity, For providing this service They earn for every transaction being made Transactions are not free, but fees are very low Because they have to finance these type of equipments, electricity, internet usage They can earn money by fees for transactions And for every new mined block Those are the ways to get cryptocurrencies Through mining. There are different types of mining algorithms The most basic is known as Proof-of-Work That one says you have to prove that you have a computer running, Consuming energy by its computer performance, To get a reward The other one is the Proof-of-Stake As the name says, you have to prove you are providing a different service From the rest of the nodes To get cryptocurrencies In the case of Dash There is something called Masternode We are going to talk about it later After this session Masternodes offer... a different service from the rest of the nodes They provide totally anonymous and instantaneous transactions This is very important Through this Proof-of-Service algorithm They have a bigger... Commission Every time they process a transaction Proof-of-Stake in English Consists basically in proving I have cryptocurrencies in my wallet Once I prove I'm the owner of that information, At the end of week or the month. Every certain time, I earn interests on them, it's a way of Exercise mining All these algorithms depend on the cryptocurrency Most work only with Proof-of-Work Some of them use two Some with other algorithms, because there are more Than those three, but these are the main ones What we call "block solving" I mentioned it before, it's about completing a block of transactions Once you finish it and write it, that new block added to the chain, Generates a greater profit for the miner who performs that operation And these are the rewards for every new coin generated How does this money acquire its value? That is the question we all have right now Like "this is technology is amazing, but what is its backing?" How do I know this have value? We basically have to break a paradigm We may or may not know about it The first thing is that money is already digitized Every time we see less cash In countries like Sweden, physical money doesn't exist anymore It is completely digital, people pay through credit cards, Debit cards, bank transfers with their cellphones, etc. But money is completely digitized It shouldn't be a strange thing that cryptocurrencies are totally digital and that they don't physically exist Because we are already using digital money nowadays And physical money is disappearing That's one of the paradigms we need to brake "If we can not see it or touch it, we don't believe it" Transactions in these types of networks are faster and cheaper than in banking networks That gives a value to this network I decide to transfer value through cryptocurrencies Instead of using banking platforms, because it's faster, I have freedom, It's easier to use, it just ask me The other person wallet address And my private key I don' have to wait for a message to my email To the cellphone, What's the name of your dad's pet? What are the coordinates in the card? Is this computer yours? Eventual or frequent? No, this is direct! There are a lot of advantages this technology offers Giving value to this network when using it More people like you are interested in the use of this technology Each time people interest and decide to use this crypto, They decide to buy it to use the advantages of this payment networks They are giving value to this network Saving, this kind coins are public tradable in specialized crypto Exchanges So, What happens? They are exposed to the free market Where people decide if that coin worth more or less for its utility or because there are less people using it, or because they don't like it, or because it has a lot of potential It is subjective thing As its own value We can buy and sell cryptos in those trading networks and we set those prices Dash has a current cost close to $300 And that's the value it has earned in the free market Because the network has been improving, growing and offering more useful services And because more people decide to use this technology As a unit of account, which is one of the characteristics of money Cryptos work the same way You have probably heard people saying... I have zero point zero zero and this amount Dash Things like that.. It's a hard number to say Because we learn to count in natural numbers, from one onwards But what happens here? We can divide a crypto eight time its value Which means very small quantities that we can handle with cryptocurrencies This is what I mentioned before This is the graph of the performance of Dash in the market During this year I don't know if you can see this Here it says $14 at the beginning of this year Approximately in February Currently it has exceeded $300, it's around that price This is the behavior of almost all cryptocurrencies The good ones Dash is in the globally top ten And that positive behavior, beyond its volatility But there's an average A slope diagonally upwards That's because people see the value of this network The advantages they have as a payment technology And people quote this token in the market They see its value and it is reflected there Every time there is more confidence and people who desire to use this technology And they are trading with these new payment services Closing the idea regarding the value of the currency Every currency gets its value thanks the confidence it generates in its users Many people think currencies are based on bank reserves in gold That gold standard, that commodity pattern doesn't exist from long time ago Anyone has ever heard about Bretton Woods Agreement? It was a political agreement made after the II World War It broke down the gold standard Later President Nixon emphasized on it There is no central bank today using gold reserves to prove its money has value A currency gets its value based on the trust it offers to the users who have that currency and who can exchange it with another person And why do I receive that currency? Because I know somebody else will accept it To exchange goods and services For example, if I... want to buy your cellphone But I'm going to pay you with Indian Rupees. Would you accept them? Not here We don't use that currency here But the currency is legal And it has its value, there is an economy in India backing it With a greater market, a greater globally backing That is what gives value to the currency Confidence People trust Indian Rupee, in India and other parts of the world We don't trust on it in Venezuela because we don't know who is going to accept it later If I pay you in Euros, for instance You may accept it because you know you can exchange it with another person Euro market generates such confidence That its scope goes beyond the European Union and reaches Venezuela That is what gives value to a currency Because at the end of the day it's just a piece o paper It is just a coin of minted metal What happens if we take it to an online number? A digital information I give it the value and the sense, because I know that technology Works very similar or even better than physical money And I know other people will exchange that information later for goods and services That is the value a currency has It is not based on a gold standard or a commodity pattern from a long time ago That depends of course on the amount of goods and services I can access through that currency We talked about the example of India with a huge population and economy But the confidence of that currency, all goods and services tradable with it in India Are not enough to reach the same confidence in Venezuela But there are other currencies that can generate it In the case of the Bolivar, we know what happens It is a legal currency here in Venezuela, I can trust on it But outside Venezuela nobody trust on it These are events that occur in the markets And we must understand That each currency has its value according the confidence of the markets and their users These are some websites I want to show you There you can see which are the cryptos listed in the markets This one is coincap.io And coinmarketcap.com They have apps For Android For iOS You can download them to your cellphones You can access to their websites with your computers or tablets etc. Cryptocurrencies listed there Are the public ones Some of them with private registration But their quote is public You can access to them, you can buy them in specialized Exchanges There are not... scam cryptocurrencies I'm going to say it straight because it is a scam: Onecoin Onelife Those are not cryptos, those are scams, they are ponzis Be careful with that because it's a bad publicity for this ecosystem Onecoin is no listed there, of course, because it doesn't exist as a crypto Have you heard about this? ICOs Let's see Who has heard about it? You haven't heard about ICOs Initial Coin Offering Good! That's the translation into Spanish Initial Coin Offering It is basically a great mechanism that uses Online value transfer of cryptocurrencies To create create financing schemes Do you already know Crowdfunding? It is about presenting a project publicly People interested in investing in it, decide to pay certain amount Through their bank accounts, their credit cards, Paypal, Payoneer, etc. But with ICOs, it is made directly with cryptocurrencies The difference is that I have faster access To finance from anywhere in the world without a capital limit, etc This type of financing is very good, because I can introduce a technological project Online, globally And people can finance me, they can invest in that project I'm developing There are thousands of ICOs globally This year the number exploded There are many projects using this financing system with cryptos Unexpected things happen like raising 150 million dollars in two hours This is how this financing systems work because it's open, it's online, everything is faster People read the project, believe in it and invest in it I'm currently working on a ICO project Made in Venezuela, by Venezuelans Its name is INVOT, it's a trading bot, we are going to release our first ICO here in Venezuela And we are going to use this financing system This is an invitation, if you have a technological project You can use this technologies. Introduce those projects Online, publicly. The model, the product you have developed Learn how to make Smart Contracts For people can send you money Create a work plan, a route map with your team. For people can trust you And carry out the financing in the fund raising rounds through these schemes One of the advantages of using cryptocurrencies is that you are your own bank This means you have duties and responsibilities with yourself You have advantages, as I said before, you can transfer in any moment with slow fees There is no limit of amount in transactions But there are responsibilities like holding the private key That allows you to handle those amounts That information stored there Is yours If you lose your private key, no one will answer for it Because you are your own bank If go to the bank, and I lose my password, they give me that information because they have a copy of that record In this case, as you are your own bank, no one else will give you that support It is important the management of the wallet In this case Dash wallet, we are going to talk about it later To comply with safety tips there Because there is only one responsible for that information You and the people you choose to share that information That's why I said at the beginning that this information about Blockchain, cryptos is good to be checked at home Because this technology Invites you to be the owner of the information. The owner our your financial information This is the example, we become our own bank by using this technology We are free to do with our money whatever we want There are no geographic limitations, amount limits, etc. But we have those responsibilities that we must assume There many stories of scams "An exchange was hacked" That happens because it's company offering a service Using this technology to connect people But the Blockchain network is unhackable, as I said before This service was hacked, but hacking the Blockchain is impossible If I use directly the Blockchain network without going through an intermediary I avoid these types of situations in the future As I said before: Wallet That's the term use in this world, to refer the information Like a bank account, the file where the digital information is stored At the time of payment we use our cellphones We can use our computers There are paper wallets, like the one given in today's material And there are hardware wallets, which are more secure Because they don't have a direct connection to the internet The private key sets inside the offline device When making a transfer It has greater security Those are different options That are handled in this technology The advantage of the information stored in the Cloud Is that if I go to another country Well, here in Venezuela If I lost my computer, my cellphone, something happened It doesn't matter. I can recover that information because it's stored in the cloud not in my devices I can recover it in other device and access to the information again Access to the amount of money there to continue operating Transportability is a great advantage of this And features of money itself I can travel to another country and once I'm there, I can access quickly to that information online I need an internet connection of course As I told you Dash is currently worth 300 dollars Some of you will say, I don't have $300 to buy one Dash But it is divisible up to eight times its value I can buy fractions of Dash This is the minimum amount of Dash zero point zero zero zero... one Until eight times The minimum amount of Dash is called a Duff In honor of the creator of this crypto, Evan Duffield Keep in mind that you do not need a large amount of money To buy this coin, to access this market, you can buy small amounts It can be divided in decimal fractions We are going to talk about the legal part For sure we are all concerned about it We have heard different stories From friends, we've seen some articles online, etc It is important to talk about this Defense lawyer in Venezuela, Professor Fernando Fernández He says that in Venezuela, monetary crimes do not exist I say it as in the quote: "The evidence indicates that, first" "Cryptocurrencies are legitimate virtual products" Second "Its used is allowed" And third "The cryptoproducer, or miner, is not a criminal by the fact of producing them" There are no laws on the used or prohibition of cryptocurrencies in Venezuela So we are allowed to To use these schemes In a open way However, the government cannot protect us from a scam Can we see the duality of this? We can use them Because they are no illegal But we are not protected by the government Because they are not legal yet There is a kind of gray area That we ourselves must be responsible for using this technology, and nobody else This is very common anywhere in the world Because innovation is ahead of regulations New technologies and new tools come up And one way or another they are gaining followers And there's where government decides To enter to that ecosystem to see what regulations it can do And prohibit what is negative Regulate what is positive to protect users, etc. There are positive regulation cases in the world Especially in Asia, Japan and Korea are great examples There have been small approaches and pronouncements in Venezuela, the USA, Europe about it But there is no well-established legal framework in this area It's something we are going to see the next years It will become more common Because it is something that makes sense As I said, innovation is always ahead of regulations But regulation is the door that will allows us to get to maximum adoption Because we believe in our institutions We believe in the legal area And once we have that foundation Our inventions will be protected Our money, our effort We can bet freely for this technology in a massive way However, I personally think That while these technologies exist and there is no regulation, we can use it openly As many people have been doing it And that's my invitation, to join to use advantages To create an increasingly large and solid community That at the time that regulatory systems are established Be as positive as possible for our benefit. Well, this is an opinion of the lawyer Fernández "Cryptocurrencies are legitimate products, but they require of legislation that protects them..." "To prevent abuse, extortion, other crimes and errors" Surely you have heard about cases of using cryptos in a negative way On the deep web To buy illegal services and goods That is true, that has happened It was one the first market s in using this type of technology Because they realized the value of transferring information online So, the first state approach occurred in the USA Because they identify these schemes there At the beginning they saw it as a negative thing But there were smart people that saw its negative side But they also saw the advantages of the technology, that it can have a good use That's why it is catalog as the Fourth Industrial Revolution It is something that is going to brake down our paradigms In a financial, philosophic, economic and legal way, etc. Because it is something innovative To transfer value without creating a copy on the internet But what happens? We need legislation go working step by step Going hand in hand with innovation to create regulatory schemes that allow us to use it more comfortably Well, this is the end of this conference I want to invite you to follow me on social media @srpoliloco And of course to follow the people of Dash Caracas Thanks to them we are here gathered Thanks to Dash Nation this is a free event Thanks to them you have that souvenir, a little gift from them Thank you very much for coming Let's continue with other activities Over the course of the day Check this information at home I invite you all to use these technologies that are already revolutionizing the world And that are of great benefit to all Thank you very much 