 Translator: Lorenzo Leandro Reviewer: Roberto Minelli Blockchain, a chain of blocks How many of you have heard of block chain? In the newspapers, on the Internet. And how many of you can tell, in a nutshell, what exactly is blockchain? This is what I will try to do in this short time My story does not start with source code but with a poker hand. Imagine you are playing poker  with some strangers. In this game, no one has neither cash nor chips. On the poker table, there are only cards and some white sheets of paper. Sure, you could cut the papers in some small circles and make chips out of them. But you do not trust one another, and you fear the others might cheat For example, by secretly cutting chips or passing them under the table. So you decide to distribute sheets of paper to everyone, and everyone commits to write how much everyone bets, who wins and who loses. Everyone keeps its own copy nearby, visible to everyone. In this way,  if anyone makes a mistake, or tries to cheat, or even if some players try to collude, to make someone lose, the discrepancy is evident to everyone. After a couple of hands, you filled one entire page, with a register of money transactions. We call these pages:  "blocks of transactions." After one hour, you will have written several pages, and you would have started to number them. We call this stack of ordered pages, chain of blocks of transactions. You have created a "blockchain." The first and most important blockchain implementation of which you have heard, it is called: Bitcoin. In 2008, while the US financial industry, and not only, entered a deep crisis -- a person or a collective, under the pseudonym of Satoshi Nakamoto -- publishes an essay in which he introduces a technology that, for the first time, allows to transfer a digital value without the need of trusted intermediaries. This seemingly simple event, triggers a spark of amazement, fear, and interest everywhere. But let's take a step back and go back to poker. Bitcoin is a software that works just like a huge poker table, in which millions of people who do not know each other, and do not trust one another, keep a blockchain up to date, by writing down the history of all transactions. Some of them exchange money, but many are just volunteers that offet their computational power with their computers, to verify and keep in sync the history of transactions. Having millions of people that, individually, keep this history synced, might seem a good way to guarantee security and the integrity of the chain. In reality, in a completely decentralized system like Bitcoin, in which there is no central authority, like for example a bank, to monitor transactions and avoid frauds, there are some problems. For example: Who guarantees that only the legitimate owner of the funds can use them? And who guarantees that he/she can do it only once? The Bitcoin protocol, provides mathematical foundations to avoid these problems thanks to cryptography. Given that it is based on cryptography, Bitcoin is also called the first cryptocurrency. In particular, thanks to digital signatures, the Bitcoin protocol ensures that the transactions come only from the legitimate owner and thanks to other measures based on cryptography, this big distributed accounting register of value, it's robust against hacking. In the past decades, we have taken for granted  the possibility to access the: "Internet of Information." If I send you a file, an e-mail, I am not sending you the original, but I am creating a copy, and this is perfectly fine: It is the democracy of information. But when we talk about property, as for example: houses, stocks, money, sending a copy is a big problem. If I send you 1,000 euros, it is important that I do not still own the same 1,000 euros and that I cannot spend them again. The Bitcoin protocol solves issues like the problem of double-spending -- well known problem in cryptography and information science -- using cryptography. For the first time, it implemented the concept of the scarcity of a digital good. Indeed, there is a limit to the number of Bitcoin that will be circulating and the inflation curve is unchangeable and it is written in the protocol. Nowadays, our economy is based on trusted intermediaries, to whom we delegate some fundamental functions. For example banks, insurances, and notaries. They work well but they pose some problems. First of all, they are centralized. Thus, they can be hacked and compromised. In fact, every week newspapers report news about it. For example, the last news was about Equifax being compromised. Intermediaries exclude billions of people from the global economy. They slow down the processes. It takes seconds to send an e-mail to the other side of the globe, but it can take up to 7 days to send a money transfer in some areas. Finally, intermediaries impose high fees on transactions. To send cash to some areas in Africa, commission fees can be more than 20 percent. But what if, together with the Internet of Information, we had an Internet of Value? A big distributed accounting register, a natural way to transmit digital value. This is the big challenge posed by the technology we call: blockchain. Bitcoin is one, the most important,  but only one blockchain. There are others. Ethereum is a blockchain written by Vitalik Butarin -- a Canadian-Russian guy at the early age of 19. Its most amazing feature is the possibility to stipulate the so-called "smart contracts." These are contracts written in source code that are executed in a distributed way without intermediaries, such as notaries or executors, and they deal with managing, fulfillment, execution, and payment in a completely integrated way. Nowadays, on the Ethereum blockchain, there are projects that spread from replacement shares to stock markets, from crowdfunding of startups to gambling with cryptographic guarantee of fairness. [There are even projects about] new models of democracy that overcome the ideologies of the twentieth century, making politicians truly accountable towards citizens. At TED, Don Tapscott asks himself: "How can we solve the problem of inequality? Can we create new approaches to this issue?" Until now, the main approach has been redistribute wealth through taxes, for example. But what if we could change the way we generate wealth, democratizing it and including more  people in this process, in order to guarantee that everyone receives the right compensation? According to Hernando de Soto, the famous latin-american economist, the first obstacle to economical mobility in South America, is the absence of trustworthy title deeds. In places where accessing a bank account is very scarce, not being able to demonstrate to be the owner of a land, means not being able to use it as loan guarantee and thus not being able to  make projects for the future. In Honduras, where this problem is largely present, the government is collaborating with a Texan company that deals with blockchain, to build all property registers on top of this technology. In this way, they are distributed and robust against impairments and they are publicly visible. This model could potentially create prosperity for billions of people. There are estimates saying that more than two thirds of world land owners do not have a complete title of property. The greatest cash flow from developed countries to developing countries, are the remittances of the emigrants. It is the global diaspora, people who leave their country of origin, their families, to go to work in other countries. Every month, they send home -- in their home country -- part of their salaries. It is a market worth more than 600 billion dollars per year and it is growing. A Filipino housemaid living in the USA who wants to send money to her mother in the Philippines, with Western Union has to pay almost ten percent of fees, and the process lasts from four to seven days. Abra is an app, based on blockchain, that allows to send money, using Bitcoin, instantaneously. The mother receives a notification: "Your daughter sent you 10,000 pesos." She does not have to know Bitcoin. She sees a map, like the one of Uber, on which there are many people moving around, exactly like the cars on Uber. She selects the closest or the one with the best feedback, and these people are willing to work as money couriers for Abra in exchange for a little fee. She selects one, she knocks at his/her door, and he/she gives her 10.000 pesos in a few minutes. The process is almost instantaneous and she only pays a two percent fee which remained in the local economy. I think that following this example, would create prosperity for billions of people. The majority of artists and creatives do not receive the right compensation because the system governing intellectual property is ineffective. Let's take music, for example. Artists are left with crumbles, at the very end of the food chain. Imogen Heap, the famous singer-songwriter, winner of two Grammy Awards, has decided to move all her music on a system based on blockchain called Mycelia. It is a smart-contract that integrates a payment system and defines the terms of intellectual propriety. For example, if one wants to hear the song, it is free of charge, or costs a fraction of a cent. If one wants to use it as ringtone, it is different. If one wants to use it as a soundtrack for a movie, it is again different. And because this system also integrates payments, the money remains in the pockets of the artist. Several intermediaries are eliminated. This is not only applicable to music. Potentially, every content creator can adopt it: video, inventions, etc. The blockchain technology, even if in its infancy, is shaping itself to be a huge and concrete opportunity to rewrite the economic net of transactions, solving some of the most important and difficult global challenges. It allows us to exchange money and digital or physical goods, in novel ways. It could make some institutions obsolete. [Institutions] to which we delegate fundamental functions of our society, like banks, insurances, and notaries. It could force them to become more delocalized and secure. It could become a formidable tool of democratization of wealth resources. Its transparent nature, could provide the solution to age-old problems like corruption allowing, for example, citizens to verify the flow of public funds. It could revolutionize the nonprofit world, allowing to donate to projects which are publicly verifiable. And all this, silently, is already happening. Thank you. (Applause) 