 (mystical music) - I've been working in the technology space since the mid 80's and I've seen three total revolutions. Silicon, the internet and blockchain. I'm Bill Tai, I'm a Venture Capitalist and I'm advisor to AirSwap. AirSwap is basically a next generation distributed exchange technology leveraging the blockchain for the tracking of assets. If you think about the impact on communications of the telephone, before, people used to just kind of talk to each other and when the telephone was invented everybody got a phone number. The phone number became their representation to the world expressed in a phone book. So any person could basically look somebody up, punch in their number and go from point A to point B to have a dialogue. That happened with webpages with IP addresses. Now we're at the point where every asset can have a digital identifier. Why that's interesting? It's an enormous market. There will be companies in our generation that are organizing the world's assets and if you look at organizing the world's information that produced some giants, organizing the world's people giants, organizing the world's assets is probably two to five orders of magnitude larger. A good friend Hernando De Soto, an economist, he wrote a book called "The Mystery of Capital" and it basically defines the foundational building block of capitalism as clear titled to an asset. I had read The Mystery of Capital 15 years ago and it sat in my head for 15 years and when I realized what blockchain did I said wow, I can basically automate everything he's done and provide a way for every asset to have a clear title to unlock its value. The blockchain allows AirSwap to basically reach every person in every asset in a giant neural network of things that wanna be connected, and I think the timing for this technology is perfect. If you think about the early days of Bitcoin and Ethereum you have really cool technology that is really powerful but it's really hard to explain. And AirSwap is basically putting a user interface layer on top of that to bring the value of that technology to a very big problem set, which is how does any individual anywhere in the world buy and sell something with security and liquidity? When you can combine an enormous market with a fantastic team and an opportunity that's well timed great things are gonna happen. (mystical music) 