 Hello everyone! Welcome to Daniel's Nanoworld!! In this second episode we are going to talk about one of the many applications of nanotechnology, the creation of biosensors so... here we go!!! Sensor? Biosensor? What's that?? Well, if we take a look to the Wikipedia it defines sensor as  everything that has a property related to a magnitude of the medium and by modifying this magnitude it is also modified with some intensity the property, i.e. it is manifested Ok... This is somehow a bit abstract... so to explain it clearly I prefer to use a little Chinese tale Once upon a time, there was the Tang dinasty the emperor had a really valuable jewel, the "Xao Fan" but one day it disappeared... Lei Chao, the hand of the emperor, he knew the guilty was someone from a nearby village so he went there with his men close to the village, there was an old forgotten sanctuary in which a big old rust bell was found Lei Chao's men sealed the windows impeding the sunlight to enter inside leaving just one door to enter and leave the sanctuary all the inhabitants of the village should enter in the sanctuary, walk in the darkness until the big bell and put their hands on it and then leave the place the main idea was that the thief, when touching the bell, would be so nervous that the bell would shake and ring so everybody would know who's the guilty so, everyone entered inside the dark and they touched the bell, but it did not ring... did the "sensor" fail?? once everyone was outside, Lei Chao asked them to show their hands all the hands were dirty due the rust of the bell all the hands... but the hands of the thief since it was dark and no one was seeing it, the thief decided not to touch the bell, so he won't be catched... but he was!!! because he did not touch the bell they found the jewel and happiness came back again well, not everyone... not the thief, because Lei Chao cut his hands off but that's not important now and that's an example of sensor a sensor that indirectly is detecting "guiltiness"  so, what's a biosensor? let me see... prefix "bio" means "life" is it something that detects "life"? no, rather not, it is a type of sensor that uses life or something from a living form something biological to work as an example, here in Spain one of the first biosensors was the mining canary miners took this pet to the mines and it was singing all the day however, if oxygen levels went down or something toxic was released to the air well... the poor bird passed away and because it stopped singing the miners knew they should run away as soon as possible another famous biosensor example is would be the "lateral flow" tests as they are pregnancy tests or this malaria test I'm showing these tests have a zone to apply the sample urine in pregnancy tests, blood in this malaria test and a reading part where we can see if the result is positive or negative negative: we would see only one line positive: more than one (line) if now I break it and I extract the inside (it's a bit hard) we can see that it is a paper strip let's see if I can remove it so, here we have it, this red thing are nanoparticles which have proteins around that can capture enzymes or other proteins related to the presence of pregnancy or a malaria parasite. Why nanoparticles? because they are small, so they can flow across the paper once it is wet on nanoparticles surface enzymes or proteins can be conjugated as well as other biological compounds to detect whatever we are looking for and have a strong red color, quite intense and as a curiosity I wanted to show you my PhD thesis it is focused on these biosensors the lateral flow biosensors you can see some schemes just wanted to show it on YouTube (xD) so here it ends this episode I hope you liked it do not forget to write in the comments any suggestion or any doubt see you soon!!! 