 Welcome to the Lab Tech Report where we talk about discoveries regulations and news in the lab world. I'm Ross, and let's dig into todays topics. Speedy Ebola tests help contain Africa’s latest outbreak The Ebola epidemic that tore through West Africa several years ago required multiple days to detect the virus, and recently this time frame has diminished to hours. New developments have allowed researchers to utilize an existing platform to run automated tests in just a matter of hours. This gives health officials more time to focus on containment rather just trying to get accurate diagnoses, saving lives while improving efficiencies. Being able to quickly diagnosis diseases like this can help allow for faster treatment and containment, potentially preventing substantial resurgences of the disease. Chip Developed to Detect Cancer in 30 Minutes Cancer screenings in hospitals traditionally take at minimum 1 day, often several, to test different tissues on a number of assays. Scientists in Taiwan have developed a compact and low cost biochip, which uses just 5uL of blood or urine, to measure specific proteins, or tumor markers. Its takes about 30 minutes for the chip to measure the impedance profiles of the proteins to identify if there is a risk of cancer. Expect to see this fitted into a handheld device in the future for rapid, same day cancer screenings. University of Alberta Researchers Develop Surgical Mask That Traps and Kills Infectious Viruses How many times have you been gowned up, with your PPE on, ready to handle that TB or SARS sample and thought, “I hope this fits right?” Current masks do a great job at capturing aerosolized droplets, but they also tend to trap them and keep them infectious. The longer the mask is worn, the greater the risk of spreading the infection persists as they do not prevent the inhalation of small droplets. The new mask, developed by the University of Alberta, uses a filter treated with high concentrations of salt, which damages the virus when the salt crystalizes. It has already been demonstrated as highly effective against the influenza virus. This could be a great development for phlebotomists, lab couriers, med techs and more moving forward. What’s the buzz in rapid testing? Clinicians and patients want and often need to have access to the right test, at that exact moment. Rapid POC tests are able to help clinicians makes informed decisions at the patient’s side in a single visit. With an increase in the catalog volume and types of these tests, we are also starting to see great improvements in accuracy and cost. Imagine a 15-min sepsis test…that would directly affect many patient lives. I would not expect this trend to slow down anytime, it could mean more and more specific tests showing up in the laboratories. An that's our show. Thanks for watching. Let us know what you thought of todays show in the comments. You can find links to all of our sources in the original post. Like and share this video with your lab friends who you think might like it. And be sure to like our FaceBook page to see more episodes. Thanks again for watching. And I'll catch you guys next time. 