 What's up guys, how are you doing? Welcome to another video from Oficina 4D. This episode is a little bit different because this time we are making a cosplay print but you can also use it as a collectible. It is this awesome samurai mask  It appears in the game Injustice 2 as an alternative accessory for Sub-Zero. It is a fighting game that I like a lot. And if you want to print this, just check for the link in the description so you can buy it at CGTrader and also the modeller's Instagram, @bkzthunder. If you like 3D printing cosplay masks you will probably love his work, it is awesome!  Now about the 3D printing, I've printed it on CR-10S with red PLA and the surface finish turned out pretty nicely. You can buy the filament and printer at our sponsor Slim 3D's website. There's a big variety of products that you can find for 3D printing with customer support and warranty. And at the checkout don't forget to use our discount coupon OFICINA4D and it helps us a lot :) Now about the painting process, I recommend using automotive paints from TopColors that we use exclusively on airbrush  These inks are solvent based that you can use without having to worry about airbrush clogging and messing up with the surface.  I will leave the link at the description so you can buy it. There are a lot of paint types so you can get different effects.  So that's it guys, let's start the video tutorial!  The first thing is to start sanding the rough edges with a 80 grit sandpaper.  Now with a 120 grit one I sand all the mask regions.  I like to use this product to cover print lines and other imperfections. You can dilute it in thinner to make it easier to apply.  Then I apply the diluted product with a brush (synthetic bristles) following the direction of the print lines. Then with a 220 grit sandpaper I remove the excess and improve the surface finish.  Then I apply 1-2 thin coats of primer so I can have a better visualization on what regions still need sanding. With a 320 grit sandpaper I continue sanding the areas. Keep an eye out for the deep areas and difficult to reach with your finger.  Use file tools to reach difficult and delicate parts. Then I started prepping polyurethane primer to make the surface even smoother. In my opinion this is the best primer if you need a lot of sanding and to reach an automotive finish. The only disadvantage is that it is not very practical compared to normal spray can primer. But depending on the situation I think it is worth it. I take the correct measures of thinner, catalyzer and primer and then I start applying it with a HVLP tool with 60psi. A nice tip is taking your time when spraying it, but be careful not to  exaggerate. Then after priming it I return to sanding with 400 and 600 grit sandpaper  Then we can finally start painting. I apply 2 to 3 coats of this red Ferrari tone spray can.  Then I made a wash with black ink. You need to water it down a lot so it becomes a little transparent and reaches the deep areas. Then I remove the excess with a piece of cloth, touching it smoothly. Hey, are you enjoying this video? If you are new around here, feel free to subscribe to the channel and to activate the ringbell so you can be notified whenever we post new content here. Then with a swab I remove the black ink from the edges to give them a highlighted effect.  Then I took my airbrush and applied dark layers to make the shadows a little bit softer.  Then I applied some first coats of white on the teeth. It already gives an impression on how the ending result will be.  Then with a red Ferrari I highlight the edges even more.  With a golden ink I start giving some details.  Don't worry about the strong golden tone, we will wash it with black ink again later on so it can be weathered.  Then I painted the mask strips with a light gray.  After that we go back to washing the surface to bring down the bright colors. Then with the airbrush I make some shadows on the teeth. It would be more realistic if I just used brown colors for this but I really wanted to give it a more handmade look.  Then it comes my favorite part, the varnish! I applied thin coats of semi-gloss varnish. Then we just wait for it to dry... and it is ready! Pretty cool, huh? I hope you guys like it ;) See ya later! 