 What's up friends! Today we take a look at Adidas latest flagship kicks The 4D XD 4000 Carbon Let's find out if they're a cop or a drop Welcome friends before starting the video I like to invite  you to like , subscribe and share's us on social media Well here they are the XD 4000 Carbon This joints are the latest in sports technology from Adidas Who'll have us believe that the 4D technology in this kicks  is the future of athletic footwear If you all didn't know, this is the 4D tech sole which is  manufactured using 3D Printers which makes this crazy sole design possible but this technology is not only about aesthetics Adidas proposes that the future of this tech is in being able to print soles that are perfectly custom  fitted to each consumer At this moment in time Adidas does not yet offer custom  fitted soles The cost of printing these soles is very expensive Pricing kicks sporting 4D technology around $300 or more The MSRP for this particular color way was $350 on the  Adidas site Which begs the question... Are these shoes worth paying such an exaggerated price? Well, the answer is "NO", these shoes are way to expensive at  $350 USD To be honest the overall design is cool, and the aesthetic of  the sole is very impressive But the Adidas Quality Control is way to crappy to demand  such prices On this pair in particular, the left shoe had glue spills on  the top of the shoe and the right one did not have the tip fully glued The left shoe also had some of the green stitching come loose  after only a couple of wears Defects like these on sneakers might seem like a minor thing  but with a $350 price tag they are totally unacceptable Unfortunately that's not all The 4D technology is super stiff and has almost no cushion That's right homies, the brand that set the "Gold Standard"  for comfort with the "Boost Foam"... is now telling us that 4D is the new "Gold Standard" at  double the price and without a fraction of the comfort Our final verdict is that while this is a great looking shoe  the price is just too inflated For the lack of quality control and for not being able  to compete with the Boost Foam It is our opinion that this shoe would only be worth it if  they retailed around $120 USD But for those who are only interested in the "Flex" of  rocking needlessly expensive kicks and... don't care if their "dogs are barking" this shoe might be for you! Anyways guys, that's it for today! but please leave a  comment... Tell us , what do you think of the 4D tech? What do you think is a fair price for this kicks? Alright see you next time! 