 Hi everyone, I’m Karl and in this video I will be 3d scanning this 28mm miniature into a 3d model in 5.5 easy steps. I am going to use is a technique called photogrammetry, where you can take a bunch of reference pictures, run them through your software, and get a 3d model out the other end. I used to think that 3d scanning was something that had to be done in a lab or using some very expensive equipment, but thanks to Steve from CG Geek, I learnt that it can be done with some awesome free software and equipment I already have. In his tutorial, Steve demonstrates how you can capture a large object, and I highly recommend watching it because he explains the process very well. What I’ll be doing in this video is capturing a small object using a slightly different technique which should be easier for this size. So let's get started! First, choose your subject. Miniatures are almost a worst case scenario for this kind of work because they are very small, and the detail is tiny. We're talking fractions of a millimeter here. Add that to the fact that I'm going to be running a painted miniature through this process, and it makes it even worse. The first miniature I tried to scan was this one I sculpted about 20 years ago. Unfortunately, it has very little detail for the software to latch on to, and it includes parts covered in metallic paint and a layer of varnish, which totally confused the software. The results were, let's say trippy. Instead, now I'm going to try with this games workshop zombie, purely for experiment; people, do not copy copyrighted stuff. It's not cool. This model has more clearly defined detail and color variations, which should help. Step two, lighting. To begin with, I taped down my light box to a solid surface so it wouldn’t move as I worked. The lightbox ensures that the lighting is consistent and that the object is properly illuminated. I am not using a background in the lightbox here since the depth of field seems to help the process. Also… well, the results with a background were kind of funky. Third, photograph the mini at consistent angle intervals. From experiments I did yesterday, I determined that my hands are not good at this level of precision. Instead, I made a small jig I can use to turn the mini 10 degrees each time. This is literally just two paper circles with angle markings held together with a pin. Since the pin stuck some way out of the surface, I also added a bottle cap so the mini would sit flat, and taped the mini on top. With the subject in place, I set up the camera on a tripod and made sure that all the settings were set to manual. This ensures that all the settings remain the same through the shooting. I'm using my video camera to take stills here, though you should be able to get better results from a photo camera since the sensor tends to be larger. Step four, I started snapping photos. After every photo, I rotated the subject 10 degrees. Then I repeated this a couple of times from different heights. Step five, I took my SD card and imported all the photos into Meshroom. This software is free to download and use, and you can find the link in the description below. It is a magnificent tool, honestly, to the team who made this: you blew my mind. I mean look at that, just need to hit “start” and off it goes. At this point I just had to let it work. Ok, it's a little bit later and we see it has arranged the photos and plotted the rough location of each in relation to the model. This looks promising but I'm also noticing that it used only 95 out of the 111 source images. Usually it means there wasn't enough data in that photo to plot points from one photo to the next. You can see the ring is broken at the points where these photos would have been. Ok, more time went by and it's done. I'm going to load the model and hide the density points and it mostly looks great, but we're missing some parts like the jaw and the fingers on the left hand. This corresponds to the missing images. Got to say, I'm still very impressed by the quality of what did get modelled, so I'm going to see if I can get it to process those images for a complete model. Ok, this is where things kind of got a bit funny. So, to get a better quality scan first thing I did was to set the definer preset to high, which worked for a bit but then stopped working because it ran into a known issue, a known bug in version 2019.01. So, no big deal. What I did was I went back and downloaded version 2018.01 and set it running again, and that seemed to work fine with the high preset. I don’t think that’s a big deal for me and to be honest, if I had used a better camera in the first place, I don’t think I would have needed the high preset anyway. I’m also told that the next version with the fix for this will be out in the coming months, so yeah. To be honest though, if you’re going to try this what I would suggest is get 2019 anyway and chances are, if you’re using a decent camera you’re not going to have this problem anyway. I’m just telling you this so you know why the interface looks slightly different in the next part of the video. The reason I’m finding it funny is kind of, I’ve been testing this for a few days now, different data sets, different presets, different photos, yeah, and the one time it decided to give up on me and fail in any way was when I was filming this, so… Ok, after that brief interlude we’re back in meshroom - that’s step 5.5 if you were keeping track - and I do believe we have a hit! The model looks complete this time, and this is great. There are a couple of artefacts around the armpits and near the crotch but boy, this is great for a scan of a miniature, and it’s stuff I can clean up in blender anyway. This is really neat. Going to open it up in blender to take a closer look. Loading it up - nice thing about this is that if the cycles renderer is selected, the material nodes are applied automatically. We just need to reposition and rescale the model and check out all that detail! Considering this is a photo scan of a 28mm mini with an ok camera, what the software did is pretty amazing. Whoops… Meant to go for material display there, render isn’t going to show much since the lights aren’t set up right. And that’s it for this experiment. Of course I barely scratched the surface here and there's a lot I need to learn about preparing images and tweaking settings. However I am now confident that this is doable. I hope you found this useful and if you did I’d really appreciate if you hit the “like” button below. If you have any comments or suggestions, I’d love to hear them so do leave a comment. Before I close this off, I’d just like to thank the people who made Meshroom, they really made a fantastic product - maximum respect. Thanks also go to CG Geek for the smashing tutorial. Thank you for watching and see you around! 