 hey everybody it's Doctor Jo, and the folks at Wiivv sent me there Wiivv custom insoles to review. so let's get started. so the great thing about having custom insoles are the custom insoles are specifically made for your feet. if you just want some insoles off the shelf, and you don't have a whole lot of problems with your feet, those are fine, but if you really need something a little more specific for a custom insole, for instance for like me, I have a slightly different arch on each side and one foot is longer than the other. so if you have something like that, where you're gonna need something that's specific for one and specific for the other, you definitely want to get some custom insoles. if you go into a clinic and see a specialist who sizes your foot and makes the custom insoles, that's great, but sometimes that can be really expensive, and you can get these for a whole lot cheaper, and it's still custom made. so the great thing about the Wiivv custom insoles is they come in two different sizes you can see here. so it comes in the full length and it comes in the 3/4 length. so 3/4 length would be something more like if you have a really narrow shoe this fits in better, or if you have a shoe where the custom factory insole doesn't come out. so you could use this, but I'm gonna talk more about the full length one because that's what I'm going to be using today. and so the the the fun stuff I like about it is you can not only have the custom for your foot, but you can customize it with different colors, different designs on the top, they also will put your name on the part here, and on the back on the hard piece of that custom insole. so it makes it really nice to kind of just have it specifically for you. also the fabric here is a wicking fabric, so it helps kind of wick away moisture which is very nice if you don't want stinky feet, or if you have a little you know feet that are a little bit more sweaty sometimes, this does a nice job or it doesn't you know get all soaked up into your foot it whisk away that moisture. they also have here this is where the arch is that is going to be custom to your art which is really nice, again like mine that's slightly different, if I just were to get some off the shelf, they're gonna be the same height and it might not make a huge difference, but it would probably make a difference, they also have heel where it's a shock-absorbing heel. so you can see where I'm squishing it here which makes it really nice, especially if you get heel pain or things like heel spurs, that does a really good job of protecting it there. and things again really the biggest thing probably the people are affected by is the plantar fasciitis. and so having that custom heel our arch support here, and the heel support is really going to help make sure that you're not irritating that plantar fascial when you're running walking. it doesn't have to be for athletes you know just everyday walking especially if you walk a lot for work or if you're want to walk for exercise and things like that. so the first thing that you really need to do is download their app. that's how you get your custom insoles. and so the app, what it does is it you download the app, and then you take pictures of your right and your left foot, and the app will show you the the angles that you need to do to take of your feet. and the great thing about that is again because if you have different sized feet, if you have different size arches, it takes the pictures and then what Wiivv does is it uses those pictures to make a model of your foot and then it 3d prints out those insoles. so it's going to be you know fit to you specifically, not just some generic insole. so that's a great component as well. so you definitely have to download the app to do all of that. so for insoles or shoe inserts a lot of times I think people might not realize that not only is it to help with your foot and help take pressure off the pressure points, but also if your arch is dropping if you have a like a flat foot or a pronation and your foot so your foots going in, if your arch isn't protected what happens is your foot rolls in, and then you end up getting ankle pain as well because on that inside or that medial side you get a lot of extra pressure on that ankle. so then you also have ankle pain which can lead to knee pain because then if you're if your foots dropping in you have extra pressure on the inside of your knee, and then all the way up the chain to your hips and your back. so it's not really just for your foot when you're getting something that's custom made specifically for you and you're getting back to that normal pattern that's going to help all the way along the chain or the whole body. so sometimes if you're having some things like knee pain or hip pain or even back pain, you go see your physical therapist, have them do a full evaluation and they might you know say, hey you might need some custom orthotics. and so again what's really nice about these is not only are they customizable specific for you but they're usually about a third or to a 1/4 of the cost of something if you were gonna go into you know an actual clinic and have something specifically made for you. so this is just a nicer alternative to really get something that's not just you go and pull something off of the shelf and you don't know if it's gonna really work for you or not. so I want to tell you a little bit more about my custom insoles because as I mentioned to you before, I have different sized feet and slightly different arches and so even though mine's just I think like a two millimeter difference of arches, so I'm going to show you here and you might not be able to see it, but it's really the I just think it's great that you have that option because even though it's something that you might not be able to visually see, it's something that your feet are going to be able to feel. with those arches, it's such a small high anyways with your arches that those millimeters right might really make a difference. and then also the length so you know when you you have a big length difference in your size shoe, it's nice to have those insoles to go where they need to go to the end of the shoe. so I've again my feet are a little bit different, so I really like having those custom insoles when I'm using insoles. and so it's also really nice because when you see here it's just it goes right into it and so that's you know makes it a great fit the arch goes right in there where is if you had some off-the-shelf you know it would just be you know probably low arch medium arch and higher. so it's really nice to have that perfect fit there. and then it makes it super easy to put the insoles in as well. so I'm going to show you that real quick. so that usually the factory insoles are not glued in, and so they're pretty easy to take out. so mine here you just kind of pull at the end and pull that out. so when you're putting in a full-length insole, you want to take that factory insole out. and so the way I like to put it in and make it a little bit easier is the the squishy part at the bottom, just put a little curve in it like that because then that makes it a little firmer there to go right in. and then all you do is you just slide it in and push that heel down and make sure that it's fit in there pretty tight. but you can see that just it almost almost like it clicked in, but it didn't, but it's a nice fit and then all you have to do is put your shoes on and then as soon as I put it in its super comfortable. it feels great. when you're using inserts or shoes in general, you should be comfortable as soon as you put them on. there shouldn't be a a wearing in period. now there is a period of not just putting them in all day long and going with them. sometimes you have to get your foot used to it, but it should be comfortable as soon as you put it in. if it feels if your shoe feels tight or something like that, then you don't have the right shoe for you. so it should be comfortable, but I usually do recommend especially with some some custom insoles or inserts that maybe just start with an hour wearing them so your foot gets used to it. then go ahead and take them out and use your you know regular insoles, and then two hours the next day. three hours the next day after that. and then you can go ahead and then put it in for the whole day, just to make sure that your foot's comfortable with all that. so again you know these these Wiivvs I just like them because they're really going to be fit specifically for you. so if you're interested in purchasing any of their products, you can click on the link up there, and don't forget to subscribe by clicking down there. and remember be safe, keep those feet happy, have fun, and I hope you feel better soon. 