 Hi everybody, I'm Sabine Lenz, the founder of PaperSpecs, with your weekly dose of paper inspiration. It's a simple rule in marketing: the more complex your product or service is, the more simple and impactful your marketing materials have to be. And if that means sending prospective clients a dog bowl to cement your name firmly in their minds, well at least you know they're not gonna likely forget you anytime soon. Sparkhound provides a multitude of services, from digital and IT to project management. And they know they can help many clients if they can only get their foot (or paw) into the door. After retooling their client engagement model and service groupings, they asked longtime design partners TILT to redesign their sales kit to reflect those changes. Furthering the fun and quirky image they had already developed for Sparkhound, TILT partnered with Vulcan Information Packaging to create a small, sleek sales kit. The result is a snazzy box full of surprises. Printed offset CMYK with spot UV varnish and wrapped around chipboard in the turned-edge fashion, the soft touch laminated box shows off colors so vibrant, they seem to pop right off the surface. On either side are colorful icons depicting various services offered by Sparkhound. "Bark up a better tree" the lid advises. Lifting it unveils the sales kit's first surprise: a dark green sleeve with the words "Plan. Build. Run." laser cut to show off what seems to be a dynamic green gradient beneath them that matches the colors on the lid. The lid itself is held closed with – yep, one of my favorites – a magnetic closure. Removing the dark green sleeve from the box reveals a stainless steel dog bowl tucked neatly inside a tray insert, a CMYK printed adhesive label with the words "Need more?" and the Sparkhound URL – affixed to the inside of the bowl. But wait, what about that dark green sleeve? Well, going back for a closer look reveals that the green peeking through the die-cut words is actually the cover of a perfect bound, CMYK printed booklet, elaborating the virtues of Sparkhound's offerings. This keen attention to detail, combined with a smart packaging, is doubtlessly as reassuring to clients seeking IT services as the sound of kibble hitting that stainless steel bowl is to dogs everywhere. Beyond providing protective quality, smart creatives utilize the haptics laminates offer to create a meaningful connection between brand and customer. If you are a PaperSpecs PRO member, make sure to check out our "5 Ways Laminates Can Enhance Your Design." Find it at PaperSpecs.com under the PROs Only tab. Did you enjoy this video? Then please subscribe to our channel. And of course it would be amazing if you shared with all your friends. And keep sending me your fabulous printed pieces – I love to feature them! 