 We’re going to learn what 3D printing is. What is 3D printing? 3D Printing 3D printing is a really wide range of additive manufacturing technologies. Additive manufacturing is a process through which material is slowly added to create a three-dimensional object. To give you an idea, sculpting would be the opposite. When you sculpt you have a very large block of material and you slowly remove material until you get the shape you want. With 3D printing it’s the opposite, so, you have nothingness and you slowly add material on a base to make the object. From all the types of 3D printers, we’re going to start with FDM 3D printing. FDM 3D printing Plastic filament reel FDM 3D printing is the kind we have right here, it works using a plastic filament reel, which is melted in a very hot nozzle and it comes out in a tiny thread. We make this thread into a shape, using motors, until we get the object that we designed previously. The advantages of this type of 3D printing are, that it’s a very accessible technology, it’s quite economical and the machines are low maintenance and easy to use in comparison with the other technologies. The next type of 3D printing is SLA SLA 3D Printing In this case there’s no reel of plastic filament, instead liquid resin is used. This resin is put into a container and a laser, a screen, something with ultraviolet light solidifies this resin, creating the three-dimensional object. The advantage of this method is that the quality is amazing, the quality is very high, however, it’s a chemical process, you need gloves, a ventilated space, and most of all, the pieces are usually smaller. The next type of 3D printing is SLS. SLS 3D Printing This type of 3D printing is quite similar to SLA printing but it uses a nylon powder, in this case, instead of resin, there’s a container filled with powder, which the laser solidifies. This technology recently became accessible, it’s still expensive, but some small studios and companies are now able to access this type of manufacturing. Besides these three types of 3D printing, there are tons of others but they are usually very industrial. This means that they are very expensive machines, we’re talking hundreds of thousands of euros and they’re very specific. For example, now metal 3D printing has become very popular. 