 Welcome to the CGI DEAL tutorial this time we will learn to make bottles, or 'Product Modeling' in Cinema 4D R21. Ok, open Cinema 4D We will set the 'View Panel' first then make a 'Circle' by unfolding the 'Spline' palette here then select 'Circle'. In the 'Attribute-Circle', we change the 'Plane' to 'XZ'. then open 'Generator' palette and select 'Loft' while pressing 'Alt' on the keyboard. Now ... we copy the Circle, by pressing 'Ctrl' then click and drag the Circle to the top. Raise 'Circle1' around ... 100 cm Oh ... I will first change the 'View Panel' to 'Front' Ok Ok Then ... lower the 'Circle' radius. For those of you who don't see 'Display Lines' on an object, turn on the display here to make our modeling process easier. Now... copy 'Circle1' and lift the circle Again, copy 'Circle2' then lift up decrease the radius Then ... copy 'Circle2' and drag it to the top of 'Circle3' Copy 'Circle4' raise Copy 'Circle5' raise Ya ... 150 cm Then reduce the 'Radius' Ya ... 60 enough Copy 'Circle6' raise the circle Ya ... just right then reduce the radius to find proportions. Then... we will make a 'Bottle Cover' Before that we name the bottle first to make it easier for us to recognize the objects that we have made. Ok Now ... copy 'Circle7' and 6 drag out 'Loft' Okay. We hide the bottle first by pressing 'Alt' then double click here. Then ... make sure you select 'Circle6' Hold down click on the 'Generator' palette then select 'Loft' while pressing 'Alt' on the keyboard. And ... drag 'Circle7' into 'Loft' Then we will equate radius A and B 'Circle6' and 'Circle7' Then ... Select 'Bottle Cover' go to the 'Caps' section In the 'Attribute' loft, we add a little 'Bevel' then raise the 'Segment'. Now ... we don't want this bevel at the bottom of the bottle. It's easy ... just check 'Separate Bevel Controls' here. Okay Then ... we will refine the bottle cap by adding a 'Segment' here... add until the object looks smooth... We don't need this segment just lower it don't turn it off Hehe ... Well, the bottle is ready! Ye..ye..ye..yee... Now, we just need to perfect it by adjusting the proportion of the bottle and adding a little detail. Okay. This circle... the radius might need to be lowered also 'Circle4' The bottle cover ... seems too long ... raise 'Circle6' or maybe too thick... lower the radius ... Enough! Then ... add the bottle segment ... so it's smoother...okay... already smooth...  already smooth... Then ... we will make a hole in the bottle Hole? Hide the bottle cap first so that the hole is easier to see. Okay Because we are going to destruct the bottle model, so before that we backup the model first ... copy down... and... hide! Now...select the bottle Then press 'Make Editable' on the 'Conversion' palette here... or so you can simply press 'C' on the keyboard faster Then... unfold 'Generator' palette and choose 'Boole' Copy the bottle object and put it into 'Boole' then change the name to 'Hole' Hole... We hide the bottle first then downscale 'Hole' axis X and... axis Z Unhide the bottle and drag it into the 'Boole' Hole... Get in the hole... We successfully punched the bottle ... Now we will make the Boole editable again. The trick is still the same, press 'C' on the keyboard Then right click on 'Boole' choose 'Select Children' right click again and select 'Connect Object + Delete' Next ... we will also make a hole in the lid of the bottle. More holes? The method is still the same, all you have to do is repeat the steps as we did with the bottle. When it's finished ... just add the material that you like ... if you want to enter the label you can too but for now I will render it with a simple material like this one. You can also experiment with the bottle material It doesn't have to be plastic or ... glass, maybe? Do not have to! Look at this... Wait a minute, Wait a minute, Wait a minute... As the Youtubers say: "Bbooooommm" Thank you! for watching this channel don't forget to Subscribe, Like, Share and turn on the bell See You Soon! 