 Hello It's Spencer This is the second time after UV section I'd like to give you a brief explanation About UV Looking at Wikipedia here There is a description of UV mapping In 3D like this, spread out a spherical sphere When you unfold it into a 2D plane, it becomes a UV map. UV is what we usually use in 3D You can think of it as the X-axis(U) and Y-axis(V). Z axis is W UVW like this That's why we do UV unwrap That's unwrap Wrap means wrapping. unwrap refers to unfolding So I unfold this object as if I unfolded the 2D It means spreading well I think I explained a little bit. Understand only this concept I think you can proceed Take out a 3D People from the Content Browser I'll work on it If you look here, there are several objects right now Erase unnecessary things a little I'll try to work Since I only need a body, I will work with only the body No need for materials Erase the material There is a uvw tag that I explained earlier This uvw information value is stored in the tag. If you double-click with shift now The texture manager opens like this Basically, the things in the content browser UV is spread out First, I'll delete it and proceed. Last time I used automatic UV If you showed me how to apply UV automatically This time, I'll try to open it manually Now, in this model mode, this basic object shape You can take a look In point or edge polygon mode It's not easy to recognize the shape. First of all, the first thing you should do is You need to create one uvw tag So here Set uvw from Projection Last time I did Automatic Packed UV here This time, I'll make it flat It is displayed in front Because the front and back are overlapping I'm overlapping here and it's red. I'll try to open the character once Now spread out like this I'm going to turn off the complicated ones here What are the important parts of us You have to make a good choice So if you select the edge and double-click the edge This is Loop Selection Then select this part When I give UV unwrap, Now I'm calculating Like this, the face and the top and bottom To separate the body And if you look at this body The part that looks white like this It's called Sim, so It represents the boundary of this separated part. And each object in UV It's called Ireland. There are two islands. Let's go a little further in the edge mode. I ’ll continue by pressing the shift key. In Select-Loop Selection If you make a choice like this, the whole becomes a choice Stop here at the selected part of the Loop Selection command There is a command So if you turn this on Because the bottom is already selected It stops right here. Hold Shift and click It is selected like this Let's unwrap again Then your face will look more natural You can see that it unfolds Then one arm Let's choose here Select and Make a choice I have to choose the other side. Here's a handy feature Because this icon In Select, Mirror Selection If you do, it should be applied Why not now Now open the gear This Tolerance range value is too small That's right So I applied this to 0.1 and applied it It works like this Then when you unwrap this selected face again As the seam is created, the islands will be divided. Now, I'm going to share my hand Stop at Pole right here I'm going to proceed Then Because it stops right where the pole part is It ’s easier to choose. Carefully once I'll open it Because I didn't unwrap this part This is because I haven't had a Sim yet. In this state I think I should do this while pressing the shift key. Make a choice like this Usually when planting I have to do it on the part that I can't see Because the boundaries can disappear It ’s better to do that. character I think you should choose the top The part to delete the selection here is holding down the Ctrl key You can erase it if you choose Make a choice like this Similarly, Mirror Selection The other arm is also selected like this. I will unwrap once like that I do it like this, and my hands are well spread Unfolded and each one as I explained earlier Double click to select Uh, I think there was a problem that seems to be connected by undoing Where did the connection go wrong? I think I should see It's broken here You have to make a good choice Even if it functions as a mirror Because the object may not be symmetrical left and right I think you need to pay attention to this part. It is now well separated Next, I'll try the body again I chose the waist here I'll cut it in half Is this center right? Then you can connect to the back If you do unwrap It was separated like this Ireland, still a chunk of this, I couldn't straighten this foot 