 Hello It's Spencer Today, I ’m going to do these three things in the Volume menu. First of all, if I look at the cinema 4D help here There is one scene file provided I will explain with this scene file Click to download and this can use It is called an object like this I have already loaded the files If you look at the bottom, you will calculate the Volume Builder It takes some time The computer didn't stop It's doing a hard calculation right now. This Volume Builder is now doing primitive objects and The Cloner object is connected like this It is made in the form you saw in the help  In this Volume Builder If you click, it will calculate again. To do this part quickly Down here After creating the cache layer Click the button to cache We do Volume Builder calculation This calculated value is stored in this cache layer. Even if you click on something else It's not calculate The cache is calculated, so the color of the cache layer is now It changed from red to green You can check Then you can make things easier. The part I was going to explain today The first of this volume Clear Cashed Volumes Click to reset the cache I will cache again. As you can see, we can reset it here There is a Clear button Separately, Clear Cached Volumes The reason is If you have multiple volume builders This button can be reset at once Now, the new feature of Volume Builder If you look here, the Volume Type I showed you last time Vector format added So, it was changed to be viewed as a vector. Put it back I'll look briefly Take out the cube object Child Volume Builder in Volume If you change the type to Vector, Turning into a Vector like this I showed you once before, so I think you will know it well You can refer to the last video The part added to the Volume Mesher I'm going to explain If you select Volume Mesher Object properties were added at the bottom. Create Curvature Map and Curvature Direction There are two choices So basically, the check is off Right now, because I imported the scene file Check is on within the scene file Take out the Volume Mesher and look By default, the check is off If you look here in the scene file VertexMap Tag is selected here. This scene file itself is now made in the German version The name was in German. This means Curvature I'll see you here If you turn on the check Here, the VertexMap tag is created. The name says Curvature. To help you understand I put an example in the newly created example I'm going to go ahead with the child The object looks like this When you apply the material Like this Texturing in the original scene file Like this, the edges are slightly different The shaved form should be expressed Now it looks like this in this file. I'll go ahead If you look at this material, I will turn off the alpha channel. If you look at the Reflectance channel The diffuse color is red. Looks normal In this state, we can select the alpha here There is a layer in Alpha There are many things in the layer Among them, the Vertex Map at the bottom After creating Click here Drag and drop this Vertex Map here Should be applied I tried to find out why this is not working It's a bug. So now it is a bug in version 21.207 This is a bug report to the head office I'll test it in other versions. I have to apply it like this So simply put the effect here After creating the Vertex Map, add a child to it Put it like this And before putting it in The reason I put the layer is to add noise If you just use the vertex map Curvature part is constant in this outer part uh? Was it applied a while ago? I think you should see if it's a bug in the viewport. Let's try rendering As you can see, it renders normally. This is only on the viewport I think it looks a little wrong I don't know if there are any options I don't know Once rendering like this, So if you apply only Vertex Map here The whole thing would be a neat part Using that noise I did it in a more speckled random form. Here at Volume Mesher Curvature Direction is now on both sides Convex and Concave separately You can also choose Originally, this was Convex. So you can choose Convex This is a bug in the viewport, so this one I think it ’s important to try rendering. Next time Next, I'll explain the volume properly. Take good care of your health Then I'll see you again next time. Thank you 