 - We're going to go ahead and get started here 'cause we do have a lot of content to cover. Welcome, welcome to the Chicago Booth Innovation Round Table. I'm excited to be here. My name is Ketan Vaghani, I am an innovation executive at Salesforce Ignite, the innovation division of Salesforce that helps its clients go through digital transformation through a human centered design approach. I'm also a proud alumni Booth class of 2009. - Hello everyone. My name is Esther Ahn, so nice to meet you all. I'm a director of Global Services Strategy And Operations for Professional Services which is the service component of Salesforce. Happy to be here and join you guys. - We have a packed lunch hour today planned for all. We'll start off by discussing a little bit about the reboot of the Innovation Round Table followed by an introduction of digital collaboration and we'll share some best practices, give tips on overcoming challenges and give some recommendations before we do a live demo of a collaboration tool, leaving a few minutes at the end for some questions. So you might've heard of the round table discussions offered by Chicago booth. There's a Finance Round Table, Big Data Round Table and these discussions helped bring alumni, friends, and family together to talk about hot topics. So we're pleased to reboot the Innovation Round Table. And you might ask why innovation? Well, for starters, that's where the market is heading. There's a lot of large corporations and big consulting companies that are looking for innovators, looking for innovation mindsets and skills, and have actually gone on a shopping spree over the last few years as the industries have been consolidated. I myself am a product of that. I was at a small innovation consulting company and was acquired by Salesforce in 2016. And we're also seeing a lot of interest from Booth students about career paths in innovation. As a result, there've been several alumni connections done to this group, helping them with skill development and getting their footing into careers in innovation. And finally, we're seeing that the Booth program is also evolving. There are many more lab courses now offered than ever before. Opportunities for sponsorship, sponsorships for learning events like case studies, case challenges, as well as the growth of Booth Career Services to cater towards innovation minded careers. But students aren't the only ones interested in innovation, ourselves, everyone here, alumni, our friends, our communities, we're looking for ways to continue our own skill development. Many of us have relied on corporate training in the earlier parts of our careers but as industries shift and we pivot our own careers it's more important now than ever before to be ready with new tools and skills for the future of innovation. And that's where the Innovation Round Table comes in. Our goal is really to foster development and advancement amongst our community for careers in innovation, thereby helping ourselves to unlock and create new value for the people around us, for the companies we work for and the organizations that we thrive in. And we're going to have a string of events under the Innovation Round Table series. We actually are planning one in January with Ron Rentel. He's a partner for Semiovox as well as the founder and CEO of Consumer Eyes. It's an innovation agency that helps consumer packaged good companies create global brands, products, and services. And Ron will be joining us to talk to us about the power of empathetic listening in a digital era. So be on the lookout for this upcoming session in the winter quarter. But today's session's actually the kickoff for the Innovation Round Table and working together digitally and collaborating remotely is something that is on top of mind for many of us. As we look into our innovation teams, we work in teams that not only want to thrive in collaboration, but want to really amp up our productivity. So we'll be answering a few questions, key questions for the rest of the hour. What are the key forces that are driving the way that we work beyond the pandemic? How can we fully leverage digital tools, spaces, and behaviors to remain innovative within our given constraints? And how can we start creating digital collaboration opportunities for work teams? It helps us start our conversation with how the world of work has been changing. Remember when we were asked what we want it to be when we grow up? The question itself imply that there's only one occupation, only one career path for us to get to our career goals. We know that this isn't true, we realize more and more that there's more than one way. There's multiple ways. This can include climbing the corporate ladder, switching industries or even roles, or maybe even starting our own ventures. And for many of us, it's a combination of these three different paths. And so as a result, the incentives that motivate us in our careers are becoming more complex. There's certainly money and salary, it's critical, but also different individuals have different needs. And people are asking questions such as how much money do I need to make for life to be comfortable for me and my family? Is the time and the energy that I spend dedicated to my career ultimately worth it? And are the people around me and my managers honestly investing in me and my career? And so as these several trends emerge, the pandemic has just expedited them to bring them up front and center. As you struggle to find time for the things that matter, like our wellbeing, companies such as Peloton are capitalizing on ways to make it easier to find time. So the wellbeing choice goes from a class schedule, to my schedule for workers, energy spent on mundane things like office wear and work clothes are replaced by new expectations of the work wardrobe. Companies such as Lululemon are helping workers go from work wear to anywhere. And the idea that productive work can only happen at the workplace is being revisited. The savings of over a trillion dollars is tempting companies to reconsider how it defines productive work allowing workers to shift from work-life balance to one life balance in a very seamless way. But these advancements are also leaving us with challenges that we need to solve in a human centric way. There's been a rapid increase of work psychologists that are helping employees deal with mental stress which typically leads to loneliness and depression. There's also those that are working from home and have the fear of being left out of critical conversations and brainstorming sessions, especially when you have a tightening job market and rampant layoffs that doesn't make life any easier. We're also finding that the number one struggle with working remotely is actually communication and collaboration. It's hard enough to do some of these things in a work environment, much less, fully remote. So I actually want to pause here and ask the group, are these some of the challenges that you're facing in your work environments? How are you dealing with the new realities of working remotely? - All right, Ketan, it's Mike Vermilion, I graduated a couple years before you did. I work for a J.D. Power. And one of the things I do there is I lead the customer service practice and customer service agents had to move out of the call center and to a work at home environment overnight. And so one of the things we're watching closely is number one, how did that work? And number two, how is it going and what kind of issues, the challenges that work at home organizations face? And so early on, it actually worked pretty well but we are doing some pulse survey research in this area. And we are finding that supervisors are concerned about training on new hires and that kind of challenge, but there was also kind of the stress of the work at home environment in terms of the lack of a clear, bright line between work and home and and the work day and going home after the end of the day. And we also see collaboration and innovation as one of the top challenges that organizations are trying to figure out. - Yeah, I don't think you're alone in that. I think many of us are trying to find the right balance and draw almost the line of what's work time versus non work time. And we have some thoughts on that of ways to maybe kind of make that a little bit easier for you. Thanks for sharing. - And personally, I'm one of the innovation guys here at the company so it just feels like it takes more effort to get new things off the ground. It's easier when everybody's in a room or on the conference table and you got the whiteboard and you can play off of each other. When everybody's in this kind of Zoom environment and everybody's kind of distracted. It's harder to kind of get that necessary mind-meld that you need to get that creative spark. - Yeah, it's definitely a learning curve. I think we're all kind of experiencing, needing to do it, to shift and approach things in a different way because what used to be the way of doing it might not necessarily be the same way going forward, just in a digital medium. Thank you so much. Anyone else have any thoughts to share about some of the challenges that they're facing within their organizations? - Yeah, look Ketan, this is Gary Roll. I'm an alum from 2004 and I currently work for General Motors and I am actually part of the IT team that supports all of the network infrastructure and the collaboration tools for General Motors. So at the beginning, you know, the big rush was do we have the capacity? Do we have what we need in place to support this workforce? You know, where we suddenly have tens of thousands of more people starting to work remotely. So, you know, it turns out we, it's been some adjustment and adoption but we've been able to handle that pretty well. I think the next challenge we're starting to face is now that this has gone on so long and we actually have new people joining the company. And we just announced yesterday we're going to be hiring 3000 more engineers and IT staff by end of first quarter. So what I'm hearing from our senior leadership now is how do we maintain our culture? How do we bring people up to speed? How do we kind of duplicate that knowledge transfer that happens between the more senior experienced staff and the new people that would typically happen in a hallway conversation or in a cafeteria that's not happening now? - Yeah, I know on our end we're facing similar things where having just a temporary solution was one thing. But now as the new norm of working remotely extends, how do we have some of those informal relationships with each other, those relationships that actually help with the ramp up for new hires, with the knowledge exchange that happens over water coolers, those are things that we're sensing as well on our end. Thanks so much for sharing. I am going to actually continue. I think we'll have a little bit more time to share throughout and even towards the end but great to great to see how we're not alone. We're not alone in this at all. And so I'm so happy that we're able to have a space where we can kind of share best practices and share learnings. And the reality is when we do go back, whatever that means, it's not going to be in the same way. And therefore developing some of these skills of working together remotely and doing it in a way that preserves community preserves the human aspect during these challenging times will be even more critical than ever before because that's what makes our organizations run, is being able to connect with each other in a very authentic human way. - Alright, thanks Ketan. In the next couple of slides we wanted to share with you some of the best practices and the observations of how we're seeing colleagues and also customers behaving and the tools that they're using when they're digitally collaborating. I think the the first and foremost thing to remember though is this is an opportunity for us to pioneer the practice of working virtually. People often correlate the future of work with emerging and digital technology. But thanks to the pandemic, the future of work is already here. And so we don't have time to really contemplate what the future of work means because it's really happening right now. Go to the next slide Ketan. And so we're going to be challenged to think differently about what that means. Our goal is not to replicate the magic of the in-person digital collaboration or meetings, but instead it's changing our lens to think digital first. And how do we become a bit more empathetic and human centric through the digital screens and the behaviors that are required of us in this new era of work? And so together we can reimagine how we can augment the way we work together. Also empowering global teams to collaborate in real time, really breaking down those geo boundaries. And as Ketan mentioned, it's really working from anywhere. And then of course, fueling sort of new ways to work together, more collaboratively in this new era. But I think at the center of everything if you guys think about the challenges, it's really about working inside of a rectangular screen. Everything that must happen, it happens through this screen that you see here on your desktop, whether it's your mobile, whether it's your computer monitor, whether you're in a meeting with 50 other people or creating a presentation with 100 other stakeholders, that every decision or content or interaction that happens we have to think how it fits into the screen rather than in a room or an in-person conversation. So what we wanted to do in the next slide is to share a couple of learnings and, you know, feedback and thoughts that we've heard from customers, C-suite from Fortune 500 companies, as well as our colleagues as we've been doing a lot of digital virtual workshops and meetings globally for the last 10 month. The first is, the truth is technology isn't always reliable as we think or believe. We've heard anecdotes of colleagues having trouble with customers, their mics in conference rooms not working or their camera's not working and we just can't take it for granted. And so what we've instituted is literally tech rehearsals, one week before, three days prior, and then 24 hours prior to a digital workshop with, let's say it's 50 to 100 people. We would have tech rehearsals to make sure that everyone's working properly. Second, nothing can truly replicate the in person energy and excitement. And I think the truth is we've heard so many people tell us again and again, staring into the screen for hours is exhausting, it's draining, and it's easy to lose focus and get distracted by your mobile phone, by the kids running in the background and your spouses and partners. And so we have to really intentionally design these digital meetings and collaborations with more meaningful breaks. How do we give people more independent work time? Even when we break out into smaller groups in workshops, how do we allow people to turn their cameras off and get those coffee breaks and the bathroom breaks? The third of course is on a more individual level. And we've heard that the loudest voice has become even louder in virtual meetings. And of course, we all know that it's hard to facilitate a meeting with 50 people, but imagine having you know, 50 or 100 people online, it's really hard to facilitate those conversations. And so we're trying to find new ways. Google's working on this, Zoom's working on this but creating features that allow people to raise their hands and to sort of interject in a more seamless way. But it's really hard for introverts and for people to hide behind the cameras and to mute their mics. And so we're in this new era where we have to create these new rules of engagements to help people speak up, to make them feel comfortable jumping in. And so a quick sort of new way that we started practicing is tapping your mic twice. And so when people are talking and you hear sort of the double tap on a mic, then everyone goes silent, it's easier to speak up. And so little tidbits like that, we'll be sharing with you today but this is what we've been hearing consistently for the last six to seven months. And so what's working. The good news is this is not everything is bad right? Digital technology does give us advantages and benefits that we haven't thought about. The first one being is what we call the inspirational pre-work. It's so hard to find time to commit to preparing for workshops, for meetings. And in person, it was easier for us to ask you, put away your laptops, put away your phones, but in the midst of a digital collaboration, people have a harder time really focusing on the topic at hand and getting them to really get excited about virtually joining a six or seven hour workshop. We started sending out inspirational pre-work but we don't want to call it a homework, but essentially it's a list of things to read, videos to watch, blogs, and pictures and all that. And it allows them to sort of feel much more confident in the content. It allows them to contribute and speak up during those collaborations. The next is what we call the virtual collab tools. I think one of the challenges of having an in-person workshop in digital, or in-person meetings is that we were required to pack up all the Post-Its and all the beautiful whiteboards that we had filled with content ideas, but pack it up. We would then go back to our offices. Then we would synthesize, then we would do a readout. And all of that took time, and I think one advantage that we have is that with these virtual tools, we can do synthesis and sharing in real time, and people can have access to these digital platforms, 24/7. And so I think the acceleration of the alignment of decisions is happening. And so we see that as a positive output for digital collaboration. Another of course is, you know, we can simulate breakout groups virtually to allow for more smaller and more intimate groups to ideate and to work together more effectively. Pretty much all the digital platforms today enable those breakout rooms to happen with a simple link. But what we've also found, and I've personally experienced this, it's hard to ideate and really dig deeper or to challenge an idea when you have like 50 people in a virtual room, but having smaller rooms of three to four or five people allow those discussions to happen more organically. And so I found the virtual breakout rooms to be much more effective in aligning and coming up with really stimulating ideas. The next one of course is the benefit of real time division of tasks. And like I mentioned before, you know, when you're in a room and doing a digital workshop with your customers or agencies, everyone is focused on facilitating the discussion. Everyone is focused on engaging and talking and raising their hands. And so capturing those outputs and focusing and keeping people engaged is really the primary goal of that workshop. But in digital collaborations, the synthesis and alignment happens much more faster. Team members can focus tasks, so one person MC it, second to note take it, third person could actually extract those insights in real time and start compiling them in a Google Doc. And then we also started a new role for a fourth person. They started creating these polls, these questions that we throw out and get votes and people's answer in real time. And so all of this is allowing us to accelerate the synthesis and learnings and faster decision alignments - Thanks Esther, although we've come a long way to understand how to collaborate digitally. We're only getting started in collectively embracing this medium. One of those ways, one of the challenges is just understanding the context. When we start to work remotely, we have to recognize that we're inviting, many times, our teams into our homes and our personal spaces. And that includes the occasional visits by pets, kids, partners, spouses, construction workers, and our varied internet connections. And it's important to take a step back and acknowledge that this is part of life and these are part of our work areas now. And so taking these diversions with a grain of salt, as well as a lot of empathy can go a long way in helping to connect with others. We've also heard that, we've heard the saying that less is more and nowhere is this more important and relevant than how we collaborate with others online. It's so easy to become overwhelmed with technology, tech tools, as well as a lot of information in a very small amount of space. And the way to overcome this is to bring users along, be their partners, help them throughout the journey help guide them in the right direction by taking a lot of information and breaking it down into small sizeable chunks and activities. So our teams can really understand what you're trying to communicate before moving on and becoming overwhelmed. We also need to be cognizant of how we come to conclusions in many of our conversations. A lot of the times we have these conversations with teams that require building and brainstorming and it's easy to get stuck and come to a dead end. You don't have those nonverbal cues or those acknowledgements that we've come to rely on over time. And so one way to overcome this is to use tools to consolidate and synthesize ideas and thoughts and help people and bring people along in the journey, giving them direction on how to move forward. Many of these tools have features and functions that can help set up what can be potentially messy meetings and turn them into very constructive conversations. And with these tools comes a lot of complexity. Many of the tools that we used last year have evolved with new features and functions. However, not all users have the same level of comfort with technology, especially if we're running pointed conversations without repeat users. I recently had a conversation with board members from different industries from around the world and we wanted to make the session very collaborative. And so we actually held optional training sessions in advance for members who wanted to become more proficient with some of the tools that we were using. It's not maybe the first thing that you think about when catering to board members and clients, but they realized how important it was for them to know how to use some of these tools. And they're willing to take the time out of their schedules to become a little bit more proficient at it, because that was the only way that they're going to actually come with a consensus. It was the only way that they could contribute in an effective way. So they found it a very useful way of using their time. And then the last one, maybe my favorite one, is bring along the E.L.M.O, everyone let's move on. You know, many times we have these group discussions that often get stuck at a point where people are unwilling to let go. And the digital interface makes it easy for others to check out and disengage. You might see eyes gloss over. You might see notice that people are focusing on other things rather than your conversation. The reality is in this medium, it's so easy to work on email or to read the news if you're becoming distracted. And so it's important to have someone kind of be the conversation cop and that helps avoid any side conversations. It helps avoid everyone focusing on one task at hand and it helps the teams move forward. - Let me just quickly pause there and see, do you guys have any questions or thoughts, are these learnings resonating with your organization as well? - Hey Esther, it's Mike Vermilion again. Yeah, we use Miro for sprint planning and I agree it's a beautiful tool but it's really hard to use it in real time and collaboratively and to get everything onto the screen right away. So we're certainly struggling with things like that, for sure. - Awesome, great. There's so many digital collaboration platforms that are similar to Miro like MURAL, and there are more coming in the pipeline. Well, one of the things that we've been trying to really ramp up here at Salesforce is to better organize virtually and giving our customers and our cohorts better time to prepare. And so one of the things that we started practicing is this dossier workshop brief, it's a template. Of course, you guys are more than happy to lift it but essentially it's a one pager that allows us to give an overview of the topic, what problem we're trying to solve, the team members, the agenda. And then of course you know, how are you measuring success, where the key decisions that need to be made and articulated clearly? That also includes any pre-reads or any additional resources that might help inspire the participants, but being able to sort of create something like this and also designing the day's agenda with enough independent work time and breaks have been really, I think, improving and enhancing that digital collaboration from our side. - Yeah, and from my end, transitioning from collaborating real time to digital certainly has had its challenges. Mike, I certainly resonate with some of your sentiments and the others, it's easier said than done. Just to give the folks on the call an idea of how work was for me before. It was definitely grounded in in-person culture. Even though our department had decided to work from home on Fridays, there was still a loyal group that would show up almost in defiance of work from home because we loved collaborating, we loved the real human interaction. And as you can tell this image here is actually how we worked. Literally our work was blended with our space. Our work was on the wall and we really believed in immersing ourselves not only within the content, but physically in our work. So you could almost imagine the challenges that we faced when we weren't able to do that. And we didn't even have desks right. We had these tables. So there weren't any barriers between me and my coworkers that were working on a project. But through tools like Miro, we were able to figure things out. I'd say it did take some time but many of the tips that we've kind of been talking through today helped certainly helped, but Miro did help us transition from the physical space to a digital one. I actually want to share a quick demo of Miro, but before I do that, I just want a show of hands, or if people want to chime in, how many people use Miro today in their work for work or for their organizations? Okay, sounds like we have a few. I did invite everyone on this call to a Miro board and I'm actually, Esther and I are going to walk us through a template and we can, I know some of us, many of us will be using Miro for the first time. I'll be on hand now and after the call as well to help folks kind of get on the board. But I did want to do a quick demo of how Miro works. And for those that have used it certainly chime in with any learnings or tips that you might have in adopting Miro. So give me a quick second to transition over here. - I think Michael, truly to what you just said before it is very easy to use in some ways, but hard to use in others, but it's just visually easier to design. I think it's hard to make something look displeasing to the eye when someone has already predesigned some of the templates that you can access. So that's been a big advantage of using Miro, they're creating a lot more templates moving forward for all different types of teams within an organization from UX to IT, to project managers, business analysts. So you'll see some of those pre-made templates available. - Yeah, we like the templates, like the standard I always hold up against is, or I use is Trello which essentially is the digital three-by-five cards. But if there's templates you can build on that certainly makes it a lot easier. - Yeah absolutely. - So I have invited everyone to this board as a way for ourselves to start to get immersed. What I'm going to do is just walk you through maybe how we might facilitate a conversation with a client. This is based on a client that we had in the automotive industry. I know we have a few folks on the call from similar industries and yeah, the whole point of this is trying to incorporate some of the techniques and the watch outs that we've been talking about into a working space. So I always like to start off with a specific place that everyone can kind of rally around. And Miro is endless as those that might've known. You can zoom out, so far out and see, like, it's kind of like an intergalactic galaxy. There's no end. So you almost need to start at the right planet and have everyone know where you're starting from. And what we like to do is just have, just an opening screen or place where people know where we're starting from and notice how there's almost a path to help direct and guide participants of what's next. We kind of talked about that earlier of trying to help users not be overwhelmed in a space such as Miro. - Just a quick interject, I mean I don't know if you guys can see in the screen but you're seeing the cursors of your cohorts. And so whether you have three people or 50 or 100, you could see everyone's cursor moving around. And so you can see mine moving around and Ketan can actually click on this icon up here and he can choose to either hide everyone's cursors or he can choose to show it. And you can also use it to call everyone to the screen you're on. So if people are on other parts of the board elsewhere looking at other content and you want to bring them to the board that you're looking at, you can actually call everyone. And that screen will be directed to where Ketan is. And so it's kind of a really interesting feature to allow the workshop host to be a bit more in control in facilitating the workshop. - So right now I just clicked on Esther's icon. So my screen will move according to how Esther will move or right now I clicked on Gary's icon. So if Gary wants to shift how I should be looking at the screen, I will follow his view. And this is what Ester was talking about. Bring everyone to me. So you guys have a chance to see how some of those functions work. One of the other things that I like is there's a side toolbar that allows you to have different Post-It notes, different tools, mark the boards. This actually mimics very much so the type of environment that we had in our bays where people, instead of holding their thoughts in are able to actually put Post-It notes on or not have to wait if they have something to share. And it gives another dimension for people to express their thoughts and their viewpoints. So one of the things that we like to do in some of our sessions is just start off. Some people call it an ice breaker, it's ways just for people to get settled and situated. This one here is very simple, name and role in a company that to mind when facing unbelievable customer engagement. I've also had activities that involve using some of the tools where people actually post their answers or will insert an image or something to have people start understanding how Miro works and some of the functionalities, features and functions that are available. And so we kind of, for this Miro board, we actually had kind of a talk track on Miro itself. So instead of having slides or transitioning from slides to Miro, we actually had everything on the board and it really gave people a way to interact with the content without having to think of it only as a screen, they could zoom in, if there's a certain quote or something, a bit of information or a stat that is really interesting, they could zoom in on that. So all this was along kind of a path that helped to understand our approach, the way that we think of innovation for our clients, our flavor of human centered design. And we also even had an area that shared our timeline and this was populated, or this can be populated. And so this could be more of a discussion point if people have thoughts on the different phases or if they have watch outs or challenges in the timeline, they're able to kind of have a discussion on that accordingly. We have areas to outline some of their challenges and we have kind of a work area to actually collaborate around a challenge statement or statement that we think encompasses what we want to focus on. And there were areas that were provocations where we have kind of work session, work areas, that allow people to voice their opinions. These are moments in the workshop that are designed to actually be more about brainstorming and collecting ideas in a way that everyone can contribute equally. So these are some of the types of activities that we do, our thoughts and beliefs, orthodoxies. And we tried to make this as intuitive for our clients in this case, it was an automotive client but we have designers that had to transition from thinking of workshop materials in a very analog way and using those skills and creating templates such as this for digital types of workshops. If folks have any questions along the way, please chime in. I'll just be moving forward with the path of the workshop here. So this is an activity around the different types of users and what questions we might have for them. Then at the end, we have kind of the next steps outlined of how we want to move forward - Hi, this is Gary Roll again, you know, at GM, we use predominantly Microsoft and Teams as our primary collaboration tool. One of the challenges we've had, especially, among the older workers, is just getting people to adopt it, getting people to engage with the tool. I mean, it's one thing to put it out there but it's another thing to get people to actually use it. What have you found are good practices or good ways to get people to engage with a tool like this? - Yeah, I could start off and then if others, Esther or others have thoughts to add definitely. One thing that I think makes it easier for people to start using the tools is just to have a safe space to ask what they think are maybe not smart questions. I think we've all been groomed to try to be the smartest one in the room. And when it's on technology or new ways or approaches, it's easy to kind of fall back on going with the flow or not asking, how do you actually do this? And so, as I mentioned earlier, we've had discussions with very senior executives where we give them that separate space of just understanding how the tool works. So when they actually get to the conversation, they have an understanding and a bearing of what's going on. I think you'll always have different levels of engagement with different people depending on their comfort levels. But if you give them a space to ask those questions and to even try and test things out before those critical decision moments, that just makes it much more easier for people to use and adapt the tool. - There are two things that I've done in the past few months that have really helped I think, increased the adoption, increase the level of comfort among participants, both on the customer side and at Salesforce or internal cohorts. One, I mentioned that the tech rehearsals have been really effective. So when you're organizing a big digital workshop with whether it's 50 people, 100 people, having those open office hours like a week before and then three days prior, and then 24 hours before, people will log in and ask questions and will say, well, how do I use this tool? How do I put a Post-It on it and ask a question? How do I raise my hand? And so you actually designate someone who can be almost like a concierge and allow them to pretest and use it a couple of times before they actually join a big collaboration in a workshop. Second, I've found actually practicing and creating a project within Miro and forcing myself to use it but also inviting others to add content and getting them to kind of use it in their daily basis have worked really well. So instead of just using a Google Slide for example, or a Google Doc, we'll actually create boards and content with within Miro board and invite people to come in and add their content. So everyone's effectively practicing using it every single day. It becomes much more of a fluid way of using it. Believe it or not, we've had some senior folks at Salesforce who've never used Miro before right? They're used to getting presentations and one pagers of, you know, just quick executive summaries. We are now creating large whiteboard spaces in Miro where they can come in, post questions, and challenge strategy, or, add links to articles they're reading or videos that they're watching. And so it's been really, really great to see leaders on all levels, as well as teams, whether it's global or in the States, being really just proactive and much more interactive within a digital space - Other questions or thoughts, what has worked for people to transition from analog collaboration to using some of these tools? - Does anyone have any recommendations on what would work even better? You know, when we talked about the tech rehearsals but do you guys have ideas of what would work for you guys? - Hey Esther, it's Mike Vermilion from J.D. Power again. We kind of face this problem in general across our business when it comes to cool new technology tools. And what we find is that if you just hand the tool off to the users with little or no training you've got an adoption problem at the end. So what kind of works for us is you almost have to start out as kind of a software enabled service, if that makes sense. And so you're delivering a view or a drill down or some kind of analysis, or in this case, a collaboration board as a service but you're using kind of the software to deliver it if that makes sense. And so the more people kind of get used to it they get more interested in, okay, how do I now take this and run with it and do more with it? And so it's almost like a slower adoption if you will. And there's more labor required and you need somebody to coach, kind of deliver that service but that's what we find works when it comes to the new technology capabilities. And it's something that software companies in general struggle with. - That makes sense, yeah, funny anecdote, like one of our customers automotive, we have many automotive customers obviously but the one that I particularly worked with was Ford and Ford actually uses another digital platform called Bluescape. And so we had for a while a team using Miro and then a team using Bluescape. And we had to kind of figure out how to combine into this platform. And we realized we just created more work for our product teams. And so I think in that case, the stance that we take is let's use what's comfortable for the customer. So we switched over to Bluescape and we literally lifted and shift all the content off of Miro to Bluescape within 24 hours. But that's going to be another issue coming forth, which software, which platform do we prefer to use? - Has anyone gone through any experiences that we haven't might have covered in our round table, whether it is adopting new tools or even tips and tricks that have worked for you for working remotely? It's not a big crowd guys. We're all gonna learn from each other. Well, what I'll do is I will put the slides together and send them out to those that have registered for the session and the Miro board is available. So if you haven't had a chance to go in and check it out, please do, as I mentioned, and as others have mentioned, it is a tool of how we can help with the digital collaboration piece. But if there's no more thoughts or questions, we could kind of wrap things up - Hey, Ketan, it's Mike Vermilion again. So I'm co president of the Los Angeles Alumni for Chicago booth. And we're looking at putting on a kind of innovation in the context of the pandemic and lockdown panel in Q1 with Lindsey Lyman from who's I think a clinical professor or something. So perhaps we could you know, talk offline about participation in a panel because I think this particular topic is really really important, it's a big challenge for everybody. - Yeah, let's definitely connect. It's a topic that's not going away anytime soon, if anything, it's becoming more and more relevant as the weeks turn into months, and hopefully it doesn't turn into years - But you know what's really exciting, Michael, is this is a time for innovators or people and innovation teams and corporations to also experiment on new behaviors, new methodologies, new orthodoxies. And it is a place and a time for us to say there is no wrong answer because no one figured it out yet. And so I think the challenge is how willing are we to actually break down the boundaries of competition? And there's no conflict of interest, we're all just trying to figure out what is the best way to work using digital tools and being more human centric. Those learnings could stem from GM, to Google, to Airbnb, to the small business right down the street. And so I think it's almost like democratizing in a way the quality of businesses saying no one does it well yet, everyone's trying to figure it out. I think it's an exciting time to be an innovator during this time, actually. - That's right. - Well, thanks very much for your time. As I mentioned at the beginning of the call this Innovation Round Table will be ongoing with more and more events. So keep your eyes open for the January event with Ron Rentel, we'll be using the Chicago Club as a way to kind of promote different events. If you have any suggestions for events or activities that you'd love to see, please email me. My email was on the registration link. It's also on this Miro board, but really appreciate everyone coming out to the first kind of Innovation Round Table reboot session. - Thank you very much. - [Gary] Yeah, nice job. Thank you so much. - Appreciate it, thanks so much. - Bye. - Bye. 