 - Hello everyone I'm Harshitha Murthy, a program manager in Surface. And welcome to the talk. Today I'm super excited to talk to you, about all things Surface has to offer, in the enterprise segment. Today I'll be talking about the introduction to Surface tools, give you a sneak peek into all the tools, that we have available. And do a deep dive into two of those tools. And then I close it off, with key takeaways and call to action. If you think about the life cycle of a device, it goes through various phases, and we know how invested IT is, in every step of the way. From the purchasing to the deployment, to the end of the life cycle for device, IT is totally invested. So what we did, was we build up about tools, to help IT with each of these phases. Starting from deployment, we know how critical a deployment phase for you is. To make it more productive and make it more easier, we have a bunch of tools, and experiences to enable you for faster deployment. After deployment, the device goes through a series of management. We have tool to enable that as well. And the last phase is the retirement phase. Do check out our tools in, http://aka.ms/SurfaceTools. When we build these tools, we stay true to our goal, of providing the best possible experiences to you, our commercial customers. Surface Dock 2, coupled with a Surface device is about house of productivity. When we built Surface Dock 2, we placed the needs of IT first. Before I can talk about it, have you ever wondered, how about an organization that has and handles a lot of confidential information disabled camera? It's only fair that you want, to disable camera on your devices, to make it more productive. But, have you ever wondered, what is the most secure way to do that? Or let's say you're an education customers and a lot of your students change the boot order, and you want to really lock it down. How do you do that? This is where SEMM comes into play, Surface Enterprise Management Mode, allows you to secure and manage all the settings, within your organization. We enable you to disable, and enable any of the hardware components. For instance, if you're disable the front camera, it would be disabled at the EUFI level, the most secure way possible. No SEMM comes into (mumbles) the UI version which is a very quick, and easy to use approach, using the same EUFI (mumbles) and then you can combine the publishing scripts with department of SCCM, with UV manager to (mumbles) When we built Surface Doc 2 we took a step further with the experience that we create, and we've been all of these amazing capability of security within the Doc 2. And now I'll do a demonstration of how that plays out. And today I'm going to be talking to you about the UI way of managing your Surface devices. So this is the first landman beach of your center. Once you get started, then we do auctions that you would be provided if you want to enable and disable hardware competence for any of your other Surface devices, click here. But today I'm going to be only talking to you through the Surface Dock. The (mumbles) is going to do is ask you for the certificates. This is really how we make sure that can protect your devices from unauthorized termpering. The very first thing it's going to do is asking for you certificate authority file. That is owned by an organization. So I just go right and click on that. And then next is a host authenticate certificate. Now most authentication certificate. And this is something that provides identity to your doc. I'd go in and enter my password here. And the very next thing that's going to ask, is third certificate. And the third certificate is for provision and provision allows you for a change of Dock as well as do any changes with your policy settings. Once I have this all locked out, I have the right certificates. It's allowing me to go to the next step. In case you did not have any right certificate, this will not allow me to go next. And once I hit next, I'll be asked to provide a list of random numbers. The random numbers out of number is what you see on the Surface Dock 2 at the back of it, note that this is a 16 digit hex code, and this is not the same as the (mumbles) number, but now I'm just going to be doing demonstration with one Dock. But if you wanted to do it in multiple Docks, you can into a CSV file with all of the Dock's (mumbles) number (mumbles). As soon as I click add next, this is where I've landed on. Now, the UI is very simple and quick to use. You have two settings, unauthenticated policy and authenticated policy. Now I would like to walk to a scenario to explain this concept to you. Now let's say you are in an organization and you do not want anyone to use networks and devices connected to your network for security reasons but with Dock anyone can do it. That's why in Surface Dock 2 we have enabled an option so that any one of them comes up with the personal device or something that does not belong to your organization can not connect to anything related to your enterprise. So what I'll do is disable all of these settings for the unauthenticated policy, think of an authenticated policy in the simplest of ways as a device that is not owned by an organization or enrich the MXI classification package is not deployed to. And the authentication policy, the authenticated host is the one that is owned by an organization (mumbles) Surface is deployed to. So now I have two devices. I showed you how it works both the unauthenticated as less the authenticated host. After I'm done with this all I do as I'll (mumbles) And I just named the MSI all diabled all disabled authenticated host And you'll see, within a matter of a few seconds, all of these gets created and the packages will be built out. And the demonstration I'm going to be showing you how a same Dock may act differently for two different devices. Now I have two devices in front of me. On the right hand side, I have a 15 inch black Surface laptop 3. This was the device, provided to me by my organization. So when I connect this Dock to this, all of the faults in the Dock should be enabled and I can take advantage. This is what we considered the authenticated host. Now on the other side, is my personal device. It is a 20.5 inch device with a comforting (mumbles). Now what should happen is that the same insecurity, the same Dock that works on one behavior may work extremely differently on the other one. So I'm going to connect to the device here. You will notice if you go to the Surface app that all of the settings and the configurations on the Dock is locked. So this is how we are bringing insecurity on Surface Dock 2 through SEMM. The very next tool I'm going to be talking to you about is Surface Diagnostic tool for business. Now, this is one of my favorite tools because of the (mumbles). I tend to throw such of a shooting and gets you to be productive on the go. Now I would like you to use this to John. John is an end user of an organization. He really likes his work. And alongside is also questions about drawing and artistic skills. He is usually used to carrying and auditing his work materials along with his painting and autistic materials and his bag. Now this organization decides to put (mumbles) his device, John fall in love with the device. It is small, compatible, makes him look productive at this work while also allowing him to pursue his artistic skills with the digital fun. But several days later John encounter some issue, John encounters an issue, but he doesn't know what's happening. He sees that there's a problem with his SP. But he is unsure whether its software related or hardware. And he doesn't really know what is the best way. Should I contact someone here or should I try to troubleshoot or contact Microsoft support. He tries various methods, and finally he contacts Microsoft support. Now, Amy on the other side is the Microsoft support agent. She's really passionate about allowing that customers to be productive and continue to use their devices. Amy recommends John to run the tool. John has the tool and magically all the tool does is it fixed your device. John is back to loving his device. Now this is the exact vision that we went with when we first started thinking about this tool. We wanted our customers to be productive and help with any troubleshooting as quickly as possible. Let me do a demonstration of how this fits. So when you got Surface Diagnostic tool kit for business, this is a UI that you see. Now on the left hand side, you can see various things. You can see information about the device, about the app, and also information about your warranty and other various options that you can check out. I'm going back to John's problem. John had a problem with his display. So the very first thing that John entered it looks like I'm having issues with (mumbles). And then I hit continue. The very first thing the tool does, it goes through the windows update. Now you have known that the Surface recommends I can stay on the latest phone and drivers. And windows update, usually fix this most of your software related issues and hence the recommendation. But if you're like organization that wants to stay off of the latest windows update, that's okay. We would respect that and not over rate it. Okay, great. It looks like my Surface is up to date (mumbles). I think that the way next screen that I'm going to see as windows options. The first one is if I want to run through all of these tests, ranging from display to sound, to microphones et cetera, I would run through all of them. We can select just one fit. Then I'd select a particular test. System (mumbles) is very interesting. If I selected click on fixed, it does (mumbles) in the background It does something to do with registry as well as store ads, making sure that everything is fixed on your device And the last of the Dock collected and report generated, it provides an extensive log back in sticks as well a smart analytics to show whether your configurations on the device is exactly as we recommend for you to be productive. Now, since John had issue with his display, I'm going to be doing just the display test. So I'd just go. I want to select just a display test and let's see I have some problem with my display. Let's go ahead and do that. Run selected test. It's says connect to the power supply. I have the power supply and I'm just connecting it right now. Okay, so I'm going to say done. And then it's going to check my (mumbles) desk. You might not see it here, but it's actually taking from 0 to 100%. The brightness of my device is actually changing. And then it's going to ask me if I was able to do it. Yes, I was able to do that. And the very next thing it's going to do is check for dead pixels. Now, as to what was CDs of these colors, you wouldn't really be able to say if something was not with the device. If there was a dead pixel, you can encounter that to color (mumbles). When I see anything I'm just going to say no. Okay, looks like this happened. And there seems to be one field and we don't know how to help it then. So I just go into the details. I think usually the white something. Oh, it looks like a hardware failure. Something was wrong. No, that I note that when I did this, I just submitted it. Nothing is actually wrong with my device, but it was just for the simulation focus. How does it continue? Now (mumbles) not really. It looks like I'm having an issue with my device. I'm not saying no. So then it's going to connect me to (mumbles) options. We first recommend that you contact your intern IT to do this. Generally, what happens is I did that this on your behalf, or if you had a customer with smaller but medium scale, you can just go ahead and contact Microsoft support that the tool did not fix it. So as soon as you had contact us, we are going to bring you the (mumbles) experiences within the tool itself to bring you a more seamless and connected experience. I'm going to be entering my Microsoft account and train through that. Then you ask me about to enter my password like we just go ahead and do that. Sign in. No, I don't want it to remember. Okay, so once I log in, I can actually go ahead and create my support ticket. Now this is the seventh stepthat you're familiar with when you go to the back. Now select the product. It looks like I'm using a Surface laptop. Right question is the latest one. So this laptop three, and it looks like it's definitely technical issue. And I want to say it's something to do with the display. So once I hit next, it's going to ask me, can you talk about that issue a little bit, sure. Display not functioning as expected. I (mumbles) recommend that the customers once we provide or beat their description. But it's okay if you don't and then I'll hit next. Here you can change it. You can change it like what support plan that you want by before it is mainly we'd see that is the professional judge. But in case you want to add contract or subscription, you also have options to do that for Fox to support. I just take the next and then its going to ask me, how do you want to be contacted? Whether through a phone or email. Actually for me emails before I'll just click email and then I'm hitting next. Often I click next. Now the primary contact would be the person who actually created it, but if I want to include maybe my IP or end user of an organization or even say, it's a person that I'm interacting with on the sofa site, I can go ahead and contact them. So then I had contact list of their names. When Microsoft reaches out to me, it wouldn't be checked within this red so that one of us can decide to take the case forward. And then I think next. Once I do that we would just ask them to do a quick review and say okay are you with somebody? I just go ahead and say yes, can you just go ahead and submit. Now, often I had to submit, this is really bad. The magic is happening. So as soon as I hit submit, in a matter of just a minute or two really important key information is being transferred over to the support ticket. About this point, note that the support ticket has already been created. All we are doing is add really important information about the device. We know how frustrating it can be when the (mumbles) tell me what OS you are running tell me what is the serial number of your device (mumbles) and things like that. And sometimes the customers may not even know how to get that information. Now you're making it easier for you by sending it. All of that information packaged, within a simple ticket Along with that, we are contributing three additional advice. All of which you can't see. The first of which is all the hardware that we performed. We want to see the report. That way we know exactly what's going on. The next if the software exists. And the third is a much deeper diagnostics. Okay, it looks like my support ticket is created. And also all of the remote relevant information has been transferred away. Now let me just go ahead and copy the support ticket to my reference. But to build my support tickets online, the customers can always go ahead and take on the (mumbles). When you go to the HTMS/Surface surppot cases you will be redirected to the web portal which shows all of the files all the information that gets (mumbles) Please don't take advantage of this. This has proven to be resolving cases at a much faster rate. And I highly recomend that anytime you want to create a support ticket, this would be the ideal way to do that. What are the key takeaways from the session? The first of which is we are built a lot of tools, with IT in mind, please do take advantage of them. It helps with different life cycle of the device. The second of which is this secure way of managing all of your hardware, components to Surface enterprise management mode. Now with the latest edition, you can also manage your Surface Dock 2. Surface Dock 2 is for business (mumbles). And the latest edition allows you to contact support seamlessly and get to resolution as quick as possible. Now Surface Diagnostic tool for business has a lot of customizable options. When you try to install it and go to the entrance mode it allows you to make changes to the device and set an (mumbles). And then I'm gonna close off with call to action. Please do take advantage of all the tools that we have available for you. Download the Surface tools for IT.aka.ms/Surfacetools. We really hope that you enjoy working on them and be creating customizations on them as much as we do love creating them. We as a team are always open and would love to hear from you. If you have any recommendations about any of the changes of that app. In the feedback, or even any new experiences that we want to bring to you, please reach to us surfaceToolHelp@microsoft.com. We regulate and we would get back to you. If you want to stay connected of the latest and greatest developments that we are making in the IT field subscribe to Surface IT ProBlog. All the latest updates will be pushed there. Let's keep an eye out in the next upcoming months, for the amazing new capabilities and experiences that we are creating. Go check out Surface IT ProBlog on aka.ms/SurfaceIT ProBlog. Thank you so much. Again, I would love to hear from you on any feedback that you might have on session or the tools or any new experiences that you want. Email us on surfaceToolsHelp@microsoft.com. Stay safe, stay healthy. Thank you. 