 [inaudible] What's up, everyone. Welcome back to my channel via best place for new coaches, content, creators, and entrepreneurs. In today's video, we have another milestone to celebrate now in the last YouTube video that I posted, we talked more about Instagram growth and everything like that. And we celebrated the fact that my Instagram account hit over a hundred thousand followers. Now, if you know me, I truly believe that vanity metrics don't mean much unless you have sales to back it up. And so something exciting that also happened in the last 30 days or so is the fact that one of my products. So with one product, only that I sell in my company, it actually hit a million dollars in revenue. So this milestone was actually achieved back in June, I believe. And it's quite a cool milestone. And if I'm going to be honest with you, I'm much more excited about this milestone than hitting a hundred thousand followers on Instagram or 300,000 subscribers on YouTube. I think that that any metrics are cool and all, but if you want to run an online business and you want to use social media to leverage it, it's not just about how many followers or subscribers you have. It's about how many sales you're able to produce in your business. And so that's why in this video, I really want to go beyond vanity metrics. And I really want to talk to you guys about what it really takes to make money online. And also the lessons that I've learned along the way of how I was able to pull myself out of just being a content creator and into the realm where I am monetizing my expertise and making a living, doing what I love on social media. And so if you're interested in learning more about my journey, how I was able to get to this level where a year and a half later we've generated over a million dollars in sales, and this video is perfect for you. Now, if you are familiar with my channel, you'll know that before we start any video, we'd like to do shout outs to let's start with those shadows. First massive congratulations to this week's YouTube channel and Instagram profile of the week. Thank you for supporting this channel. Now, if you're interested in being featured too, all you have to do is take a picture of this video and post it to your Instagram stories. Just don't forget to tag me, or you can leave a comment in today's video. Anyways, guys, let's get right back into the video. All right, welcome back. Now, the very first tip or lesson that I have for you that I've learned through my journey of making a million dollars on social media is a really important one. And it's first for a reason. And that is if you want to make the income and the impact that you want to make online, it's very, very important that you remove the limiting belief that you have, that you have nothing good to offer. And this is really important because this limiting belief is the exact reason why I didn't start my channel sooner is the exact reason why Jen post on Instagram sooner is the exact reason why I didn't do this sooner. And it's because I feel like there's a misconception that happens a lot in our minds that, Hey, you know, if something is easy, then I shouldn't charge for it. If something is easy, there is no way that other people would want to listen to me. There's no way that other people would want to compensate me. There's no way that other people would want to follow me, right? Because this is easy stuff. But what you have to realize is that if something comes easy to you, whether that is a topic that you're very knowledgeable at, that you don't even know you're knowledgeable at, or a skill that you have or something like that, that the fact that it comes easy to you. Isn't the fact that the task itself is easy. Yeah. Just the fact that you're actually good at it. And because you're good at it, that is the very reason why you should start that channel to share your knowledge. That is the very reason why you should be charging for your services. That's the very reason why you should create a business around it. And I didn't really learn this lesson until I started seeing it in action. So I want to share a second misconception that exists a lot in our minds is I feel like I can't take action until I'm confident, but what you have to realize is that in order for you to be confident, you need to take action. And I learned this through my experience of taking relentless action, because I put myself in a position where if I didn't take action, I would literally be living at my mom's house forever because I just quit my corporate job. And I just kind of took a big risk. It took me putting myself in that hole for me to finally take the action that I needed to take and start this channel and start my Instagram and start the things that I'm doing today. What I learned is that I remember when I did this video, this video now has 5 million views. It's one of the most watched videos about Instagram on YouTube that exists right now. And I remember when I created this video, I literally told myself this video is going to flop. I'm not sharing anything revolutionary. These tips are no brainer tips. I feel like everyone on the internet knows these tips already, but you know what? I'm going to do it anyways. I'm going to post this video. And to my surprise, not only did this video go viral, but there were a lot of other copycat videos that followed after this video. And this video continues to get a lot of use and it continues to get a lot of good reviews. And it wasn't until I posted this one video where I realized, Holy crap, I actually know something about Instagram that other people don't know. And it's really important that you realize that you really, really don't know how much you know about something until you meet other people who know less than you. For me, growing on Instagram, creating content, public speaking, editing those things to me are easy because I'm good at it. And because I'm good at it, that's why I have every single reason to charge for my work. I have every single reason to create this YouTube channel and share my work to other people grow a following, grow an audience, because these are things that I'm good at that maybe other people in the world aren't good at. And another thing that you have to realize is that, yeah, there's always, always going to be someone out there in the world that knows more than you. That's just a given. Even for me, you might think that I'm a master at growing on Instagram, that I'm a master at growing on YouTube and content creation and all of that stuff. But there are a bunch of other experts out there that might know more than me that might have more experience than me and that's okay. Right. But I also know that there are tons of other people who know less than me who have less experience than I do have less credibility than I do. And those are the people that I'm serving. Right? And for you, it's the same thing. If you're really good at dancing, if you're really good at math, if you're really good at making plants not die, because you're really good at keeping plants alive. These are things that I guarantee a lot of people out there in the world are searching for on the internet right now that need your help. But the reason why they can't find you is because you're not taking that first step to putting your content out there. And so that's why this is my very first tip is that you really need to remove that limiting belief that you have nothing to offer because of you continue to have this thinking. If you continue to have this story that you're choosing and that you're deciding to tell yourself that business will never launch that YouTube video will never come to fruition. Those Instagram content pieces will never come alive because you are preventing yourself from putting yourself out there online. And I guarantee the most that you actually take action and you visibly see the impact that you're making online. That's when you're going to get confident. And you have to also understand that confidence. It's kind of like a snowball. I'm not as confident as I am today. Two years ago, I was not confident at all. I was in the same position as you, you have to understand that everyone starts at zero. No one comes out of the womb of having a business being like, I'm the shit. I'm so confident. Everyone lacks that confidence. But the difference between people who get confident and the people who don't is the people who get confident are the people who are always taking action. And with every step that you take in your journey, being on social media, of having this business, you are going to get more and more confident because now you're collecting data that what you're doing works and that what you're doing is a value and that what you do has impact on other people. But again, you can't get there. If you're always telling yourself that you have nothing good to offer. So that is my very first tip. And the very first thing that I would overcame was the idea that I have nothing good to offer because after I remove that limiting belief, it was like a rocket ship from there. And every single week for the past year and a half, I have been posting content on YouTube to this date. I probably have over a hundred videos already of me just sharing knowledge. And even though I know there might be other content creators who know more than me, I don't care because those aren't the people that I'm trying to help. I'm trying to help the people who know less than me and the same with you. We're going to be helping people who know less than you. So get started and do it. Don't let this limiting belief bog you down now, moving onto the second yeah. Lesson or tip that I have for you that I learned through my journey of making a million dollars in the last year, 18 months on social media is the fact that you need to get experience and here's another chicken or the egg problem that really hinders people's growth. And really paralyzes them to take action is the fact that they believe that in order for them to get clients in order for them to get started, they need to get experience. But very similar to what I was saying earlier on in this video about confidence versus action. In order for you to get experience, you need to work with those folks. You need to launch the damn thing you need to actually, I actually work with people face to face, right? And so for me, I got started because I was starting to post content on social media. I was posting things about my experience of quitting the nine to five. I was posting videos about Instagram and everything like that. And through me, removing that limiting belief that I have nothing to offer and putting my content out there, it started to attract audience and that audience found value in the things that I was seeing on my YouTube channel. And because of that, that led to direct message inquiries that led to people, DME me and asking me, Hey, I love your free content. I would love to see if you have coaching services. If you have any private content that I could access, if I could have one on one time with you. And that's when I realized, Oh my goodness, not only as a content creator, can I create free content for people, but I can open up a income stream that allows me to work with people one on one that allows me to actually get clients and to get close to the people in my audience that want to take their knowledge to the next level. And that's where I understood the differences between free content that you see her on YouTube versus paid content that you would access, whether that is through one-on-one work with someone and hiring someone to be your mentor, your coach, your advisor, whatever it is or through courses. And so that really opened my mind to that possibility. But my issue at the time was, Oh my goodness, there's no way that I could work with clients because I don't have experience. And I remember at that day, when I got this DM, this is a DM from someone who was my very first client that I ever had in my coaching business. It was someone who saw a video of mine about putting the nine to five and her wanting to do the same and wanting to work with me and asking me if I had a website and all of that. And I had nothing at the time I made a conscious decision. It's either I turn this person down and just always have this story that I'm telling myself that I can only get started once I get experienced, or I get the damn experience, say yes to this client and work with them. And that's when I started to work with people at the one on one level. Now, obviously when I first started working with these people, it was for free because I had no idea what I was capable of. I had no idea what a coaching business was. I have no idea what results I could get people. And so for the first three people that DMD me or that I reached out to, when they inquired about my services, I said, you know what? It's on the house. I'll work with you for free. I will get you the results, or I'll try my best to get you the results that you're looking for. And, you know, in exchange for that, I would love some feedback on my work and a testimonial. And so that's how I got started. And once I worked with these clients, one on one, I was able to get social proof and testimonials to leverage for future clients. And I used that in order to get my future clients to actually compensate me because I had proved that what I was teaching actually worked. And so that's just the little story that I want to share with you, because I know for a lot of content creators, you're like, you're not understanding how you could monetize your business. And I'm telling you right now that if you are someone who is already delivering value online, there are tons of people who would want to unlock the next step with you. There are tons of people out there that want more of you. I get tons of DMS all the time of people saying, I need more than your YouTube content. I want to work with you privately. Or do you have a course, or do you have premium content that dives deeper on the topics that you talk about on YouTube? There's going to be that next tier of people that just simply want more from you as a content, and you need to understand how you can monetize it. And for me, it was working with clients at the one on one level first for free. And then eventually I started upping my prices and charging more. And so that's just something that is really important that really played a big role in my journey because I finally got confident and I finally got paid as a content creator by offering these one-on-one services and getting that crucial experience. And another thing that I want to mention is that it doesn't matter what niche you're in. You could be really great at handling dogs. So you're very, very good at taking care of pets and you create a YouTube channel or an Instagram page about it. There will be a handful of people that want to work with you at the one on one level or access premium content of yours for you to really hold their hand and showing them and working with them on how they can take care of their pets specifically. Or you could be someone who is very spiritual and you love to post content about spirituality, manifestation and all of that. There again is going to be a handful of people who are going to want to work with you. For example, I know for me, for the students that I work with, we have students that are relationship coaches, making money. We have students that are self care coaches making money. We have students that are career coaches, making money. There are so many different areas and elements in the space that you're able to monetize, and that you're able to, as a content creator, get out of that cycle where you're only relying on ad sense revenue. If you are even monetized on YouTube and get to the level where you're working with clients one-on-one and making income for yourself. I remember in the beginning, I was first coaching clients on how to leave their nine to five. And as I started leveling up and as I started to really get good with social media, I then started also teaching my clients social media as well. And it got to a place where I was making $10,000 consistently a month through taking on one on one clients. Now, did I start off making $10,000 a month? No, I first started with working with a few clients for free really understanding what I was good at. Really getting that social proof and understanding what I liked and didn't like who my ideal clients would be. And then eventually raising my prices to the point where I was able to make $10,000 a month. And so just know that if you are a content creator and you're already sharing value online, I guarantee there is an income stream. That's available for you to work with clients at the one on one level and actually monetize your expertise. That's why if you're watching this video and you want to learn more about how to open that revenue stream of working with one on one clients and actually packaging your expertise and monetizing it in this way, I want to let you know that in the description box and in the comment section below, there is a link to attend my free live trainings. I'm only doing them on July 24th, 26th and 28. It is happening live. And in this training, I'm going to dive deeper into the steps that you need to take in order to launch a successful online coaching business and sign clients using Instagram and social media. Again, these trainings are live. I just want to make sure that you guys know about them. So make sure you click the link in the description box and in the comments section below to sign up because to date we have over 5,000 registrants and spots are very limited. So make sure you sign up and you snag your seat. Now, moving on to the next lesson slash tip that I have you, when it comes to my journey of making a million dollars on social media is the fact that I stopped trading time for money. And so earlier on, I mentioned that I worked with one on one clients and working with one on clients is the best foundation that you could possibly have, especially if you're starting out for the reasons that I'm about to mention. Number one, when you work with clients at the one on one level, it is the highest touch point that someone can have from you. And that's why you're able to charge higher prices. You're able to charge high ticket and because you're charging high ticket, because it's your time and your energy that you're pouring into someone else you're able to get a lot more capital for your business. Not only this, you're also able to validate your offer. You're able to actually understand what results you can get someone, and if you're not getting results for someone, then you can simply ask for feedback and change it that way. It's a lot easier to ensure your clients are satisfied and that you're able to secure really awesome testimonials that you can leverage for the future. But eventually as you work with one, one clients, you will hit a cap. You will be hitting a place where you have too many one on one clients and not enough of you because you're trading time for money. And so for me, last year in March, I started to experience that problem. I started to get super booked out. I had a wait list that was super long, and I couldn't take any more clients because I didn't have enough time to service all of these people. And that's when I realized I really need to scale this thing. And it's awesome because at the time I already had a validated product. I was very confident that what I had to offer works thanks to working one on one. And because I worked one on one, I really secured enough money in order to reinvest into my business, which allowed me to outsource. So I was able to hire a video editor for YouTube. I was also able to hire a virtual assistant to help take off the little small tasks off my plate, because you have to realize, especially if you're a content creator watching this, or you want to be a content creator and you want to be a business owner. Those are two different hats. Not only do every day, I have to wear the content creator hat, but I also have to wear the business owner hat. And there's only 24 hours in a day. And eight of those hours, I'm sleeping. And four of those hours, I'm doing nothing, probably eating and doing random hobbies. And so there's not a lot of time for me to do everything. And so that's why it's important that eventually in your journey, you have to realize how you can stop trading time for money. So the first thing that I did is I used the money that I got from working with one on one clients I had about $30,000. Cause I made $10,000 every single month. And by the way, I have this training right here, click the link if you want to learn more about that. But essentially I reinvested it back into my business outsourced and got more stuff off my plate. Not only this, I got to the level, like I said, where I was booked out with one on one clients. And I had a whole wait list of people who wanted to work with me. And so I asked myself, how can I package up all the knowledge that I'm teaching my one on one clients into an online course. And that's where I created boss Graham Academy. The boss grab Academy is my paid program. It's where I've literally packaged all of the things I know about launching a business about finding an offer about creating content about growing on Instagram, put it in order in the sequence that you would need to follow in order to get results and really, really give access to my students on how they can have the whole blueprint on successful at a much lower rate than it would be. If you worked one on one on with me. And the beauty of this is because pitch all of my knowledge into this one program. I really created this program. Once all those videos that you see, I created once, however people can still access it every single day at any time. And so that allows me to stop trading time for money like I did when I was working with one on one clients. Cause when you're working with one on one clients, you physically have to be there versus once you get to the level where you scaled up to an online course or an online program, now you're able to really scale and create passive income for yourself. And that is exactly how I was able to make a million dollars on social media. But what you have to realize is that this course would not be successful if I didn't work with one on one clients first in order for me to validate this product, in order for me to get confident in order for me to get the capital and get the social proof. And that's why in this video, I mentioned both of these things because both of them right, heavily contributed to my success when it came to monetizing my content and monetizing my expertise on social media. Now, if you're watching this video, I'm just going to be a mind reader because I know a handful of you are probably watching this thinking, Oh, easy for you to say, you teach people on popular topics, like how to grow on YouTube or how to grow on Instagram and how to start a business and all of that. Well, I want to share my screen and show you other course, creators or other people who are teaching the most random things, but making a good living off of it. So let's dive in, there are courses about manifestation courses that teach you how to use a journal courses about parenting courses, about how to walk your dog properly. There are so many different courses that exist. All right, moving on to the next thing that I want to mention when it came to how I was able to grow my income online. And that is understanding the idea that the more you share, the more you prove. And this is something that I shared to my own students in my paid program is you really got to understand that there's one thing of having a product or a service, whether that is one on one coaching or whether that is online courses, but it's another of actually being able to build that trust, build that authority and get enough traffic and get enough eyeballs on your offers. Because obviously the more people who know about you, the more people who follow you, the more people who know what you offer, the more clients that you're going to get, the more students that you're going to enroll in, the more income that you're going to be able to make. And there is a reason why to this day, I continue to create free content on YouTube. Why continue to create content on Instagram and why continue to create content on my podcast and LinkedIn and everything like that. Because I know that the more that I share online, even if it's free content, the more that's going to be able to build trust with my audience, for people to see that I actually know what I'm talking about. That I'm actually have really awesome strategies or really awesome content. When you go into Costco, okay, you go to Costco and there's all those items with the free samples. The free content is kind of like the free samples. You take a bite of the free sample and you're like, Whoa, this product is mind blowing. I have to go buy it. And so that is why I do content on social media for free, because it's basically a sample you guys are getting of my expertise. It's a sample that you're getting of what I can offer as a coach. It's a sample of what I know. And again, it doesn't matter what niche you're in, as long as you're continuing to share the things that you know to your audience, doesn't matter if you're an expert, doesn't matter if you're just starting out. The more that your audience is able to trust you. So for me, even in the beginning, like I said earlier on, in this video, I started monetizing because other people saw my work on social media and proceeded to DME and ask me if I had coaching services. And it wasn't because I woke up one day and said, you know what? I'm going to launch a coaching business. It's simply because I put my work out there on social media. And the market told me what they wanted from me. The market told me that they wanted me to become a coach. The markets hold me, but they wanted me to create higher level content for a price. And that's what I did, but I wouldn't have gotten these revelations if I didn't share what I knew on the internet. And so it really goes back to that first tip that I gave you, you cannot have that limiting belief that what you offer, isn't valuable. You got to continuously share what you know, online in order to build that authority. And in order for you to prove to people that you know, what you're talking about, and that leads to the next step that you need to consider, that has helped me a lot to build this business is to really grow your audience and diversify your platforms the same way that you would diversify your income. Now, obviously when you're just starting out, I personally believe it's really, really important to stick to one platform master and then move on to other platforms. But what you got to realize is that it's totally okay to start with less than 1000 followers to start with less than 50 subscribers. But what's important is that you don't stay at 1000 followers and you don't stay at 50 subscribers year over year, over year, you have to continuously grow as a content creator as a business owner. It's not about vanity metrics, guys. It's not about getting 10 K followers or a hundred K followers and all that, but it's about always growing, always building that email list, always diversifying. And I think a really great lesson is if you look at tech talk, there's a news that it might get banned, right? The content creators who were able to diversify their platforms, being on Instagram, be on YouTube, or at least grow their email list. They're going to be fine if tick talk banishes. But if tick doc disappears the content creators who didn't diversify while they're going to lose a lot of their audience members. And so what I'm trying to say is that if you want to make money online, if you want to grow your income streams, you need to learn how to number one, grow your audience, always continuously grow it. And it doesn't mean getting the fancy vetting metrics. It just means that where you are next year is a lot better than where you are this year. So you're always growing year over year. And it's also about diversifying so that you're not always putting all of your eggs in one basket. For me, I have over a hundred thousand subscribers on my email list. I have 300,000 subscribers on YouTube, a hundred thousand on Instagram. I've grown a Pinterest following as well. These are things that I'm constantly working on. I have a podcast with listeners and it's all because I know that if I put all my eggs in Instagram, if I put all my eggs in YouTube, it could disappear one day and I would be screwed. Right? And so that's why as a CEO, you have to think about these things. Now, again, if you're just starting out, it's really important to master one platform so that you can get consistent. You build that consistency muscle, and then you move on to other platforms, but I'm just sharing what has worked for me. And what really helped me scale over the last year and a half to get to the place where I'm at a million dollars. I'm pulling audiences from the variety of platforms, but I've also been very smart without sourcing. And that's kind of another thing that I want to say too, is a lot of people, obviously they say that running a business is easy, but I find that the people who say that running a business is easy, are the same people that have a team. They have a video editor, they've got an operations manager, they got a social media manager. I have all these people and that's why I'm able to finally live a life where I don't feel like I'm always working, but as a solo printer where I was two years ago or a year and a half ago, I totally feel you, you don't have the luxury of hiring a team right now. You don't have the luxury of not trading time for money. And it's normal that as a solopreneur, you're going to be starting out like that. You are going to be the one that's doing all this stuff, but you got to play your cards, right? You got to make sure you build up that capital. Like I said, maybe it's through working with one-on-one clients and strategically diversifying. As you start growing your team, as you start building up your platforms, as you start growing your business, making more sales, it's a process. You don't just wake up with a million dollars in your hands right away. It takes time. But the reason why I've been able to do it so much faster than other people that are in the space is because I was really, really strategic, really smart about how I leveraged my time and really, really smart with the moves that I was making, starting with. One-on-one being patient with that. Even though I knew I didn't want to work one on one forever, then immediately packaging that up into a course and outsourcing no, I really played my cards right in that respective. And then eventually diversifying to other platforms, building my email list and all of that. That's just my big tip for you is that you always want to think about diversification and you always, always want to think about growth. And again, it doesn't mean growing vanity metrics. It just simply means that where you are next year has to be better than where you are today. If next year, next new years, you realize that you as a person, you haven't grown you as a business. You haven't grown. Then that tells you something you want to always be striving for growth every single year. And that's how you're able to really successfully see fast growth in your business to really feel like Whoa, my business is actually going somewhere. I'm not in the same place that I was last year. I'm in a different place. Now that's a lot better. And so that's a key thing that I want to mention to you guys. Another thing that is really important that I did when it came to scaling my business and making money online is surrounding myself with people who know more than me and I really value mentorship. And I feel like when you have mentors in your corner, whether that's you investing in a program, investing in a coach, investing in a course, it really fast tracks your success. And I kind of want to bring up something that I came through last week. I have a friend, her name is Tamara, and she's actually someone who sells on Amazon. She also has a YouTube channel. You can check her out. She posted a story one day and it talked about people asking her why she always posts, videos that are just suited for beginners. How come tomorrow? When you post videos on YouTube, it's always for beginners. And I actually get the same feedback as well. I know a handful of you sometimes always say, Vanessa, how come all your videos are for newbs? How come all your videos are for those beginner people? How come you never do expert level content? And I really agree with what Tamara says in her stories. And she says, the reason why we create videos for beginners on YouTube is because it's only the beginners that are ever looking for free content. Eventually in your journey, you are going to outgrow free content. The people who are actually making money, the people who actually are serious about their business, the people that are actually growing are the people that aren't looking for. Free videos on YouTube, because they know the value of paid mentorship. And they know the value of fast tracking their success through paid programs and paid communities. For me, all the things that I've been able to leverage use and grow with all came from paid content and not necessarily free YouTube videos. I know for me, I try my best and creating the best free content that I can possibly give, but my free content will never be enough in order for you guys to fully launch your businesses full force, make those 5k 10 K months and scale beyond that. It's just not going to happen. It doesn't matter how many YouTube videos that you watch. And so that's why I also want to bring this up is that the people who know what it takes to actually build this business to actually fast track their success. Aren't the ones that are looking for free stuff on YouTube. And so that is something that I will leave with. You take it as you will, but it's something that's truly helped me in my business and fast track my success very easily when it comes to scaling, starting and leading as well. Anyways, guys, I feel like this video was a lot longer than my usual videos, but I really hope that the key things that I did in my business has helped you get a little bit more clarity as to the steps that you want to take in order to finally get off that content creator, hamster wheel stop wearing just that content creator, hat and move into and shift into that seat. Oh, that you want to be the CEO that makes money online, that is able to monetize your content, package your expertise and make a living doing what you love. Now, again, I do want to make sure that you know, that I'm hosting the trainings that are happening on July 24th, 26 and 28. These are live trainings. The link is in my description box. And in my comment section below, I'm going to dive deeper into the things that I talked about today, more in depth. So make sure you snag that seat because seats are limited. And like I said, up until now, there's already 5,000 plus registered. And when this video comes out, there's probably gonna be like 7,000. I have a feeling. So make sure that you check the link in the description and in the comment section below to snag your seat. Now, as you wait for next time sweets video, I also do a lot of videos was about social media, marketing and entrepreneurship. So make sure you check out these two awesome videos that I have right here as well. Well, as always guys, I appreciate you. I hope you guys have a great day, a great week and a great life, and I'll see you in the next one. Good luck with monetizing your content. Bye guys. 