 hello and welcome to the second of a third part webinar series by Naviant and Accounts Payable is intelligent OCR the missing piece. My name is Ed Modjeska and with me virtually is Dwayne Ritchie and we will be your hosts for the next 30 minutes. A few logistics and reminders, all lines have been muted as this webinar is being recorded a link will be distributed by email to all attendees after this webinar. For a quick review for anyone new joining us today, Naviant is a 35 year old BPM consulting and solution provider focusing on enterprise content services platforms. Many of you may know us as a Hyland software partner and that's great because we have a very long relationship with Hyland as their premier global solution partner. But, many of you may not be aware that Naviant also has a very long history and I would argue unparalleled experience with industry-leading intelligent optical character recognition solutions as well, including Brainware and Abbyy and Kofax AnyDoc OnBase and more. And it's obviously the focus for this webinar today. We at Naviant were founded 35 plus years ago in 1986 with corporate headquarters in Verona Wisconsin and we currently have 12 regional sales and support offices throughout the United States. Our fast-paced agenda today is going to begin with what is OCR, why is OCR,where is OCR, and who is OCR. I felt like I was channeling it just a little bit of Drax from a vendor jurors when this first the bullet point came together so I decided just to roll with it. But from there, we're gonna cover topics such as integration and data validation and reporting and with the case study and some reference resources. So, let's get started and I am going to hand this over to Dwayne. Thank You Ed. So what is OCR? So OCR stands for optical character recognition, simply the ability to read an extract machine print. So if you consider document data capture, there are three fundamental activities. Number one is document separation. Without OCR you have to consider scan settings. Specifically single page versus static number of pages and possibly use of a barcode separator sheets and as needed use of an append button in your scanning software to combine document pages. Second is document classification. Without OCR you need to sort documents perhaps even before scanning by document type and then manually key or data entry of what document type it is. And finally, data entry and validation. Without OCR you review each document read the data manually, perhaps manually compare that data to your ERP data and then key or data entry that transaction information into your ERP. Now let's take a look and review of key OCR concepts and definitions. So number one, as I mentioned OCR is the ability to read machine print like letters and numbers. Second is OMR that is the ability to recognize object marks such as check marks or filled circles. ICR is the ability to read hand print, within reasonable expectations based on the quality of the handwriting. And lastly, there's the intelligent OCR that includes all these items plus adds additional artificial intelligence to intelligently find recognize extract and validate OCR information. This is what we're going to be focusing on today. Here we have a chart comparing the sophistication of each of the three primary types of OCR, full-page OCR, zonal OCR and intelligent OCR. This sophistication is key for accounts payable, since intelligent OCR provides more options for integration and extraction and data validation and is able to straight through process much higher volumes of invoices. So let's talk more about these three options starting with full page OCR, this is the most basic version of OCR think of it as like Google search OCR. Full page OCR converts pictures to text and creates a text rendition for searching only. Most important to understand is there is no data extraction and therefore it's really not applicable for automating accounts payable. Next is zonal OCR, also known as template based OCR. Most of the OCR in the industry falls into this category. The key feature is that while it extracts data, it only knows where to look on a document based on zones or templates that you set up for each vendor or source. So, if you have a thousand vendors you could potentially need to set up a thousand templates and maintain those templates if your vendors change their invoice format. Zonal OCR is perfect for documents with predictable data in known locations not typically invoices and with low variation. It's less expensive because it isn't as inherently intelligent. Which brings us to intelligent OCR. Intelligent OCR is just that, it's intelligent. This typically patented algorithms and technologies that can read an extract validate data just like a human being. Therefore it is perfect for documents with high variation and unpredictable data in unknown locations, like an invoice. This sophistication goes beyond data extraction and validation as well. It can pair or or match line item detail on an invoice to a transaction in your ERP and can incorporate complex business rules and advanced integration functions to even create and post transactions in your accounting system. So why is OCR, why are we looking at this? Simply more than 80% of intelligence remains trapped inside of manually processed unstructured documents, like invoices and purchase orders and bills of ladings contracts etc. And with the majority of those documents being unstructured with format changes and data variability and complexity, it makes data and processes challenging to manage or control. Intelligent OCR manages the capture of these documents. It can read the documents through OCR technologies. But then it can classify those documents to determine whether it's an invoice or a packing slip or a statement then through proprietary algorithms and artificial intelligence, it can validate that data back to your ERP. Exceptions can then be presented to your business users in the OCR tool in your ECM workflow, in your ERP workflow, for items such as data extraction confirmations or review of data that doesn't comply with your business rules such as an invoice that is typically too old or a vendor that doesn't exist. And once any required validation is completed, the documents and the validated data can be exported to your ECM or ERP for further processing. In fact, the value of AP automation with intelligent OCR is very real. The industry average for invoice processing time is almost nine days, with a range of 4 to 14. But with a sophisticated integrated and properly designed AP automation solution using both content management services and intelligent OCR, that average processing time reduces to 4 hours. Early payment discount capture rates increase from an average of 43 percent to 75 percent by including intelligent OCR and invoice processing costs decrease from an average of 10 dollars and a high of 23 dollars per invoice to a cost of just 2 dollars under actually two dollars per invoice including intelligent OCR. All right, so where does OCR fit into your process? If we categorize these common accounts payable automation options into levels, level 1 is simply focused on getting rid of the paper and perhaps linking the images to your ERP, and there's value to that. Level two shifts capture early and automates many of the workflow processes reviews and approvals. Many of you may find your organization's in one of these 2 levels today. The level 3 takes all of these concepts and adds intelligent OCR to fully optimize a best-in-class AP solution. I suspect that many of you joining this webinar today fall into one of these three current state situations. You may be receiving paper emails, manually routing them for approval and then manually entering the data into your ERP. Or you may have a content services platform like OnBase with Workflow capabilities. Or you're using your ERP's workflow capabilities and invoices are received and processed for approval through workflow, the transaction data is still manually entered into your ERP. Or you may have a Content services platform with a legacy OCR tool that simply requires too much manual and verification, perhaps it uses templates or it is unsupported and you need to consider a smarter extraction validation tool like intelligent OCR. With content services and workflow and ERP integration a number of key processes can be automated. Invoices can be captured electronically through a vendor portal or automated email box or scan to proceed by mail. Once captured, workflow can present exceptions and verifications to business users and AP specialists. But without OCR as that critical missing piece, your process can never be fully automated or optimized. So who are the key players in OCR? A little background, the evolution of OCR it is evolved greatly over the past 20 years. First generation OCR focused on the data template based approach that we discussed earlier. A template was required for each and every document type or vendor and many OCR tools still use this type, they never evolved. So I would caution you to be careful they have their place and usefulness, but not typically in AP automation for invoices. Then the second generation OCR became smart. It actually included technology to remember the zones and areas and recognize vendors and templates on the fly, including the ability to set up preferred vendor templates that could understand certain variabilities.A smaller number of OCR vendors evolved to this second generation. But then this third generation came along, intelligent OCR. This is an extremely small group of best-in-class solutions. These solutions can actually identify documents and read the data just like a human being. These solutions are based on various proprietary algorithms and patented technologies to extract and validate data, they are significantly more sophisticated. But this comes with a higher price tag. But the good news, I guess, is that this price tag has continued to reduce over time. A few years ago I would have suggested that an organization needed a hundred thousand annual invoices to provide a solid ROI. But fast forward to today, we have customers with 10 to 20,000 invoices a year that I found positive return with intelligent OCR. As a reference, a lot has changed over the past 20 years even more over the past ten and really even five years. If we dial back the clock 10 years, these vendors that you see on the screen here, Brainware, Kofax, ABBYY, AnyDoc, ReadSoft, OnBase, these were the leaders in non template based intelligent OCR again ten years ago. And Naviant was a leading partner for Brainware, Kofax and OnBase at that time. In fact, Naviant was the first Brainware partner in the united states and we were also the first Kofax, payables partner in the Midwest. But as some of you may know, Hyland had OnBase for intelligent OCR, but then a competitive acquisition battle began between Hyland and Lexmark. Lexmark didn't have an intellectual intelligent OCR presence, so they acquired Brainware. And this is actually when Naviant became a Lexmark partner as well since we were already a Brainware partner. Then Hyland decided it needed to strengthen its intelligent OCR platform and they acquired AnyDoc. But then Lexmark acquired Kofax and ReadSoft, leaving ABBYY as the only independent. But then something important happened. Lexmark was acquired by a Chinese toner manufacturer Apex, who didn't want to be in the software business they acquired Lexmark for their copiers the hardware business. So Hyland and their holding company Thoma Bravo stepped in and acquired all of Lexmark's software portfolio. And after strategic technical reviews by Hyland's leadership team, it was determined that Brainware was the strongest and all future development and roadmaps would be based in Brainware and OnBase. And then finally, Naviant actually acquired ABBYY's strongest integration and support partner in 2019 just last year, so now Brainware and ABBYY are the two leading platforms in the industry and Naviant is fortunate to be the solution integration and support partner for both. Both Brainware and ABBYY have sophisticated intelligent OCR capabilities that are actually very similar in a number of ways. They are both industry leaders, they both have been around 20-plus years in business. They have patented technologies that are based on this artificial intelligence neural based learning with intelligence for dynamic data extraction without templates. They both can do automated classification and separation and extraction and 2 & 3 way line pairing and transaction matching. And both can support multiple ERP integrations and multiple languages and multiple currencies and multiple text types and mobile devices support. Both Brainware and ABBYY can be deployed on-premise or as hosted SASS options and both include packaged solutions for what we're talking about today, accounts payable. So what's the difference you might be asking. Well, we are not going to compare and contrast when to use one or the other in this webinar, we can absolutely help you with that. But there are definitely some key considerations when evaluating what's the best fit for a solution for your organization. Things like, what ERP or ERP is multiple are you currently using? Do you have an enterprise content management solution that we're going to be integrating with? What is your annual invoice volume? What's your percentage of PO versus non PO invoices? Are we looking to extract line item detail or header and footer data only? What languages do we have to consider outside of just English? What about multiple currencies? What about tax validation? Both can handle these, but some have a better fit and again we would love to work with you on those. The beauty is, that once implemented at your organization both ABBYY and Brainware are enterprise platforms that can be leveraged and not just for invoice processing with an Accounts Payable, but they can be used to improve processing for other DOC types. Such as packing slips, statements, AR remits, transcripts, other unstructured documents or forms where data extraction and validation is needed. One of the more common questions that were asked especially since the acquisition of Brainware by Hyland is, do we now need to have OnBase to use these solutions? And the answer is absolutely not. There are various options for deploying Brainware or ABBYY depending on your existing environment or your preferred future state environment. Brainware or ABBYY can be deployed actually by itself. If you have an existing capture or import process an existing ECM ERP solution, we can deploy Brainware or ABBYY as a standalone solution. Or, we could leverage OnBase by Hyland for capture and Brainware or ABBYY for OCR if you don't have a current capture tool and or if there is value in a new or better capture solution OnBase can be implemented. Or finally, you know we could use the entire Hyland platform OnBase for capture and workflow and integration with Brainware ABBYY for OCR and this approach would then leverage the full value of Hyland capture, workflow automation, ERP integration with Brainware ABBYY for OCR. And as I mentioned a few moments back, both are available on premise or in the cloud. So, how do these solutions integrate and validate information? Depending on your line of business application, Brainware and ABBYY have many integration options available. Including purpose built certified integrations for leading ERP, such as SAP, workday, Oracle, PeopleSoft and others. For others, we have API or web service integrations available to batch process or line item post data to your ERP and retain the documents and data in your ECM solution. The odds are, in our 20 years of business experience we probably worked with your ERP or accounting system before. Let me walk you through this process. First, the document is captured, scanned, imported, emailed or faxed and the intelligent OCR engine then ingest the document and applies the scientific algorithms and OCR extraction processing that we've been discussing. Now without templates, intelligent OCR classifies extraction validates required data elements including in this example line item detail. Initially during a new configuration intelligent OCR only needs to see a small set of each customer's examples to understand how to classify a given document type and where to extract important information from those documents. It is a very efficient process since it's leveraging artificial intelligence without templates. Next, intelligent OCR validates as data back to the customers line of business application. And as many of Naviant's customers are global organizations, intelligent OCR has the ability to validate against multiple ERPs. This is the other intelligence that we haven't touched on yet and is critically important. Intelligent OCR's special sauce of proprietary algorithms and purpose-built integrations allows the software to validate the data back to line of business applications. Including line item detail pairing and posting data to your ERP without manual intervention. This validation includes many things like PO lookups, is this a real PO number? And line pairing, do all the line items match up with your ERP? And vendor lookups, is this for an existing vendor? And bill-to names, is this invoice really for us? And invoice calculations, do the numbers really add up? So what does this all look like. Let me show you what this looks like to an AP validator clerk user. This is a Brainware verification example, specifically this is an example of a non PO invoice where line item details has been captured along with vendor information and validation has occurred against the ERP vendor master. The left-hand side of the screen shows the extracted and validated information that was extracted from the yellow fields on the image on the right-hand side of scree. By clicking on any field on the image, for example that total amount of $100 and 99 cents that's highlighted in red, a zoomed in view of that data is presented in the bottom panel. This example is actually an invoice that would typically pass through without that verifier user even seeing it. Because everything was extracted and validated exactly as needed to realize straight through processing from capture to posting with no human intervention or correction. Here's a different example of a similar fully extracted and validated invoice but it's a PO invoice, including that same line item detail. Again here all of those fields were extracted without templates and validated back to the ERP vendor master, including line item pairing and validation. Again, this is an example of an invoice that would typically pass through untouched without that verifier user even seeing it first straight through processing. But now here's another example, a PO invoice, but this time it requires a user to verify some information. In this example, the balancing amount on the left-hand side didn't match the total. So Brainware in this example, Brainware or ABBYY, but in this example Brainware would present that invoice to the verifier that knowledge worker including highlighting the fields than the attention. Since the balancing amount didn't match the total, the verification is required because the invoice data was simply out of balance. Including a message on that lower panel, stating that the total amount does not match the sum of subtotal freight and tax amounts. Since freight was not identified, zero dollars, the user can quickly confirm the free data as five hundred and seven dollars and eighteen cents simply by clicking on that value or keying in that one simple data field. And now all that that verification is completed, the document is now all correctly in balance. Then since all other line item details were extracted correctly, the verifier can move on the next invoice, deal with the next exception thereby eliminating manual entry of 99 plus percent of the data that would have been manually entered on this type of invoice in the past. Since our webinar focus isn't on a live demo, but rather the concepts of OCR I'm just going to move on from these user experience slides. But we would absolutely be happy to coordinate a live demo with you, just reach out, give us a call, shoot us an email. Let's touch on reporting for a moment. We've all heard that you can't manage what you don't measure. Rporting provides immediate access to metrics and key performance indicators that report on the status of every document. Reporting provides insight to the status of every document, how it performed and where knowledge workers and managers should focus their time and attention. Both Brainware and ABBYY have robust reporting and analytics tools, access to critical information and detailed statistics. These tools can be used directly from within each software platform or the data can be accessed and shared with any other existing reporting tool that you may already have such as, reports or Microsoft report services or your ERP data warehouse. This Brainware example shows some of the real-time reporting, dashboards and analytics available. Both pre-built and ad-hoc reports are available through a drag-and-drop design tool. Reporting can also provide management dashboards on the flow of documents, the efficiency of the capture processes and even process tracking. Things like showing the flow of all documents and monitoring the efficiency of all capture processes. Reporting also provides detailed statistics on data extraction, processing statistics by vendor and performance metrics by verifiers. Thanks Wayne. Now let's take a few minutes and walk through an actual customer case study. Newell brands. Newell is a fortune 200 company it has been in the fortune 500 for more than thirty consecutive years. Newell brands is the number one leader in almost every product category that they represent, with US share position being number two in only one category. Newell brands consists of consumer products that you probably use every day. Sharpie, Elmer's, Calphalon pots and pans, sunbeam, crock pot, Mr. coffee, Coleman, Grecco, Yankee Candle, Rubbermaid, Ball, First alert, and more. Newell is a thirteen billion dollar global manufacturer, that in 2008 was only using OnBase for scanning and storage of documents post-processing. Workflow was all manual. The operating segments that they had, all operated autonomously and independently. And although Newell had a global instance of SAP, they had many multiples of legacy ERP's throughout the organization. And now back in 2008 in the US alone, they were processing more than 1.25 million annual invoices through corporate. Their key objectives were many of the things that we talked about earlier, reducing manual effort processing and processing costs. They wanted to centralize control across operating segments. Eliminate duplicate payments. Achieve the highest early pay discounts increase their visibility and leverage existing and implement new technology as appropriate. Naviant worked with Newell brands to review their current state. We helped them develop and design a future state solution that would not only apply to the US, but would be globally scalable. And to ultimately fully optimize their global AP processes which included intelligent OCR. Everything from capture to process automation, integrating and automated posting back to SAP and Outlook integration and their legacy ERP's and full visibility and reporting. Now their global benefits in the first year alone were 1.5 million dollars in savings. They reduced their US labor costs for AP processing by 60%, they are currently posting 85% of invoices with no or minimal human intervention. If we look at their top 20 vendors, they're posting 93 to 95 percent straight through processing with no human intervention. They've increased accuracy, they've achieved those early pay discounts and timely approvals since that initial implementation. They have expanded this beyond North America to all global regions including the Amera Region, Asia Pact and others. The solution itself has actually been deployed beyond accounts payable to accounts receivable and legal and Human Resources, because it's managing and capturing and processing documents and they have this audit trail and full schedule of authority controls and reporting. Their cost per invoice was significant. Newell enlisted Naviant's assistance to provide planning and ROI analysis at the beginning of this journey. And Newell's original legacy cost per invoice was approximately $6 per invoice with manual processing and data entry. And in 2008 when the last survey statistics were done, Newell's current again in 2008 cost per invoice was now two dollars and sixty-five cents with OnBase and Brainware intelligent OCR. So before we leave you today, I want to review a few important resources if you'd like to learn more. We have upcoming accounts payable webinars such as, connecting your SAP data to business content processes. So please check back with us or our website for more information. Naviant's new recently redesigned website has a wealth of information on many solutions including, an Accounts Payable overview, customer spotlights, videos, case studies and whitepapers. So we welcome you to take a look. There is a dedicated section to our topic today, OCR software. Including a wealth of information on both Brainware and ABBYY. The Brainware pages include general overview and solution information including white papers, case studies, videos and solution summaries. The Naviant ABBYY pages have similar overviews of the platform. You know including videos, white papers and case studies as well. We want to thank you for your time today. If you have any questions, Ed's and my personal contact information is on the screen. Please feel free to reach out to us with any questions or thoughts. Our marketing team will be sending out an email to all attendees with a link to today's content. Thank you again. Stay safe and healthy and productive and positive   