 Good afternoon, and welcome to the AICPA Town Hall Series. We greatly appreciate being with you on this regular basis and we've got quite a program for you today. It is a busy busy end of the year. What we're going to do is we're going to talk about the state of affairs there in Washington, DC, where the stimulus bill currently stands, bringing the latest information. Basically, it's breaking and it's changing by the hour. We're going to give you how we're seeing it. We're also going to talk about how we see things unfolding related to PPP2. Because even though there's a lot being discussed right now as they try to finalize the stimulus bill, there's a lot of information that is rather clear and we're going to be bringing that to you today. That's going to be really the core of the latest updated recommendations section. Then we're going to have a practitioner panel discussion, and they're going to talk about how they're getting ready for PPP2, and we always close with an open forum. We are looking at your questions and just one other comment related to CPE. You can earn a CPE if you click on 75 percent of those attendance check-ins. We're using this modern platform. You've got that toolbar at the bottom where you can click on the orange arrow to get today's resource materials, and you can also ask questions. Welcome to the team, and you know this group, we've got Barry Melancon, the CEO of the association, the AICPA. Welcome, Barry. Mark Peterson who leads the Advocacy area of the AICPA and Lisa Simpson, who leads Firm Services, and I'm Erik Asgelrsson and I lead the business and technology subsidiary at the AICPA. What we do every week is we bring you the latest information. What I can tell you about today's presentation is basically, we're bringing you information from discussions over the past 24 hours. We've been in contact with Treasury and SBA, the lending community as well as many firms. This is a very dynamic real-time presentation that we're going to be providing with our best available information and the best recommendations that we can bring to you to better support your firms or companies that you may be in. What's the hot topic? We all know it. It's all about what's the state of the affairs with the stimulus bill. I'm going to bring Mark Peterson in here. We've been showing this slide over the past few weeks. First, we said the fog was clearing, then we said the sun was rising and maybe it's getting cloudy and Mark, we had a snowstorm yesterday. So let's hear from you on how you're seeing things. Yeah. Thank you. You mentioned changing by the minute, I think changing by the hour. I actually think it's by the minute. To be honest, we may be speaking during this Town Hall and we may get new news. But just a couple of things to set this up. The negotiations are ongoing. The momentum is in a positive direction. The leadership on both parties, House and Senate plus the White House, is heavily engaged. We understand that drafting is occurring. That doesn't mean it's not over until it's signed by the President and they will stake a draft sections while they still negotiate others, but that fundamental difference has been narrowed, and there were three parts to that. It was what's the size of the bill? 2.4 trillion or 500 billion, it looks like they're headed towards 900. Then how are they going to handle federal funding for state, the local, and liability? They appear to have a way to address that. Now, a couple of things, one of the things that they have done to address state and local on the controversy around that. Well, keeping the unrelated stimulus parts moving was to separate them. We had told you that we were really thinking that the foundation of whatever the deal was, was going to be a bipartisan package that was offered by senators last week. We still believe that. Basically, that's what we're going to take it through, supplement it with some other sections of bills that had previously been offered as proposals. But what they've done is they've 908 billion has come down to 748. Within that is funding for another round of PPP. They've got funding for testing, they've got broadband money, there's all kinds of other money that's included in this large package. The separation of votes is very helpful and is a really good indication that they're moving in the direction of this happening. They're going to include a supplemental to unemployment insurance. They're actually talking about another round of $700 stimulus checks going out. Now again, it's kind of DC stuff, but they may separate those votes, but ultimately all of that is a really good indication of things moving forward. The timing of this, okay, there is a reality that they have to get it drafted, they have to finalize the sticking points. Then they have to get it through both the House and the Senate, and then they got to get it to the White House. That takes time. Right now, there is a spending bill that's going to expire on Friday. Either they get it done by then, by Friday, and combined stimulus plus the funding bill together, which was originally the intent, the direction they were headed, but they may run out of time. They could go onto the weekend. I think that the Senate has alerted senators that they should plan on working over the weekend. They may not get the funding bill done. Government could shut down over the weekend, we've seen that in the past. Depending on how close they think they are. They could do another short-term funding extension, in this say, the 23rd to give the drafters a little more time. If that happens, I wouldn't necessarily say that's a bad sign. It means they just need time to get the deal done. There's also an unrelated issue about defense bill that's out there which has the potential to be being vetoed and then they would be coming back for a veto override. The only reason that, that weighs in as if they have to come back anyway because of how the defense bill works out. That may actually extend the period of time because they may come back and do everything at one time, depending on how the schedule plays up. Directionally, everything is headed toward the deal, I think that the pressure is sooner rather than later, it's hard for me to believe that they would go home for the holiday and leave Washington without a deal. They're down to a handful of the big issues, I will say because we know we're going to get the question, where's deductibility? Deductibility was in the last proposal. We believe it's going to be included. But we also are hearing that the Secretary of Treasury is pushing back very hard about including deductibility. Congress is pushing back just as hard and it has escalated to one of the top issues they're under negotiation right now. We still believe that the Congressional Intent was included, and everything we hear is that Congress is going to push very hard for its inclusion, but again, it's still out there and has not been concluded. Mark, we got a lot of questions coming in. I want to let everyone know that we have analyzed the 525-page bill, that is the basis of what Mark just talked about the $748 billion package, and we're going to bring to you in Lisa's section how we're seeing all these deep design questions on the details of who's eligible and more information on the criteria. So that's coming. Barry, I don't know if you want to add anything, Mark did a great job of unpacking how this is all going to work through and get passed, as we have been saying over many, many weeks. It's a question of when that if? When does seem? Days away now. How are you seeing this? Yeah, as Mark said, I think it's very difficult for members of Congress to go home permanently for the holidays if you want to call it that without passing this. Particularly, with the incredible stress that small business has. I do you think and we'll get into the details with Lisa, it's not going to be as clean as PPP1 is going to be more bucketing of things that's going on. There are going to be some simplification things as it relates to forgiveness on the first round, with certain thresholds. We are very empathetic to the confusion or the desire to have a final determination on the deductibility point. It has been a very significant rallying point. In some ways, it's actually a very significant example of bipartisanship. As we all know following the political process, there's very little that we can point to that is truly bipartisan in anything that's debated in Washington these days. But the Deductibility relying on the intent in the original bill seems to be one that is strongly bipartisan, and really, the push back coming from the Secretary of Treasury as Mark said. We understand that that clarity is important to your clients or if you work in companies, to your company. We're confident there's been hundreds of organizations that have joined in the messaging that we have brought forward on this particular issue, and so it's pretty universally supported. It's not to say you can't get into the Tax Theory point and say, well, maybe it shouldn't be deductible. I think that's what treasury is saying. But I think this isn't about a Tax Theory issue. This is about a small business support funding survivability type of issue. That's really where I think the heads of the leaders of Congress are. Thanks, Barry. Mark, we're going to come back to you in a second. Lisa is going to get into more of the details, but at a very high level. Do you want to cover the points in this slide? A question just came in about the automatic forgiveness. Then also there's a question about direct checks which we don't have on this slide. Yeah. Indications are there going to have direct checks it's still being negotiated. There was a hard push by a Republican and Democratic senator. I have direct checks of $1200. Again, this is an indication that negotiations are going on. That number has moved down and I would take that as an indication of a good thing because that means they're trying to move towards resolution. We are seeing inclusion of 501(c)(6). There will be some limitations, the number of employees, there's some lobbying language in there that would disqualify you from being able to get the PPP loan. We do not like that language. We're actually working with other associations to try and make sure it's broadened. Then again, I had mentioned the supplement to unemployment insurance. One thing just to clarify. The 908 bill that we pointed out and the 748 bill is the same bill, it's just they divided up the chunks. They pulled out state and local to make it separate. It's substantially the same, it's just that they have divided up the bill. What we were looking at in the bi-partisan 908 package is basically the same. Now, there are some places in there where we've had to fill in the gaps based on information that we've gotten from Treasury or from the hill, or from previous iterations in order to fill the gap and give everybody direction. All right. Thanks Mark. Barry one other hot topic before we get into the more detailed review is COVID-19 tax filing relief. Yeah. We also know the frustration that is out there on that as it relates to either non or a very complicated relief from a penalty situation related to COVID-19. It also ties in generally to the whole issue of backlog at the IRS. There are reports of millions of pieces of correspondence that have not been processed by the IRS, yet new notices go out on top of that, crossing so to speak. Creating a lot of questions and issues predominantly on the individual side, not exclusively, but predominantly on the individual tax side. We have been very vocal in that. Frankly, our team in Washington has done a fantastic job, again, getting bipartisan support. Letters from members of Congress, Senate, and the House saying, "Look, IRS. This is an unusual circumstance. You need to find a way to make this work." Except a little bit stronger worded and than what I just said. I think that it's been incredible. I mean, people who are in polar opposites from a political perspective, signing off on a letter that our team has worked very hard on getting the points across to members of Congress so that they feel comfortable communicating to the IRS on this issue. We know from feedback at the IRS that they are aware of this inquiry subtle pressure from the Congress. We're hopeful that there is some guidance and some help that comes along this process. It needs to happen. For those of you I was on two weeks ago, the situation we have now is counter intuitive or counter effective to a voluntary tax system. Our system works on voluntary compliance. Prepares a critical element of that voluntary compliance system. Frankly, when you lose confidence in that process because in a pandemic situation, it's just like the rules of the rules of the rules and no give-and-take in that process, then people are a lot less attuned or willing to be part of a voluntary compliance system which our government and our system functions on. We have made those points and we are hopeful that they will be helped. But it will probably require some things like one call. Then the problem is, how quickly is that answered? That the people answering it are they equipped and knowledgeable to solve it? But at least if we can get to the point where that happens, then there is relief for the taxpayers, and of course, the tax prepares, the CPAs that are associated with that. It is a high priority and it's not a legislative solution, it's a congressional interaction with the IRS solution to really move this forward. But it is a critical element. We know that the commissioner is well aware of the concerns that are out there, not just from us, but the populations as a whole. Thanks, Barry. We'll continue to keep the the town hall attendees updated on that as it advances. We're now moving into the more detailed section here. Lisa, welcome. Let's start getting into how we see PPP 2. This is based on a review of the 525 page bill, as well as discussions we've had with Treasury. So Lisa? Thank you, Erik. Some of this we covered last week, but we've got some additional details that we want to try to provide to you. You've got two groups of borrowers in PPP 2, as currently being floated. You've got a group of borrowers who were able to get access to PPP 1 money but they need to come back for a second draw. They've been hardest hit by the pandemic and the continued economic uncertainty. That second pool of money or second draw money is going to be targeted at businesses that have 300 or fewer employees. They also have to have a 30 percent gross receipts decline in any quarter in 2020 compared to the same quarter in 2019. I've been getting some questions about, is it a calendar quarter? Is it a three month period? Right now, it looks like it's a calendar quarter, but SBA and Treasury will be in charge of writing out the details and the processes around that. Gross receipts can be a big number, so we believe that idle and PPP will not be included in gross receipts, because that could certainly impact a comparative quarter over quarter comparison. We think there'll be a tiered system of economic necessity or self certification of that necessity. We're thinking that the proposals were hearing are, if you're a borrower of a 150,000 or less, you'll be able to self certify the economic need but a 150,000 or more, you may have to provide some documentation. It's still to be determined on what that documentation looks like, is it cache is it a pool? Those questions are yet to be answered. But it's really important that if you believe you've hit these requirements, that you go ahead and start getting together that documentation regardless of the size of the loan. It's also important to point out that the SBA does have the right, and we expect them to use the right that they have, to do random checks of that self certification. Especially at the larger loan sizes but equally, it'll be those smaller loan will be subject to reviews as well. You're putting draft here and there's a chance that 30 percent could change. Right now, if at 30 percent, potentially there is some talk that it should be lower. We will see what the final bill says. Yeah. That's 30 percent of the the high hurdle. Yeah. Your point, Erik. We have had discussion and that is part of the negotiation that's going on and what that percentage should be at. Just to amplify Lisa's point on the random selection by SBA of loans. It's our understanding there will be money that they will give SBA to help with oversight. When Congress gives an agency money then they ask them what they did with it. They're definitely going to be reviewing and pulling some of these loans for some type of review. This is a prime time to be talking to clients in the beginning to prepare them. As Lisa said, it's probably a quarter, actual calendar quarter. Frankly, if a business was shut down or mostly shut down early in the crisis, so call it second quarter, they probably will make the 30 percent. But if it's a business that has been ongoing, the 30 percent is going to be probably hard to make and so that's just something to think about as you work with clients. Well said. We're going to talk to our practitioners about that and hear what they're saying. Lisa, you want to move on to a little bit more about eligibility? Yeah. Let's go to the next slide. You've also got a pocket of money for first-time borrowers, those who weren't able to get in on the first round or who weren't eligible. The eligibility will generally be the same as it was for PPP 1. Most small businesses will be eligible if they're eligible for other 7(a) loans. Sole proprietors, independent contractors are also going to continue to be eligible. Religious institutions, 501(c)(3). You'll see some of the other categories there. We talked last week about 501(c)(6), and we do expect that they will be included in eligibility for the next round along with destination marketing organizations. Mark talked last week about that lobbying threshold. We do still see that lobbying threshold and propose legislation. But generally, C6s with a 150 or fewer employees will be eligible as long as that lobbying threshold doesn't catch them. There could be other criteria around the loan process. Got a question earlier about the covered period. The covered period under these PPP 2 loans would be either eight or 24 weeks, similar to what we have now. In terms of the loan amount. Again, very similar to PPP 1, the loan amount will be based on two-and-a-half times the average total monthly payroll costs for 2019 or if the borrower wanted to use 12 months prior to the date of the application they could. We would anticipate that most borrowers would want to use their 2019 cost, which would be the same amount that they calculated for the first round of PPP. The maximum loan amount for round two is two million dollars. There also been some adjustments in the draft legislation that will give farmers and ranchers the ability to use gross income instead of net, acknowledging the role they play in the economy. In terms of costs eligible for forgiveness. We've talked about the application process in terms of what those funds can be used for. It's the same as PPP1, payroll covered mortgage interest, rent, utilities, but with the addition of some extra categories around worker protection expenditures and facility modifications, supplier costs, operating costs and some proposals are including property damage costs that were not covered by insurance related to riots or civil unrest. We do expect to continue to see that 60-40 cost allocation requirement between payroll costs and non payroll. We talked about deductibility, so we'll definitely be keeping you posted on where we end up with that. Speaking of deductibility, if you go check Twitter and you type in PPP deductibility, you might get some alarming takes on whether or not the latest legislation does include deductibility. So we've given you some bullet points to consider if you go out and read the legislation, we know that deductibility will not be impacted as to whether or not you've filed for forgiveness before or after the date of enactment. There was some confusion because of the way the bullet points are outlined in the legislation, but to be clear, our conversations with Treasury have confirmed that if deductibility makes it into a final round of legislation, it will not matter if you have applied for forgiveness and gotten your forgiveness before or after the date of the enactment of the law. They said they're not going to penalize anybody who applied for forgiveness. It's hard. I understand that why, you're reading the bills fast and it's easy to come to that conclusion, so we're glad that we could bring this clarification to Town Hall attendees. Absolutely. Some of the biggest news, I think, in proposed legislation is around the simplified forgiveness process. I know a lot of you have been waiting to figure out when the right time to file it is and this may give some clarity once any final legislation is hashed out. Right now, simplified loan forgiveness for loans of 150,000 or less is signing and submitting a one-page form and a certification that you've complied with the program requirements. There's also another simplification process outlined for loans between 150 and two million. The main difference there is that you're not required to provide all of the documentation around FTEs, payroll, canceled checks, and those kinds of things. The borrowers still have to retain those records regardless of the size of the loan, retain those records and always assume that you are subject to a random audit by the SBA. The lenders also have a simpler process. They simply are being asked to acknowledge, under this draft proposal, that they review the application, that the fields are completed, and that the borrower has initialed or signed all of the necessary certifications. There are some other legislative proposals that we thought would be of interest to you. There is money set aside in the current legislation to extend the SBA loan subsidies, that a lot of borrowers have been able to take advantage of. It was six months worth of payments and there is additional money there. We've gotten some questions around whether or not those payments are considered to be taxable income and we haven't seen anything in the Cares Act or any ensuring legislation that would make that not taxable. We are also anticipating that the EIDL Advance grants will open back up with additional funding. If you remember back to the earlier stages of the economic crisis, grants were opened up at $1,000 per employee up to $10,000 max. [inaudible] that money to be replenished. There are also some grants targeted at live venue operators, some museums, theaters, and entities like that, that obviously need help. Thanks, Lisa. So we will be coming back to you shortly. Here's another key topic that we know a lot of firms have had a lot of questions around this. It's related to agencies. In lender fees, here's the existing draft legislation where it stands. One thing is clear, borrowers can hire advisors, can hire firms to support their PPP2 applications. They can pay for those services. There was confusion back in April around that related to the first round, so that's being stated very clearly here. Borrowers can hire advisors to support them, and the lenders can pay agent fees, but they're making it very clear that the lender has to have a contract with the agent. That's actually the recommendation that we told the firms back in April. That's in the bill right now, so you will have to have an agreement with your lender to get an agent fee. We also are aware that the lender fees are going to be less in PPP2, so that will also cause the agent fees to be less but there's still going to be a good percentage. What we're recommending is that firms make sure that they're very clear with their selection of the lenders around this issue. There are going to be options and we've got the option with our fintech platform where you can receive the agent fees. We will be talking more about that shortly. That is just the latest and it's basically in line with how we have been seeing things for many, many months. Now, let's just talk about the earliest potential timing. Mark gave you the scorecard on the passing of the legislation, but once that legislation is passed and signed into law, there are a number of other steps that need to occur. So once that's signed into law, then Treasury with the SBA has to release the new forms and give us some guidance. Back in April that occurred one week after the Cares Act passed, so it could happen as soon as end of this year. There's a chance that PPP2 loans could be issued by December 31st. We think it's probably more likely that this is going to be kicked off in the first week of January. That's based on discussions we're having with government officials as well as with the lending community. But the key is to get ready now, to be aware that there's a chance that these forms could be released a week after the passing or even a shorter period of time than that, the passing of this legislation, and that your clients clearly, some of them are going to want to get their applications submitted rather quickly. So put in place the capabilities now. We'll talk a little bit more about those capabilities in a minute. But Lisa, this is a slide that we've talked about in many past Town Halls, so current state of recommendations related to forgiveness. Thanks, Erik. Most borrowers have fully completed their 24-week cover period. Hopefully, they've used all of the PPP funds and they feel like they qualify for forgiveness. But in terms of timing, We talked about most of this before. I think the new big bullet is the last one, which is the loan amount. Does the borrower want to wait and see? Hopefully, we'll have closure in a couple of days on what simplified forgiveness could be available to them. We're also getting questions about, do I need to apply for PPP1 forgiveness before I apply for an additional round of PPP funding if you're a second time borrower? I haven't seen anything in the legislation that would indicate that. Again, it's our understanding the goal is to get money to these [inaudible] borrowers as quickly as possible. If we see anything come out on that, we'll let you know. Right now, I'm not not seeing anything. Just moving on to some of the resources that we've been working on over the past six months. One is the forgiveness tool and we have thousands of firms who have put some type of utilization related to this platform. We have a number of firms that are actively utilizing this platform, and one of the key reasons why we've been encouraging firms to move to a platform for the forgiveness stage is really all about the PPP2 phase because once the legislation is finalized, this platform will support PPP2 loans or second draw loans. It will also support the first draw loans 501(c)(6)s and any business that, for some reason, didn't apply when it was available up until August 10th and wants to apply now, because as Lisa said, you still will be eligible for an initial PPP loan if you have not applied for one today. We have this platform in place. This platform will put in place all of the guidance that we've been discussing that Lisa has been reviewing, and we do think that firms can approach this next phase of PPP dramatically different than the way they approached it in April. We're hoping that we don't see thousands of firms building their own calculators and doing things like that and they focus more on advising their clients and putting in place the right strategies for those clients. We are going to be holding a webinar tomorrow related to this tool, so here's the information on that. You can register by going to CPA.com/BFP-Webinar. That's a way to learn more about it. You also can go to CPAloanportal.com. With that, let's bring in our two practitioners. Lisa, I'll have you introduce them and kick off this discussion. We're lucky to be joined today by Kyle and Travis. Travis Miskowitz is with Wiss, which is a major firm group member in the Northeast, and Kyle Corum is with Bernard Robinson & Company at G400 firm in Greensboro, North Carolina. Welcome you, guys, thanks for joining us. Happy to be here. We had a great conversation earlier in the week about how you're preparing for PPP2 and some of the ways you're trying to make sure, as Erik just said, that PPP2 isn't like PPP1 for both your firm and your clients. Kyle, what thoughts do you have? How are you all getting ready? Well, as a firm, we are trying to be a little bit more proactive this go-around since there's more of an infrastructure in place from PPP1. The partners have met, we've discussed it, we're getting ready to go, trying to identify clients that might be eligible for this, again, given the draft legislation. Trying to get engagement letter prepared, getting blog posts and newsletter articles prepped, ready to go so when that legislation's passed, we can go ahead and be ready to give the information off to our clients a lot faster and quicker than what happened with PPP1. I think Erik was right, it's getting ready, we don't like to drink as much water from a fire hose this go-around than we did the first time. Travis, what about you? Yeah, I would share Kyle's sentiments there. We're following a very similar approach over at Wiss, and we have a PPP forgiveness team that's working with our clients on their forgiveness applications. We'll probably steer these PPP2 loans to that same team as well. We're all set up on the Biz2Credit platform and we think it's a great tool to help us streamline this process. We sent out an internal communication yesterday just to let everyone know, "Start having these conversations with your clients, let them know that PPP2 is around the corner here." We're also looking at clients that possibly suffered revenue decline of 20 or 25 percent because we feel that 30 percent is a pretty high bar to prove and a 30 percent decline in revenue would translate to some pretty significant cash flow and liquidity problems. Hopefully, that 30 percent metric is lowered when the final bill passes. Similar to Kyle, we have a client facing communication that's ready to go out as well and we can slot in those final details when the bill is passed and signed into law. Travis, a follow-up question. You were active right out of the gate in April or May, I think you joined one of our Town Halls so it's great to have you back again. When you think about the organization inside the firm, I've heard you're a larger firm, where sometimes, different partners were just doing things in a different way with each of their clients. How have you worked at trying to make sure there's a unified approach for this go-around? Sure. I would say that the forgiveness team has really gelled and come together as a cohesive unit, and we're spearheading that under the advisory umbrella because the insurance and tax teams have their other priorities, they have their other deadlines, and their other projects and commitments that they're working on. We've really brought it under advisory. We've communicated with the partners, directors, and manager group to really start gathering the list of clients, start gathering that documentation we think they'll be required to submit with the second loan application, and we're getting them into an internal cue where we'll be able to help them either with their existing lender or through the Biz2Credit portal. I think some clients are probably a little bit shell-shocked still from the first go-around, delays with their lenders and difficulties getting funded and approved, so I think the Biz2Credit platform is a great alternative option for those clients, especially if their lender is not going to open that application window for some time after the bill is passed and PPP2 is officially open for applications. Well, thanks Travis for that, and just so everyone knows, Biz2Credit is the underlying fintech partner for our CPALoanPortal. Back in April, the fintech option wasn't available. Kyle, I know you and I spoke a little bit about this and now everyone is familiar with the lending community 5700 banks and credit unions that are in place. I think most of us are also familiar with one of the fintech companies, and what they have done is they were approved by the SBA a number of them in the May and June time-frame. They've stood up platforms. I mean, Biz2Credit did process close to a billion in PPP1 loans, so they're ready for this next phase, and we think they're going to be able to support the firms. It's also, if only we think we'll be able to support some of the under-served. That's what I will be talking about a little bit later, but Kyle, I know you're thinking through this with your clients. How are you managing that lender decision? Given the heartache, and a lot of folks had previously with their traditional lending models. Again, given client options, so this fintech option where five years ago, it may not have been at the top of the list, again, it's a great option for firms that are on the call today to really help the clients when the traditional model has failed and then also talking to some other banks in the area of brick and mortar type bank that did well with it, and trying to set up options for clients to make sure they're going down the right path. Some are going to be a little wary of all the fintech route since you can't see and touch this different type banks, and so they may want to go the traditional route. Again, given the hard mind that a lot of them had, I think it this is going to be a great option for them. It's really just educating our clients on the options that are there at this point in time. Hey Barry, I want to bring you into this discussion. You're talking to a lot of firms, and you've given us a lot of thoughts on just being proactive both with the forgiveness process as well as with this next phase that we're all talking about. Well, for the smaller businesses, the clients have so many small firms and mid-size firms. This is like blood type stuff. This is maybe the most important set of facts. Direct support, I'll remind you that when we started this process back in April and May, our message to Congress was, you needed to think about the small business community much like the financial services sector we started back in 2008. If you're going to bail out, you needed a bail out that segment because it's so critically important to our economic viability, and I would add to that, that the relationship of all those entities with thousands, tens of thousands of CPA firms is absolutely essential, and I think what Travis and Kyle are talking about is really this trusted advisor notion. Yes, you have the base to credit opportunity. If you want to go down the path is either of primary or backup strategy as Kyle mentioned. It does have the agency issue in it, but the overriding thing is really being on the front end of the issues and understanding the things Lisa has covered and being able to describe to your clients in relatively simple terms. I know CPAs, we can get into all of the minutiae and technical aspects. Of course, the platform answers those for you and will for PPP too. But the real key is bringing that business acumen and thinking to the client to help them work through that. I happen to agree with Travis that the 30 percent is a high threshold for those going through the second time. You may have clients that didn't go through the first time and that 30 percent threshold won't apply. Those types of things helping clients through it really to help them survive. We know cities are closing down businesses. We know in some places, it's not happening. It's a complicated world, and this is really, again, another opportunity for our profession in that critical small business environment to deliver clarity, simplicity. We should shoulder the complexity and deliver the simplicity to the clients and that's how you create truly long-term relationships with clients. Thanks, Barry. Yeah, go ahead, Lisa, I'll answer one question and hand it to you, but questions coming in and just to peep, yes. With the fintech platform, you're going to be able to go and you'll be able to assist your client uploading documents, filling out the form, they'll be doing all the affirmations and that will be submitted directly into the SBA e-tran system then your client will get funding. There's a lot of evolution of banking occurring. I think this is something that we're thinking a lot about as we want to support the firms, as they think more and more about helping their clients with financing decisions, Lisa. One thing that came to mind as as we were looking at those [inaudible] points is that, there are a lot of small firms that may not have a team that can take off their tax or a test and switch over into getting ready for PPP. For those of you leverage the content that we're giving you in these Town Halls, you can use our blog posts, you can use our social media posts to communicate out to your clients so that you're not recreating the communications that you want to get out there to them and I also know, having been a small firm myself, how close you are to your client base. You're going to have a good sense as to using that 30 percent revenue decline. Leverage your close relationship with your client base to help be ready. Do please explore that long portal because it will automate the process for you and take out some of that administrative component that you may not get paid for? Just a little something for you. Lisa, if you think about the client relationship, if the bill passes, let's just say passes over the weekend, you have a series of really a cogent messages you can deliver, probably clarification on deductibility. That's a great message to deliver your clients. I got the first round PPP, depending on the size of the original loan, a simplified loan forgiveness process potentially in that process. I knew PPP to process. That comes about that we'll have more bills and whistles in it as we've described them to you and you can be the purveyor of understanding that and really alerting a client whether you think they will qualify or not pretty early on in the process. If you think about client relations, even if you communicated those three or four points, and then immediately was set up with them in the first week of January to handhold work them through that process, that's the type of value really before tax season really ramps up, and I know there's still a lingering things from tax season, but that's the type of value that really is hard to ever have that situation again, frankly. It could be a really, really fundamental time for the relationship in that trusted advisor room. Barry, that's a great [inaudible]. I got to hand it to Kyle and Travis to make just a closing comment. One question that's coming in a lot is that if you have not applied for forgiveness, can you apply for a second round of PPP? Our current understanding is yes. That will not be a requirement for you to submit it to forgiveness loan, to go for a PPP-2 loan. Lisa covered what the eligibility requirements are. I just echo what Barry just said. I think today there's so much information that we've provided you today. If this bill passes, it take this presentation and you can have a great discussion with your client. Maybe that's a good question both, Travis, you, and Kyle have. Once this bill passes and you shared a little bit, but reflect on Barry's comments and how you're going to proactively go out to your clients with guidance. Travis. Yeah, I think that, to Barry's point, we have those communications up in queue, and our marketing team has done really a fantastic job getting that information into the hands of our clients as quickly as possible. We've done a great job, I think, digesting some contradictory and gray guidance we've received from us being treasury. We really try to break it down into practical guidance and bits and pieces where clients can digest that, understand it, and really be comfortable in their decision to move forward with their forgiveness application and then PPP2. Thanks, Travis. I'm sure you're going to be coming up with a blog, an end year blog. So I look forward to reading that. Thank you. Kyle? The same for us, it's really just about being prepped and ready to go, having a plan to, again, carry it out a lot smoother than the first year round. Infrastructure is in place, the people are in place. Now, we just need the policies to be passed, and I think we'll be good to go. The platforms that we have, again, with the CPA biz are a bit of a credit platform. I think it's going to be a great help to us. Then really just harnessing the Trusted Advisor title. This is our time to shine, when things and people are in trouble. It's our time to help them through it. That gives you a lot of energy to see them through this. I'm excited for the next year round. Well, thanks. Thanks for your leadership, and thanks for being on the Town Hall with us today. So now we're going to close out a couple of slides here and then go on the open forum. So Lisa, get ready with a question. Many relieve options, and we look forward to filling this purple box in with whatever that bill is that passes over the next few days. Again, here, this is a great slide of what we've been doing with you for all of 2020. Can you believe it? Where we've got two weeks left, we do appreciate being with you on this Town Halls throughout 2020, talking about your role as a trusted adviser and what a defining year it's been for all of you. We really appreciated this discussion. Here's a slide that I mentioned earlier about helping the broader community. We're all thinking about the under-served and we are thinking that there are ways for the firms to offer some support related to PPP2. We're thinking about that with our tool. The base version is free. More to come on that. More to come on how we think we can help all of the impacted businesses get their needed relief funding, and there's just some resources highlighted on this slide. With that, we'll come to our open forum here. Lots of questions, and we've had record attendance coming at 7,500 of you out there today and few hundred questions. Lisa, why don't you pull a couple of them forward. Hey, Lisa. Before you get it, just two quick things, because I did see some questions on this. What Lisa and the team have been pouring over the 500 pages is that $908 billion bipartisan packaged that we believe we know is the foundation for whatever's going to happen. That has been filled in with information we've gotten through conversations and previous proposals. The 748, which is where they're headed, has not been introduced yet. So we do not have final language. We think it is materially the same, although until we get that language and can review it to find out exactly how they're going to deal with things, we're not sure. I just wanted to clarify that it's absolutely worth looking through it. That's why we did it. Directionally, it's the foundation, we know that, but we do not have the final language. Then secondly, Lisa, Barry mentioned all the efforts around the IRS penalty issue, but I also want to thank our partners in the state societies. We've had an unprecedented amount of grassroots effort that's gone on for the last few months focused on a lot of issues; deductibility, penalties, the necessity survey, 501(c)(6) is a whole list of issues, and the responsiveness of our partners in the state societies has made a huge difference. I just wanted to mention that and say thank you. Thanks, Mark. Lisa, there's a couple of error messages coming at you, I just want to say, I know people during this webcast have tried to register for tomorrow's webinar. I understand that there is some link issues there. What we will do is in the email that you all receive at the end of today's broadcast, we will include a link and information on how to register for that webinar. There's another question, will we record it? Absolutely, we'll record it. You can watch the archive as well. Lisa. Thanks. Let me address a couple of quick questions myself. Then Kyle and Travis, just a heads up, I'm going to ask you a question. I've got a question about whether or not a farmer with no employees can apply for a PPP loan, and the answer is yes. That's in round 1 and round 2. Then a couple of great questions about how will the calculations work for PPP2. Will payroll be calculated the same way? I think it's everyone's goal to keep the structure of PPP2 as close to the structure of PPP1 as possible. Those are the rules we know. Those are the rules that we've been working through for the past nine months. Yes, we expect the calculations of payroll will be just like they were for PPP1. Kyle and Travis, a question for you around what are your clients experiencing in terms of how long it's taking to get any information on filing for forgiveness? Are their forgiveness applications going through easy-peasy or they're getting requests for additional documentation? Any ideas on the time frames? For our clients, the people that went early, they went relatively quickly, and then there's a backlog in the mid October, mid November time frame. But I feel recently activity has picked up, and there seem to be moving through it pretty quickly. Just got a call before this webcast today, and in three weeks total from the bank to the FDA and you're done. So that's the record I've heard, and I have not heard of anybody they pushed back too much on the documentation. A lot of that has been some administrative stuff may not have been exactly right, an address was different, or the number of employees at the time of application were different. Fixed it, and they've been moving on through relatively quickly, the volume have picked up quite a bit on the forgiveness part. We're seeing the same as well. We're seeing our first forgiveness application was submitted back in September and that client just received their loan forgiveness paperwork, so it took about three months in that situation. Other lenders, they're starting to move a little bit quicker. It seems that their underwriters and their loan reviewers are more familiar with what they're looking for, the information that they should be seeing, so that process is moving a little bit smoother. I think to the extent that the supporting documentation reconciles, so the forgiveness application and everything sort of ticks and ties, it makes the process go a lot smoother. That's why we love auditors, right? Okay. Well, here's, Barry, Mark, just extension of March 15th and April 15th deadlines. We're in the rapid fire section of Town Hall. Too early to answer that. It'll be a very significant part of what treasury thinks. We'll have a new treasury secretary, and under secretary, etc. It's just too early to answer that question. Like we always say, about half of our profession things that it should be and about half a profession thinks that it shouldn't be in it. I think a lot will depend on IRS service levels, and the second one is the state environment. The first time around most of the states also delayed. That made it really be a true relief situation. If state do not, then it's much more complicated and, of course, states are facing significant money crunches. Go ahead, Lisa. One other quick thing about forgiveness. We've gotten several questions over the course of the last few weeks about that 90 day time frame that the SBA has. We're being told that's a guideline and not a hard and fast rule. If your loan is approaching that 90 day point, you might have to wait a little bit longer while they work through their processes. Okay. Well, thank you, Lisa. Thanks, Barry and Mark. Here are the most recent AICPA Town Hall Series and what was covered. You will be receiving the video archive to today's session shortly. You can share that with anyone you like. Here's our resource page that we continually update. Then just we're very active on social media. I'm going to do this, even though I am not sure I want to do this. Been a lot of requests for access to that 525 page bill. I think you should let us read it and we'll give you the down house, but if that's what you want over the holiday week or just over the next couple of days, Lisa and I will tweet that out. We'll get you the link to the 525-page bill, which is public. You can read that. It is somewhat confusing because it connects back into the original CARES Act. It is not the bill though. It is not the wording that will be passed in all likelihood, so be very careful. We'll put a disclaimer there, Barry. Thank you. We'll say be very careful and what we would say is we are working on distilling that and we will be doing that very rapidly. As I said, not just from a standpoint of giving you the information you need to support your clients, but also having it stood up in a tool that you can utilize that will be leveraging Lisa's team and firms as well to QA it to make sure it is working in line with the law when the law is passed. There have been questions about when's the next Town Hall? What we're going to do is we're going to do video recordings where we will at least do one. We'll do another Town Hall update, which we then are going to send out to all Town Hall attendees, which you can then watch whenever you can. That will occur over the next two weeks, potentially next week. If we need to do two, we'll do two. We know it's holiday time, so that's how we're going to work this. We're going to do a recording and then send it out to you. We'll try to just hit the top points of the most current information for you in those videos. We've done that before. We will have our next scheduled Town Hall on Thursday, January 7, at 03:00 PM. That's the plan. We can change it. If we think for some reason we need to change it, we will. But that's the plan. Do stay connected with us via LinkedIn and Twitter. Barry, I don't know maybe you can do a sign off here for us in 2020 just thanking this group, the 100,000 plus that have been with us on the Town Halls, the 7,000 plus that are with us today. I'll let you close this out. Well, first off, I wish all of you a very safe and happy holiday season. We know it's been an incredibly difficult year. I think every one of you who is part of this profession deserve a tremendous statement of gratitude. Our profession has done a remarkable job focused on the big and focused on the small and the small business community. When people look back in sometime in the future, back to 2020, the job that the men and women in our profession have done to help this economy get to the next level to survive this incredible time is I think going to be of really, really, really significant and positive picture. So thank you all for what you have done to make that happen. I'd like to thank our team for helping to be a good support for you through these Town Halls. They've done a phenomenal job and will continue to do so as we get into 2021. Thank you. Be safe and enjoy the holidays. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Take care. 