 Welcome to today's webinar. Ravit Danino, our SVP of Product at Totango, Vijay Rao, Director of Product Management at Totango, and Mark Fordham, SVP of Client Success at CareerArc. Welcome again for this morning's Voice of Customer Webinar. Good morning and good afternoon, everyone, and thank you, Mark, for joining. Let's get into the agenda for today. So what we are here to discuss is how you can run a voice of the customer program? What's involved with it? And how can you do that with Totango? And then once we do a brief demo, we'll go to Mark and hear how CareerArc is doing their program using Totango, and even more so in today's COVID reality. And then, of course, we'll summarize and take some Q&A. This webinar is part of the product series webinar, so for those who have joined, I want you to be aware of that. We are going to be going into the product to look at Totango's specifics. So let's begin. So as with any voice of the customer program, it varies between three and four stages, but primarily has these components in it. The most important part is, of course, having a habit of listening to customer feedback often on a consistent basis. Once you ask for feedback, it's really important to also close the loop with both your survey respondents as well as internally within your organization as well. Once you have the data available, it's really important to have a way to analyze this information and look for trends and correlations that may exist. And we'll look at each of these in more detail for how you can do that. And finally, the most important step is, of course, to not just keep it within your organization, but to share it outside and more importantly, to take action so that you are making the change based on the feedback that you're getting from customers. Now, listening is easier said than done. There are certain aspects that it's really important to have so that the way you ask for feedback is done in a pleasant and user-friendly manner. Having a consistent and clear cadence of asking for feedback is really important. More specifically, you don't want to be asking feedback from customers who've not had a chance to really experience the platform. For example, you want to wait for them to have used your platform before you ask them for feedback and potentially you could have the right points in your customer journey. For example, you may want to send your service to a fully adopted customer as opposed to someone who's just sort of in the early stages of onboarding. Asking for feedback in a user-friendly manner is really important. You don't want to slam them with 50 questions. You want to ask them for feedback in a short and sustained manner in such a way that it doesn't take a lot of time and the whole experience is pleasant as well. And as you can see, Totango has all the components to make this a best practices manner and we'll dive into the specifics once we go into the demonstration. Now, when you're asking for feedback, there are two broad categories that are there - and of course, there are other categories - but these are the two primary, most important categories that are asking for feedback falls into. The first one is the live-view, relationship-based surveys, where you're asking users to see if they would recommend your brand to their friends and colleagues. And it is a true measure of loyalty. It's a well-understood metric, and also, when you have loyal customers, they will obviously buy more from you and it's a clear indication of growth. And asking for that feedback cyclically in six months or a 12 month period is a standard best practice. Of course, the feedback is not based on the most recent event or a specific event when you're measuring for loyalty or relationship. Now, the other category of that is transaction-based as well. For example, you could ask for the same feedback based on a successful event that a user did in their journey. For example, when I had walked into Target, I received a survey that asked me for how was my experience with Target because they detected that I had entered the store and shop. So you could potentially do that as well as a variation that is not just every six months to twelve months. It could be based on a user interaction. And of course, the third kind is purely transactional, where you're specifically asking them for feedback based on a recent service or transaction that they just completed. For example, we are all used to seeing surveys when a support ticket is solved. "How was your experience with that particular escalation?" So the idea is the feedback is requested specifically on the recent transaction that completed. And it's an important component of your feedback mechanism because you do want to make sure that your customers are having a pleasant and memorable experience in their every interaction with you as an organization. So the key here is that the first and second [categories] is typically done with an NPS survey, more common with the first one. But there is a chance that you could do for a transaction based. And then, the third is the CSAT (Customer Satisfaction) survey and Totango supports both of these important survey types for you to be able to incorporate it into your program. All right. So you've asked them for feedback. What's next? All right. So obviously, it's really important to close the loop with these survey respondents, especially those that are critical or are not satisfied with your performance. You want to reach out and ensure that you're closing the loop with them and making sure that they are heard and realize that their feedback is appreciated. So you have options to send them, campaigns right after they respond based on that response. And then, of course, you can mobilize you should mobilize your internal team to take necessary actions. Of course, when it is in the case of promoters, if you're wondering, "Well, if they're happy," you think you're good. But, you want to see if there are ways that you can engage them in additional activities to improve your brand in different ways, support them in different ways. For example, be references, be part of customer loyalty programs or customer advocacy programs, for example. So you could have those sort of follow-ups with promoters. And then, of course, passives are your lowest hanging fruit. They are probably on the fence and there is probably one or two things that you can do to tip them over to promoters. And so having a clear action plan gives you the ability to do that. And of course, with SucccesPLays and user segments, you can do all of these things and trigger additional campaigns to go out to detractors and promoters with dangle. OK, so you've closed the loop and you've asked for feedback. It's also really important to be able to interpret and analyze this feedback, especially since NPS is an indicator of growth. You want to see which parts of your business are suffering versus other parts are probably doing better based on the feedback, and so you need the flexibility to be able to slice and dice the data and look at it in many different ways. And it's important to do that, but it's also important to not just do that and keep it with yourselves, but to share it with other parts of the organization, because if you want to make listening to feedback a habit within the organization, you want every part of the organization to be exposed to this feedback and be able to make changes to their behavior based on the feedback. And of course, it doesn't just stop at sharing. It's also important to take action as well, because without action, the results are not going to change. So identifying those patterns where there is scope for change and being able to drive action is really important. And Totango supports this deeply with its ability to sort of segment and analyze the data in many different ways and gives you a lot of capabilities there. And we'll look at that when I go to the demonstration. OK. Before I go there, Lorena, can we start a poll. I want to see what is the current audience's status with respect to their voice of the customer program and how are they tracking so that we can leave that into the conversations. So if everybody can take a minute to please respond to the poll, and you should see the results in another 10 to 15 seconds. All right. So great. We have 50 percent saying they have something in place. 38 percent of them are looking to put one in place and a few others that have plans in the future. Well, for everyone. I want you to look at what we have to offer and then, of course, you can decide how you can leverage it. So the first part of what we've done is not just to feature art, but we packaged all the ingredients that you need to run a voice of the customer program in what is called a SuccessBLOC. And for those of you who are not our customers or joined based on coming to our website or through LinkedIn that was used to promote this webinar, SuccessBLOC is a key ingredient in Totango that gives you not just features but also prepackaged best practices all pre-built for you can get started in one click. And I'll talk about that. So we have a voice of the customer SuccessBLOC available to you to download in one click. So what I do is at this point I will go into the application and walk you through that SuccessBLOC marketplace built right into your Totango Spark application. And as you can see here, we have components of every part of the customer journey that you can simply click, get in one go and have all the key pieces and metrics available. As you can see here, we have a voice of the customer SuccessBLOC, with all the necessary KPIs that are there with all the survey campaigns, as well as all the segmentation. So what I'll do now is I will show you a SuccessBLOC that I've already downloaded with some data. So this is a voice of the customer SuccessBLOC that you're looking at. And as you can see, it has all the components that you need to run the voice of the customer program. It has the KPI and metrics that you should be looking at when you're driving through this program. You have, of course, your eye on the renewal NPS and the various big breakdowns that you need looking at the company and response rates and looking at risks to various accounts. You have standardized templates that are shipped out of the box. For example, here is one for the NPS, which has all the messages that are prebuilt. But of course, you can tailor it to your needs with your segmentation criteria to trigger the service. And the services are really flexible in Totango because you want to localize this very necessary. For example, you might want to have a Japanese survey to your Japanese users and a French survey to French users and have all the data sort of percolate together for you, analyze. You can do all of that. And I also talked about transactional versus loyalty, product-based. You can do any and all of those survey types in Totango. It's completely flexible and it gives you the means to do all of that. An example of the analytics and the segmentation, I wanted to give you a glimpse of that. So, for example, here is a set with a segment that I have. I'm looking at the NPS based on the user activity, I'm looking at those set of customers that are most active, those sort of users that are most active. And I can simply change this to less than or equal to fifteen, for example, to look at my less active users and clearly see that the NPS is lower compared to my more active users. So I can work towards improving my engagement and usage and the adoption of my users to drive up NPS. And of course, you can use all of your metrics and criteria that may be involved and you can calculate this NPS on the fly based on any criteria that you add. So you're not stuck with one particular metric. Also, being able to close the loop, like I mentioned, is really important. So you can have SuccessPlays with triggered actions for your team whenever you have a key contact and the NPS is not up to the mark. You can immediately fire actions to your team to take necessary action. And then, of course, being able to review the data within the account to see every account's users. And then finally, also being able to have CSAT surveys to trigger where necessary so that you can have all these components to make up a complete voice of the customer program. So what we saw is a Voice of the Customer SuccessBLOC. You saw the KPIs that are refined and ready for you. There are preset templates for you to work with immediately, including through it being able to close the loop and action plans. Which, of course, you can all be tailored to your needs, but you have a great starting point to begin. You're not starting from scratch. And then, of course, the ability to segmented in any different group and then correlate your NPS results. OK. So I think at this point, I would like to go to Mark and Mark, we would love to hear a little bit about CareerArc and how are you guys handling the new COVID reality is if you can just tell us and also of course, your voice of customer program. Absolutely. Thanks Vijay, thanks everybody, for joining the call. I'm just gonna run through really a couple of things on the call with you all today, and that's first, "How have we been forced to respond to COVID? And how are we using Totango to help us with that?" and then also just share some insights on how we're using the platform to help us with really our overall voice of the customer approach. So you don't need to know who I am. I've been in CS for more years than I'm willing to admit, but ultimately I work at CareerArc. I'm the SVP of Client Success. We have about twenty-five people on the team and we have two different offerings for the market, we're in H.R. Tech. One is an outplacement platform which obviously became quite important for those customers who are forced to do necessary risks, furloughs, and so forth. And we also have a social recruiting tool which allows essentially any company that wants to attract passive candidates at scale through social media. So two different offerings that we provide out into the market. But jumping right into things, I don't think anybody predicted 2020 would turn out the way it has so far. I also don't think many people predicted exactly how COVID would actually impact their business. And at least for CareerArc, because we offer two different offerings across the H.R. spectrum - from layoffs on one end over to recruiting and hiring - we quickly realized that we had to start treating our customers very differently, depending upon where they were and what condition they were in as a result of COVID. And so I'm going to blaze through all of this and try to get into the platform as quickly as possible. But because we're in sort of a hiring and layoff environment, we quickly realized that hiring had slowed down quite a bit. We realized that not every industry was affected the same way. We have large health care customers, large hospitality, retail, restaurants, and so forth, and business services and so forth. And we had to start making really quick decisions on how we were going to organize ourselves and mobilize the teams to, in effect, reach out to our customers in a very relevant, very empathetic way based off of where they were. So was a customer of ours surging and hiring? You know, we have Lowe's as a customer who's hiring 50 thousand people. That's a very different scenario than all of our Panda Express customers who are finding themselves having to close stores and so forth. And so we had to arrive very quickly at a way in which we can categorize our customers and then leverage the platform of Totango to drive the right type of actions at the right time. Because what we learned is that voice of the customer is not just a response to a survey. It's not just a feature request sent in somewhere. It's also nonverbal at times. So what are they not saying can be as important to us as what they are saying. So from our perspective, just to give you context, CareerArc chose to create basically five categories of all of our customers. On the left hand side, you have those who are compelled to swell. These are folks like the Lowes who we're hiring as quickly as they can, as fast as they can to keep their stores stocked, large grocery chains, and so forth. We had the category of those customers that are hiring in certain places and pausing or declining in other places. They need different things than the compelled to swell. We need to basically meet them at both ends of the spectrum. We had those customers who were cause for pause. So these are folks that just said, "I don't know what this thing's going to do. We're OK right now. We're not going to hire, but we're also not going to do any furloughs or layoffs. We're going to wait and see." They need different things from CareerArc as well. Reduce and reset are those of folks who are in the unfortunate circumstance of having to make changes to the overall headcount, produced furloughs and so forth. And then really the last case scenario is those that are really at the brink of potentially having to close down part or all of their business. Why this became important to us is because we really used Totango quite heavily once we've determined that categorization to drive the right types of actions and insights broken out across both industry, the condition based on COVID, and a number of other things as well. And so this has allowed us through Totango to drive a lot more insight by those categories. It helps us plan internally better. So everyone is having conversations with their CFO internally in terms of what the impact is, what your renewal rates are going to look like. And the ability for us to report up to the board exactly what parts of our customer base are most vulnerable, least vulnerable, and everything in between allows us to make really smart planning choices, either from a finance perspective or otherwise. It also, on the flip side of this, allowed us to really meet our customers very effectively where they're at. So when we're talking to one of our Cause for Pause customers, they're asking the same question that others are, which is, "What are others doing? What in effect are the results they're seeing? What decisions are they making?" We can now use Totango to really serve up that type of context for them. And then lastly, and equally as important, based off of where they're at, what condition they're out, what usage they're experiencing, what vulnerability they have, we can drive the right type of action. So let me just go right into the system and show you exactly how we're using it. We're using basically the scorecard success plays in campaigns. So here is our Totango environment. Can everyone see that OK? Great. So we created what is hopefully a temporary SuccessBLOC that we're calling the COVID-19 Impact. What we've chosen to do here is because we're ingesting a lot of usage information, we're clearly keeping track of all of our CSM engagement and we're trying to track a lot of the different KPIs that our types of customers commonly care about. We chose to set up a block that allows us to track those things over time. So in essence, what we're doing is we're looking at all the KPI that our customers care about that we would expect them to use in the platform trying to monitor that. But then we broke it down, for example, by different industry sectors that are most important to us. So what is health care doing? So when we're on a call with our large hospital system, we can let them know what others are doing, what decisions they're making, if their campaigns, for example, in our platform are going up, if they're posting more or less jobs, what types and so forth. It's also giving us an indication on the overall health of this particular sector. So for us, we would clearly want to see in our system things like job counts going up, so on and so forth, retail and so forth. This is the first thing we did was to say, "What category are they in? How many are there? And how is it changing?" and that helps us make sort of that internal planning, decision making a lot more effective. On the flip side of that, we also have chosen to create those SuccessPlays around those categories. So this is the opportunity for any of my team to automatically send out a play for them based off the type of category that we've marked them at. So we'll give them some context, we'll help them understand what this category of customer really cares about, what they're sensitive to, what the overall renewal plays. If you're anything like us, you're making a lot of accommodations, being very flexible with customers who are potentially in distress and so forth. So we're using a lot of these plays to drive really acute action very effectively for the team. And really the third thing that we're doing as well is essentially leveraging the campaign capabilities to allow my team ultimately to drive very personalized messaging to our customers. So we're offering a lot of tools and resources and analysis and guides and so forth, services complementary and whatever. And this is allowing us to really send out some very tailored messaging out to our customers directly from that CSM. So if your CSMs are being clobbered by a lot of emails, a lot of postponements, a lot of delays, and a rescheduling of meetings, this allows us to continue that relationship with them, even if it is sort of driven automatically. And so this has been really effective for us from COVID standpoint because the world just changed on us like you as well. The next thing is really the voice of the customer, and I'll touch on this a little bit. When Totango rolled this out, we were thrilled because ultimately we understood that we have to listen differently and we have to mobilize and align a lot better than we have in the past. And so what we've changed recently with regards to COVID and how we're using part of Totango to help us with this is we know voice the customer has never mattered more. If it mattered at an A level before, it's now an A plus level. The speed of our response to our customers never mattered more. They are making very consequential decisions in a very compressed amount of time. So when they give us feedback or insight, how do we respond quickly? Alignment had to be elevated well beyond its level prior to coping. So how do we mobilize internal resources then? Ultimately, the CSM's responsibility and influence just expanded significantly. Their replication of the customer's feedback as their proxy became much louder in our organization. So I'll just briefly touch on how we do voice of the customer. And this is an ever-evolving thing. We basically have five different mechanisms we use to create accountability inside of the organization. Certainly alignment. And then also context, making sure we're meeting our customers where they're at. So we use Totango like Vijay just showed from a relationship survey. We use the NPS survey. We send that out 90 days following renewal, and in 100 days prior. We send them to our day to day contacts and executive sponsors. We want to make sure we get the spectrum of the influencers as well as the decision-makers. We also leverage the tool to drive out business reviews. So we track those very carefully. We have a way to ingest some of the feedback that come from those organic conversations back into the tool so we can monitor segment and so forth. We have our own internal in product pop up within our platform that helps us get some of that transactional like when you did this action. What's your reaction and sentiment? We do. We are going to soon be rolling out onboarding completion. We did that manually right now, but we're using Totango CSAT to do that. And then last but not least, we also have weekly syncs between product and CS. Those used to be monthly. They are now weekly because things are moving so quickly and we're having to make very meaningful product decisions rapidly to meet our customers where we're at. And then we have those product councils that allow us to bring in those customers and prospects on a routine basis with coordinating live in virtual meetings. I think the point of the slide is simply to convey that what we learned more so now than ever, is this important need to harmonize this data to only look at one source of information, whether it be an NPS survey, a transactional survey, or a quick snippet of feedback from a CSM really does the entire organization and frankly, our customers a disservice. You have to harmonize it so that you're smoothing it out, making sure that you're able to see a bounce set of feedback and training rather than reacting to just in the moment responses. And that was a big lesson we've learned really in the last couple of months to prioritize more than ever. And so how we're using NPS really in Totango now, like Vijay talked about. Last but not least, as we are absolutely using that SuccessBLOC. We are driving those insights. We are running segments like never before. What is the NPS of customers who have more engagement from a CSM, than by industry, by COVID category? All of those things to make those smart choices. And we're really excited just in the future to continue to ingest more of this information at Totango. It is absolutely our pane of glass, our source of truth. Our CSMs live in here on a regular basis. So how do we pull in some of this extra information that's being captured in these councils, these quarterly product meetings, and so forth inside the tool to allow Totango to really be the harmonization of all of this data? And then really the last thing I think we're thinking about is should we or should we not incorporate NPS as part of our health score? Still TBD on that. We have not chosen to do that yet. More so because an NPS of a COVID reality may look different than later and we don't know. So that's kind of what we're looking at to do so. Kind of ran through that pretty quickly. But those are some of the ways that we're kind of thinking about Totango using it in our new reality. So appreciate it and hand it back to Vijay. Great presentation Mark. Thank you so much. I just wanted to share directly following the start of the pandemic, Totango launched a COVID-19 Customer Engagement Toolkit, which was created to help our customers understand which customers to target and what to say to help them engage with relevant and timely messaging. If you're not a Totango customer, please join for free. Our customer success platform is free for three users or less. And you can visit Totango.com/signup. Thank you, Lorena. So I wanted to take a minute to differentiate Totango from several other systems out there and why Totango is so powerful with its customer sentiment and feedback capabilities. Totango being a complete customer success platform, has all the signals and all the context that your CSMs need to send out surveys as well as to understand the results. For example, having the context of a particular account having too many installations gives you additional context and perspective when you're looking at the results that you receive from your feedback. And having all of these various signals in Totango makes the process of asking for feedback, as well as understanding the context of the feedback, that much more easier. And it's night and day compared to some survey only systems. And of course, with a powerful workflow system like Mark just showed us, with the various successes and detailed plan of action, that you have a way to define your process and have it executed so that you know that CSMs are following the process that you have defined and they're doing it in a timely manner when the events are happening just makes Totango a really powerful system with the survey capabilities built-in based on all the other signals that are already there. And so finally, to summarize, I think Mark made the point extremely clear with today's COVID situation, it becomes even more important to have a pulse on the customer and the feedback and have ways to reach out to customers digitally and these NPS and CSAC capability can help you have that voice of the customer program in place for you. And not just that, but with all the additional digital means that Lorena just talked about with the COVID 19 SuccessBLOC. It gives you all the capabilities. And then of course, we walked through a voice of the customer SuccessBLOC that has everything prepackaged for you. You just have to download it and get moving with it, making, of course, brand changes, your logo, your messaging if you need. So what can you do to get started? If you are not a Totango customer, sign up for a community account, go to the [SuccessBLOC] marketplace, and download Voice of the Customer SuccessBLOC. If you're already a customer, it's right there in your application. If you download it before, go ahead and download it to get a refresh or, of course, if you already have it, you can start using it and get started with that. OK. So of course the support site has additional information on some of the related capabilities and then of course, reach out to your CSM if you need additional help with that. I would like to end our presentation and of course, open it up for questions. Thanks, Vijay and thanks, Mark, for a great presentation. There are plenty of questions here, and I know we are a little bit over time, so we won't have time to go over all of them. I promise to the ones that have detailed questions that we will send answers to after this webinar and while we are sending the recording of it. I do want to refer to two questions that seem like they were repeated here a few times. One is you talked a lot about the SuccessBLOC and the marketplace. What does it mean? So the old Totango customers and the ones that are not yet Totango customers, will be exposed to that in a few days in Totango. Today, Marketplace is available through the app and available to any customer including both community customers and trial customers, you could go to the marketplace and download any SuccessBLOC that you want. SuccessBLOCs offer the best practices for different engagement methods. You can find SuccessBLOCs for onboarding, renewal, and many others. If you'll go to the marketplace, just look for the ones you are looking for and go ahead and downloaded and start following the best practices from Totango. If you couldn't find the one you are looking for in the marketplace, feel free to email us at product @totango.com and we'll be happy to look over and start to address it. Next question here is specifically regarding the NPS and the CSAT. Can I trigger NPS and CSAT following specific events that will occur? Yes. Thank you. Yes, absolutely. In fact, Totango is event-driven, not just from a sending survey perspective, but also triggering actions within your organization, so you can certainly drive surveys based on transactions that are happening that you're taking in the system. Thanks. And one more question. Can I look at the NPS for different segments of customers? For example, my high-touch customers vs. low touch customers Yeah, absolutely. Great question. So Totango's segmenting engine is really powerful. And the way the survey has been designed is you can have the survey set up once and ask for feedback. And once all the results come in, you can segment all your customers in many different ways. And the system calculates the NPS based on the data that is available on the fly and shows you the overall NPS for any segment that you create. So absolutely, it's great for analysis and you don't have to preplan or think anything, you just put your criteria in the system, and it just calculates this force on the fly for that segment. So, it's extremely powerful. Yes. Right. It definitely sounds like something that can help any of our customers see the NPS for the different segments of the market. Last question, Vijay, currently Totango offers NPS and the Voice of the Customer SuccessBLOC is already in the marketplace. When can we expect to see CSAT and will CSAT even be embedded in this SuccessBLOC? Yeah. So great question. So we're looking to release, CSAT this upcoming weekend and we will be planning to add all the components that are necessary in the Voice of the Customer SuccessBLOC and enhance it with all the CSAT capabilities. So it is available to you. Awesome. Thank you, Vijay. So we definitely look forward to seeing our customers using the Voice of the Customer SuccessBLOC and leveraging more the NPS functionality and decisive functionality that Totango offers. I want to be respectful of everyone's time, so we'll wrap up the Q&A at this point. And I do assure any person that has a specific question that Vijay or myself, we will get back to them directly with an answer. Thank you, everyone. 