  As a common lead-in, my name is Jason Clarke. I am with a team inside of TI called our Industrial Systems Team. We're a centralized systems organization that covers application-level systems engineering. And my specific team covers aerospace and defense. So today, I'll be giving you an overview of our -EP, or Enhanced Products, portfolio and show you where you can find those products and some info on the devices we have available today and our near-term roadmap of devices as well. So just a quick overview. As I mentioned, we're from the Aerospace and Defense Systems Team. We're a centralized systems organization that is really dedicated to solving application-level system challenges and really helping our customers solve those challenges. We work across all of TI's product lines and businesses to bring a system-level solution to your issues. We don't just want to demonstrate individual device performance. That's what our product lines do. But we want to look at the system as a whole or subsystems as a whole and bring that end equipment or application-level perspective to our product teams as well. So we work with our product teams and roadmap definition. And we also develop collateral things like application notes and reference designs to help our customers-- make it easier for our customers to develop with our products. So today, we'll talk about -EP, but in general, when we look at TI's commitment to defense over the years, TI has a long history in the defense space. We're very committed to the things that our customers require of us, such as long product life cycles. So we have lots of devices that have been developed over the last many, many decades now, and we still continue to sell many of those products. We have products that we still sell for over 40 years and continue to sell them. And we will continue to sell them as long as there is demand for them and we can physically do so. We look at the ability to withstand harsh environments. So that's a topic for today with our -EP devices. So we have enhanced reliability devices for things like extended temperature, higher voltage, and protection features that we add to our devices. We comply with strict defense and space certifications. So we follow the QML guidelines for our space products, and we work directly with the DoD and the Defense Logistics Agency on both our space graded and our -EP rated products. And then what's our bread and butter is introducing new features, advanced integration, advanced packaging, and bringing out new products into the industry. So we've be doing this, as I mentioned, for a very long time. When we talk about our high reliability products, it goes back for many, many years. You can see here this chart goes back to the '80s, but we've be doing this even before then. We started with our military grade products. Those military grades were the devices that were designated under the QML class Q spec and QML class M. They also have the 5962 part number associated with them for our military grade products. These are devices that are built in ceramic packages with gold bond wires, single controlled baseline flows. And I'll get more into that as well as we go through the presentation. We also have our space rated products, the QMLV class V products, which have radiation tolerance to them, so tested for radiation performance. And then recently, or more recently, in the early 2000s or late 1990s, this new class of products started to be introduced, which we call enhanced products. These are a set of products that TI work with the industry and the DoD to develop a specification for. So the DLA, the Defense Logistics Agency, maintains a vendor item drawing number for each product. Those are typically shown with a V62 part number. So that is the government part number for our devices. And you can order them from us with that V62 part number or from our generic EP-- our generic part number, TI part number. In addition, more recently, we've extended our enhanced products to also include some low-grade space-rated enhanced products-- again, governed buy the VID drawing and the V62 part number. And last but not least, for all of this time, we've also be doing things like wafer and die sales that are available to our customers. So we can support you for both wafer and die if you so need it. So looking at those QMLQ parts, we have a large family of products that have been developed over the last decades. So these are governed by the MIL-STD 883 for the hermetic products. So these devices, as I mentioned, are governed by the QML class Q spec and supported by the Defense Logistics Agency. So all of these devices are packaged in a ceramic package. You can see those down here on the bottom. So they're hermetically sealed for the best moisture and humidity performance of any of the devices we have. They all follow a single-controlled baseline flow, which means they come from a single fab, a single assembly site, and go through a single test program. So that ensures that you're getting the same product every time you order it. There's no change in the devices over time. All of the devices operate from an extended temperature range, from minus 55 degrees C to 125 degrees C. And we also have these devices under a much stricter obsolescence policy. So we do more to ensure the longevity of these devices over time. So as the industry wanted to transition from the hermetic packages to a more cost-effective solution, the industry and DoD and the suppliers-- in this case, TI-- worked together to create the enhanced product specification. And these are governed by the standard here. And again, we work with the Defense Logistics Agency to maintain that vendor item drawing and V62 part number. So very similar to the QML class Q devices, you can see a lot of the same specifications here for the -EP. So, again, these all operate under a single controlled baseline, just like the hermetic QMLQ devices do. We use an optimized package construction on these devices, however. So here, we move from a ceramic package to a plastic package. So that helps us to reduce our costs. But in that, we do some enhanced reliability testing to make sure we give you the best performance. One of those things are we use the higher quality mold compound than is typical of our commercial products. We use only gold bond wires in our -EP products, so that helps for corrosion resistance and adhesion to the lead frame. We use all roughened leadframe. So, again, a stronger bond adhesion to the devices. So all of those are done to improve our moisture resistance and give you higher reliability in the service life of the product. We also do some extended testing. So we do a 3x-- three times longer-- HAST testing, which HAST stands for Highly Accelerated Stress Test. So we are stressing the parts for both temperature and humidity for a longer period of time. So this ensures that devices you're getting are a quality and highly reliable part over and above what we do for our commercial devices. Most of the devices that we do for -EP adhere to the minus 55 degrees C to 125 degrees C temperature range. That isn't universal. There are some devices that have a narrower temp range, but most of our devices adhere to the wider temp range. In addition, we also guarantee tin content to be less than 97%. And this is to avoid pure tin platings, which the industry has seen to produce tin whiskers, which can short. So we guarantee that there's no pure tin content in the device. So it has to be less than 97% tin. And as I mentioned already, the single controlled baseline, just like our QMLQ devices. So if we look at how these devices compare to our commercial and automotive devices, you'll see that in this chart here. So our commercial devices, really not optimized for improved moisture resistance. We still test them, but we don't do anything special for those. They don't have a single controlled baseline. They can contain both gold and copper bond wires, and they can sometimes have a pure tin plating externally. Generally, they operate from minus 40 to 85 degrees C and don't have the extra qualification monitors that we do for -EP. And these are really tailored for commercial applications that are more cost sensitive. As we step up, we went to our automotive grade products, where we do improved moisture resistance. And we do some extended qualification and process monitors to try to get the reliability higher for our automotive customers. Again, small price increase here to get to automotive. As we take the step from the automotive world, we go to our enhanced products, which we're talking about today. And here, we have a much higher moisture resistance. We have that single controlled baseline, the gold bond wires, no pure tin, and even more enhanced qualification and process monitors, and then, of course, the wider temperature range that I've talked about already. So really trying to give you that highest reliability for your demanding applications. We still sell our ceramic QMLQ devices that we've had for many years. We're generally not developing new QMLQ devices. We're moving all of our development for enhanced to the enhanced products. Last but not least, we also have a high temperature grade of products. These are devices that are intended for very high temperatures. We have some devices that support up to 210 degrees C ambient temperature range. So if you need that very high temperature range, we have some devices that are tailored there. So as I look, this is another chart similar with a lot of the same things, but this kind of fits it into our whole portfolio. We have our commercial and Q100, our EP and QMLQ. Then, for our space customers, we have our space rated products, so our SEP, which is Space-Enhanced Plastic, or Space-Enhanced Product, and then our full QMLV devices that are in the ceramic package. So all of these have large portfolios around them, and I'll show you some of that as we go through. So where do we have our HIREL products? So we have a large portfolio of devices. So TI works in all of these different areas, from data converters to amplifiers, to power management and an interface and embedded processing. And if we look at where we have our products for -EP and QMLQ, we have a large portfolio of devices in each of these areas, from power management to amplifiers and data converters and processors and interface and clocks. And then a huge portfolio of logic devices as well. So, hopefully, we have the right devices to meet your needs. And I'll show you some of our portfolio in the following slides. But what I would like to recommend to you is that if you don't see the right device for your system, please reach out to your TI sales representative to look if we can qualify a new device for -EP. So, a lot of times, we can take our commercial or industrial or automotive devices and requalify them for -EP. So if that is something that would be of interest to you, please reach out to your TI representative and ask for that service. And we'll look at individual products on a case-by-case basis. So the other thing I mentioned is longevity. There's a lot of words on this slide. I won't read them all to you, but the reality is TI does not just operate in the consumer life cycle, which goes up and down very quickly. Our HIREL products can last for many, many years. This shows as long as 30 years. Like I said, we have some devices we've been shipping over 40 years, for sure, and will continue to do so. So our product life cycles are typically 10 to 15 years. But we'll continue to sell them as long as there is demand from our customer base and we can effectively do so. In addition to the long product life cycles, there are cases where our products, through no fault of our own, have to get discontinued. One of our suppliers may go out of business or discontinue a part, where we have to make changes. And in those cases, we provide our customers with a lot of support for that discontinuance. So we give you at least 12 months prior notice of any discontinuance. And you can continue to purchase and place orders for those devices and continue to take them for up to six months after. And then even in other situations, we'll do things such as die banks and device banks for very long periods of time in order to support our customers and not interrupt their device or system timelines. So when we talk about lifecycle management, we want to understand your challenges. If there are cases where we need to look at lifecycle or moving to new devices or look at-- in making sure you can continue your business with the current device, there are a number of options that we provide. So one is providing upgrade paths to newer military or -EP products. We'll proactively work with you in the obsolescence risks and understand your concerns and how to solve those concerns. We can evaluate EOL products, devices that went end of life for continuance. So if there's a risk that it's going to impact your business, we can work to continue those products. We could even reinstate older obsolete devices in some cases, or resurrect defunct products that have gone, like I said, end of life already. So those are options that we can provide you. So please, like I said, reach out to your TI representative. We want to work with you and make sure your systems are viable for the long haul. And as long as you want to buy our products, we want to sell them. So please work with us, and we will certainly support you. So next, I want to talk about where we can find these high reliability devices on our website. This is a graphic, but I will just transition to a real web browser in order to show you what's available. So if you go to our website at ti.com, you'll find this landing page. If you then click on Products, you can go to our space and harsh environment product list, which will take you to our landing page here. So this landing page helps for product selection and also applications for aerospace and defense. So the first thing you'll find on this page is a quick search. And this quick search is nice because it helps you find the products with the reliability rating that you desire. So, for instance, if you are looking for enhanced products or QMLQ products, you can click on both of those checkboxes and then select a particular product group. So I'll just click on Amplifiers, and then we can quickly filter down to what types of amplifiers. We have comparators, current sense, fully differential. But I'll select op amps. And you can then click on view all the products in the op amp family, or you can down select even further. Let's say I care about precision op amps. So we've got our enhanced and military grade products and our precision op amps selected, and we can see we have 47 devices that are available in our precision line for enhanced products and QMLQ type devices. If we click on that, we come to our main parametric search page, where you can see all the characteristics of these devices, all the performance characteristics. And you can filter down even further on the left-hand side. So you can look at number of channels, the bandwidth, the voltages, every parameter that you would normally see. But now we've already got it filtered for our enhanced products and military devices. So this is a nice, quick way to find a list of all of our devices that are available for you to purchase. As you can see, most or all of the devices on this page are minus 55 to 125, but there are some, as I mentioned, that still will have the minus 40 to 125. So please be aware. If you need the minus 55, please look out for that. So in addition to that, you can do this for any of our different product lines and for any application category. So in addition to that, you can also look at it from a system level perspective. So, generally, we see a lot of our enhanced products or -EP products that show up in avionics type applications. So here, I will click on our page for aircraft engine control, where you would typically see a -EP product. And on this page, you'll see we bring up an actual block diagram of the application. This block diagram is all clickable, so each of these light blue boxes are what we call subsystems. So right now, the system controller, or the digital portion of the design, is highlighted. And for each highlighted box, we give a list of products that our customers will typically buy from us for this particular subsystem in this application. So for aircraft engine control, we see customers buying these types of devices. And in addition to the devices, we also give a list of reference designs that may be applicable for this particular subsystem and application. So you can click through these reference designs or just click through the products. So as I click on different subsystems, we get a different list of products and different list of reference designs. So from here, you can click on any one of these products and go into our product page. So this is our standard product page for a -EP product. On this page, you'll find all the relevant information, technical documents, where you can order it, any support, and reference designs that are available as well for this particular product. But one thing I do want to highlight is if you click on the technical documents, with all of our -EP products comes a reliability report. And so you can see that here, the reliability report for this device. And you need to sign in. Let me do that. And you'll get a reliability report for this particular device. So here, we give a lot of information about the device. You can see we provide things like wafer fab, wafer process, ESD readings, where it's assembled and tested, the type of leadframe, the type of terminal finish, so the lead finish, and the bond wire type. So all of this is available. We also give a calculation for fit rate for the device based on what we've tested. And then we give a full test report characterization report of the device of what we did. So we do things like electrical characterization across 15 units across three different lots. We do ESD testing, both HBM and CDM, three units per voltage. We do latch-up testing, physical dimensions, thermal impedance. So all of these different tests that are here are shown. We also highlight how many devices we tested, how many failures we saw, and how many lots that is across. So a lot of information in these reliability reports, so please take advantage of that for your teams. I'm going to go back to the PowerPoint. Showed these already. So now I will give you a little bit of an overview of our roadmap of devices. I'm really going to concentrate on our newer devices and our upcoming devices that will be coming out in the next six to nine months. So those will be the ones that are highlighted. Obviously, I've shown we have a large portfolio of devices. So please feel free to go out there and search for the whole portfolio. We break this down into many different categories. So on this chart, we have our microcontrollers. You can see we have a number of different microcontrollers that are available, from our very low power MSP 430 line with FRAM memory that's available today. We have some devices from our C2000 family of DSP controllers. So these are high-performance controlled DSPs, real-time DSPs for things like motor control or power supply design. Both of these devices are from that family. And we also have some devices from what we call our Hercules microcontroller family. So these are devices that are redundant processors, so they include dual arm R5 cores in the device. And those dual core is run in lockstep with each other in order to give you a higher reliability to issues in the system. In addition to our micros, we also have processors in DSPs, or higher end processors in DSPs. So we have our standalone C67X DSP. So this is a floating point DSP from our C6000 family. And then we have devices from our Sitara family, the AM3358, which is a 800-megahertz arm cortex A8. Then a later family, which is the AM5718, which includes a 1.5 gigahertz arm cortex 815 processor. So all of our Sitara devices run under one unified code set and are all tool compatible with each other. On the interface side, we have devices for ethernet that are available today. We have a 10100 Ethernet Phi. We also have our 1394 devices, which have become popular in the military avionics space. And then we have some devices which will be coming out in the future, a device which is a gigabit Ethernet Phi, which we are targeting for release in the next nine months or so. We also have lower speed interfaces, RS-45 and CAN, that are available today with some new devices coming out in the future. And then some motor drive devices as well. So for brushed DC and brushless DC motor drivers and stepper motors, as well, some motor drivers there for those applications. As we go over to the power side of things, we have many devices in these families and many more that will be coming out in the future. This is an area where we're actively refreshing our product portfolio. There's a few devices here that will be coming out in the next six to nine months, but we have many more that will be coming out over the next year to two years. So if there is interest in new devices here, like I said, please contact your TI representative, and they will be able to help you find some of the newer devices that are coming as well. But we do have a large portfolio of DC to DC converters. So you can see here a device, very wide [? VN ?] range up to 60 volts, 2 and 1/2 amps that's available. And then, in the near future, we're going to have a 17-volt, 6-amp very small converter, highly efficient converter that'll be coming out in the near future. We also have controllers and pre-regulators that are available for AC to DC. So this is a power factor pre-regulator that is used for power factor correction. And then we also have devices for gate drivers for, again, AC to DC or isolated DC to DC as well. On our LDOs, we have a number of years that are available today, so spanning many different voltage and current ranges. So 100-volt, 50-milliamp LDO, a 200-milliamp lower voltage LDO. This is a 7-volt LDO. And then, upcoming, a 6 and 1/2 volt, 500 milliamp LDO. And then you will see devices that span the 2 to 4 amp range coming in the future. And then on voltage references, we recently released a series of low voltage, low power, low drift series references with the REF34xx family. So each device-- the 25 is 2.5 volts, 3 volts, 3.3 volts, all in -EP. So if you need a series reference for your precision data converter, these are available today. And then we have some low noise shunt voltage references as well. Lastly, I'll talk about our signal chain portfolio. And here, you see a lot of new devices that are in development coming in the near future and a lot of devices that we have in production already as well. So we have our data converters. Many different flavors of data converters, from precision to high speed. On the precision side, we have our octal channel simultaneously sampling. So this is eight individual 24-bit ADCs that run at 144 kilohertz of sampling rate. This is a Delta Sigma class device, so very high precision, high speed precision data converter. As we go up into our true high speed, we have our ADS6444. This is a quad channel, 14-bit, 125-megasample-per-second ADC. This is a pipeline type architecture to get the higher speeds. We have many new devices that are coming in the future as well that you will see from us. I won't go into each one individually, but these slides are available for you to look at. On the precision amplifiers to pair with those data converters for the input, we have, again, a large portfolio of devices-- high precision, low power, high voltage, low voltage. So we span the gamut of devices. You'll see here a 36-volt, 10-megahertz device with very low offset, 25 microvolts of offset, low noise, and rail to rail input and output. And then we span-- we also have devices that will be zero crossover and zero drift. So this is if you need extremely low offset and drift, this device would be applicable. This device uses a chopper stabilized amplifier architecture to get the very low drift and offset. So all of those will be available very soon. We have our high speed amplifiers and general purpose amplifiers. So on the high speed side, we have our OPA2356 extended -EP device. This is a 200 megahertz gain bandwidth device, a dual channel device, that is available today. And then our general purpose devices, which is a 36-volt rail-to-rail output op amp here. In the future, we'll release a new high performance transimpedance amplifier, the OPA 3S2859, which will have a dual channel configuration and up to 1 gigahertz of transimpedance bandwidth for things like optical applications, where you need to interface with a photodiode. We have our clocks. Today, we offer one of our latest and greatest devices, the LMK04828. This is an ultra low jitter synthesizer and jitter cleaner in one package. So this device offers 14 outputs for clocks and can clock devices up to about 3 gigahertz. And it also supports the JESD tool for the data converter interface specification. So if you have a JESD204B data converter, this is a nice clock to pair with it. We will also be releasing a very low noise, low power PLL synthesizer that operates up to 1.3 gigahertz. So if you need very low power for applications such as radios, handheld radios, we see this as a good application, a good part for that application. On the sensor side, we have both temp sensors and current sensors available, so a number of devices that are out there today. Our TMP422 is both a local and remote temperature sensor. So it has a local temperature sensor built in, plus it can also interface with a remote temperature diode or temperature transistor to get a remote temperature sense. So you get that two-per-one benefit. We have new devices that will be coming as well on both the temperature sensors and the current sensors as well. So, with that, I will open it up for any questions. I think I've gone for about 45 minutes. So any questions that you would like to ask, please go ahead. 