 - Hello, everyone. My name is Yves Schoof from Affluence PRivate. Today, we're talking to Norman Robinson, who's the CEO of Sentinel Financial Group. And the reason why I invited Norm for this recording is that he's an expert when it comes to investments, and he's got a particular interest in exchange traded funds, which have become very popular as of late. And we know that a lot of young professionals, a lot of doctors and dentists are using them for their portfolios, but they are perhaps not as well understood. So I just wanted to ask Norm today to run through what ETFs are and how they work and how you can use them to build your portfolios. So thanks for coming on the recording, Norm. Thanks very much Yves. Great opportunity to help up-skill everybody in ETFs. - Yeah, absolutely. So have you seen the same thing where there's just a lot of interest and a lot of money going into ETFs particularly recently? - Yeah, absolutely. So ETFs just grow every single day, both in terms of investor interest, but also in terms of the ETFs themselves. So there's a steady stream of new ETFs being created and that comes with its own marketing from the ETF manufacturers. And so people are becoming aware that ETFs are there, but also increasingly aware of how they can use those ETFs to good effect. - Yeah. And I guess the main attraction is the liquidity and the costs are typically quite low as well, compared to your traditional managed funds, which were really hard. People have to fill out an application forms, and then it took so many days to redeem. And so I guess that's the biggest attractions. Yeah, well, the way I look at ETFs is that they're a form of more modern technology. So in the very early days, people invested using individual shares, then came managed funds, which made life easier, but they came with a number of drawbacks, those main drawbacks being that they weren't liquid, so they weren't traded on any easy exchange. And then, so an exchange traded fund is the next evolution of a managed fund, if you like, they trade on the stock market and therefore pick up all the inherent advantages of ETFs, which I'll talk about in a little bit, but that that's how people should see them, ETFs are not fancy or tricky or sneaky in any shape or form. They're just the next incarnation of something that's already being done widely and with good effect. - Yeah, absolutely. Okay. Well I'm sure we all look forward to the presentation, so we'll just let you run through that. - Okay, very good. And then please ask away as we go along. So the first thing is that there is an ugly mug shot of me and I won't bore you with all my credentials, but probably the biggest thing that I can tell you that will help is I've been a stockbroker for 25 years. I own a stock broking firm. I've got a team of analysts, I've got a team of research people, and theoretically I would have the best resources of any person in the world to pick up and invest in individual shares. And yet I don't, I only invest in ETFs because I've come to the conclusion that they are by far the best way to invest. So I'm been using them for a long time. Our business is 99% invested in ETFs, and it's certainly a way that we're enjoying riding. - It's interesting, I guess. Do you think, are there other stockbroking firms that still stick to the old ways mostly? - Yeah, it's difficult for old school stock broking firms to promote ETFs because one of the features of ETFs is once you're in them, you don't need to transact very often. And therefore that cannibalises their old business model, which is essentially transaction orientated and often to the detriment of their clients. So ETFs we see as a much more aligned and a fair way for people to invest. And again, I'll touch on some of those advantages as we go. So, just to kick off with it. So what are we going to look at today? We're going to try and explain what an ETF is in plain language, because frequently I see people not understanding what they are, and that then causes confusion. And also there's a lot of misinformation spread by the competitors of ETFs out there. So I just want to define what an ETF is because it's very straightforward. The next thing is just to talk about the advantages of ETFs, which we just very briefly covered a second ago, and then just show people how they can use ETFs to actively manage their portfolio, which means essentially build a portfolio and adjust it to the changing environment around them. And just the last thing, this word thematics, which will become clear later, but one of the big advantages of ETFs is that they get people investing and understanding what they're investing in in common, everyday language, as opposed to technical stock market jargon. So I'll come to that. But let's kick off by saying, "Okay. Well, what's an ETF?" So an ETF is just a pre-packaged portfolio or bundle of ordinary shares. So it's no different than you going out and putting together a portfolio of say, 20 shares yourself because the underlying components are the same. It's just that it's been pre-packaged for you. And that's why we have those little images on the screen there about what's going on. So we've got some fruit and it's converted into a fruit salad. So the analogy we have for an ETF is if you and I wanted to go out and have a salad for breakfast one day, or we could go down to the markets or the shopping centre, and we could pick out some rockmelon and some watermelon, some apple and some oranges, and we could go to the effort of peeling it and chopping it all up, and then drop it into a bowl, and then we'd have our fruit salad, or we could simply go down to Coles or Woollies and just pick out a plastic container full of fruit salad. We wouldn't have any work, but we would still have the same underlying components. And in fact, we'd probably have a much easier time of things because we wouldn't have to do all the work chopping it up. We'd probably get better quality ingredients because it's been chosen by a professional and it's just simple, easy, and probably cheaper as well. So don't think of ETFs as anything mysterious. They are just pre-packaged portfolios somebody has assembled for you in advance. All right. So that makes some sense. Then what we have with an ETF is a very, very pure and true-to-label tool because essentially the portfolios are being assembled based on some form of rules basis. So you could say they're assembled based on mathematics, but let's say rules basis. So let me give you a simple example. You could get the top 200 Australian shares. So it's simply a portfolio chosen to be the top biggest 200 companies in Australia. And that, by the way, is the main index that you'll see on the news each night, so often referred to as the S&P ASX200, but it doesn't just have to be the biggest companies. It could be a portfolio assembled for a particular purpose. So for example, you can get an ETF which just chooses the top 50 highest dividend paying companies in Australia. And again, it's a case of the rules or the maths filtering through the universe of companies out on the market, and then refines it back to the ones that are paying the top dividends. And then it goes way, way beyond Australia. So for example, you can get the top 1500 biggest companies in the world outside of Australia. So the Apples and the Facebooks and all those kinds of things and everything else with it, all of course traded, essentially, in Australia on an Australian exchange, but it owns those physical 1500 companies. And then you can start getting quite pointy. So you can go and say, "Well, I just want the top tech companies in the world or the top property companies in the world or the top bonds." Bonds, being almost like of a modern style of term deposit. There's no limit to what you can see in it. At the moment, there's about 320 ETF varieties in Australia. Compare that to the U.S. where their world has been a bit in ETFs for a lot longer. There's about 3,800 ETFs out there, all doing particular little jobs. So it's a case of you can find an ETF to fit whatever you're trying to cover, but the critical thing is that they're mathematical or rules-based driven vehicles. So they're very true-to-label building blocks that you can then use to assemble an investment portfolio. - Okay, sounds good. Yeah. - Yeah. They're very easy to use. So then we move on to the advantages of ETFs. And so there's really three broad advantages. So the first one, we touched on it briefly at the start, but that is what we call liquidity, but that's just a fancy word for being able to see what it's worth and buying and selling it. So ETFs, as the name suggests, ETF stands for exchange traded fund. So it is a fund that trades on the exchange, so the stock market, and once you're on the stock market, you get all the advantages of the stock market. So the first is that the stock market is very heavily regulated and very well-trodden in all its regulation and safety. So you essentially have direct legal title to your investments. And that's all on a system called Chess, which if you're going to use a stockbroker or with the share registry or the ETF registry, so very safe and secure legal title over a property, if you like. Then you've got what we call tradeability, so the ability to be able to know the value of your ETF at any time, and also to be able to get in and out of it at any time. So there's always a buyer and always a seller. And you could potentially argue that an ETF is even more liquid than any underlying stocks themselves. It's what we call concentrated liquidity. So there's a lot of people watching what's going on in ETFs for various reasons. And so it's just a very active marketplace if you think about it and that space. - Sorry to interrupt you Norm. So I read, for example, on the weekend, a lot of listed investment companies and managers are changing their model because the issue they're having is that there's a big difference sometimes between the net tangible assets, so the actual value of the underlying shares and then the price at which the listed investment company is trading. But with ETFs, that seems to be much better managed because there's active market makers in that, in that space. - Correct. Correct. It actually goes back to the inherent structure of a listed investment company versus an ETF. So a listed investment company is essentially a company that buys or uses its capital, its funds, to buy shares. Now, the problem with that is that the company itself, which holds everything, has a limited number of shares in its own right. And so the forces of supply and demand dictate its price. Whereas an ETF is just a trust structure. And as such, it increases its size or decreases its size depending on how much money is invested in it. And so you don't have any mispricing with ETFs. It's something that we watch very closely and essentially it's the nature of supply and demand, which always ensures that ETFs are correctly priced. They're very pure. And that's why ETFs are superseding LICs very quickly. And the people who have LICs at present are moving to switch into an ETF form just to try and offset those issues. So, yeah, ETFs are the purest thing we've ever seen from an investment point of views and in my career, and a real revolution. And because of that, as a good segue into the next part, which is because of that live pricing and the accuracy of the pricing, it then means that you can report on your investments very easily. So you know exactly how much income is coming from your investment each year, you know how much growth has been achieved or not achieved depending on the time, but everything's precise. There's no estimation or whatever. It is exact, which is very important. If nothing else, that exactness removes the opportunity for what I would laughingly call naughtiness, any shenanigans or trickery or confusion. People can just have confidence when they hold an ETF. Okay. So then the second advantage of an ETF is what we refer to as quality. So there's two parts to that. So the first part is the initial selection of the ETF portfolio. So remember I said an ETF is just a pre-packaged portfolio of individual shares. Well, that package is done based on rules, and those rules are very clearly identifiable, very well articulated, and very accountable. So there's people checking them all the time. So if you're going to pick the top 200, well, then you're physically getting the top 200, and you're getting a very broad spread through your ETF. So you're getting what we call diversification, so a wide spread of different companies without having to do any of the work associated with that. So for example, you could imagine buying the top 1500 companies in the world would be a very logistically difficult job, whereas you can just simply buy one holding, which does that for you. It also means that you don't need to know what you own, which might sound strange and even a little scary, but it's actually very important. So you're no longer worrying about whether you should sell CBA and buy ANZ, or buy Rio Tinto and sell BHP, You're more focused on gaining broad exposure to whatever it is you're trying to achieve. So if you want high dividends, don't worry about picking the companies, just let the ETF do that for you, but you will get high dividends. And so that concept makes it possible for any investor of any level to understand what's going on. And as I say in the slide there, to relate to it, because we're not talking stockbroker jargon, where we're talking about common sense stuff that people can see around us. So whatever that happens to be. A simple one would be investing in technology. Everybody can see that technology is everywhere, even more so in this COVID environment. And so the logic to focus on technology, as opposed to say, I don't know, maybe a coal thematic or something like that, it's pretty easy to work out. So anyway, the ETFs allow you to get exposure in a simple form without lots of work. Now, that then leads into the second part of ETFs, which is by far their greatest advantage and it's this ability to self-manage themselves. And so remember I said at the start, when it picks the initial portfolio, it does it on a rules basis. Well, it doesn't just stop there and just leave it. What it does is it comes back periodically. So it could be quarterly. It could be every six months or at some regular interval, and it runs those same rules back over the portfolio. So if it was a portfolio of the top 200 Australian shares, it would look at it again in a quarter and go, "Well, have any of these positions changed?" And maybe number 200, the last one might've weakened. And so what happens, it's automatically tossed out and in comes number 201 to take its place. So you have this very powerful, ongoing substitution effect, so that the bad ones are spat out, and then the good ones are moving in. And I'm sure if I was to ask this question to all your investors. Think about it. If you have a portfolio of 10 holdings, I bet you anything that you've experienced that nine are going great, but one will be going bad. And yeah, the one that's going bad is wrecking the returns of the other nine, and it would be stressing you out. You'd be trying to work out what to do. Do I buy, sell, or hold? You talk to your adviser, you try and do it yourself. It's a nightmare. So ETFs are the silver bullet for that because they take the human emotion out of it. And there's no room for ambiguity or anything like that. It's what I call atomic quality control. It's just no matter what happens, it maintains quality. And as I put there, it never gets tired. It never gets forgetful and it never gets conflicted. And that's that bit that I did touch on where it removes the avenue for some naughty behaviour to occur where things aren't chosen on the best basis. So a wonderful tool for quality control. The third advantage of ETFs is their ability to diversify. And it really is extraordinary what you can do. So, often people have a portfolio of Australian shares and they might have say 10 or 20 holdings. Well, that's great. But Australia is only a tiny little portion of the world. And so you can use ETFs to diversify across what we call asset classes. So the broad investible areas are Australian and international shares, property and infrastructure. And by the way, things like infrastructure are often overlooked. Infrastructure can be things like toll roads and toll bridges, but it's also the modern world infrastructure, so mobile phone towers, satellites in the sky, desalination plants or all these kinds of things are all available through ETFs and provide amazing diversification. Also, you can invest in things which we collectively refer to as fixed and floating interest, but it could be something like term deposits, but more often it's things like bonds. So bonds are just a fancy word for a loan, but they allow people to get exposure to better rates of return than they would with just money in the bank. You can also get exposure to this asset class we call alternatives. Alternatives is a bucket that catches lots of things, but commonly includes currencies. So you might have U.S. dollars or pounds, and also commodities. So the big one there at the moment is obviously gold, but it can be a range of other commodities as well. So again, all of these things can be bought. So even though they're hard assets, if you like, can be bought and held by the stock market and therefore picking up all the liquidity and advantages of the stock market. And then of course, as we said, a little earlier, ETFs allow you to diversify by investment. So you're spreading across a portfolio. Instead of going through the effort of building a portfolio of 10 to 20 holdings, which is logistically very hard, you can just buy one holding and get exposure to 1500. So you've then made it very easy to select the portfolio, maintain the portfolio. And the thing there that I've noticed or noted is that it removes stock specific risks. So what I mean by that is by virtue of having such a wide spread of holdings, let's say if it was the ASX 200, you have 200 holdings, as opposed to say 10 to 20 holdings. Which means that, for example when the virus struck, Qantas and Flight Centre were absolutely savaged, while in the inside of the ETF, the damage of that was minimal because it was only one or two out of 200, as opposed to one or two out of 10 to 20. So it eases the risk of shocks that can just turn up out of nowhere, and they're the things that we can never see coming. - Yeah, right. - And then a couple of just other side advantages of ETFs, which are very powerful in their own right But the first thing is that ETFs performed very strongly, and maybe this is one of the areas where there's a misconception that quite a lot of marketing from competitors goes into saying, "Oh, ETFs, don't perform that well." It's actually statistically quite the opposite. ETFs, or what we call index exposures, have had a long track record of consistently outperforming active management. If you want to look it up yourself, there's a website called SPIVA, S-P-I-V-A, but it essentially keep stats on index performance versus active managers. And so active managers, by the way, being people who are in the profession of picking stocks. So not just amateurs picking, but professionals, and the statistics are effectively saying that at least 70% of the time, ETFs outperform individual stock pickers. So that's quite compelling. And then what's even more startling is that roughly of that 30% that did happen to outperform the ETFs next year only a third again of those that did will outperform and by four years, those original outperformers have completely disappeared. So that in simple terms implies that stock picking is largely, if you win, it's largely due to luck as opposed to any form of sustainable advantage. Now that's not always the case. There are examples, groups like Magellan and Templeton, Franklin Templeton, have succeeded in outperforming over time. But again, you can access those particular investments through ETFs anyway. So, the performance attributes of ETFs are very, very strong. And then add to that the fact that ETFs are very, very low cost. Now, the reason why ETFs can be so low cost is one, they're very, very large. There's a lots of people investing in them, so they have good scale. But the main reason is that they don't have a huge amount of human intervention. So rather than having an active manager, which needs teams of high-paid analysts to be picking and chopping and changing and moving around, ETFs don't have that because they're just about maths, which is free to a large extent or in a simplistic form. The other thing about ETFs is that because they trade on the stock market, depending on how you're doing it, there may not need be a need for a platform which can then save you an extra layer of costs as well. But it just depends how you're invested. But yeah, generally speaking ETFs very low cost. And the example I put there was at start as low as 0.04%. So you can get the top 500 biggest shares in the U.S. at 0.04%. So almost free, - Yeah, and brokerage is typically quite low as well. I think that's the point you made, the last one. No need for platform, I think is quite important because people don't want to pay for something that they perceive that doesn't really add any value. So it's very simple to set up a broking account with any major bank or any of the new providers new independent ones, a very, very low brokerage, and then pay very low management fees in ETFs themselves. So it's a really, really practical and very cheap way of investing. - Correct, yeah. So the platform is something that evolved really to manage funds. So the precursor to ETFs were not on the exchange. So you needed a platform to essentially assemble and transact and hold those for you. Whereas ETFs basically dispense with that because the stock market itself is your platform. So yeah, very, very good performance at a low cost. Now, if I move on to how we invest and how you can invest with ETFs. So you may have heard this term active with passive tools. So that means like moving your portfolio around, but using passive tools. So people sometimes refer as ETFs as passive because of their mathematical engine. Irrespective, you've got three really powerful leavers that you can use to manage your portfolio. So that means change to the prevailing conditions, but also tailor it to your own preferences. So make it about you. So the first lever or the wheel, or whatever you want to call it, to steer your investment orientation is what we call asset allocation. So that's simply the process of assigning a percentage of your portfolio to each of the major asset classes. And you can see it on that little pie chart there in that example. So we've said 18%, Australian shares, 24% international shares, and 8% with property, and so on. You can change that to tailor to your own preferences. And there isn't any right or wrong answer, but obviously someone like yourself, Yves, would be able to assist the clients heavily in this regard. And it is the big lever. So it's the most important decision that you can make for your long term portfolio performance. So really, statistically over a long period of time, has proven itself to be the key driver. - It's about 90%, is that right? Asset allocation? - Yeah, correct. So there's a detailed study into it, which suggests it's about 94%. And then the other 6%, well, that's only made up of a 4% stock selection, so picking investments, and 2% timing the market. So even if that's wrong by quite a bit, I said 10% wrong, it really doesn't matter what it shows. The asset allocation is critical. And it also shows that all the time and stress and worry and effort we put into timing the market and picking stocks really doesn't lead to any statistical advantage. So you can see where to allocate your time towards asset allocation. The second tool that we've got to tailor the portfolio is what we call core selection. So perhaps a better word might be a foundation, but what it is, it's the central foundations of the portfolio in each asset class. So for example, in Australia, for the Australian asset class, you would have the top 200 shares, sometimes the all ordinaries index. Now you can choose just a raw index, so just the top 200 biggest companies, or you could choose something, like perhaps it's a defensive core, so a defensive foundation, so an ETF over the top 200, but instead of picking the top 200 by size, it picks the top 200 based on their lower volatility capabilities. So it makes them less choppy and less likely to fall in times of down. Of course that's a double edged sword, so they are also less likely to go up, but nonetheless it's orientated. So if you have a view of the market, the Australian market's going to come under pressure rather than selling everything out, you could simply just change to an ETF, which is more defensively orientated. Likewise, you can have attacking ones. So you can have an attacking ASX view. In fact, you could even have leverage, so a geared top 200, if you want, to magnify the gains and the losses by two. So the same applies in each asset class. So you can choose attack, defence, or vanilla, or all sorts of other variants, but basically the main components. And the third thing is what we call the satellite, which I sometimes call the decoration. So if the core is your four walls and a roof of your house that keeps the rain and the wind out, the satellite is the decoration that you use to tailor it to suit your personality. So if you want lots of dividends, for example, then you can choose satellites that focus on dividends. Or if you want particular areas of investment, you can drill into them. So on that technology theme that we spoke about before, you might have 70% of your portfolio's exposure to the core, and you might have 30% to some technology ETFs, and you can drill down very, very tightly on those. And I'll touch on that in a minute. But the thing is that with ETFs, you can really blend them, mix them and come up with a style and a portfolio that suits you. So it was no longer this business of one size fits all which you would get if you were perhaps going into something like an industry super fund, or just a traditional managed fund, where once you identify your profile, that's the end of it. With this, you identify your profile, but then you still tailor it further down from there. Very, very engaging is what I call it. It's enjoyable. And we're seeing a lot of investors picking up on this and then starting to orientate things for themselves. - Yeah, which is great because I still see a lot of people just picking a few ad hoc ETFs without really giving much thought to what they end up with at the end of the day. So I think that that's probably the one missing thing that individual investors lack is that, that holistic part, how much exposure will I have to Australian shares, international shares, and then that next level, whereas typically they start at that next level and just start to pick a few ETFs that they might have read about or heard about without giving much thought to what will it actually look like as a whole. - That's correct. Yeah. So it's like choosing the colour of your wallpaper before you've even built the house. It's all upside down, but there's a growing awareness and it is important to understand the big picture. So, yeah. Yup. All right. So then comes this thing, which we call thematics. So thematics is a fancy word derived from the word theme. So what we're trying to do is say that ETFs allow you to follow big themes. So some obvious themes out there in the world at the moment, there's this trend towards ethical, sustainable, and green investment. And that makes sense because, as a growing groundswell, we need to do things about the environment and so on and so forth. So you can buy ETFs, which give exposure for that, both in terms of screening out and the bad ones, but also giving additional focus on the ones that are doing the right thing. So again, the metrics or the rules for that are clearly visible, and you can choose from the ones that have the rules that suit your particular preferences. Another broad area would be just simply to say, you want to target emerging markets. There's a lot of people realising that the Western world is essentially saturated in debt, and it's probably gonna have some issues with its growth, but at the (audio cuts out) Economies of the West in the '60s and '70s. So that they look like their (audio cuts out) all those kinds of things, they're all achievable as well. You can also target things like agriculture, so food and things like that, and healthcare, which is particularly prevalent at the moment when you consider the COVID environment that we're in. So that might be biotech, or it might also be traditional medicines. Anyway, pretty much any idea that you can have, you can get exposure to it. And as I said before, it's very important because no longer are we talking, or someone like me, a stockbroker, or as a planner, saying to you, "You should buy BHP over Rio Tinto because of these reasons here. And you just have to trust us." Now it's about us saying, "Well, these are some broad areas that you can get exposure to, but have a think about it yourself. And if you understand it, well, then we can get exposure for you from that." So, very engaged. - Sorry to interrupt you again. I think that's where people start. They start with the satellites and they start with those thematics, rather than perhaps looking at what you're going to talk about next, which is what are the main building blocks? What is the big exposures that you need? And then how do you fine-tune it? Or how do you personalise it, like you said, with those thematics? - Exactly, yes. That's spot on. So yeah. The first thing is to understand. What I've got here is just a basic portfolio, but you can see those thematics in play. And the first thing is to start at the top where you've got the different asset classes. So Australian shares, international shares, property and infrastructure, fixed interest, and cash. So your core, that's the darker colour here, so you might have the top 200 Australian shares, top 1500 for global, and so on, but then you have the satellites, and this is where you're tailoring it to your particular needs. So you could be targeting high dividends, or if you're a growth person, you might be targeting Australian, what we call, small caps. So the ASX top 100 to 300. So one of the ones where the companies are still large, but they're up and coming. And in the international sense, it could be global dividends, or if you wanted growth, then it would be the technology. And a global tech ETF is running at over 30% per annum for the last five years. So it's a huge growth. And then, there's just so much choice. Global infrastructure is something that people should be aware of. There is so, so much opportunity there, and I would argue that it's both an attacking and a defensive investment. It's defensive because people have to use the infrastructure. So you think about a toll bridge. Everyone has to cross the bridge, and therefore that then becomes a very reliable income stream, but it's attacking because if you put your prices up, the users can't do much about it. So it's inelastic demand. So yeah. Tremendously powerful investment that people are underexposed to, but you can get it so simply and easily through the ETF world and the stock market. All right. That's probably enough rambling on from me for the moment. I'm happy to take any questions or otherwise, please feel free to email. - Thanks, Norm. Leave your slide up there for a minute. So obviously, if anyone has any questions, they can reach out to you directly or to one of your associates or to myself. But yes, thanks very much. That was really, really useful and informative. And I think it has dispelled some of the myths around ETFs and also, I think will make people think about how to construct a portfolio, like I said, rather than just picking a few ETFs here and there, which might sound interesting to them without really giving any thought to what the longer term asset allocation looks like. - Yes, no. Thanks very much, Yves. Yes, happy to answer any questionss. But yeah, I'll go back to what I said right at the start. If someone like me, who's got all my resources is using ETFs to invest, then at the very least you should be investigating them because I liken using individual shares to still riding around on a horse when somebody has just invented the automobile. There's a better and a safer way to invest. - Yeah, yeah. That's a very, very strong endorsement when stockbrokers are using ETFs rather than recommending individual shares. (laughing) - Thank you. Yes, well, all right. Well, thank you, everybody, for having a listen, and thanks, Yves, for the opportunity, and yeah, happy investing, everybody. - Thanks for your time, Norm. 