 [Gary La Point:] Well, good day everyone. Thanks for joining us today. I'm Gary La Point. I'm a professor of practice and supply chain management at Syracuse University. And this discussion today is part of the 71st annual Salzberg Award and Lecture Program. And like most events this year, this program will be virtual and this is actually the first in a series of webinars that will take place over the next several months. Our next discussion is going to take place on December 8th. And then here we have another one planned for February and another fourth planned for the end of March. We'd like to mention that this year's Salzberg award was fittingly awarded to the supply chain professional. Given all of the supply chain related issues that needed to be dealt with during the pandemic, we felt this was most appropriate this year. So we have a very interesting presentation on moving from supply chain to demand change. And it's going to be about next generation RFID technology that takes near field communications to an entirely new level of capabilities. And I think you're going to be pretty impressed with this new technology. And it's going to create a lot of new applications for RFID. What I'd like to do now is introduce our moderator for today's discussion, Michael Belfiore. Michael is a journalist who writes about emerging technologies for Bloomberg and for other publications. And so with that, Michael, I'll turn this over to you. [Michael Belfiore:] Thanks very much, Gary. It's great to be here. You know, in my career as a journalist, I tend to focus on technologies that I think have the potential to really change the game and their industry. And this is what I think of as science fiction coming true. I've had the good fortune of covering early stages of commercial space flight, self-driving cars, surgical robotics. A lot of other breakthroughs that I really think have the potential to radically change the way we live, work or play or in the process of doing so right now. And the topic of today's discussion fits squarely in that category, for me, I'm really excited to participate in this discussion and introduce you if you don't know about it already, this new technology that I really think will change the game and the supply chain. We're going to get some input from our panelists on that, how exactly it will happen and the way it works and some speculation  about the future. First, I'll just give a brief introduction to all of our panelists. First, we have Steve Statler. He's the senior vice president at Wiliot, makers of the world's first computer that fits on a sticker costing less than 10 cents. No, this isn't a fly by night operation. They have $75 million in investment from people like Amazon, Qualcomm, PepsiCo, Samsung, Avery Dennison, among others who will be represented here today in this discussion, Avery Dennison, and still with only 50 employees. So this is my sweet spot. I love to get in on the ground floor of technologies like this that are really, I believe, will really take off the next few years. So look for them to grow much larger. Now if it sounds like science fiction,  it isn't. It's absolutely real. And if it sounds like maybe it's revolutionary, you might be right. So next up, we have Amir Khoshniyati. He is the head of NFC business at Avery Dennison. What that means is he's head of radio frequency communication at one of the -- well actually the biggest RFID tag maker in the world and one of the biggest pressure sensitive tags sticker manufacturers in the world. And the company did $7.1 billion in sales last year. And they employ 30,000 people in 50 countries. So, you know, these aren't small  potatoes either. Next stop, we're going to talk with  Robert Schmid. He founded and continues to lead the IoT practice at Deloitte. And what that means is he's head of the practice of turning just about everything around you into an independent note on the internet, at the largest professional services network in the world. So, really going to be interested to hear what he has to say about this technology. And now everyone's going to have a chance to weigh in on this topic, next-generation potentially revolutionizing supply chains and everything from healthcare to manufacturing and retail. And first, we're going to start with Gary La Point, who you just heard from. He's professor of supply chain practice at the Whitman School of Management, Syracuse University. And he's been my reality check on supply chain related innovations for a number of years now. So he's the guy I go to when I see somebody comes up with some new technology or innovation and it looks like it could really change things. I like to go to the independent expert and hey, is this real? Or is this, you know, is this smoke and mirrors? And, you know, what's going on here? So, he's the guy I go to, and he's the one who's going to first give us the context of why this is important and where it might go from here. So, Gary. [La Point:] Sure, and thank you. You know, we first heard about RFID technology, I want to say I first heard about back maybe the early 2000s, maybe 2002-2003 timeframe. And at the time, this was going to revolutionize inventory control for the most part. And we were going to have these little tiny tags and chips put into pretty much everything. They're going to be about the size of a grain of rice. And they're going to be able to track our inventory, keep track of where things are going. You could be able to walk out of a grocery store without paying and it would automatically take money out of your bank account and so forth. And it was really hyped up. And it was going to be the like the latest thing and it has actually had a lot of promise. And to this day, we still use, you know, a lot of RFID technology. But it never really became as ubiquitous as I think with the first envisioned. They were never really ever really to get the price point down on the RFID technology on the tag itself, so that it would really take hold and like I would say, maybe low margin kind of products, like the grocery industry-type products and so forth. And so the other big kind of hurdle that presented RFID technology were the readers. I mean, it require a significant investment in the reading technology, you know, you have these gateways, archways, wherever you want to call them, to actually read the passive tags. And it had to be pretty, pretty close proximity as well. So that was a big hurdle for a lot of companies to make that investment that really kind of would take RFID technology, so as much more widespread than it actually became. And what I'd see here with this technology is it eliminates a lot of those roadblocks and uprise a lot more functionality than the previous RFID technology. So that's kind of like maybe the concept and putting things into context a little bit. [Belfiore:] Yeah, good. And, Steve, so let's turn to you next. Tell us about this technology, why it's different, and how maybe it can overcome some of these limitations of standard RFID technology that we just heard about? [Steve Statler:] OK, good. Yeah, thanks, Michael, and thanks Gary, for the opportunity to talk today. Actually, what I'd like to do is start off,  before we get into the bits and bytes, I will show you a quick demo of our  Version 1 product. I'll take you through a more structured review of how it works and what it can do. But before we go there, let's have some fun, and I'd like to start off with a thought experiment again, where we all pretend to have a superpower. Now, the superpower that I have in mind, maybe not the one that you have in mind, it's the ability to see radio waves. So this is kind of a reptilian vision of other frequencies than we're used to. And if you now enjoy that superpower that you have, look around that you all, look around the room that you're in, what is it that you see? You know, maybe as you look at your phone, you can see WiFi and Bluetooth and cellular signals spilling out from that and all kinds of colors. If you're like me, you have a smartwatch on, maybe you have a WiFi access point nearby, and then look through the window and you'll see a cornucopia, a rainbow of colors coming from television, radio signals, the  cell phone signals. And the point of this experiment is to just ground us all in the fact that we're surrounded by energy. We're surrounded by radio frequency energy. It's really just waiting for someone to tap into it, to use that power. And that's what Wiliot is doing. We're a semiconductor company. We make chips. And we have a small cloud service that  we've developed. And we're enabling tags that can tap into that to use radio waves as a power source to power a small computer. A computer the size of a postage stamp that can harvest the energy, that can calculate, that can sense and can communicate securely to other Bluetooth devices, nearby phones, WiFi access points and now have Bluetooth radios and a range of other devices. So we do believe that this is disruptive. And I'm hoping that you can see  my slides now. So I've shared my desktop which may be slightly dangerous thing to do. But our goal is to connect everything to move from a world where the internet of things was the internet of expensive things, things that could justify a $50 radio and power source. And we believe by reducing that down to something that costs pennies that can use infrastructure that already exists, ultimately, that's where we're headed. Then we can, we have an opportunity to change the way things are made. The way they're distributed. The way they're solved. The way they're used. And then also the way they're recycled. We have huge opportunities to reduce waste to fuel the circular economy. So, before I actually launch into the slide presentation, I just want to show you a taste of what we are working on.  And I'll start off with my phone. So hopefully, you can see my phone is being mirrored on the left, picture of my lovely wife. And this is an app that basically, since this -- the Bluetooth beacons that are being broadcast by, in this case I have a smart speaker, my MacBook, a whole variety of devices. So you can see it's pretty busy. I'm counting 218 different Bluetooth devices in my home. I'm probably at the top end of the spectrum, because I have Bluetooth beacons and smart devices. And a few of these devices are actually  Wiliot tags. And Wiliot has an app. It's on the app store. It's not a terribly exciting one at the moment, but let's go into it, and you can see that we have a few tags nearby. That broadcasting, you can see the tag count going, the week count going up on the right hand side and these rather cryptic names and codes that are being displayed. But basically, this shows that a regular phone, an iPhone, can read our tags. Our tags look like this. So this is basically what a computer looks like now. This is a three-core ARM processor with sensing and secure communication. Started the year, we were making these individually. Now, we're making them like this. So this is a [inaudible] of thousands of these things that can be applied to all sorts of products. I have tags on a pill bottle here and also some razor blades. This is an experimental feature in our application. It actually combines augmented reality with the ability to read our tags. You can see there are some Gillette razor blades that have been recognized. And then, you know, what I'm doing here is pulling out metadata that's in the Cloud that is actually specific, not to general razor blades, but this specific pack of razor blades. Today, the information is not super interesting, it gives us the price. But in the future, we'll be able to include the temperature and the history of that specific product. So you'll be able to trace this and we'll know basically where the product came from, who touched it. And we'll have things like shelf life. And we'll also understand where the product has been engaged with, whether someone's picked it up. So this is a -- I mentioned that we have a cloud interface to all of this. And that's an important part of what we do. And you can see here, there's a graph that's being slowly updated. It's based on this particular tag that I have on the pill bottles, so you can see that the temperature has been fluctuating. I have a little microclimate on my desk. And you can see that it's varied over the last few hours. You can also see this little display here. Again, it looks a bit cryptic, you know, we're not an apps company. So you're seeing the under the covers, the inside, but you'll see that we detected that that tag disappeared and then it -- that it's back again. So those -- these are events. We have temperature events, and we have events that understand the presence or the lack of presence, and if someone is engaging  with the product. And this is pretty important because it gives us a sense of whether people are engaging with products in the home or in the store. Imagine that on some sunglasses in a sunglasses store, you could have these attached to say some Ray-Ban Wayfarers, someone picks up the Wayfarers. You then have an opportunity to display an image and some marketing data about that product that may persuade us. If the model is sufficiently good  looking that we might end up looking like that if we buy the glasses. So maybe we buy the sunglasses, if that's something that we do at home, then if we have the sensing at home, then we could start to use it to keep track of whether we're taking our medicine and there's other applications that are useful. So there's so many applications of this technology that we made a short video. It's less than two minutes. And so what I'd like to do is share that with you, so that you get a little summary of how the technology works. And what we're actually using it for in the prototypes that we're running now, the pilots. [Video narrator:] Wiliot tags are multiprocessor computers that power themselves by harvesting radio waves. Wiliot tags are battery free. They can sense and communicate securely with the cloud via Bluetooth technology, are as small as a sticker and only costs pennies. Now we can connect everything. Transforming how products are made, distributed, delivered, sold, used and recycled. Experts see this as enabling a shift from supply chain to demand chain. A more efficient way of organizing the product life cycle, using demand signals from connected products. With Wiliot tags, we can track everything in real time. Dynamically routing smaller vehicles, traveling shorter routes by delivering the right product to the right stores, targeting the right shelves, saving billions of dollars through leaner supply lines, lifting sales and shrinking our carbon footprint. Demand signals show when products are picked up, when they're moved and when they leave the store. All of this information about brick and mortar stores allow retailers to use the power of the cloud, similar to an online marketplace. Beyond the store, if someone loses that jacket or passport, it can be found. We can even tell when a product is being used in real time, allowing us to make sure our loved ones take their meds and everyday products are replenished as needed. We can track the temperature and identity of food from farm to store to refrigerator, enabling traceability that makes food safer and ensures it lasts longer, saving millions of dollars in waste. Join us, the people and the companies working to connect everything. [ Music ] [Statler:] So I hope that gives you a sense of what our product is being used for. We're actually in a controlled release. And so we have about 27 projects running and those, some of them are very practical, some of them are longer term far reaching R&D projects. But the use cases in that video are based on that. As Michael mentioned, we are really fortunate in the investors that we have. They range from the e-commerce community, Alibaba and Amazon. Semiconductors, Samsung and Qualcomm. Carriers, Verizon and NTT DoCoMo, and Ventures, is the investment arm of Merck, the German pharmaceutical company Merck. The shipping giant, PepsiCo and Avery Dennison are an important investor but they're also the way that we intend to sell these products, so we make chips. Most people don't want chips, they want solutions. And so our partners are important. Avery Dennison have a network of channels that allow these products to get to market and to open this up to systems integrators and management consultants. So Deloitte are really important as well, because they help to guide people in how to use this new technology. So in summary, what we have is a computer the size of a postage stamp. There's nothing new about low power Bluetooth, what is new is that we've taken what would normally be on a printed circuit board and put it on a single chip. And we've increased the sensitivity, the ability to capture much, much weaker signals and that allows us to go through a production process that is really an RFID production process. The other thing that's different to regular RFID is that all of our tags have this temperature sensing, pickup sensing ability and can be adapted to understand when products, packaging is being opened and closed. The other sensing capabilities are R&D projects, the one at the bottom, but this is kind of where we're headed. And a good way to think of our technology is it's a mash up between RFID Bluetooth, and cloud technology. The tags are made using the same machines that convert NFC and RFID chips in these tags. The important thing about Bluetooth is the ubiquity of the readers. They're everywhere. As Gary was saying, the cost of the infrastructure has been one of the major impediments. Now that the cost of RFID tags is really  very low. It's really the infrastructure, which is the barrier to usage. And we hope that by using the RFID production techniques and the infrastructure that already exists, then we can suddenly start joining up the Cloud with the physical world, and connecting products that previously were just not connectable. IoT has been the domain of water meters and cars and high value products. So Version 1 is what we have today just entering mass production. It has a modest range, one to three meters, which is good enough to know what someone's wearing, what someone's standing in front of, what someone's picking up, what's on a shelf that has a Bluetooth gateway. Our Version 1 product requires these low cost gateways to read. It cost about $50. Version 2 will be accessible, will be able to harvest the energy from phones. We can read Version 1 tags with phones today. And we hope that they'll be able to talk with the WiFi access points that surround us now with a much greater range of approximately 20 meters. And this further for the solution architects in the audience, this is a way of thinking about the way the tags work. There's an energy network. We can harvest energy from lots of  different sources. The chip is really versatile. It's a matter of designing the antennas to pick a frequency that we know is there. And we can actually harvest from four different frequencies simultaneously with a single tag. So that allows us to move from one venue to another, from a manufacturing environment that might have LoRa in it to a store environment that has maybe WiFi and Bluetooth, to a domestic environment where the energy source might be cellular. Whatever the reader, it could be Bluetooth lighting, a smart speaker, WiFi access points. All of that information goes to the cloud, which is where it's decrypted and the access control is done. I'm sure we'll come back to that later  when we talk about privacy. But let's get back to supply chains and demand chains. You know, what does this mean to supply chains? Well, we believe that it's enabling a much faster shift from supply chains to demand chains. Demand chain is not a new concept, but essentially what it is, is the ability to leverage to use demand signals, which might be the fact that a product has been sold. Understanding that information as a brand in real time is novel. Typically, brands lose visibility of the inventory when that inventory is handed over to some -- to the retailer. In some cases, there may be EDI links and real time links. But one of our customers sells a car part through over a hundred thousand dealers in the United States alone. And they get real time information from Costco, but the vast majority of their channels are blank. And so with a very low cost gateway on the distribution racks, they used to sell their products suddenly. They get real time  visibility of the inventory. They get inventory record accuracy at the shelf, at the display rack. And in doing that they believe they can cut the inventory. They -- The number of products they make, buy off the order of 20%. So that's 20% saving in capital employed. It also means that their deliveries can go from a milk round where every dealer gets a visit from a huge delivery van as 10 of everything, to pre-kitting, to just taking the products that are required on that delivery visit and just going to the places where it's required.  So going to a dynamic routing, huge savings. If we can then extend into the home and into the car, into the places where these products are used, we can get a sense of when replacements are required. And that really allows us to crack the code in terms of moving from forecasts intelligent guesses to a demand chain that's informed by real time demand signals, and a continuous real time view of where the inventory is in the supply chain. So there's many, many use cases, we don't have time to get through all of them. But the underlying trend is a shift to serialization going from understanding the products that are in the supply chain based on skew to every single one having a unique identity, a serial number. And that's very valuable to brands such as Ralph Lauren. They've been public about moving so that their Polo -- every individual Polo shirt has an identity. And that enables them to detect gray market issues where the products being sold somewhere where it's not licensed to be sold. They make a product for New York, where prices are low, and it gets sold in Japan, that's not good for their business. They're losing out there. It allows them to tackle counterfeit issues. And having a unique ID also is a step to  loss prevention. So a product that turns up somewhere that wasn't purchased, you can understand more about that. And then, you know, imagine a washing machine or refrigerator that has a Bluetooth radio in it that can read these tags.  In fact, you don't have to imagine it. These appliances are being made with Bluetooth in already for other reasons. So the ability to understand how often something is being washed, what the temperature is, what the acidic level is of the food to understand ammonia secretion will allow us to measure shelf life in ways that will hopefully be very helpful in avoiding waste. And also giving products a second life and dealing with recycling. So we have a furniture manufacturer as a customer. One of the challenges with recycling furniture is you don't necessarily know what's in it. And if there's a digital identity in the cloud, you can  get that information and understand how to recycle it. So, we just make a chip and a small cloud service that enables decryption and sensing. And solutions really require a lot more  than that. And so we have a partner program, we call it Works with Wiliot, Avery Dennison, our lead partner on turning chips into tags.  We have a whole range of infrastructure partners. HP Aruba make WiFi access points. They now, as a standard, will recognize any broadcast from our tags as a standard part of Aruba OS. We have a whole set of software partners, and we have consulting partners and our lead in that area is Deloitte. What we realized is that this technology is disruptive, processes change, new expertise is required. And business plans and accounting gets impacted, maybe the cost of goods goes up, but the cost of sale goes down. If companies are going to understand the value and allocate costs accordingly, typically, very often, it helps to have an external view on that. And that's why we started working with Deloitte combined with the fact that often new integrations, they required new systems and new connections between existing systems. So, that's really enough for me, I think. I'm going to hand over now to Amir. And he can talk a little bit about what Avery -- who Avery Dennison are and the partnership there and how what we're doing with battery free Bluetooth fits into a much broader set of auto ID technologies, contactless technologies that they specialize in. [Amir Khoshniyati:] All right. And thank you, Steve,  for that introduction there. So for the audience here that is not familiar with Avery Dennison, we'll give you guys a quick overview of who we are and then we'll go into the pillars of our business before we get into the technology and the complementary fit. So as a whole, we're a global material science company. We have a couple different arms. We're headquartered in Glendale, California, so on the West Coast. However, we have a very massive global footprint. We're in 50 countries. We employ over 30,000 employees from -- both from the factory side and the business side of the business. Last year, we are a publicly traded company, a Fortune 500 company. We close the year just over $7 billion  in business. And if you look at the organization as a whole, we have three main pillars to the business. If we can change the slide here, I can walk through those. Thank you. So we have, basically our LGM business, which is short for label and graphic materials. This is where you get all of the package materials, the labels themselves, the graphics and the reflective solutions. So many times you'll see these as the overlays that go on wine and spirits on different goods that you may see within the grocery store, a lot that has to do with consumables and packaging. We also have our retail branded solutions as well. This has a big footprint with converting hang tags that you might see in department stores. Usually they're complemented with a converting process that has a barcode or QR code that could be scanned. And these are really where we coupled the RFID technology, usually with an embedded application that doesn't require line of sight. And then what we're seeing as emerging is really our industrial and healthcare line of our businesses. As we're kind of emerging post-pandemic right now, we've seen more and more demand here around adhesives, both for test kits, as well as where we're going with vaccines and such. So more than ever, the demand is really there for us to embed RFID behind all the different types of adhesives and medical solutions  that we have. So as a whole, it's kind of a macro view of our business pillars. But RFID really goes horizontal across this and then complementing it to Steve's introduction, our processes to really manufacture RFID are very complementary to Wiliot's technology from a chip standpoint. So the same way that we take the RFID chips and then embed them into an antenna design, manufacture them through the line and convert them to fit all these three pillars, we'll be able to do the same with BLE technology  with Wiliot. So we have a world of possibility as we step into -- to the new era here with IoT. I think, Steve, you might be muted there. [Belfiore:] Thanks for that, Amir. Yeah, I want to get into more about your thoughts about how this will work in the real world. And, Steve, you had something else to add to that? [Statler:] I just wanted to hand the baton lastly to Robert. So I think the whole world is aware that -- of Deloitte by name. So maybe just a few words to finish this off before we hand back to the panel discussion. [Robert Schmid:] Yeah, thank you.  Thanks, Steve. Thanks, Amir. Every time I sit here and listen to you,  I get more excited. And that's hardly possible, because the thought that this chip here is a computer with an ARM processor in it and it runs batteryless. It's just mind boggling to me. And, you know, it's just -- imagine what this can all be on. And the thing that always fascinates me about this, right, is the ideas of what this can be on go all the way from really creepy, to really super interesting, right? I mean, I'm wearing a shirt, who knows if that shirt fits with what I'm -- with something else if I wash it, right? And you know, this is sort of like the interesting thing about this is, what's creepy to you might be super interesting to me. So choice is important to me. But I just love the opportunity behind this. And even today, when we talked about it and I still have to use a gateway, there's so much track and trace with environmental variables that can be done. That's super interesting. So where we come in to play on this is really taking this from a technology to a solution, helping clients figuring out not just how the technology works, what typically falls into what people call proof of concept. We'd like to start with a proof of value, which looks at technology, it looks at process, looks at training, looks at the organization, looks at the value that brings and sort of really brings it all together into a solution. So that's what we help voice and that's where we work on with you in this area. Obviously, we do other things in addition to that. Often there might be tax credits associated with a whole tax practice about this and so forth. But super excited about this, can't wait, when this is going to start actually rolling out in various use cases. I mean, I don't know, I just imagine. Imagine, you know, we talk about vaccines today and you read about vaccines and how they need to be temperature controlled.  And, you know, this measures temperature. So, you know, what are the use cases there?  What are we going to see? And you know, as much as I struggle at times with what's going on with us in health wise and COVID, and so forth. I don't know. The hope for me is that it actually pushes us forward and technology and innovation such as this actually makes its entrance into useful business value and useful business processes quicker. So, that's my little spiel here. Thanks for having me, Michael. Back to you asking the tough questions. [Belfiore:] Yeah. Thank you, Robert. Yeah. And Steve, you -- first of all, I want to make sure everyone's clear, these have no batteries in them. And that's one of the innovations that makes them much more affordable than other forms of RFID. And they don't just have unique identifiers that are referenced in the cloud, but they also provide their own data as well, from sensors about temperature and picking up and putting down and other things that we saw on the slide. And that gets to another key innovation here, which is they sort of come packaged with their own infrastructure. It's one of the things that Gary was telling us that is held back RFID, that the infrastructure itself for RFID is too expensive to put on regular consumer packaged goods, for the most part. We're talking usually about higher value items. Now we're really talking about realizing that potential of everything with one of these attached. So, Steve, give us a read on where exactly we are in that time. I know you're at Version 1 right now and that requires, you said this $50 gateway to provide the energy to energize these things so that they can operate. Is that a standard gateway that I could go by, you know, staples or something like that? Or is that still a dedicated device right now, for Version 1 needs to be used with these tags? [Statler:] That's a good point of clarification. So I think it's somewhere between those two points that you discuss. This is a gateway, we don't make these, these were sold before Wiliot existed. They -- You can buy them from a company called Fanstel online. And we're starting to work with more and more companies that already make Bluetooth devices to ensure that they work with Wiliot.  And the process is pretty simple. We -- Because we use standard Bluetooth, those gateways need to simply have a software update, and many of these devices can be updated over there, that is kind of listening out for a packet that says Wiliot on it rather than Bose or Apple, or so forth. And then the second thing is they need to broadcast out enough energy. With Version 1, there's a small set of devices that do broadcast out enough energy for us to harvest. Version 2 is going to get a lot more sensitive. And so, you know, one of things I'm super excited about is our ability with Version 2 to harvest LoRa radio waves. Now this is a technology that many people except industry insiders may not be aware of, but Amazon just talked about the fact that they are turning on the LoRa radios in a lot of the devices that they sell. Things like the ring devices that the doorbells and the cameras. And so we have the prospect of being able to harvest energy from a source that is in many, many people's homes. We're starting a project with a maker of refrigerators. And they're in a position to provide the energy that will be available inside the fridge cavity. So it will be a process of time in the short term over the next six months, then these tags will only work in very specific situations. And so we have a controlled release process. People can't just buy them. And I think of -- when Version 2 comes out, which will be in Q2 -- calendar Q2 of next year, then we'll open the gates a little more, it'll be easier to get the technology. And that's really because there'll be more ways that these tags can power themselves based on the infrastructure that already exists. [Belfiore:] Can you say that they could -- they could operate just on energy from your phone? In other words, the device it has the app on it? That's when the [inaudible]. [Statler:] Yeah. Exactly. So, those can read the tags now. But they don't broadcast enough energy for us to power a tag with it. We believe that in some cases, at short range, that the phones will generate enough energy. Now we'll need to have an app [inaudible] that is -- that goes through all the privacy check boxes. But we have projects that we're starting now, where enterprises will have an app. And it just allows people to keep track  of stuff. And people lose stuff all of the time. Individuals do. That's why you have solutions like Tile. But companies lose a lot more stuff than  we realize. And that's a great source of inefficiency and waste. And that's something that we think we can help with with this technology. [Belfiore:] And Gary... [Inaudible] I just want to... [La Point:] I just want to build on what Steve just said and where he said companies lose a lot of stuff. I can remember working  for a really big company. And in our national distribution center, we had -- we employed somebody, who has this full time job just to find stuff that  was lost. We paid him I guess, he made a lot of money, and that's all he did all day long, was walk around this distribution center and looking for stuff that was supposed to be there but we couldn't find it. [Belfoire:] And how revolutionary is this? So you're talking about these expensive gateways and that this stuff you're talking about I imagine it's fairly high value things to find. You've got a full time professional looking for those items are now being able to be powered by even the smart -- to [inaudible] or gateway or going on to a phone. How could this -- How revolutionary is this? How is this going to change the game, for example, in that scenario you just mentioned? [La Point:] Oh my gosh. Like as Steve mentioned, I think this is quite disruptive technology if you think about it. I mean, imagine just take a distribution center, and think -- that's how -- this is how I describe it to a lot of my students. Go to a library and take a book off the shelf, and then put that book someplace where it's not supposed to be, then go try to find it. That's what it's like inside a  distribution center. When you misplace -- and I'm talking about a large distribution center, it's -- to be able to find stuff -- just be able to find stuff and keep track of stuff is a huge, huge benefit in any company that's managing any kind inventory. I think the other unique thing is I can't remember Steve mentioned this or not, but will this be able to tell if something has been purchased or not? [Statler:] Yeah, we believe so. So by serializing, if you give a product a unique ID, and that ID is tracked as part of the inventory, then you can keep track if someone's paid for it, as well. So, you know, there's these Amazon stores with all of the -- these expensive cameras that are tracking whether people have bought something, it's kind of -- it's a brilliant idea, but it's very limited in scale, because this camera infrastructure is expensive. One of the use cases we're working on, we have a project that's just starting with one of the biggest loss prevention companies in the world. They work with Best Buy and retailers like that. And the eye opener for me is the industry is actually moving away from alarm bells that go off when products walk out the door, because let's face it, do we really want our minimum wage shop employees doing a tackle on some felon who's running out the door? It's probably not worth it. The biggest issue with shrink is just knowing what shrunk, what left. When did it leave? And it turns out, if you have that insight, shrink goes down because actually a huge proportion of shrink is not out the front door.  It's out the back door. It's employees that take that nice jacket home with them. And employees tend not to do that if you can track exactly what product left and when and who was working at that time. And even if it does go out the front door, one of the biggest issues is, OK, we lost the jacket. But the real issue is suddenly the sales go down, and no one knows why. People think oh, people are no longer interested in red jackets. Actually, people have been looking for the red jacket. It was supposed to be in stock.  It's not in stock. And we misinterpret that demand signal as lack of interest, but it's actually lack of inventory and an error in the system. And so having an ability to have a real time view of what's on the shelf, what shelf it's on is tremendously powerful from multiple perspectives. [La Point:] I'm not [inaudible]  [Belfiore:] I just want to spending [Belfiore:] Yeah, go on. [La Point:] This is to build on what Robert mentioned. I think that one of the big challenges here is imagining all the tremendous applications there are for this technology. I mean, you can just sit and think for days where this thing, this technology can now be used. And just let your imagination go really. [Schmid:] Well, I have a tag line in my photo which is think big, start small, scale fast. And I think this is what this goes back to, right? Think of the big ideas that you haven't done and -- but then you got to start somewhere. And we always talked about stuff with a few small things. Take them in a portfolio manner, right, to try them out. And you really -- you're not just trying out technology, but you're also trying out how people adapted, what they feel about privacy, and so forth. Because one of the powers about this is, so today, if you think about it, we can go and we can stick these on product. Or we can stick this on machinery or something like this and we'll know where it is. We know temperature. We can even do things like, you know, is a thread ripped and is a package opened or stuff like that, right? And that's all great stuff, and really in a way we can do that today, but we can't do it as cost effective, and we can't do  it as quickly. So, the imagination isn't so far out there. But -- And I'm excited about that, right? Please don't get me wrong. The fact that I can get temperature off of this in such a small way is amazing, right? And then think about when you don't need a dress anymore when this can be at your home. And so now think about this from a consumer products manufacturer. They today sent a product to retail and truly they lose connection with their product, unless it's connected. So now when you have this in there, I could stick this in the back of my shirt. Excuse me, Ralph Lauren, that I don't wear your shirt, but in any case next time, I will. But the thing is, you know, now I can do things and I can stay connected with my customer, with my consumer that as a manufacturer I wasn't able to do before. And so that creates a whole new power shift. And that creates a whole new dynamic. And it's really interesting, and it creates a dynamic around who wants the data, it creates a dynamic, what can I do with the data? How can I serve my customers in new ways?  And it creates a new problem for many companies, because today they do not work  with the consumer directly. So therefore, there is typically a whole new organization needed. We find ourselves when we do digital transformations with our clients that, you know, we talk about organizational capabilities and strength, you know, who is there, who can do what and so forth. So I think this goes also a little bit back to IoT and this is a team sport, you know, we need to put a team together. And, you know, we love being the quarterback for the team. Not really good at football analogies,  because I'm Austrian. So maybe we should talk about soccer. Maybe, we can be the captain of the soccer team, right, Steve? But, you know, it's a team sport. And it needs not just technology provided. It needs software.  It needs cybersecurity. It needs project management.  It needs networking infrastructure. It might even need a telecom provider. And it needs Avery Dennison to put this into something that we can put into product. So it's a team sport. But man, the opportunity is just huge when you start thinking, how the ownership changes and how you can communicate with consumers. [Belfiore:] Robert, you mentioned earlier on the creepy factor and then you talk about the different players that could be involved. Is there a role for regulation here?  Do we need to get ahead of this? You guys need to get ahead of this, thinking about things like GDPR, and then how this might impact this technology with data privacy and things like that. Oh -- [Schmid:] Who you're asking -- [Belfiore:] I want to say -- Yeah, Robert, I wanted to ask you about what you see is you see the potential downside here. You mentioned a creepy factor. And it makes me think of data privacy concerns that governments and regulators might have. Is there, you know, do those folks need to be at the table as this ecosystem builds out? And what is your thinking along those lines when you interact with customers who are in these regulatory environments that  protect data? [Schmid:] So you're asking me a political question, aren't you? I'm going to go ahead and answer it this way, right? First of all, I think it's important. [Belfiore:] Yeah. [Schmid:] What's that, Michael? [Belfiore:] I mean just -- just some privacy concern that folks might -- [Schmid:] Yeah, yeah, yeah. [Belfiore:] [Inaudible] might have. How do you address that issue? [Schmid:] So, number one, I would argue it's important that you look at your users and the people who get there, I mean whose hands this comes and really look at -- you use this very carefully. And you can't really look at this hypothetically, and this is why this think big, start small, scale fast three phase approach is so important. And even in your starting small, make sure you engage with them and actually test out. What do they do with the privacy preferences you give them? Do you have enough preferences?  What do they check? What do they enable? What do they not enable and then understand why they do that. So this is really important to make that part of your rollout in your phases, number one. Number two, rules are different by  country today. So we have a whole practice within Deloitte that focuses on nothing but making sure that what happens in your application, in your solution that brings everybody together, is actually legal in a different country. So that's an important aspect to look at. And last but not least, I -- personally, I believe, you got to give people, you got to inform them. And you got to give them the right to  own their data or do with the data what they think is right. And, you know, if you give them value, if you give them some value, actions and information that they can do something with, that shifts the creepiness to its valuable. And so I think it's important for us to understand that those are creep factor out there and deal with it through the process that  I laid out. [Belfiore:] Good. Very good.  I want to get to Amir in here. A question for him, and then we've got questions coming in in the Q&A. So I want to make sure we have time for those as well. But, Amir, I wanted to get a read from you on how this might disrupt your business. You mentioned earlier it was -- in your presentation slide you showed, you know, the two top segments of Avery Dennison's business are RFID. And these pressure  sensitive labels and stickers. You know, how does technology like this combine the capabilities of both? And how that might that change the way you do business? Are they still going to be two separate  product lines? Are we going to end up merging them together? And what does that look like for you in the near future? [Khoshniyati:] That's a great question. I think as we're evolving with technology, like anything else, you get to the next era, and you get to the next era of convenience. So I'm going to use NFC as an example. Back then, you know, you look five years back, seven years back, if you would have looked at NFC technology and contactless transactions, they were slim to none. There was a data point about four years ago when you look the total transactions through contactless payment and compared it to the Starbucks app on what they were doing with contactless, Starbucks was much higher in the U.S. versus all the -- domestic transactions. So we've evolved a great deal and I think the pandemic has evolved the technology a great deal to start with the usability. So relying less on handing your credit card, inserting your credit card because you don't know [inaudible] credit card before and that point of sale solution and pulled it out and what germs you're transacting. So, we're seeing an uptake in the technology. Now, as you evolve into the next era of technology, and you look at it from our perspective, it's very complementary into what we're doing. If you look at our converting line of the business, if you look at our machines, like Steve alluded to earlier, you run the same machines to produce these tags, and you're getting a whole new world of capabilities. Now, you'll still have the legacy businesses that are dependent on RFID, because they have to justify the CapEx they've done from an infrastructure standpoint. But when you look at the ease of the technology, you're actually entering a new world, a whole new era of going contactless. Contactless to the point that you don't even need to take your phone out anymore. So, if you're looking at the access control use cases, instead of taking your phone and actually tapping to go into a door, you can technically approach that door and door open on itself and give you access. And the same would work with point of sale solution. If you get to a certain proximity, it could give you the ability to transact and keep your phone in your jacket or in your back pocket, whatever the case may be. So the ease and the adaptability is  becoming streamlined. And then we're also getting into a new -- whole new era of technology. So I think there's going to be a learning curve, like anything else, and there's going to be a little bit of adoption that goes  with it. But what we've seen with the evolution into NFC, I think it's going to take another wave now with where we're going with BLE. So we're excited to complement what  we're doing. And then at the same time, it fits very well horizontally across all the segments with the applications which are truly endless. [Belfiore:] That's great. Yeah, thanks for that. Yeah, it's useful to think.  I always find it useful. Think about new disruptive technology as analogous to a previous one that you mentioned NFC. Again, it kind of gives you a little bit of a, you know, a little partial view of what's coming. Although I think what Robert has alluded to is that you -- we can't really know a hundred percent how this is going to change things. We have some initial use cases right now that look promising. But once you introduce a new disruptive technology don't -- you can't always tell where it's going to go. No one quite knew where the internet was going to go. It couldn't predict this activity we're doing right now in the early days of the internet, 1969 when the first connection went online. We do have some questions coming in. It looks like this one might be for both Steve and Amir. The question from Ryan is, are the tags disposable? Steve, you mentioned recycling products, but what about the tags themselves? [Stadler:] Yeah, the glib answer is yes. But it's actually a much more intricate question and answer than one might think. We definitely have customers that are invested in the product, because they didn't want to send the battery through the post. It was a device that would have been classified as hazardous if the battery had been there. Obviously, we don't have that. It's probably not practical to recycle our product, generally, although you could put this in a hard plastic case, and it would be possible to reuse. The -- Avery Dennison have actually done a lot of work in the field of recyclability of tags like this. And so we've been working with them. We do want to get this truly disposable  or recyclable. And we -- there's a lot of elements to this simple tag. There's different kinds of adhesive that are used to attach the chip to the antenna. And what we're working on at the moment is moving to an adhesive that will basically not gum up the machines that skim and separate the different elements of a tag. So I think what we can say is our footprint is much, much better than the traditional alternative, battery powered devices. And we're still working on getting true disposable recycling of the tag itself. But I'm really pleased that we're working with a company that's done the R&D in that space. And that's something that we are working on. [Belfiore:] Certainly it recycles something that doesn't have a battery, right? Sandy mentions that there's also value in product recalls. So not only just keeping track of inventory in a distribution center, but once it leaves the distribution center, what inventory  is where? That's -- I think that's a good point, Sandy. And then -- [Khoshniyati:] Yeah, I just wanted to add something  to that. [Belfoire:] Oh, go ahead, Steve. [Stadler:] Well, so in the food area, this is I think a really super exciting thing. We're working on a project where from farm to shelf this item level traceability is possible. So imagine in a packing shed, the workers are basically wearing something a little bit like this, a watch that has Bluetooth that can light up the tags. You can automatically see who touched  the product. And the same thing at the other end of that supply chain, what the temperature was. And so if someone does get sick, then if you can shift to serialization, so that each individual item has its own identity, then rather than having to pull every single item of that sort from every single shelf, you have the ability to do recalls that are much more targeted and focused and waste a lot less product. [La Point:] Right. [Khoshniyati:] Yeah, I just wanted to add that the thing that's exciting about this is that it's not just tracing -- track and trace, right? It is track and trace together with  environmental variables. And that just I want -- that's not to forget that, to have temperature with that, to be able to infer from movement  what happened with it on shelves. Those are things that are very valuable that today take a whole different complexity. And so combining those two is really powerful. So, thank you. [Belfiore:] And we have time for one more question, folks. [La Point:] Yeah. Let's try one more question. [Belfoire:] OK, good. Yeah, Gilbert mentions, and it's a good segue from what Robert just said, the environmental issues that can also be potential detriment as well. And how do these affect the tags, things like heat, cold, storms on connectivity? And some of the question I've had too that, you know, especially now we're seeing people working at home so much more. We're really starting to see the strain on our internet infrastructure. What will -- adding all of these new nodes to the internet due to that, you know, are going to be bandwidth problems with that? And will they be particularly acute in rural areas that might not have as much bandwidth, generally. What do we need to think about along  those lines? [Statler:] I think Gilbert raises a really great set of questions. And again, it's easy to be glib to say it's all no problem. The -- What we're seeing with Version 1 of our product is it works really well in a set of temperatures that range from like minus 2 up into kind of the extremes of heat that people can deal with. So that's Version 1. Version 2, one of the things as well as extra range is this ability to -- well, basically making the clocks that keep these computers running and allow you to work across a broader set of temperatures. Those are getting a redesign so that we can survive in automotive style, temperature environments, and really cold environments, where temperature sensing in -- for vaccines becomes very important. So, I think we're off to a good start. It is a work in progress. In terms of scalability, we've been running tests with hundreds of tags in very close proximity and it works well. But really, this is why it's useful to work with a partner like a Deloitte. Because there's a million things to think of and we want people to be successful. And it requires a multidimensional view of this new world which is, you know, people, are we solving a worthwhile problem?  Is there an ROI? But then there's all these environmental considerations,  infrastructure considerations and we want people to think things through carefully, rather than feeling like this is a panacea or it's disruptive. It's revolutionary. It requires planning and preparation as well. [Belfiore:] Very important point. Thank you, everyone, for this amazing conversation. [La Point:] So I think if we didn't get to one of your questions, we'll get back to you offline. We don't want to run too far over. I know Sandy had asked the question on how we manage security. I think we've touched on that a little bit earlier, but maybe not as detailed maybe as we could get but we can get back to Sandy on that offline. OK. And if anyone else has any other questions too, we can get back to them offline with that also. [Statler:] Excellent. Yeah, I just wanted to -- hopefully, you can -- I've tried to share the -- my closing slide here which has Robert's and Amir's contact details. And, Robert, if you didn't notice is actually -- is also called Mr. IoT. He has coffee with Mr. IoT podcast, which I really enjoy. [Schmid:] You were on. [Statler:] And I was on. It was great. [Schmid:] So was Michael. [Statler:] We have -- Amir is actually going to be on my podcast, Mr. Beacon, which role it was on. We interview people in the space of -- this niche within IoT. If you want more information about what we're doing, please visit our website and you can post inquiries there. And I know that Amir and Robert would be happy to follow up if you want to reach out to them directly too. [La Point:] OK. So, I'll just have maybe a wrap up comment. So we want to thank everybody for joining us today. We especially we want to thank all of  our panelists. Well, thank Michael Belfiore for being our moderator for today. And this webinar is going to eventually be published here on the Whitman School of Management YouTube channel. So you can go and watch the entire webinar again, if you like. You can contact me, if you have any additional questions, directly. You can contact any of our panelists as well directly if for additional questions. We look forward to having you join us for our next webinar on December 8th. We're going to be looking at new USMCA agreement. And we're going to be comparing the differences from the old NAFTA agreement with the new USMCA agreement. And that should be a little bit interesting as well. So we want to thank everyone for joining us today. We really appreciate it. And we hope you found this webinar on this topic really quite interesting and fascinating. Thanks so much, everybody. 