 - Well, welcome to this distinguished speaker series with the Malaysian Alumni Club of the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. Today's Tuesday, 18 August, and it is 6:00 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, in Singapore, Hong Kong, Beijing. It's 7:00 p.m in Seoul, Tokyo as well, 5:00 p.m in Jakarta, 3:30 in new Delhi, 11 in London, and it is 5:00 a.m. in Chicago. (laughing) I'm mentioning all these time fuses, all these times zones because we have people here from all around the world. Actually, we had 240 registrations connected to these webinar, and around 85 of them are Chicago Booth Alumni. The rest are general public, non alumni, people maybe that have gone to all the universities or people who are working in different kinds of companies around the world, right? So thank you to all of you for joining. Today Chicago Booth is proposing a very interesting topic. This topic is Building the New Wave of Corporate Innovation. Corporate innovation, these two words don't really fit well together. Is this term corporate innovation an oxymoron? Are startups transformed from young growing organization for them to change the world into conservative corporate businesses, protecting their investments? While starters, these rob whole industries with new radical business models, corporates are organized around processes and incentives to deliver repeatable product, revenue and profits. When you have so much to protect, it can be hard to take a risk to innovate. And this was leading in until 2020. The intensive innovation activity has been triggered very recently by COVID-19, and it shows that corporates can also innovate. Companies are moving faster and take a bigger risk than we could have thought just a few months ago. The lockdown has brought forward a shift on to online world, to digital channels and team sharing platforms. Post COVID-19 digital first is the new norm, and COVID-19 is actually redefining the core of many industries. Is it our core to have branches or stores, or is it to have digital channels? So this is today's topic. And in order to discuss about this topic, we have a very solid lineup of three top CEOs and one top CDTO, chief digital and transformation officer in Southeast Asia. So let me introduce our panelists today. So the first one of our panelists is Domenic Fuda. Domenic Fuda is the CEO of Hong Leong Bank, and Hong Leong Bank, as you know, is a financial services company based in Malaysia with presence in Singapore, Hong Kong, Vietnam, Cambodia, and China. Prior to that, Domenic was the managing director for consumer banking and wealth management of DBS bank in Singapore. And previously, he spent 16 years in Citigroup in different roles across Asia. And apart from the different degrees, Domenic also passed through Chicago Booth where he attended an accelerated executive development program in 2014. Our second panelist today is Khairil Abdullah. Khairil Abdullah is the CEO of Axiata Digital Services, which is the digital arm of the renal telecom conglomerate, Axiata. Axiata Digital Services has investments in digital financial services whose main brand is the e-wallet boost which is very, very well known in Malaysia. And the other investments are in digital advertising and in platforms. Khairil is also the CEO of Boost. Previously, Khairil was a partner in Bain & Company and got an MBA degree from INSEAD in 2005. The third of our panelists is Mario, Mario Aquino. Mario Aquino is the CEO of FutureLabs, a venture capital and corporate venture builder. He was previously a managing partner in McKinsey Ventures, and the MD and board member of Moody's Analytics in Europe, the middle Eastern Asia. And Mario also holds a full time MBA from Chicago Booth, class of 1999. And I'm mentioning the class exactly because many of our alumni who are listening to us right now, we want to locate you. And by giving the class and the year, it's easier to locate you. And finally, we have Rob. Rob is the chief digital and transformation officer of Maxis, which as you know, is a telecom operator in Malaysia, and he was previously the head of corporate strategy in Maxis. And before Maxis, he worked in India for eight years, and prior to that, he spent a number of years in Telstra, Australia. So thank you very much to panelists for making the time, and for sharing their knowledge and experience with us this evening here in this webinar. And regarding myself, I'm a data-driven marketing professional and the Group Head of Analytics and AI at Axiata Group, which is the same group as Khairil Abdullah. Previous to that, I was a management consultant in McKinsey, and I'm also the president of the alumni club, the Malaysian Alumni Club of Chicago Booth here in Malaysia, and also hold an MBA of 2011. So thank you to all the public that is here with us this evening. This webinar is being recorded, and it will be available on the YouTube page of a University of Chicago Booth School of Business after the seminar, right? So this session is supposed to be interactive, and as a matter of fact, we want you to ask most of the questions to our panelists. Within the zoom website, you will see Q&A section to ask questions. I just encourage you to ask as many questions as you want, because as I say, we want our panelists to be able to answer your questions. If you want to identify yourself and tell us a little bit more about your organization or who you are, that's even better. You can also vote for the questions that you like most, and we will try to ask all your questions to our panelists, starting, of course, by those that are the most voted ones. And there is also a section where you can send messages to the panelists and the organizers so we can read them privately. So that's it. I'm very excited to be here with you. And why don't we start with this conversation? So I think this is a very interesting topic, building the next wave of corporate innovation. And we are gonna start with a use case of an industry that has been under profound and continuous transformation over the last years, if not decades. And this industry is financial services. Several of our panelists have been playing in financial services, but I'm gonna start with Domenic. And I would like to ask you, Domenic, how do you see digital disruptions playing in financial services? And particularly, in this post COVID world in which we are entering. And also coming back to the topic of this conversation, how is COVID actually changing the banking industry, maybe by accelerating these disruptions? - Thank you Pedro and fellow panelists. It's a pleasure to be here. Around the question of disruption in financial services, google could not complete COVID-19, is a catalyst for some fundamental changes that have been experiencing over the last couple of years. You talked about digital. COVID-19 is accelerating the migration of a customer's activities to digital channels, whether it's your consumers, SMEs, corporate clients. And simply because people have no choice. The restricted physical movement had people go online to continue to do their businesses, or simply the daily transactions, buying groceries, paying for home deliveries and so on. You really had no choice. And cash, the traditional way of paying or checks was not an option. So you really had to move. This trend has been happening for some time, it's not new, but there is always resistance with any change, people are reluctant to move. So I think COVID-19 would probably be the final catalyst to get people onto the digital wagon. The other thing we've seen, and I have to say it was quite a pleasing to see, a bunch of customers who had SMEs or MMEs moved onto the digital bandwagon fairly quickly. I'll give you a very, very simple example. We have a customer that sells durians. Normally those durians you pick that at farm. You're talking about physical products. I pick that at farm, put on the back of a truck and carry it, or transport it to Kuala Lumpur to be sold in some wet market or what have you. That was out of the question. So they started sending durian through WhatsApp and online, which was fine because they could ship the goods by a motorbike or something, but you have to get paid before you ship the goods. So very quickly, right? People figure out I can get paid by a do it now which the Malaysian instant payment way of receiving money. So you log on online and a lot of people are, I can't get paid, I can do commerce, I can transport the goods. Now we're getting a lot of requests from this type of customers now that MCO is over. Is how do I make this a permanent feature of my business? I can go back right to sell a physical product in a wet market but at the same time, I wanna continue to do e-commerce. So how do I make this a permanent feature? So we're seeing an awful lot more requests on that. Now, as you know, SMEs are probably the last ones to jump on to a new trend. Money is an issue, resources, the business owner is very focused on running the business, but when there is a crisis and your backs are against the wall, people become very innovative. So we're seeing some of that, which means for banks, we have to be attune to our customer needs and be able to respond and provide the kind of services that they need. Otherwise, it will be provided by somebody else, whether it's FinTech or BigTech are getting into the financial space. As banks, as a wake up call, if there wasn't need for one, I'm a little doubtful that there was a wake up call needed because a disruption has been happening for the last number of years. But if there was a wake up call, I think COVID-19 would be, and banks will have to learn to adapt very quickly. The luxury of time is certainly not with banks. Their agility, move with speed, try things, fail fast, the traditional things that people say. Learn and do other stuff. I think it's quite important. We will have repercussions for banks. Is that backend systems ready? Do we have a middleware, which is our job? Do we have people thinking this way? Are our own people able to move and move at speed? Do we think regulation, compliance and risk management will allow us to do some of these things? How do we find our ways around it and make sure that the we can do? At the same time, we are regulated, so you can forget about regulation either. But how do you find the ways of operating within the regulatory environment, the risk scenarios, and be able to do some of the stuff that that I've just talked about. So it's certainly a call for action. It's certainly a big wake up call and we probably haven't seen the last of COVID-19. So I imagine the same purchase we saw a few months, the last two months will continue in the coming months. - That's very interesting. During the lockdown, I was one of the people that were buying durian online through Facebook. So I don't know if it was through your client, but it was very, very good durian from Penang. Very good. So thank you, Domenic. So Mario, you have also been in financial services in Moody's Analytics from probably the very beginning of FinTech. And I wonder if you can tell us a little bit more about what have been the stages in which FinTech and its relationship with established banks has evolved over the last decade. - Thank you very much, Pedro. And again, it's great to be here as well. So let me start by saying that over the past decade, tech enabled innovation as created profound changes across all industries and geographies, and financial services in my view as been one of the most important sectors. And I completely agree with Domenic, the change has been happening for a few years now, and COVID has just accelerated in months. Some of the customer trends that have been occurring in potentially taking years which we have all seen around the acceleration of digital payments, commerce, branchless banks, perhaps low touch banking. When I looked back, as you say, I've really experienced FinTech from its own beginnings. When I look back at the last decade of FinTech innovation, I kind of summarize three principle of waves. The first wave, and I still remember backing the 2010, 2011, I call it the rise of FinTechs as digital disruptors. FinTechs were truly created to attack incumbents. I think for most part it's clear now that while there's been a few major new digital native failures that have been originating from that wave, the large majority are finding difficult to create a sustainable business model at scale. This in point for those who were there is Moven Bank, a bank that was the very first mobile only bank, created by Brett King in 2011. It just folded in March of this year, unfortunately, and the verdict is still out with the many new banks that are being created and so, time will tell. Towards 2005, 2006, the second wave of FinTech innovation has become more prominent and has seen a change in the relationship between the FinTechs and incumbents, much more towards collaboration and partnerships, very much focused on building POCs to transport the incumbent score. And again, here, we have seen some success stories of impact but by largely speaking, there's been a lot of challenges to move POCs into production because of mostly the legacy banking infrastructure that is a significant bottleneck. We've been participating in the early stage of this wave, for example with companies like the Glu, which was a multilayer between the core banking system and microservices outside to create much more Nimble banking microservices. We more recently activated a partnership between ING and FOCUS to power smart credit decisions in supply chain, for example. We are seeing from now onwards, and actually we're pretty excited about this, is a third wave of FinTech innovation. It's really around co-creation and ecosystem ventures, where financial services start to embed much more closely into broader ecosystem like healthcare, calmers, property tech. That's where we focus our future labs on. We largely see two kind of waves especially for financial services incumbents. One needs to become the backend providers of these ecosystems. For example, you see a Standard Charted launching a company about the name of nexus, which is basically banking in a box, providing e-commerce player to do point of sale, lending and other type of financial services, of course. Some other banks, for example, that we're also working with are taking more of a naughty straight or front in role. For example, in Indonesia, we're working with a bank very much to create a new HealthTech and InsureTech company focused on SMEs and embedding some of the lending products, for example, to prepay claims, insurance claims, et cetera, as part of a broader original value proposition. We're pretty excited about this next wave of innovation. And I would say because of also the prominence of mobile internet, which has lowered dramatically, the industry sectors barriers, this particular wave, you are seeing also the rise of a whole host of new competitors for bank and insurance companies, very much from known banking sector. So you see players like Axiata, the Maxis in the telco space, even AirAsia in Malaysia, now starting to become active into financial services and potentially also other sectors like telemedicines and so on and so forth. And that's because in the future, more and more businesses will be a platform business. What's important is not necessarily the sector you're in, but the fact that you can connect at scale to end users, millions of subscribers and very frequently. And so in this particular space, we see the convergence of multiple industries, we see the emergence of new non financial institutions that are indeed playing in the financial services space that in my view become even more important to monitor for traditional banks and insurance in order to protect what they're doing and continue to innovate. What I want to conclude is that, for sure the power is back in the large corporate space. You mentioned the oxymoron corporate innovation, but I think truly the corporates have opportunity now to really create much more transformative impact from the technologies that are coming about. - Very good, very good, thank you. Thank you, Mario. So it's very interesting when you are saying that the third wave of innovation in FinTech is gonna be more about collaboration between the incumbents and startups. And this is something that Khairil knows very much about because Khairil has been experimenting all the different ways you can collaborate with startups and with innovation in corporate. Khairil, maybe you can tell us a little bit about how your experience has been with all of these different approaches to what we startups or new startups inside a corporate that you have tried since you arrived to Axiata Digital Services in 2014. - I'll talk a little bit about that in a short while, but I do wanna pick up on your point about the oxymoronic statement, corporate innovation. And I have to say this because both Rob and I come from effectively the telco industry. And the telco had this amazing product, it was a money generating product. I think Rob you know what I'm talking about, 85% EBITDA margin. For 15 years, no innovation was done on this product. It was called SMS. And then came WhatsApp, then came WeChat. It came all these other chat and messaging applications that effectively destroyed this entire product. And so therefore, I come from an industry which is very well known for very little innovation. So please take my words with a big, big pinch of salt. So you asked about the different models. I think here at Axiata Digital, we've sort of experiment that with a lot of it. A little bit of history, we sort of started our journey way back in October of 2011. I wasn't part of the organization back then. And when I say we started with back then, it was PowerPoints, it was consultants. I don't think it was McKinsey, by the way. It was a lot of research to understand this thing called digital. And again, back in 2011, there was actually very little disruption, even in the telco industry. And then so et cetera, this girl was founded in 2012. And at that stage, the key phrase that was R&D. So we were experimenting with a lot of different services, businesses, really to try to understand how we as a telco could play in this digital horizon that's appearing. So we did things like ATP businesses for banks actually, where we were helping bank sent up messages, did you actually do this credit card transaction? We looked at content streaming, we were selling SMS inventory, a lot of incubation and experimentation. And then when I came on board, I came on board around sort of 2014 or so, we started doing a little bit more, I guess, investment for a little bit more kind of M&A. And that was to essentially learn different business models, learn different ways of doing things. A lot of these M&As were done outside of our region, so we bought a micro insurance company called BIMA, which is based out of Sweden. We bought an auto startup in India. They were basically linking up with Aquanas or sort of small mom and pops and taking their offline business into an online business. We invested in an analytics company in the U.S. They were actually telco driven analytics company. A lot of these investments was to sort of bring back ideas into our own markets. And then we made some partnerships, to create some JVs in e-commerce and music streaming. At the peak of it, I think we had about 30 different businesses across our entire portfolio. Finally, when we've sort of done that whole experimentation, the whole R&D, we realized that actually there are businesses or verticals that were a little bit more suited for telcos, where telcos willingly have the assets to really help these businesses grow. We kind of whittled down the large portfolio that we have into main verticals, financial services, ArtTech, and what we call a platform business, where we connect it to the digital companies to be assets that we have via API gateway. And then the remaining companies, we transferred quite a number of them back to the core business close to Mario's point. The core business had a corporate infrastructure that actually could help these businesses scale even further. The remaining businesses, we then packaged and sold them into a fund. We made a nice profit from the exit, if you like. And then we then sort of whittled down to focus on these three, which by and large are now fairly successful businesses at scale. I would say though in sort of reflection that we had to go through those various stages and those various models that we did because we needed to kind of acquire the learning in order to be able to get to the point that we are today. So if we didn't go through the experimentation, if we didn't go through the M&A, if we didn't go to the venture build phase, we would not have the skillsets. We would have the capabilities, we would not have acquired some of the folks that we've acquired along the way, and to try some of the changes and some of the businesses that you see today. So I think it was a very necessary evolution. I'm sure Mario and some of the others will say that there's probably an easier way to do this, but I think if we had gone down the easy way, it would have been a lot more difficult to convince our board and therefore our investors to be able to put the money behind the three companies that were very, very aggressively building today. - And just to add on that, Khairil, you asked me, is there an easier way? Well, in my experience, also at McKinsey adventures, we actually did the whole spectrum of collaboration with the external ecosystem, from non-equity partnership with startups, we had also a CVC, we invest in minority stakes, all the way to M&A, and then corporate venture building co-creation. I think in a way, many of these ways are complimentary. They all serve a specific purpose. Two comments I would make is, the first is, today because of the speed and scale of innovation in our view, it's very essential that corporates don't only look at insight to transform the core, but actually do participate with the collaboration of externally, like this thing. What we observed, if you look at the data is that often times that happens, but in sub-scale, meaning most of the corporates will invest largely 85, 90% of their innovation or R&D budget inside and only five, 10% outside. And you could argue partly like is for marketing, which obviously is not. But those even that belief that truly there could be value in innovation, are not getting the enough of a minimum scale of investment in order to dedicate what we see in some of the leading corporates. It's the budgets to allocate is more like 20, 25% of that. And so we are big supporters of doing both, and at the same time, if you're going to do both, because it's essential, you got to be resilient and put a minimum of cap scale in order to actually be meaningful, the type of external innovation you're generating. - Absolutely, absolutely. Another aspect that is really, really important, and Khairil was referring to that is, how you get to the right culture in order to be able to do innovation inside your core. Innovation outside the code is very difficult. It's very difficult to bring it back to the core. So maybe just following up, this is a question that I would ask to Rob in Maxis. How can corporates best integrate their ventures inside the corporate framework, and how they can use it to accelerate the digital transformation in their core? 'Cause you are chief digital transformation officer, how can we use these ventures that we create in our core? - First, I'm gonna jump back to where you started, and serve also my reference to this. I'm a passionate believer that corporate and innovation are not oxymorons. But at the same time, I've got to admit that innovation in corporates is very often strifled and strifled rapidly. But I think we've had a vast experiment around the world in the last six months. And what it showed is that corporates actually could innovate and innovate very, very quickly. I mean, speaking for my own company, in Maxis. We were able to move far faster than we ever thought was possible in terms of digital support for customers. We could reinvent our internal processes in ways that you might've thought we couldn't think of. So the conclusion I've sort of reached is that it's not corporate that is the thing that stifles innovation all by itself. It's BAU. It's having a big, important BAU that you have to focus on. And when that BAU is put aside for a moment, that corporate innovation becomes unstiffled and leaps up. So I guess one of the questions is how do we make that a regular part of our lives as a corporate? And that's where it gets a lot more difficult. Mario made a reference to backend infrastructure being something that holds back banks in the financial transformation. But it's not just infrastructure, it's corporate assumptions, it's processes, it's unwillingness to take a risk with a logical business. And it's a diverse customer base and not wanting to leave any of those customers behind, which is, I guess, one of the reasons we looked at venturing and saying, let's build this a bit standalone. Let's give it that freedom to move. But even then you face a collection of challenges that you've got to find a way to overcome, scale, Mario referred to is a key one. If you really want this to change your company, you have to be willing to do it at scale, and you have to be willing to do it for prolonged periods like so many successful musical acts. You think they're an overnight success, and in fact, they had many, many, many years paying their dues and building up before that overnight success. Ecosystems and being part of the right ecosystem. Khairil talked about SMS and the fact that it didn't change. The telco industry actually did look at SMS. It did look what it could do. We invented in a number of standards for how to take it into the future, but never really aligned as a whole industry on how that would work. Never really thought of saying, well, I don't have to be an whole industry. I'll just tackle the whole world myself. So the assumptions and the mindsets that we had made it very hard for the new innovation called the speed boat to seriously change the direction of the coal, coal of the oil tanker. The speed boat just can't do it, even though the speed boat can get moving and can build a lot of velocity. So what does it take to help that bring back to your core? If you've thought scale and some time, that it actually starts to shift the core of your company and you have a different perspective. So Axiata's perspective at this stage I'm sure is different as a result of what its core is, as a result of what Axiata Digital has done, and other companies you can point to that have done that. You've got to be willing to set up those corporate ventures and give them a different set of metrics and a different set of processes. I've had some experience in trying to make them fit into a standard, large corporate situation, and there's too many of the things that just don't fit in the early stage. You've got to regard letting staff go into those organizations as a success, not a loss. Often when a core business has core staff, key staff, they depend on major contributors to your core, this is at competition with BAU. If you aren't willing to let those staff move into a new venture and take their idea and use it to benefit your organization, then again, you stifle it as well. To bring it back into your core, well, nothing works like success. A few wins, well-publicized building that sinks lest you get some culture fall back from the small organizations into the core of your business. Beyond that, I think part of the success is actually thinking of your internal venture as being an outside organization. Many companies have a lot of success finding a small company or a startup that they partner with. And when they partner with that organization, and you've developed a strategic relationship, you tend to understand that that third party has their own interests and things have to work for both organizations. But also often in a corporate, you think of the new venture, how can that new venture be used to benefit my core? And you tend to focus on that side rather than how can my core benefit this new venture so it becomes big and strong so that it can then start to shift my core, so a mindset shift. And it's a bit cliche, but I really think it does depend on the mindset and objectives of the key decision makers who are really leading this and their willingness to actually think differently. - Very good, very interesting, very interesting views. So we're starting to have a lot of questions already from the public. And this is great because what we want to do is we want to basically answer your questions. We don't want to answer other questions that might not interest you. So I see there are a lot of questions regarding FinTech, so maybe we can go to try to answer some of them. Additionally, if Rob, Domenic, Khairil, Mario, if you want to ask questions to each other, that's something totally okay. That can be even more interesting if you have some questions for each other, so just go. But let me start with one of the questions from the public. So here we have Dennis who is based in Turkey and he's asking us, how do you see the performance of corporate venture capital in the FinTech domain? Are they investing only the ones that they collaborate? Who would like to take this question about corporate venture capital in FinTech? Maybe Mario? - For sure, let me take a stab at that. First and foremost, I would say that CVCs, apart from the U.S. it's a relatively recent phenomenon. I was looking at some statistics, that basically about 50% of corporate VCs, especially in financial services that come about in the last three, four years. And so it's very much being driven by these innovation exuberance. Now it is fair to say that in CVCs, there is always this dichotomy between strategic and financial objectives. And I think that for the CVCs that we have seen successful, there's been a clear determination of what is most important, one versus the other. We've seen many success of CVCs that focus on financial returns, the likes of Intel capital now that is completely separate, like end to end and others. In terms of the FinTech CVCs, my sense is that, I think Khairil you were mentioning before. There are two models, on one side we see great success when it's in areas where technology innovation is happening at the speed, and also there is no real standard yet. I mean, I don't know, blockchain, for example, being one of them. Where you want to learn very much and potentially spread your bets across a series of technologies. Microsoft ventures does it very well to kind of find the next deal level of technology that then base one or two companies start scaling and then they acquire and then they standards in scale. CVCs worked very well even in that particular segment. The earlier type of CVCs that work pretty well in our view are those that truly leverage their unfair advantage for the corporate assets. So it's very much like not just acquiring stake to transform the core or partner, but the emphasis shifts to being an enabler of the venture that you are actually acquiring a stake and therefore putting your customer base at scale, your industry expertise to really make that business much bigger and so on and so forth. I would say that in short, around CVC for Fintech's probably too early to tell, I guess, because it's been a recent phenomenon. Three, four years ago, many of these CVCs do not exist. And frankly you need typically seven to eight or 10 years to drive returns. But the two model that we've seen particularly successful, it's either focused on early stage R&D, where there is variability of outcomes that is significant or where you're going to make a real operational difference to the startups that you invest in. - Very, very interesting. We have another question from David, and David is based in Chicago. That's where it is 5:40 a.m. now at this moment. So David is asking us the following question. Why did Moven Bank fail? What does the result tell us about some of Brett King's mantras like getting rid of branches? - I would not comment on that, Brett is a good friend, but anyways. Let others first speak their views. - For me I'll eventually comment. I don't think it's just Moven though. Even some of the other Fintechs or neo banks that started in the last five to seven years are finding it quite difficult. If you look at a number in the UK, they're also going through some painful times, I think it's been very difficult. Acquiring customers is not very much of an issue, it's generating revenue from those customers that has been quite an issue. So they had been able to acquire millions of customers, but the average balances says what customer has been able to do on the platform has been quite limited. And the revenue per client has been very difficult to grow, which means every year, the loss of operations and so on. Then you get credit waves, which make the whole thing even significantly tougher to do. So I think that's the issue. You can grow the client base, but have you turn into a profitable one, and not just at the fringes. I think if you look even in place like Australia, UK, people are trying the new banks, but it's solely my second or third account. My main banking activities or financial activities remain with the traditional bank. And the other thing about FinTechs, they're very limited in what they offer. So I guess one of the things with FinTech is to scale up, is to find a two value proposition that customers need. So payments are all well and good, And a lot of FinTechs have been competing on that. Remittances is another area where fintechs have been competing in. But financial services for an individual, a family, a two life stages, it requires different type of products. So if you're only limited in what you offer might be difficult to retain and grow the wallet share of those customers. It has been tough. So that's one of the reasons, I think, not able to turn customers into true holistic product users because what you offer is limited. So for banks, on the other hand, I think we do all right. Traditionally, we offer many products, we offer too many and some of it never really go anywhere, and they're also unprofitable in the bank, and we trying to be everything to everybody. But by and large though, if you become a plan of a bank, you're able to fulfill pretty much all your requirements through a particular bank. The other thing I think traditionally, it's easy to say for digital native people, you can go to a neo bank, but if you look at the Malaysia, Singapore, Malaysia and Singapore are relatively small countries. Singapore is 50 square kilometers, you can travel East Western and North Southern in a couple of hours. But yet people will visit branches, because when it comes to people that have the money, the middle age and older people, they actually appreciate that conversation with somebody, an ARM, a branch manager and so on. So conversation around wealth management, wealth preservation, the growth of wealth and so on. Actually, even in Malaysia, we're finding those kinds of conversations in branches are still quite valuable. The other thing about branch is, which is a segment for us, and this for us is quite a profitable, is the whole SME and MME space. A lot of it, once it can move to digital, the value of a relationship manager is really, really there. So if you're able to provide that personal touch, as well as digital capabilities, you're able to anchor relationships and do an awful lot with clients. And they'll done and it's or much easier to make money from an existing client than it is from acquiring a new client. It's very true. So if you can provide both the physical and the digital capabilities, you can really win that market share or wallet share from clients and the whole relationship becomes significantly more profitable. That's for branches, so physical presence can become quite valuable. I guess the likes of Moven or whatever didn't have that kind of capabilities. - Very good. This is about being PhyGital, which is physical and digital at the same time. - And then you can add that. - Good, excellent. - You're mot coming up with a new term, are you, Pedro? (laughing) - No, it exist. - I know it's been around but its a horrible term. (laughing) - Probably it's not one of the best terms, but it's been around for a while. (laughing) Okay, very good. There is a question here for Khairil, for you Khairil. So basically the question is around how you can build ventures at a lower cost. So let me read the question. Innovation practices will take time, resources and money even in the best of times. Now with the challenge of the pandemic and the economic situation, a large number of companies are conserving cash rather than spending on innovation. How can corporate replicate the type of successes that Axiata Digital has with its venture building without these resources or investments available right now? Collaboration sounds good, but in reality, partners will want to drive their own agenda, which slows down and strifle innovation. So how can we do this on a low cost? - So I don't know if I'm gonna be able to answer this question well because I don't know of a way to innovate by spending a lot of money. For me, an innovation budget of 50,000 is way too much, because you can actually launch a business with less than $50,000. You know, get a couple engineers, put together some stuff, think through some business problems that you're gonna try to solve. As long as you are asking the right questions, what do you call it? Publish it in some of the right channels, put some ads on it, 50,000, more than enough. So this idea of innovation, if you go back into the old days where the likes of the big farmers was spending tons of money betting the farm on a new variant of a drug or whatever that might be, and it's billions of billions of dollars. That's still valid, but that's not the kind of innovation that we're talking about within the context of FinTech disruption, telco disruption, and so on and so forth. You don't need those big billion dollar budgets to do corporate innovations. Now having said that though, there's something that we've talked a lot about this call, but we've just kind of skirted around the issue and that's the concept of scaling. I think it's very easy to do innovation and build a prototype, build kind of an MTP, get it onto the market, get it tested, get the feedback that you want from the customers. The question then becomes how to scale it up. And this is where I think a lot of startups fail because they'll get through the hump of building a business model to solve a particular business problem without a view of how to scale it at the end. And if anything, one of the things that we focus on at Axiata digital from day one, is how you scale. So whilst a lot of startups think about building a business model to solve a business problem that generates positive unit economics, I think to a certain extent, we go beyond that. So we start with that, yes, but we also think about, is this business problem that we're trying to solve where a market field exists in the market. Or to kind of flip it the other way around, if we solve that problem, are we gonna build market power? Because if we're talking about building market power, then it's actually, if you like, quote unquote, dominance of the market. And when you achieve dominance of the market, that's when you're starting to talk about scale. I think there's a story within Axiata, the story about kind of how we are always thinking about scale. In this context though, I'll throw a number out there, If you're not growing 50 times in two years, then something's wrong. Something's wrong with your business model or something is wrong with how you're thinking about it, and you're never gonna be able to scale. Having said all of that, by the way, within the context of FinTech, there is this other thing that you have to start worrying about. I think some of you may know that we do have a business where we provide kind of algorithmic lending that we have built and a machine learning AI engine that basically credit scores, our micro SME base that we've acquired from boost, and actually we give a lending through this page. Now if I go up there and I tell my guys, hey, you need to grow the loan book 50X. I know I need to start watching my delinquencies because they're gonna stretch that credit scoring engine to the point where we're probably gonna start taking in some wounds which probably shouldn't be. So I think all of this needs to be balanced. Sorry, say that again, Domenic. - And lend you some collectors. (laughing) At some stage, I'll come to you on some of our securitized trenches, and then you can buy that away from us. I was gonna kind of conclude this point about saying that actually, as much as we wanna think about sort of big budgets on innovation, it's actually not the innovation that's gonna require the budget, it's actually the scaling up that's gonna require the budget. Within Axiata Digital, once we've proven that the business model generate positive unit economics, we kind of go out there and raise money, or if you'd like to be raised money from our parents and we spend. We've made mistakes in the past where we didn't spend, and we paid the price for it. Some of you may know that there was a period in 2016, early 2016, that Axiata Digital ran the largest eCommerce company in Indonesia, at least by cross merchandise value, but we didn't spend. Then Lazada was able to sort of raise billions from Alibaba, the first check was a billion. And we at that stage had collectively spent about 116 million in our eCommerce business in Indonesia, and when you're competing against someone who's spending a billion, it's game over. So we didn't go out and we didn't raise the money and we didn't spend, and therefore we didn't scale up as quickly as we could have, and Lazada came along with the early mobile money and sort of destroyed it for us. So learning from that lesson there, I think if you look at kind of how we scaled up boost, how we're trying to scale up our lending business right now, it's the readiness to spend when we need to spend. - That's very interesting. - Sorry, go ahead Pedro. - That's very interesting because innovation is not necessarily that costly, and what is really costly is scaling up. And Mario wanted to talk, and I know why Mario wanted to talk, because one of the things that Mario does is to help scaling up corporate ventures by finding the synergies between the assets that the corporate owns and the assets that the startup own in terms of culture, in terms of agility. And maybe you wanted to talk about that? - Sure, that's right, Pedro. I guess I was gonna add one more thing to Khairil which I completely agree. I guess the capital you need to innovate in the early stage is somewhat limited. But then indeed, once you find the traction, you want to kill those that are not generating traction and therefore don't waste too much of capital there, but indeed you need to then deploy and scale the capital. What I think in the early stage is much more important than just capital is the right incentive systems. Because most often where we see corporates fail is that we still give the same type of incentives as employees while the hunger that entrepreneurs in the world have is because they also have that equity upside, that damn passion, of course, that they wanna solve that particular problem. But back to Pedro, your questions around... Completely I agree, I think at FutureLabs, we truly believe that to generate the innovation at scale that you need in today's day and age, you basically need to combine the best of both worlds. And this comes really very much so because we've been entrepreneurs ourselves and we see how difficult it is to scale companies into multi-billion or multi hundred million dollar businesses. And frankly, it's getting even tougher. Let's not forget that while like 10 years ago, it took your many millions to create a tech enabled company, today, you could put on a shoestring budget, like again, AWS lends you servers, the initial open source machine learning algorithm that you can start using, et cetera. Founders are finding themselves competing left, right and centers with companies that frankly in the early stage are doing the same thing. So it's very tough for founders to actually scale. Equally, I being a corporate executive, we see how difficult in our corporate environment to generate that transformative innovation. However, you do have a scale of assets that is tremendous advantage. I mean, Domenic, you talked about the fact that now you do have the scale and the service offerings. We try to combine the two and say, look, let's take the entrepreneurial mindset, the incentive system, the portfolio approach of an investor in the early stage, and combining with the scale of market access, customer base data, and in some cases, obviously regulatory licenses at scale that allows companies to do it in scale. And that's a little bit of work we are so excited about because we see that it's a sector that is only going to grow. It's going to bring about the benefits of innovation that can scale because that's all that matters, I guess, ideations and creativity. If it doesn't get deployed in large quantities, I think it's fairly useless. And yet allows us to combine the best of both worlds and in a way plays to our strengths of having being a corporate executive, a management consultant with a good convening power of corporate, but also on the other side, an entrepreneur. And so we have the scars of having done a risk analytics company that then we sold and became a bigger company because we sold it to the right corporate partner that your new out to take that at a certain scale and then grow it even bigger. - That's interesting. That's very interesting. There is here another question that it's a little bit in the same lines that you discussed Mario, about working inside the core and working with startups. This is a question by Ganesh who is based in Mumbai, and he's basically asking, which areas will work better within the corporate and which areas will work better as a separate funded company? Who would like to take this question? - Maybe to take a quick stab at it and then I leave. There is a continuum. And so if you're looking at ideations in your core business, and things that potentially generate incremental impact step by step, I think you have something that can be managed by the core, and then deploy in large quantities in the core. The moment you go, you're more and step outside of the core implication business lines and even you verticals. And I'm talking here, just to take the example of Axiata and Maxis, where you going into financial services or MacTech or telemedicine, for example. Then those are businesses that are much better originated outside, groomed for a certain scale and then either sprung off or indeed if it does have relevance to the core, prove that keenly to integrate into the core. So I would say it's depends a little bit how ideation versus outside in days. It's a matter of what scale of opportunity is there. If it's just incremental, I would still say managing the core, because the core can generate that incremental innovation, and as we know, step by step, that could be meaningful. But it's very difficult to manage your new emerging businesses inside the core because automatically you have all kind of that incentives. We'd love to hear other takes in this-- - Yeah, that would be great. - One of the measures for me doesn't have all details, but it boils down to, will this be able to compete effectively for priority in management time within the corporate? And if the answer to that is no in its early days, then it needs a different route forward in that early stage. There's also a question of the scaling. If you were in a corporate which is a significant part of a local economy, then if you do it within the corporation, it's typically gonna be something which targets your customer base or just your nation. Some of the ideas you've got are only gonna be big enough to really be interesting to your corporation, if they think outside your customer base and even outside your country. And that's hard to do from inside, easier to do, if you start outside. - I would also add, it depends what the innovation is about. If it's a new business line, a new segment, maybe outside of the corporation is appropriate. But if you're trying to change what you already do, they clearly want to restart the corporation to be able to change what you already do. And innovation inside the corporation to change the core, it can be a big idea, the change is a fair amount of what we do, or it could be incremental changes that actually market you. We all talk about scalability, returns and so on. Actually, if you happen to come up with a great idea to change the core, the paybacks can be rather quickly, because there's an awful lot of sunk cost or lost opportunities for revenues. And if the idea or innovation pickles, one of those, you could get paybacks very, very quickly, or you could lead to incremental revenue from an existing customer base. But if you want to do experiment with blockchain, which we're doing, then maybe it's okay to do it outside the corporation. And once that thing really works, you can try and bring it back within the core and which part of the problem may change. But if you try and do it within the core, maybe that the current structure, the current people running it and whatever, it will kill the idea even before he takes off. - And under that thing, killing ideas, there is a very interesting question here also by Ganesh from Mumbai, which is, I would like to hear if you have any views on how much time you would give a new idea to prove itself. And that's a very difficult question to answer, because in general, once corporates are committed to an idea, it's psychologically difficult for them to scratch it. What are your views on this? - I think if you look at traditional banks, if I may venture a niche of federal Asia, we tend to build an awful lot of hobby farms where we hang on to ideas for a long time, even though after we have the time, it's proven. It was a great idea, you have some impact, but it's not gonna be scalable. But because we've thrown resources that didn't and so on, we continue to back the idea and take it too long, but maybe the best course of action would have been kill the idea and move on. That type of stuff. But we're not that good, we tend to keep an awful lot of this little things around the place when setting a little value. So I would say, Khairil was talking about earlier, that you build the value proposition, you test it, it seems like it's working, but maybe if it's not scalable within 12 to 18 months, it may be stumped to, kill it and move on. Cut your losses. What's the saying again, fill and fill fast. I think as traditional businesses we are not that good at it. - I would take the same angle. I would say, it's not so much about the idea, but actually it's about validating it in the market. I would go a little bit more aggressive, Domenic that what you said, a fast cycle of three months. I mean, two, three months should give you a good idea of whether you're in the market, or things are getting traction or not. Ultimately, what we see most time happens is that, because you have a lot of experience in a particular corporate, you come up with your new product or new solutions and start executing by building them already. But without validating, what are the pain points? Are there really burning pain points in the market? And so for us, any ideas is good, but the first question is, let's make sure we kind of validating the market that addresses a pain point and customers are willing to buy because it's all about generating early traction. If you do have success in early traction, then potentially, you should spend a little bit more budget, et cetera and then go and scale. Ultimately, I completely agree, Domenic, it's a fine art and science, because what often happens is that you either end up killing something too early because the metrics you're expecting in terms of scale of revenues or financials are not there because in some cases, they are too early or in some cases you tend to overstate that. So we try to always have a bit of balance your view and try to have your fast cycles of it's fine to kill an idea if it's a huge opportunity carried over. But we do want to validate that there is no market opportunity first, otherwise we don't kill it. - I think if you pursue a path of experimentation, and this idea that I kind of threw out a hypothetical number, the $50,000 buck, then it allows you to sort of pull the plug very quickly, 'cause you only spent 50,000, that's not much. And within that 50,000, you would have launched a product, you would have seen the feedback from the customers, you would have known whether this is gonna fly or otherwise. A lot of people don't know that actually, in the very, very early days. So Boost as a Wallet was officially launched in October of 2017, but actually two years before that, Axiata Digital in partnership with another organization actually launched NFC wallet. There were five merchants in BankSA South, that were sort of using this NFC wallet. And we very quickly realized that actually NFC was not the way to go, and that's why we then sort of leaned towards QR and build a QR product after that. But again, it was one of those things that we sort of wanted to see how everything was gonna take off. We wanted to kind of get feedback from the users, we want to get a feedback from their merchants, and so we launched it. But it was done in such a way that no one knew who was behind it. Consumers were all sort of friends and families and whatnot, and those kinds of experiments can be actually very low cost to do. And if you realize it's not gonna work, then you can easily pull the plug because you've only spent $50,000. - Excellent, very good. There are a few questions here about culture, an organizational structure. Maybe we can answer all them at the same time. So basically these questions go this way, how do you build the right culture in an organization so that innovation can flourish? And how do you build the right organizational structure? - So Rob, I see you are nodding, would you like to take the question? - Yeah, very happy to make a start. It's a difficult question to talk to without using cliches because those cliches are there for a reason. I'll try and stay clear of them as much as possible. Things that seem to work, the innovation experimentation, we often come along and say, that means you've got to have an organization, which is tolerant of failure. I'm not sure that's the right way to look at it. Of course, a corporation has to tolerate the occasional failure. That's part of trust and two way loyalty with your team, and that's whether you're highly experimental or not. But for me, the big part of it is about redefining success. We often measure success in terms of revenue up, cost down, customer experience improved, but you've got to add another measure, which is confidence increased. If you can actually have a culture that says, if I have increased our confidence in a decision, and I've done that quickly, and I've done that without spending too much money, then that is success. And so I'm not having to explain to the boss why I've failed, instead I'm saying, the experiment showed this isn't worth doing, which means I've increased our confidence, which means I've succeeded. And I think that as a new measure of success that you add to your standard list is an important part of having that culture and getting a genuinely embedded. Straight talk is really important. We talked about hobby farms earlier, a corporation has to be quite resistant to starting something if it knows that it's never gonna be able to be stopped. So another part of it is that willingness to pull the plug. We joke about the fact that your proof of concept needs to have a timer and an explosive on the back of it so that it will end no matter what, because it may take a lot of time making a decision to do something and once they've made that decision, have a lot of trouble letting go of it. The only way you can reduce the time to say, yes, let's give it a go, is if you can have the confidence that you're actually gonna be able to stop it. So having a culture that's willing to stop is very important, which brings us to straight talk, being able to have those open and straight conversations. On top of that, there's gotta be wins and those wins have gotta be celebrated, and that one is one of the most cliched, things I've said. But it's cliche for a very good reason. It really is important if your company is gonna believe in this, that they see people having a go at something and not succeeding, but they also see people having a go and eventually succeeding. Sometimes I've found you have to work very hard to make something a success so that there's that example for people to point to, but that's an important part of it as well. - Excellent. Yeah, Mario. - I actually really love Rob's point around increasing confidence. I guess we negatively referred it as decreasing risk. So what have we learned that has reduced the risk around certain decisions, but in fact, it's much better place around the increasing the conference. That's a fantastic way to look at it. And another way that we try to encourage experimentation is through portfolio approach in that in that indeed if you oftentimes pass just one opportunity, then it's gonna be a black and white outcome. If you do have a much more richer portfolio, it's probably easier to say, look, we want to kill certain part of these, but then double up on others that are gaining traction. So that encourages also more of a risk appetite, and being objective about the opportunities. We often say, you need to be passionate enough that you're gonna put your hearts into this, but at the same time, not too enamored that you don't see the objective data that if it's not generating traction, it's not right and unique. You have better opportunity costs. And oftentimes, by the way, when we talk about people and sometimes we have to make the decision for them. After a few months, they come back to thank us because the other opportunities that they may be focusing, whatever they might be inside the company or outside is generating more impact and more enthusiastic than perhaps what they were pursuing before that was not generating traction. - I agree with you Mario, about the portfolio approach at a corporate level, at a senior management level, but the portfolio doesn't help the individual who's got an idea, and that's where the culture that's around them really matters. - Exactly, completely agree. - I would posit that culture is one of the most important factors in this equation, if not the second one. Of course with what Rob had touched on, which is this whole BAU, the fact that a lot of large corporations have the BAU to sort of take care of it. And in fact, actually that if you think about it, the fact that you have a large BAU, you want to protect that BAU, that engenders certain behaviors within the organization, and those behaviors get encapsulated in what could be described as the corporate culture. And if you're trying to build a transformative, a digitally savvy, a disruptive organization, that's not where you're gonna start with, because you're not gonna be able to sort of get that. Not that this is the right way of doing it, but I'll sort of share some history here. When I was asked to move into Axiata Digital, once we had kind of, if you like, a 100 day plan, around what we're gonna do, yes, I am an ex-consultant and yes we do, 100 day plans and all that. So once the 100 day plan was built, yes, we did go after the low hanging fruit, but actually spent a lot of time then fixing the culture. The culture was almost kind of the next thing that we did because we realized that if we don't fix the culture of the organization, none of those plans are actually going to be executed. If you walk into our offices today, to some extent there sort of statements on a wall, but those statements that are on a wall to an extent, we believe entirely in them, our whole world systems are built around that, our recruiting systems are built around those six statements. And those six statements kind of... Every poster that you made in Axiata is an embody step. That's the first on. And the other thing that we did was because the telco that we came from sort of traced the old behavior, there was one point when there was effectively a measure or metric that we looked at, which is what percent of the team came from the telco. And at the peak of it, 86% actually came from outside of the telcom. So we had people that we were recruiting from, the likes of Facebook, iflix, Google, et cetera, et cetera. Only 14% kinda came from the telco. And there was a metric that we looked at for a long time, because we realized that actually inheriting the people from the telco, we brought in the culture that would not necessarily looking at the moonshots, we're not looking at 50 X growth. Rob will agree with me that actually in a telco, if you get sort of 10% growth you're happy. In a world of digital, 10% growth means you should be thinking of turning off the lights as soon as possible. So it's a very, very different culture altogether. - Very good, amazing. We have here a very difficult question, but I think it's very interesting. Could the panelists from the corporate space share what sort of transformation has happened in their organization in the context of their business in the past six months? And these are the six COVID months. Maybe each one of us or each one of you can take a short answer about what has changed in your business during these six months. We start in alphabetical order, with Domenic. - A lot has happened in those six months, whether or not they prove innovation, I guess time will tell. We had to move, we do all sorts of scenario planning, but there was no scenario that we have envisaged that covered COVID-19, and to the extent that the impact that it has. So we had to move very quickly from working in our own premises, to having people work from different sites, having people work from home. We had to move from and not have not been able to go and see clients, but yet clients need financing. So how do you do on application where in the past we would have send somebody over, especially SME, to collect some documents. They come and do a site visit and so on. Between the beginning of April and the end of May, we lent about two and a half billion ringgits to about 3,000 SMEs where we didn't do that kind of volume in the preceding 12 months. And this was during a period that the country was on a lockdown. So the traditional way of going about collecting documents, doing financial analysis of the borrower, proving servicing capacity, the debt servicing and all that, really you couldn't have done this kind of volume, if were stuck in doing it the traditional way. We streamlined, whether it was online documentation, or online signing of documents, whether it was streamlining the analysis that we did. Forget about the past financial performance and look to the future. Meaning, what is the prospects of the business post the lockdown rather than looking back and saying, what was the financials over the last two years? Because when you look back to what was the financials over the last two years, it might not be that relevant for that particular business in the next three years. So we had to adapt. So if we have pity to say that after we go back to some sort of normality, we throw away all of this, the scale and the speed with which we were able to do things and go back to BAU. Similarly, as a traditional largest corporate, we're pretty stuck in the way people work. If you do with data, there was an awful lot of data privacy involved and so on. You only do so in our premises, you wouldn't be able to work from home. That tools that we give our employees would allow you to do certain things off prem, but other stuff you had to do on prem. Again, that didn't work. So we had to open up pipes to allow people to do things from a different site or from home. So we had to scratch our heads, how we do protect data privacy? How do you make sure your personal misting and all that lying around a couple of things. So there's a bunch of learning that hopefully it won't get lost past the COVID-19. We have to think about scenario planning differently, and the traditional way of, if there will be a recession, GDP will go down 5% and a lot of that will have to be rethought, and we will plan a scenario planning and whatever going forward in very different ways because of what we learned from COVID-19. We will hire people, when you look at people working from home, the culture and so on, it takes a different type of person coming to the office, interacting with people, that kind of a friendships you build and rapport you build with your coworkers. Once you start working from home, it will bring a different type of challenge to the organization. And we are working to them, not say, we will provide flexibility to people, but you are a hometown bank employee. There is a certain culture we want to build, that is collaboration we want to promote and so on. So how do you do some of those things? The COVID-19 period is relatively short. We did some of that but we knew there was a beginning and an end was coming. Now, if we wanna make some of these changes last, we left to rethink some of the policies we have across the season what have you, to be able to make them last or make them pickled and it's the new way that we do things. There was a bunch of stuff across the board, actually. We had a hundred and half of branch network was shocked, 67% of people working from home. You came to the office here, it was a ghost town. So you had to find different ways of doing things. - Very good, very good. Khairil would you like to take a take on that? What has changed in Axiata in the last six months? - What has changed in Axiata or what has changed in Axiata Digital? What has changed in Axiata we should probably ask you, Pedro. Within the businesses that we have, I think a lot of you in the audience will be familiar with the agile model. Yes, we do run two weeks experience and by and large, every two weeks there's gonna be some product or some feature launched in all our product sense. So for me to kind of point on sort of what we did in the last six months, maybe we need another webinar for two hours towards the night. But what I would say was sort of our priorities definitely shifted at the start of this whole pandemic. And I think the priorities we made was around protecting our community, and our community is defined by our employees and our customers. And so we were very focused on ensuring that we keep rolling out products that will keep either our employees or our customers safe. Domenic touched on the durian seller, I like that story. We actually rolled out a similar product as well, where people were sort of selling their wares and products on WhatsApp business. And then we were actually helping integrate them into a delivery platform via API so that their products can be sent. And then obviously facilitating a payment via html link, such that everything is kind of all done online so those customers can continue to function. In terms of priorities, I guess there are not very many large skill development houses in Malaysia, engineering houses in Malaysia. So we got moved into volunteering our services to the government. If you look at quite a number of apps that are out there, we sort of supported in some of the developments that allows you to kind of track and trace and all that sort of stuff. Again, it still all in line with taking our ability to innovate, our ability to sort of roll up products very quickly and supporting the government who were definitely in need at that point in time. So we did a fair bit of that. We also launched a loan product that was really sort of focused on... I would say it's not even the SMEs, but it's actually the micro SMEs, average ticket size of about 5,000 ringgit per pop, maybe even lower than that, really helping these guys kind of stay afloat in this period because unlike larger organizations, the sort of the medium enterprises, or maybe even the larger enterprises, which actually have a large balance sheet, bank balances to sort of weather through the storm, these micro SMEs, as I call them, actually don't have that, and they were starting to tap into the savings. So together with the Axiata Group, we launched a 150 million Ringgit fund. We started lending a whole bunch of that to a lot of the micro SMEs. So if you would like the priorities started shifting away from using our innovation capabilities to focus on, if you like, business as usual innovation. We started focusing on the need of the hour and the need of the hour was really around the community. We focus on those communities, we tried to connect back as much as possible to the communities during this particular period. - Amazing, very good. Mario, how did it go, maybe not so much in FutureLabs, but in your clients, what do you see? - As Domenic and Khairil already mentioned, there's been a ton of initiatives. For me, those that are more inspiring is those that do two things, put the customer back at the center and also have an opportunity to do well by doing good. Khairil, you mentioned you're going back to the communities. A couple of examples we have done, for example, in the recent past, number one, clearly many of our corporates have shifted the focus from moonshot innovation to much more opportunities that can generate impact in the immediate term, like in the next six, 12 months, so right in generating opportunities. Just a couple of examples, one year that we're doing with a financial institution in Indonesia is really around helping SME that are self insuring their own employees prepay claims in 24 hours. Here, you are giving an opportunity to embed financial services into a context which is going to help the SME because of course, they give back to the employees and the employees in terms of putting your more money in their pockets so that they can spend it and feel less of the pressure, the COVID fear put on every one of us. And this year was a great opportunity to embed into a more healthcare type of ecosystem. Another example that we did with ING is going beyond banking in the supply chain. Of course, ING is one of the larger trade finance type of banks. Especially for large corporates that have senior, their supply chain disrupted. With inventories either spiking up or going way down where you have missed revenue opportunities, their usual answer would have been to sell them at factoring solution some lending of working capital. What we created with ING are companies in supply chain analytics that actually helps customers, whether it's large corporates or even SMEs, manage their inventory much better, understand better supply chain resilience, potential disruption to supply chain. Again, going back to the fundamental that is not about giving a factoring solution when inventories spike up. It's actually helping the client to do their business better and better predict the demand and supply. In that way, is a great opportunity to generate additional nominal interest rate based income, but at the same time, also frankly help your clients to do their job better. Those are some of the examples that to me are quite inspiring and there are few more. - Very good, very good. How are you going in Maxis, Rob, for the last six months? - It's been an amazing six months. Lots of the stories that I've listened to are familiar in their own way, but I guess things that I really noticed changed that hopefully won't change back, or we won't allow it to back. One of them is probably that we became more outward looking. Our CEO says that we did more listening in the last six months than we normally do in a year. And that was what drove significantly changing our focus in terms of support for society. Free data, getting network capacity two way network capacity doesn't normally need to be because distributions of people in their workload have all completely changed. Looking out to partners and figuring out how we can help them reinvent their business in a digital manner and what we have to do, and help back in to support them in that reinvention. So a huge amount of increase on outward looking. I'd have to say that applied inside the organization as well, where everyone became very good at just recognizing what was the priority right now for us and for society, and helping out with that rather than worrying about what was their part of the job normally, or someone else's part of the job normally. So that outward looking part, I think, was a big change. Not that we were bad before, but we're certainly better now. Confidence to try wind up with it as well. You get an excuse that, well, something needs to be done. So let's try this, which we wouldn't normally try. And what we found was that with that confidence to try came a very high success rate. Why don't we have that confidence to try normally? I think that's something that will be staying with us for a long time, as well as a cultural change. And that includes just willingness to reinvent processes and do it very rapidly, not irresponsibly. Domenic was talking about data privacy and all those things absolutely matter and took quite a lot of incentive and the motivation is there to do it which often isn't there because BAU was working so you're worried about something else. So a big change there. It changed obviously what we do physically, big corporations or big telecoms, at least are based around some very big physical groups of people doing work operations. And what makes you aware of it is the fact that none of that was needed. The process is absolutely needed, but those physical groups of people, sure, they were needed with all the technologies, but with newer technologies, we don't need that. And what I've observed is that interesting two stage, three stage transition from, we need to make this change but we don't think we can to, hey, it turns out we can make this change and we've succeeded. And then the next stage is the really interesting one, which is the, hey, this is actually better. And if we think about this and this and this, we can make it better yet. Not just for employees or just for the company or just for the community but for all three. So there's a lot of those learnings that we'll never roll back on, quite confident. - That's excellent. Little by little, we're reaching the end of our webinar. I would like to ask you a last question. So Rob was telling us about all the many learnings, and you all have outlined about the many learnings that you have made during these periods of six months. One of the things was my last question. The last question I wanted to ask you is about, tell me about a mistake that you have done in your organization regarding corporate innovation. What is the biggest mistake that you regret at this moment, but you learnt something about how innovation can be done best. If you want we can start again in alphabetical order, so we can start with Domenic. What would that mistake be? The one that you regret most in terms of innovation. - I think rather than a particular example is more the mindset we bring to innovation, preconceived ideas, we tried this before, it won't work here, and then only to watch somebody else do it outside of the company, whether it's a competitor or a new a competitor and actually it worked. Only if you keep an open mind and a willingness to try things that we've talked about earlier, don't spend an awful lot of money, make sure you can bring it to market, test it and so on. Keeping that kind of open mindset, I think it's quite important. So that's something I would say in the past on a number of occasions. The other thing I think is what Rob just mentioned. We did things in the last six months that never thought were possible. And we would have reasons why it wasn't possible. Technology is not allowed, the regulation wouldn't let you, the board won't approve, the risk management will say no. There's always reasons. But yet because of the situation we find ourselves in, the urgency to do things, the environment around us was significantly different. We did things, honestly, we didn't think it was possible but yet we did them. And Rob is correct. There is stuff we did significantly better than we would have done in normal circumstances. So how do we bring this forward? So we'll keep the same animal spirit and never the spirit, backs against the wall type of spirit, open mindedness type of spirit and bring it forward and continue to apply the same things next week, next month and next year. That would really be a fantastic learning opportunity from the last six months. - Excellent. Khairil, what were your thoughts? - This is gonna sound quite strange because here, we're talking about digital innovation. But to me, the thing that if given a chance to go back in time and try to change, I would put a lot more emphasis on getting the right team right from the get go. So it's people, right? Because at the end of the day, as much as digital innovation that we talked about, it's technologically enabled by some of the tools that you see in the market today. At the end of the day, it's people doing those innovations. And I think if I have a chance to go back again, I'd focus on sort of getting the right people. I think we have a great team in place right now, but it took too long for us to sort of build that team, and had that been the focus a little bit earlier, I think we would have been a lot more successful and become a lot more successful earlier on as well. So if there's a chance for me to kinda go back in time, I would focus on the people. - Okay, excellent. Yeah, everything's around people, very good. And Mario, if you had the chance to go back in time, what would you change? - You are happy for a expanding this webinar for another two hours with all the mistakes? Just joking but-- - No, only one, only one is enough. - Generally, as you learn from the mistakes, they're all part of the equation. But if I were to mentioned one thing and perhaps it is not so much about the last six months, but when I look back at the several years, it's not being bold enough. And I always push myself personally, but also the corporates we work with, the startups, the entrepreneurs to be bolder than we are, because I find that, undoubtedly, there will be problems along the way, but those can be overcome most times. And therefore, my only regret would be if we're not bold enough, we're not taking advantage of this opportunity. I left a great job at McKinsey because I really believe that we are in an unprecedented era of technology enabled innovation. We gotta do stuff that is impactful in our lives. I always try to push my personal self to be bold enough, and those we work with, and perhaps not all the times I succeed in doing that. That's perhaps one of the regrets and we continue to work on it. - Excellent, very good. And what will be one of your regrets, Rob? Just to finalize the webinar. - We're ending on regrets. It's a strange place to end. (laughing) - It's from mistakes that we'll learn, and one of the things that we learned about innovation is when we fail it's not that we are failing. I mean, it's about failing early enough and learning something for the next time you try it. - Pedro, afterwards, drinks for everyone is for sure. - We can have remote drinks, or we can order durian from Domenic's client and we can eat a little later. - For me, I guess the times I would regret most, any time we hesitated, any time that we gave it a go but we will build the right team right up front, or we didn't say yes, let's be bold about this. Essentially, any time we failed the Yoda test on do or do not, there is no try, and allowed ourselves to say, well, we'll just try. - Well, that's excellent. I mean, that's an excellent way to finish the webinar. I mean, do or do not, or do not do, but don't try. I mean, that's an excellent way to finish the webinar. So thank you to all four of you. I think it has been very interesting. There are obviously so many more things that we could have discussed because it's just a huge topic, corporate innovation. But I think it has been very, very interesting. So thank you very much to our panelists for making the time and for sharing their knowledge and experience with us. We have discuss about FinTech, we have discussed about corporate venture capital, we have also discussed about venture building and about culture, about how to build teams, about what has been happening in the last six months in our organizations. I think it has been a very, very exciting talk. We had, as I said before, 240 registrations for this event, and there were people from all around the world, including the U.S., Asia. So thank you to everyone that has been connected to this webinar until now. I hope you have enjoyed, I have certainly enjoyed it a lot. Just a reminder, this webinar is gonna be recorded, it has been recorded and it will be available on the YouTube page of the University of Chicago. So if you want to check it up, that will be great. So thank you to all of you, and see you next time. We're organizing a number of webinars every two weeks here in the Malaysian Alumni Club of Chicago Booth, and they're are always all webinars that are organized by our alumni club in Singapore, Hong Kong, or different different cities around the world. Thanks very much and see you soon. Thank you. - Thank you, thank you, thank you guys. - Bye. - Thank you, Khairil, Rob Thank you, Mario and Dominic. - Thank you. - Bye bye. 