 Very good. Hello, welcome everyone to our first of  a two-part sustainability series webinar. I'm Kim   Edwards, I'm one of the product managers here at  Kemin Human Nutrition and Health. We are glad you   could join us today. The objective of this webinar  is to be able to share Kemin's sustainability   program and strategy as well as be able to  share with you the specific ingredient that   we're going to use as an example and that's our  ingredient called BetaVia and it's made from   algae for immune health so that's  the example that we're going to use.   We know that through research that consumers will  purchase those products that they align with,   that follow their beliefs that are similar.  So one of my objectives today is to be able to   share enough of that information so that hopefully  you will feel more aligned, if you don't already,   with Kemin and our sustainability beliefs and  our programs, and then ultimately that you would   recommend and formulate with our ingredients  whether that's in your supplements or your   functional food and beverages. So that's really  the crux of today we'll have about 30 minutes to   get that accomplished. I'm going to share our  path of what we'll be talking about and then I   will also bring on Heather Christensen and Geoff  Horst as we go through but first I'm going to set   the stage and basically share a little bit about  consumers and their beliefs about sustainability   and then Heather will answer three questions  that we get pretty often whether it's through   our sales calls or through questionnaires from  our customers so she's going to handle Kemin's   sustainability program at a higher level and then  we're going to dive a little bit deeper into our   immune ingredient based on algae and that again is  called BetaVia and Geoff is going to be handling   those questions and then I'm going to open it up  to all of you to be able to ask questions. So,   on your screen you should have a question button  that you can type those in, so at any point in   time go ahead and type in your questions.  The panelists, Geoff and Heather and myself,   will be looking at those as we go through. As  we go through the webinar today so with that   I'd like to let you know that it is being  recorded, we'll send this recording back   out to all of you that have registered so that you  can share it with a colleague and then if we can't   get to all of your questions today we  will follow up and make sure that we   answer those so I'll leave my information  at the end and if you type in your question   you can make it just to the panelist or you can  make it so that everybody has an opportunity   to see that question. So with that I'd  like to at least set the stage here   and share from a July 2020 Euromonitor  report titled "From sustainability to purpose   new values driving purpose-led innovation" and  what this article report is saying that consumers   are aligning more with brands that not just  only have quality products but also align   with their beliefs and so really that was one  of the cruxes of why we wanted to start sharing   this information. So besides the traditional  for-profit you know mission that companies have,   consumers want to see companies focus also on the  society, you know, putting society first and our   planet's needs first and that also means being  transparent so we will be showing a little bit   about our process in our immune ingredient so that  you have a better feel for how simple it is and   how sustainable it is and then we'll also share  a little bit more like I said about our company's   sustainability. So this report also goes on to  say that, you know, whether it's a business that's   putting a product out on the market and they're  looking for ingredients that are more sustainable   or whether it's a company that's producing a  product and are looking to have a more sustainable   process this whole area of sustainability and  transparency is critical. Even in a 2020 NBJ   supplement business report one of the macro  trends is responsible sourcing so ultimately   we believe and it's Kemin's commitment that  by showing you and being transparent about   our supply chain that it will show  our commitment to our employees,   to our communities and also to our  customers. So that is the plan and just to   set the stage here I'd like to take a quick  poll first to see is this how you believe,   you know, do you have similar beliefs? So,  I'm going to launch the poll right now. And if you could take a moment and respond.  Does sustainability of a product or an   ingredient impact your buying decision?  And then I will share the results with you as soon as I end it though I want to try to get  as many people as possible that are on so I'm   going to end the poll and share it with you. Here  are the results, so the interesting information   is that a good portion of you said yes it does.  You know that that does align the information in   terms of by having a company that's sustainable,  that you would be more willing to purchase their   products and or ingredients. And then some of you  are maybe, maybe you need some more information so   hopefully this reinforces for those that  answered that yes and for those that were maybe,   after today's webinar hopefully you'd be able  to say yes in terms of Kemin's ingredients.   Okay so we're going to move on then and I  wanted to share a little bit about Kemin because   it really is the crux of who we are is this  sustainability. It's not anything new necessarily   for Kemin it's just that we're communicating  it I’d say a little bit better so Kemin is   just under 60 years old it's still family owned  and operated. On the upper left picture that's   one of the original groundbreaking pictures  of Kemin and then in the bottom left picture   is RW and Mary in the middle and  then the second generation of   the Nelson family is now also running the  family on the right hand side is Chris Nelson,   our president and CEO, and on the left hand  side is Libby and she is our general counsel   and vice president. So the company  has always been based in sound science   and innovation and as you can see we have more  than 500 patents so this is really one of the core   capabilities of Kemin and we have over 2300  employees in 90 countries and our customers today   like I said just under 60 years are now in  120 countries so when you look at our vision   and this is what I wanted to share that our vision  and this was just updated this last year but   for those of you that might be listening on  your phone I’ll just read it out as well.   We strive to sustainably transform the quality  of life every day for eighty percent of the world   with our products and services, and so that's what  I mean that really our vision in every conference   room that we go to here in the common office  this is front and center the vision is listed   in our conference rooms and in what we do and I  believe you'll see that also in all of our press   releases. So with that I want to get started with  Heather and this is a common question that we get   and so Heather I’m going to let you have your  picture on and take off your muting. There we go   and so let me share a little bit about Heather,  she leads our sustainability program she's a   coordinator here and she coordinates globally from  all of our different Kemin locations and business   units so I thought who better to bring on today  than Heather. She holds her bachelor's degree in   environmental science and biology and for the last  decade has been working in the biotech and plant   science industry. So Heather sustainability  can mean different things to different   people and at different times, so can she can  you share with us what does it mean to Kemin?   Sure Kim. Thanks for having me today too. So  there's a lot of definitions for sustainability,   the one that we really focus on at Kemin  is that we want to meet the needs of the   present without compromising the ability of  future generations to meet their own needs.   Now that's really important for a family  owned and operated business like Kemin, is   we have the goal now to improve the quality  of life and for generations to come and   that's important as we do business and it's  important for the family too. So, we look at   three different pillars for sustainability,  social, environmental and business. This is   known as the triple bottom line, so this also  makes up our definition of sustainability.   The well-being of our employees our customers  and all the people that we serve globally   are important and belong to this  this definition of sustainability because we want to safeguard our planet's  resources for these future generations.   Great, thank you and I see that you  know we have the healthy planet piece   highlighted here and the reason for  that is if I didn't mention it before   this first part of our sustainability webinar  is focusing on the environmental aspect of   sustainability and our second webinar that you'll  see a little bit more at the end of this session   will be a month from now but that'll be focusing  more on the people aspect of sustainability. So,   thanks so much Heather for that. Let's go  to our next question that we typically see   from our customers questionnaires. So what's our  strategy? What are we doing about sustainability?   Sure so really it's important for us  to not silo sustainability or keep it   contained in a department really, it needs  to be integrated throughout the organization   to be able to have a company that sustainably  transforms so the strategy to do this there's   a lot of pieces to it. So first we had to develop  a formal sustainability program, and this is where   we can measure our impact. We can communicate  what that impact is and set and meet some goals.   We do this through that framework, that triple  bottom line that I spoke of and you mentioned   too. So, at Kemin, we know these as healthy  people, healthy planet, and healthy business. So   we have a sustainability score card where we look  at all three components of that triple bottom line   now we used 200 or 2019 as our measuring  baseline so we've continued to monitor   our progress on the scorecard throughout  2020 and our next step will be   in January of 2021 where we'll set some of those  environmental targets and goals that we want. Now it'll be important to focus on that  environmental impact of our company and this is   where then the next step comes in where we'll use  sustainability initiatives and different programs   to address those global challenges that  we face and to meet some of those targets.   Okay and is this scorecard used for  all of our global locations then?   Yes, absolutely so that's important for our  program to have one sustainability global message   but then we also have different regional  impacts and opportunities as well.   Okay great thank you. So then one of our third  questions that we that we get or that we see quite   a bit is what else is Kemin doing? Where do we  have opportunities in our sustainability program?   Sure so like you mentioned Kemin’s ambitious  goal is to transform the quality of life for 80   of the world with our products and services  and to do that sustainably so at the same time   that we're doing that we're also committing to  improve our social and environmental footprint   so really the only viable solution  is to do this sustainably.   We look at our environmental impact across the  globe like I said we'll set baselines for each one   of those areas and then prioritize some areas to  focus on we can do this and measure that through   our scorecard and some of the broad areas to  begin with are like reducing waste. Reducing   our emissions, so that's our carbon footprint  that we will look at that was on the scorecard   and also having a push toward natural processes  and ingredients is very important to us so   true sustainability really encompasses all three  of those dimensions of the triple bottom line   and we can look at business value in each one  of these areas using that triple bottom line.   Great thank you we appreciate that. And make  sure even though you turn your video off that   you don't go too far so that you can answer some  questions and feel free to look in the chat.   So I encourage everybody to type in your questions  for Heather and um she can pick one and answer it.   And then Geoff I see that you've joined us  so thanks so much I appreciate that. I’m   going to share a little bit of information about  algae and this is coming from the Quartz Journal   titled algae might be a secret weapon to combat  climate change and within this particular article   there were several interesting pieces of  information that algae is an extremely   sustainable organism it's renewable as well as  an economic resource that that we're really as   a world and we're just starting to tap into this  and the more I learn about algae through Geoff and   other team members the more I believe that this  article indicates that the biomass may help reduce   atmospheric carbon levels as well as create new  sources of renewable energy. Some algae but not   all can be rich in protein essential vitamins and  minerals and we'll talk a little bit more about   that because the specific strain of algae  that Kemin uses for BetaVia actually does   and it can be a new source of affordable  and nutritious ingredients for foods to help   alleviate food security so that I thought was very  interesting as well. In terms of commercialization   for those of you that are looking to formulate  with the algae I’d share that from the factmr   report titled algae supplements market forecast  from April 2019 looked at trends from 2019 to 2027   and the functional ingredient market, algae  surpassed 800 million in sales in 2018 and is   forecasted to grow faster than a seven percent  compound annual growth rate through 2027. So   algae is here to stay and it's going to get bigger  and bigger and more well-known of course it is in   our Asia Pacific regions we see lots of awareness  but in the North America area it is just now   becoming one that is more prevalent and so we  wanted to share that with you. So, Geoff is on   the phone with us to talk about at least questions  that we get about BetaVia, this particular algae   for immune health. Geoff is a marine biologist  by education and training starting out at the   university of Michigan and went on to do or at  least was looking at oceanography, which I just   think is super interesting, and then went back to  school at Michigan State to ultimately get his PhD   in this biology area. So, Geoff welcome. Thank  you. He still leads or he is the leader of Kemin's   R&D program that focuses on beta glucans and  specifically for immune health. So Geoff he was   a co-founder of the world's first commercial  scale producer of beta glucans from algae so   I am super proud to have him on our team since  2017 when Kemin purchased his company Geoff came   with us. So Geoff thanks so much for participating  today. So, the first question that that we get is why should our customers care about this  specific algae for immune health? What makes it so   sustainable? Sure, yeah. So you've just heard, you  know, that people are changing their preferences   for some of these ingredients and certainly  for people that are looking for immune health   ingredients they're going to be certainly more  in tune with where are these ingredients coming   from. They want to know the story behind them. If  they can be plant-based that's even better and so   algae actually provides a great opportunity to  kind of check off some of those boxes because   there's this tendency for people to associate  plant-based or even group algae into that category   of plant-based ingredients being certainly  healthy from a healthy standpoint but also   a more sustainable source and so sustainability  and transparency are really core to all of Kemin's   ingredients and that's why a lot of Kemin's  ingredients are actually derived from plants   but that's not to say that these molecules or  these ingredients don't have science behind   them it's just that Kemin as a company has really  focused on figuring out what molecules can nature   make that are both efficacious but can be produced  in a sustainable manner and so this particular   algae that we're using which is called the euglena  gracils is exactly a perfect example of this.   We're growing this particular algae for a specific  benefit which in this case is for immune health.   Great I appreciate that and really that is that's  one of the key reasons why we chose BetaVia made   from algae to really focus on that environmental  sustainable example. It's really a perfect one   for a plant-like ingredient then one of the next  questions we get and I’m going to use quotes here,   how green is this algae ingredient for immune  health? Sure, so if you advance to the next slide   it kind of gives a little bit of the  process for how we're making it. So   while this process is certainly considered green  from a sustainability standpoint the actual   material is actually gold in color and that's  because the way that we're growing this algae   is in fermentation tanks and so this is a little  bit of the process of how we make it. So we have a   pure strain of this proprietary strain of equilina  gracilis we put that a few of those cells into   these sterile fermentation tanks, you can kind of  see them in the background of this image. If you   walked into our facility it would look a lot like  a brewery or pharmaceutical plant where they're   doing fermentation so the algae are then grown  on food grade resources so we feed them nutrients   and sugars which are derived from plants and those  are the main nutrients that help the algae grow up   and we can grow them at a very high density and  at very fast rates in these fermentation tanks.   We then harvest out a portion of that tank every  day and we send those cells to a process where   we basically squeeze them into a paste and then  we pass that through a pasteurization process   and then we dry it with a simple process  without any extra additives to it and so   really this is about as clean of  a process as you can possibly get   and then it's packaged up and so this product it's  also highly consistent so since we're growing in   these fermentation tanks every day produces the  same quality of material as the last day and so   when you get a lot of material in March it's going  to look exactly the same as it does in September   or October. So this is a vertical supply chain  that we control we can scale up and scale back,   would that be accurate? Yeah so this is using no  byproducts and so we purposely grow this algae   only from making beta glucan so a lot of other  ingredients might be using other waste streams   or side streams but this particular ingredient  we actually grow the algae only for the purpose   of making the molecule. Okay so that's I have to  tell you sometimes when a process is so simple   it can be even tougher to get my head around than  when it's not so this was really a great example   of where we're conserving water and energy and  have the capability to produce an ingredient   that has so many benefits especially to immune  health. Right so let's go to our third question   and this was a perfect segway is it so important.  Why is algae so important for immune health?   Sure, so you'll see algae being used across  the wide variety of different uses and so   like Kim just shared that there's now almost  a billion dollars’ worth of algae sales   and those algae ingredients are targeting lots  of different areas and so maybe you're taking   some omega-3 supplements that might be derived  from algae in this particular case we're growing   this algae euglena gracilis so on the next slide I  think I’ve got some of the main components of it.   We're growing it specifically for the beta-glucan  content and so this is a molecule that's been   studied for decades really and hundreds or even  thousands of research papers have looked at beta   glucan as this immune modulating molecule and so  it's a very potent molecule and has a very defined   mode of action but what we did was we found that  this species of algae is really the world's best   producer of beta glucan. So over half of the  algae's body weight is this beta-glucan molecule   and so that's why we're growing this species but  while the molecule and the BetaVia ingredient   is targeting beta-glucan as the primary ingredient  there are also the other components of algae which   are also beneficial and maybe some of your  customers will place some value on it. So,   there's still the protein content of course,  there's very small amounts of omega-3 fatty acids,   it's also a rich source of other vitamins  and minerals and so in that way it's kind of   considered like a superfood. We're not marketing  it solely for the superfood benefits but really   the beta glucan is the main molecule here that has  the decades of research behind it. That's great,   thank you. So I want to give an opportunity  to get to some of the questions out there and   here they are this is wonderful thank everybody  for typing in all your questions like I said   there's no way probably in the next five minutes  I can get to all of them but let's go get and get   started here. Geoff there's one here for you it  says I thought that algae were supposed to grow in   sunlight why is yours grown in fermenters?  Sure, yep that's a great question we get it   all the time. So this particular algae can grow  outdoors and so if you grew outdoors it would have   more green color but the reason we're growing  it indoors is for a variety of reasons. One   is that we can have that in a very controlled  environment and so for a human health ingredient   you really want to make sure that you have all  the controls in place to prevent contamination or   other potentially harmful chemicals from getting  into your process and by doing it in the fermenter   we can keep it a very sterile and consistent  production but also from a sustainability   standpoint it's actually more energy efficient  and also more water efficient to grow it in these   dense fermentation tanks and so compared to  growing outdoors we actually save a lot on water   and a lot on energy costs. Great, all right, we're  going to get to another one here it says can other   algae species make beta glucans? So, there's a few  other species that can make it. They're all in the   same family of algae called euglena and so other  algae that you might be eating like spirulina or   chlorella, they're not going to be able to make  beta glucan. So, it's really only a select few   species that can make it and we were the first  ones to actually make it in fermentation tanks   for the purpose of beta glucan production. Yep  that's a great story as well as a great process.   I think we have time here for another question.  Let's see here scroll down says is your algae GMO?   Another great question. So, no it is not a GMO.  So this is a naturally derived strain we've had it   under our cultivation for almost 10 years now and  so it's certainly adapted to our conditions and   we have a place in a like a patent bank it's  not a patentable strain but we have this   unique strain identification for our strain  that we keep but it is not a GMO species. So   I know that's important for  many of our end consumers   that are concerned about GMO issues absolutely so  with that I’m just going to make sure that anybody   else who has I see there are more questions  in here we will get to you not necessarily   live but we will respond to your questions. I want  to just set the stage for the next sustainability event and that will be in about a month  from now and we will be focusing on the   social sustainability aspect of Kemin and  the ingredient that we've chosen to talk   about is Neumentix from our sustainably grown  and certified spearmint so we have Lauren Burt,   head of our worldwide communications, and Dr. John  Greaves joining us for that conversation. So, tune   in and contact me in between if you have any other  questions and thank you so much for joining us. 