 Now's part 2 of the Gamer's Score episode about generative music, if you haven't seen part 1, then it may be less understandable, so I'll put the link here so that you can see it first. So, Shadow of the Colossus: If you don't know how this game works, it's quite simple, you have to look for great titans all over the world in order to fight them. In between each fight, you go back to the altar and start exploring once again for at least 5 to 15 minutes. These exploration phases throw in some difficulty regarding repetition in the music because they happen a lot of times. In fact there are 16 bosses in the game, so a unique music for all exploration phases in between could really feel too repetitive. For the purpose of the exercise, I only included 4 bosses in the equation, because those are the ones my fellow composers worked on.They each composed a music for one boss fight. So, now that was better, I had a bit less work. It's possible to kill them in whatever order but for the sake of the explanation I'll just draw them like that. So this is much simpler, but still, even with 4 bosses in the game, the exploration music could quickly become too repetitive. That's why I decided to use a generative system, that could play for hours by using ideas that relate to each other without ever playing it the same way. My intention was also to create a theme that carries lots of emotions and can be quite recognizable and rememberable. To build it, I worked with my friend Nicolás, who did the music on the first scene of the game and was the one who came with the main features of the main theme. Once we had reinforced the theme with some variations, I had the material to throw myself into the composition of the exploration sections. As for the construction of the generative system, here is what I thought of. The structure is always being decided at random, following certain paterns. Almost any sequence of the sections I made can be chosen, and I composed them with that in mind. There's a part A, a part B, a part C, and an intro. The intro will always play at the beginning, when we get out of the altar. It's composed of this very simple accompaniement, that will always be the same, based on this chord progression. Once the intro is done, the system can pick whatever part he wants, it then move to another section by playing the transition that corresponds, that is, if it moves from A to B, it will play the transition "A to B". It can also play the same section twice. And here is where it starts to become tricky: There are two versions of A, that have a different harmony, there are two versions of C, that can be played one after the other or only one at a time, and each of the transitions also have up to 4 versions. This gives a great amount of possible variations to the structure, that can combine in many different ways. You could say that whatever the structure is, each time we hear a part that's already been played, we feel a sense of repetition, and since there aren't that many different parts, then the effect is limited. That's when I show you what's actually inside these different parts. Let's take for instance part A1. There are 6 different accompaniements that can be chosen, around this simple chord progression in F minor. Some of them were recorded in studio by live musicians. Some accompaniements are more dynamic, some more dreamy, some more solemn, and some more percussive. Each track can be combined with one or several other tracks. That gives 64 possible accompaniements for this section. For instance, here is the A section with the tracks 1 and 3... Here it is with track 5 alone... Or maybe we could try with 4 of them at once... Randomized melodies also come on top of that but I'll talk about it in the upcoming video, be sure to check it out when it's out! In A2, the principles are the same, except the chord progression is different, so we change the harmony. B is a long section that moves from the key of F minor to the key of G sharp minor. In the case where it should go to part C after that, which is in G sharp minor, then after the transition the connexion will be very smooth. In case it should go back to A or B, the transition connecting the parts will have very few harmony, in order to go back to F minor slowly and without any bumps. Overally, we want to avoid too much surprise in the music since the player can decide to do whatever he wants, including staying in place. We don't want to make epic key changes or to suddently jump from one section to another when nothing is happening on screen. That's also why section B is quite calm. The system can pick these 8 accompaniement tracks in any combination possible. On top of that, the system will always play one of these 3 tracks, that are very soft, but that can let hear some small things going on in case chance decides that none of the 8 tracks mentioned previously should be played. We want to avoid random full silence as much as possible, there must be a reason for it, or it must at least be well positioned in the structure. The combination possibilities are about 768 different accompaniments for this section. This great amount of possibilities rises the diversity drastically, allowing other sections to be less versatile and therefore stronger and more recognizable. In Part C1, the software I use plays one of these 2 tracks or none... To which it adds percussion or not. Plus, I made a strings accompaniement that always plays, once again in order to avoid silence being an option. As said before this section's a chord progression in G sharp minor. Depending on the accompaniment chosen, the tone of the piece will be quite dark or at least a bit melancholic. Part C2 has got the same kind of vibes, but leads to potential key changes with its open ending. The transition happening after it includes some silence in order to let the last chord ring and leave this in suspense like some unanswered question. The transitions B to A and B to C give some space to the composition, by allowing very subtle instrumental rhythms, and potential silence between large percussion punctuations. Finally, the transitions C to A and C to B have 6 versions and slowly change the key, with a soft/mellow accompaniement. I hope I have shown how it's possible to give some choices to chance without screwing up everything! We messed a lot with structure, it is largely generative, but also we messed a bit with harmony, like in part A when it's possible to have different chords progressions for the same overall music. We also gave the instrumentation lots of random features, since the parts that are chosen to play are very much random, and we also trickled with rhythm since some accompaniements are more dynamic than others, giving different feelings about the rhythm and tempo. You see it's quite complex and can develop in numerous types of ways. But you actually only saw the tip of the iceberg... What happens when you use the power of the sword in order to detect the bosses? What happens when you get closer to a boss's lair? What happens once you actually defeated some of the titans? I also mentioned a theme and melodies, and didn't show you any of them. Because I actually also messed a lot with melody, which is a major part of this project! Well, obviously all of this will come in the next video, be sure to check it out! All the work on the music and the system is done, I only need to present some good explanation for you ;-) Feel free to follow me on Patreon, any kind of help would be appreciated a lot! For those already following me on Patreon, be aware that I'll put some special previews and teasers as usual. See you soon! 