Risk FactorsThere are many factors that affect our business and the results of operations, some of which are beyond our control.  The following is a description of some important factors that may cause the actual results of operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness  Our substantial indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our business and our ability to incur additional indebtedness could intensify these risks. We are a highly leveraged company, and our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate sufficient cash to pay amounts due in respect of our indebtedness.  As of December 31, 2011, we had $4.1 billion of total long-term debt outstanding, as defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), and $278.7 million of obligations outstanding under our trade financing agreements, and we had the ability to borrow an additional $679.3 million under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Loan”).  Subject to the limits contained in our senior credit facilities and indentures, we may be able to incur additional debt from time to time, including drawing on our Revolving Loan, to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes.  If we do so, the risks related to our business associated with our high level of debt could intensify.  Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: •making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; •requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments on our and our subsidiaries' debt, which reduces the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; •requiring us to comply with restrictive covenants in our senior credit facilities and indentures, which limit the manner in which we conduct our business;•making it more difficult for us to obtain vendor financing from our vendor partners; •limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industry in which we operate; •placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any of our less leveraged competitors; •increasing our vulnerability to both general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions; and •limiting our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements and increasing our cost of borrowing. Restrictive covenants under our senior credit agreements and indentures may adversely affect our operations and liquidity. Our senior credit agreements and our indentures contain, and any future indebtedness of ours may contain, various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: •incur or guarantee additional debt; •pay dividends or make distributions to holders of our capital stock or to make certain other restricted payments or investments; •repurchase or redeem capital stock;•prepay, repurchase or redeem debt; •make loans, capital expenditures or investments or acquisitions; •enter into transactions with affiliates; •create liens; •merge or consolidate with other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and 11Table of Contents•transfer or sell assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries.Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior credit agreements or indentures, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable, require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these amounts and exercise other remedies.  If such indebtedness were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay this indebtedness in full.Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Certain of our borrowings, primarily borrowings under our senior credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk.  As of December 31, 2011, we had $1,540.5 million of variable rate debt outstanding.  If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease.  Although we have entered into interest rate cap agreements on our term loan facility to reduce interest rate volatility, we cannot assure you we will be able to do so in the future on acceptable terms or that such caps or the caps we have in place now will be effective. Risks Related to Our Business General economic conditions could negatively affect technology spending by our customers and put downward pressure on prices, which may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations or cash flows. Weak economic conditions generally, sustained uncertainty about global economic conditions or a prolonged or further tightening of credit markets could cause our customers and potential customers to postpone or reduce spending on technology products or services or put downward pressure on prices, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows.  For example, during the economic downturn at the end of 2008 and in 2009, due to a number of factors, including declines in the availability of credit, weakening consumer and business confidence and increased unemployment, we experienced significantly reduced revenue and gross margins when our customers and potential customers reduced their spending on technology and put downward pressure on prices. Our financial performance could be adversely affected by decreases in spending on technology products and services by our Public segment customers. Our sales to our Public segment customers are impacted by government spending policies, budget priorities and revenue levels.  Although our sales to the federal government are diversified across multiple agencies and departments, they collectively accounted for approximately 10% of 2011 net sales.  An adverse change in government spending policies, budget priorities or revenue levels could cause our Public segment customers to reduce their purchases or to terminate or not renew their contracts with us, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. Our business depends on our vendor partner relationships and the availability of their products.We purchase products for resale from vendor partners, which include OEMs and software publishers, and wholesale distributors.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, we purchased approximately 52% of the products we sold directly from vendor partners and the remaining amount from wholesale distributors.  We are authorized by vendor partners to sell all or some of their products via direct marketing activities.  Our authorization with each vendor partner is subject to specific terms and conditions regarding such things as sales channel restrictions, product return privileges, price protection policies, purchase discounts and vendor partner programs and funding, including purchase rebates, sales volume rebates, purchasing incentives and cooperative advertising reimbursements.  However, we do not have any long-term contracts with our vendor partners and many of these arrangements are terminable upon notice by either party. A reduction in vendor partner programs or funding or our failure to timely react to changes in vendor partner programs or funding could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows.  In addition, a reduction in the amount of credit granted to us by our vendor partners could increase our need for, and the cost of, working capital and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. From time to time, vendor partners may terminate or limit our right to sell some or all of their products or change the terms and conditions or reduce or discontinue the incentives that they offer us.  For example, there is no assurance that, as our vendor partners continue to sell directly to end users and through resellers, they will not limit or curtail the availability of their products to resellers like us.  Any such termination or limitation or the implementation of such changes could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations or cash flows. Although we purchase from a diverse vendor base, in 2011, products we purchased from distributors Ingram Micro, Tech Data and SYNNEX represented 11%, 10% and 9%, respectively, of our total purchases.  In addition, sales of Apple, 12Table of ContentsCisco, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo and Microsoft products comprise a substantial portion of our sales, representing approximately 53% of net sales in 2011.  Sales of products manufactured by Hewlett-Packard represented approximately 24% of our 2011 net sales.  The loss of, or change in business relationship with, any of these or any other key vendor partners, the diminished availability of their products, or backlogs for their products leading to manufacturer allocation, could reduce the supply and increase the cost of products we sell and negatively impact our competitive position.  Additionally, the relocation of key distributors utilized in our purchasing model could increase our need for, and the cost of, working capital and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. Further, the sale, spin-off or combination of any of our vendor partners and/or certain of their business units, including any such sale to or combination with a vendor with whom we do not currently have a commercial relationship or whose products we do not sell, could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations or cash flows. Our sales are dependent on continued innovations in hardware, software and services offerings by our vendor partners and the competitiveness of their offerings. The technology industry is characterized by rapid innovation and the frequent introduction of new and enhanced hardware, software and services offerings.  We have been and will continue to be dependent on innovations in hardware, software and services offerings, as well as the acceptance of those innovations by customers.  A decrease in the rate of innovation, or the lack of acceptance of innovations by customers, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows.  In addition, if we are unable to keep up with changes in technology and new hardware, software and services offerings, for example by providing the appropriate training to our account managers, sales technology specialists and engineers to enable them to effectively sell such new offerings to customers, our business, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected.  We also are dependent upon our vendor partners for the development and marketing of hardware, software and services to compete effectively with hardware, software and services of vendors whose products and services we do not currently offer or that we are not authorized to offer in one or more customer channels.  To the extent that a vendor's offering that is highly in demand is not available to us for resale in one or more customer channels, and there is not a competitive offering from another vendor that we are authorized to sell in such customer channels, our business, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely impacted. Substantial competition could reduce our market share and significantly harm our financial performance. Our current competition includes: •direct marketers, such as Insight Enterprises, PC Connection, PC Mall, Softchoice and GTSI; •value-added resellers, including larger ones such as Logicalis, Agilysis, Sirius and many regional and local value-added resellers; •manufacturers, such as Dell, Hewlett-Packard and Apple, who sell directly to customers; •e-tailers, such as Tiger Direct, Buy.com, Amazon and Newegg; •large service providers and system integrators, such as IBM, Accenture, Hewlett-Packard and Dell; and •retailers such as Best Buy, Office Depot, Office Max, Staples, Wal-Mart, Sam's Club and Costco.We expect the competitive landscape in which we compete to continue to change as new technologies are developed.  While innovation can help our business as it creates new offerings for us to sell, it can also disrupt our business model and create new and stronger competitors. Some of our hardware and software vendor partners sell, and could intensify their efforts to sell, their products directly to our customers.  In addition, traditional OEMs are increasing their services capabilities through mergers and acquisitions with service providers, which could potentially increase competition in the market to provide comprehensive technology solutions to customers.  Moreover, newer, potentially disruptive technologies exist and are being developed that deliver technology solutions as a service, for example, software as a service (SaaS) and hardware as a service (HaaS).  These technologies could increase the amount of sales directly to customers rather than through resellers like us, or could lead to a reduction in our profitability.  If any of these trends becomes more prevalent, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. 13Table of ContentsWe focus on offering a high level of service to gain new customers and retain existing customers.  To the extent we face increased competition to gain and retain customers, we may be required to reduce prices, increase advertising expenditures or take other actions which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows.  Additionally, some of our competitors may reduce their prices in an attempt to stimulate sales, which may require us to reduce prices.  This would require us to sell a greater number of products to achieve the same level of net sales and gross profit.  If such a reduction in prices occurs and we are unable to attract new customers and sell increased quantities of products, our sales growth and profitability could be adversely affected. The success of our business depends on the continuing development, maintenance and operation of our information technology systems. Our success is dependent on the accuracy, proper utilization and continuing development of our information technology systems, including our business systems, Web servers and voice and data networks.  The quality and our utilization of the information generated by our information technology systems, and our success in implementing new systems and upgrades, affects, among other things, our ability to: •conduct business with our customers; •manage our inventory and accounts receivable; •purchase, sell, ship and invoice our hardware and software products and provide and invoice our services efficiently and on a timely basis; and •maintain our cost-efficient operating model. The integrity of our information technology systems is vulnerable to disruption due to forces beyond our control.  While we have taken steps to protect our information technology systems from a variety of threats, including computer viruses and malicious hackers, there can be no guarantee that those steps will be effective.  Furthermore, although we have redundant systems at a separate location to back up our primary systems, there can be no assurance that these redundant systems will operate properly if and when required.  Any disruption to or infiltration of our information technology systems could significantly harm our business and results of operations. Breaches of data security could impact our business. Our business involves the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of coworkers, customers and others.  In addition, we operate three customer data centers which may store and transmit both business-critical data and confidential information of our customers.  In connection with our services business, our coworkers also have access to our customers' confidential data and other information.  We have privacy and data security policies in place that are designed to prevent security breaches; however, breaches in security could expose us, our customers or other individuals to a risk of public disclosure, loss or misuse of this information, resulting in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, as well as the loss of existing or potential customers and damage to our brand and reputation.  In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant.  Such breaches, costs and consequences could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. The failure to comply with our Public segment contracts or applicable laws and regulations could result in, among other things, fines or other liabilities, and changes in procurement regulations could adversely impact our business, results of operations or cash flows.Revenues from our Public segment customers are derived from sales to governmental departments and agencies, educational institutions and healthcare customers, through various contracts and open market sales.  Sales to Public segment customers are highly regulated.  Noncompliance with contract provisions, government procurement regulations or other applicable laws or regulations (including but not limited to the False Claims Act and the Medicare and Medicaid Anti-Kickback Statute) could result in civil, criminal and administrative liability, including substantial monetary fines or damages, termination of government contracts or other Public segment customer contracts, and suspension, debarment or ineligibility from doing business with the government and other customers in the Public segment.  In addition, generally contracts in the Public segment are terminable at any time for convenience of the contracting agency or group purchasing organization or upon default.  The effect of any of these possible actions could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows.  In addition, the adoption of new or modified procurement regulations and other requirements may increase our compliance costs and reduce our gross margins, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. 14Table of ContentsIf we fail to provide high-quality services to our customers, or if our third-party service providers fail to provide high-quality services to our customers, our reputation, business, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected.Our service offerings include field services, managed services, warranties, configuration services and partner services.  Additionally, we deliver and manage mission critical software, systems and network solutions for our customers.  Finally, we also offer certain services, such as implementation and installation services and repair services, to our customers through various third-party service providers engaged to perform these services on our behalf.  If we or our third-party service providers fail to provide high quality services to our customers or such services result in a disruption of our customers' businesses, our reputation with our customers and our business, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. If we lose any of our key personnel, or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our business could be disrupted and our financial performance could suffer. Our success is heavily dependent upon our ability to attract, develop and retain key personnel to manage and grow our business, including our key executive, management, sales, services and technical coworkers. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the efforts of Thomas E. Richards, our newly appointed Chief Executive Officer effective October 1, 2011, as well as the continued service and support of John A. Edwardson, our retired Chief Executive Officer who is expected to remain as Chairman of our Board through 2012, and our other executive officers. Our future success also will depend on our ability to retain our customer-facing coworkers, who have been given critical CDW knowledge regarding, and the opportunity to develop strong relationships with, many of our customers. In addition, as we seek to expand our offerings of value-added services and solutions, our success will even more heavily depend on attracting and retaining highly skilled technology specialists and engineers, for whom the market is extremely competitive. Our inability to attract, develop and retain key personnel could have an adverse effect on our relationships with our vendor partners and customers and adversely affect our ability to expand our offerings of value-added services and solutions. Moreover, our inability to train our sales, services and technical personnel effectively to meet the rapidly changing technology needs of our customers could cause a decrease in the overall quality and efficiency of such personnel. Such consequences could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. The interruption of the flow of products from suppliers could disrupt our supply chain.A significant portion of the products we sell are manufactured or purchased by our vendor partners outside of the U.S., primarily in Asia.  Political, social or economic instability in Asia, or in other regions in which our vendor partners purchase or manufacture the products we sell, could cause disruptions in trade, including exports to the U.S.  Other events that could also cause disruptions to our supply chain include: •the imposition of additional trade law provisions or regulations; •the imposition of additional duties, tariffs and other charges on imports and exports; •foreign currency fluctuations;•natural disasters or other adverse occurrences at any of our suppliers' facilities; •restrictions on the transfer of funds; •the financial instability or bankruptcy of manufacturers; and •significant labor disputes, such as strikes. We cannot predict whether the countries in which the products we sell are purchased or manufactured, or may be purchased or manufactured in the future, will be subject to new or additional trade restrictions or sanctions imposed by the U.S. or foreign governments, including the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions.  Trade restrictions, including new or increased tariffs or quotas, embargos, sanctions, safeguards and customs restrictions against the products we sell, as well as foreign labor strikes and work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of product available to us and adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. A natural disaster or other adverse occurrence at one of our primary facilities or customer data centers could damage our business. Substantially all of our corporate, warehouse and distribution functions are located at our Vernon Hills, Illinois facilities and our second distribution center in North Las Vegas, Nevada.  If the warehouse and distribution equipment at one of 15Table of Contentsour distribution centers were to be seriously damaged by a natural disaster or other adverse occurrence, we could utilize the other distribution center or third-party distributors to ship products to our customers.  However, this may not be sufficient to avoid interruptions in our service and may not enable us to meet all of the needs of our customers and would cause us to incur incremental operating costs.  In addition, we operate three customer data centers and numerous sales offices which may contain both business-critical data and confidential information of our customers.  A natural disaster or other adverse occurrence at any of the customer data centers or at any of our major sales offices could negatively impact our business, results of operations or cash flows. We are heavily dependent on commercial delivery services. We generally ship hardware products to our customers by FedEx, United Parcel Service and other commercial delivery services and invoice customers for delivery charges.  If we are unable to pass on to our customers future increases in the cost of commercial delivery services, our profitability could be adversely affected.  Additionally, strikes or other service interruptions by such shippers could adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis.We are exposed to accounts receivable and inventory risks. We extend credit to our customers for a significant portion of our net sales, typically on 30-day payment terms.  We are subject to the risk that our customers may not pay for the products they have purchased, or may pay at a slower rate than we have historically experienced, the risk of which is heightened during periods of economic downturn or, in the case of Public segment customers, during periods of budget constraints. We are also exposed to inventory risks as a result of the rapid technological changes that affect the market and pricing for the products we sell.  We seek to minimize our inventory exposure through a variety of inventory management procedures and policies, including our rapid-turn inventory model, as well as vendor price protection and product return programs.  However, if we were unable to maintain our rapid-turn inventory model, if there were unforeseen product developments that created more rapid obsolescence or if our vendor partners were to change their terms and conditions, our inventory risks could increase.  We also periodically take advantage of cost savings associated with certain opportunistic bulk inventory purchases offered by our vendor partners or we may decide to carry high inventory levels of certain products that have limited or no return privileges due to customer demand.  These bulk purchases could increase our exposure to inventory obsolescence.We could be exposed to additional risks if we make acquisitions or enter into alliances.We may pursue transactions, including acquisitions or alliances, in an effort to extend or complement our existing business.  These types of transactions involve numerous risks, including finding suitable transaction partners and negotiating terms that are acceptable to us, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, extending our product or service offerings into areas in which we have limited experience, entering into new geographic markets, the potential loss of key coworkers or business relationships and successfully integrating acquired businesses, any of which could adversely affect our operations. Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly. We may experience significant variations in our future quarterly results of operations.  These fluctuations may result from many factors, including the condition of the technology industry in general, shifts in demand and pricing for hardware, software and services and the introduction of new products or upgrades. Our operating results are also highly dependent on our level of gross profit as a percentage of net sales.  Our gross profit percentage fluctuates due to numerous factors, some of which may be outside of our control, including pricing pressures; changes in product costs from our vendor partners; the availability of price protection, purchase discounts and incentive programs from our vendor partners; changes in product, order size and customer mix; the risk of some items in our inventory becoming obsolete; increases in delivery costs that we cannot pass on to customers; and general market and competitive conditions. In addition, our cost structure is based, in part, on anticipated sales and gross margins.  Therefore, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure quickly enough to compensate for any unexpected sales or gross margin shortfall, and any such inability could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. We are exposed to risks from legal proceedings and audits. We are party to various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business, which include commercial, employment, tort and other litigation. 16Table of ContentsWe are subject to intellectual property infringement claims against us in the ordinary course of business, either because of the over 100,000 products we sell or the business systems we use to sell such products, in the form of cease-and-desist letters, licensing inquiries, lawsuits and other communications and demands. In our industry, such intellectual property claims have become more frequent as the complexity of technological products and the intensity of competition in our industry have increased. Increasingly, many of these assertions are brought by non-practicing entities whose principal business model is to secure patent licensing revenue. Because of our significant sales to governmental entities, we also are subject to audits by federal, state and local authorities. We also are subject to audits by various vendor partners and large customers, including government agencies, relating to purchases and sales under various contracts. In addition, we are subject to indemnification claims under various contracts. Current and future litigation, infringement claims, governmental proceedings, audits or indemnification claims that we face may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of our management regardless of the outcome. In addition, current and future litigation, infringement claims, governmental proceedings, audits or indemnification claims could lead to increased costs or interruptions of our normal business operations. Litigation, infringement claims, governmental proceedings, audits or indemnification claims involve uncertainties and the eventual outcome of any litigation, infringement claim, governmental proceeding, audit or indemnification claim could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. We are controlled by the Equity Sponsors, whose interests may differ from our other stakeholders. Substantially all of the common stock of Parent is held indirectly by investment funds affiliated with, or co-investment vehicles controlled by, the Equity Sponsors.  As a result, the Equity Sponsors control us and have the power to elect all of the members of Parent's board of directors and approve any action requiring the approval of the holders of Parent's stock, including approving acquisitions or sales of all or substantially all of our assets.  The directors appointed by the Equity Sponsors have the ability to control decisions affecting our capital structure, including the issuance of additional debt and capital stock, the declaration of dividends, and to appoint new management.  If we encounter financial difficulties, or we are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of the Equity Sponsors might conflict with the interests of our other equity holders, debt holders or other stakeholders.  Additionally, the Equity Sponsors are in the business of investing in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us.  The Equity Sponsors may also separately pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us.  Since our equity securities, which are not registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are not listed on any U.S. securities exchange, we are not subject to any of the corporate governance requirements of any U.S. securities exchange. 