 Hi, I'm Chris with WWBeds Custom Furniture and this is a murphy bed that I just finished up. I call this one the Alpine and the Alpine is characterized by the four flat panel doors across the face. But some changes we made to this one to give the customer exactly what they wanted was the outset lights, the stay-level desk and also the bookcases. We made them 24 inches wide and also, because of the outset lights, we are able to come out a little deeper and have enough room for like a printer inside. What we did in here is some adjustable shelves up here and a pull out for the printer. So you can access the printer when you need to. It makes it a little better for a home office setting. Also we extended the work surfaces so you have it doubles as the drink tray when its in the bed position. It also works as a extension to your work surface. Then we also put hanging file folder in here. There's 4 on this side and 2 on this side. The way we build our drawers is kind of unique. We incorporate the hanging file system in the way we build our drawers. So there's no need for bulky wire rack inside your drawer system to use the file folders. But to use the bed, you can leave everything on the desk as long as it is 8 and a half inches or lower. It stays level as it transitions. Just pull on the top here, it's very lightweight and very easy to open up. Rotate the leg and take it to the ground. The light system is controlled in two ways: by a touch sensor in the middle of the headboard so you have high,medium, low and then off. There's also a touch sensor here that can turn it on and off when its in the desk position so you have access to the lights with that as well. But you can see how the desk extensions also work as a nightstand or a drink tray for your desk. But to close the bed and regain your office space back, just lift the bed up, rotate the leg and close it up. This is our Alpine murphy bed with a stay level desk, 24 inch bookcases and the outset lights from WWBeds Custom Furniture. 