 NARRATOR: As it stands, this workspace that's placed in a closet just doesn't work. I've got a few tricks up my sleeve to transform this space into a functional and foxy work zone. I love the idea of using a closet as a home office. It's a great place to get things done because you're facing inward. No distractions. This closet already had some elements of an office, like this desk surface, at 20 inches, which is a great depth, since that's optimal distance from your computer to your eyes. It's also got a gap between the wal and the desk, which will allow us to drop the computer cord down to connect to the power strip. More on that in a sec. First things first, we're going to clear everything out so we can make room for some updates. When you're reworking a closet office, take everything out, and only put back what you need. As you purge, take note of things you want to keep, and any additional storage pieces you might need to buy or DIY to keep things tidy. Priming the walls and repainting this back wall into a less cave-like raspberry color is going to change everything. This color is going to invigorate the workspace and create the perfect contrast for the shelves. I'm adding a peg board zone on the left to create vertical storage, to get stuff up off the desk, maximizing this tiny 3 inch area. Peg board has all sorts of hooks and baskets that come pre-sized to fit, and can hold an amazing array of stuff. This closet doesn't have an outlet in it, which is kind of a problem. But you can run a long surge protector strip from the nearest outlet. That lamp was a total space killer. An LED light throws plenty of light into the work zone, and it doesn't use much energy. Now I'm going to use beautiful paper-- three different kinds, actually-- to pretty things up in here. Now of the accent wall is dry, we're hanging shelves. The first shelf needs to leave room for the computer monitor. From there, I'm going up 8 inches to leave room for small things. I wrap the the center in a metal contact paper that mimics brass. I'm papering the wood desk surface with some fine wrapping paper from the craft store. I've ripped it up into pieces to paper mache' it to the surface. Finding a pretty modern chair on a budget is no small task, so I updated a chair with some fine wrapping paper by simply coating the chair in craft glue. Than I papered and trimmed, and made a second coat afterward to seal it. It makes a huge statement. This paperwork's great because it's got a random pattern, and it's nice and thick. Also, it comes in just about the right shape and size. To finish off this work zone right, I'm dropping the printer onto its shelf, and adding a few storage boxes. I started with basic white boxes, and covered them in fabric to add some serious style. I'm tucking in some wood magazine file boxes up high to create a funky paper storage spot, and I'm rolling a file cabinet under the desktop to deal with work papers and bills. There you have it. From cave-like chaos to super sleek office space, all in a closet. 