 When are the robots arriving? When is artificial intelligence going to become a sentient being? They are going to be incredibly powerful! And we better have a good relationship with them! If it ever becomes real, then I think it would be the end of humanity. When do these machines have some status that comes close to the status that you and I have? What is a sentient being is the first thing that I ask myself when I read this question. Personally, I believe that it's very difficult to know when this will happen and at which scale it will happen. Human beings evolved overtime, and that gave us the capability to learn and reason and think, whereas if you think about AI, it's kind of the opposite. We are creating these machines. We are designing these machines and we are trying to give them that capability to learn, think and reason. We are still far an in my opinion, this task is impossible because humans are really complex structure both physically and socially. Also, depending upon the biological network. So to replicate the complex biological system humans possess is an almost impossible task in my opinion. Artificial intelligence is very good at logical thinking. Logical reasoning and logical stuff, but human beings have both logical and emotional and the emotional part is the most challenging part. How do use use this kind of logical development to develop this emotional. If we don't even understand what we are or we don't really understand how we generate, we come up into this kind of feeling, emotion. I don't see a way that we can program it into, an artificial intelligence to make it do the same thing. So we don't understand what consciousness is. We don't have a agreed upon definition of what intelligence is. At some point, they're going to be sentient beings or something like sentience. Now, in some sense, AI systems can have experiences, depending on how you define that, but many AI systems are hooked up to microphones and cameras, so they can perceive their environment in some sense of perceiving their environment. But I don't think that's where the question wants to go, so I think the question wants to go more: "When can they have real experiences?" And then these real experiences, I think, are supposed to be the kind of thing that are bound up with pleasure and pain or something like that, because that's the kind of thing that many people consider to be important for moral obligations towards these systems. I think we're really clever monkeys. I think give 100 years. I think there's a good chance we're going to have systems that it's going to be very difficult to say: " They're not conscious." Even though we might not be able to define why they are conscious. It's our own responsibility as well. How far we as humans want to go with everything being decided by robots around us. At that point, it becomes very interesting because then also the question is. So what are our responsibilities to these possibly sentient systems? I think what we really want to be trying to do is not think that the evolution of this technology is going to be equivalent to what humans are and in some ways recognizing the difference between humans and machines and trying to find a way of understanding how they operate that's alien to how we work. AI in isolation and standalone cannot be a replacement for human beings. There is definitely a need of some sort of collaboration between human beings and AI to be able to make informed decisions, better decisions in different applications. And to help humans to, you know, meet their growing needs in different areas. I think the way to address that is recognize now that these things have a potential to grow into entities that we will feel like are our peers in some ways, and so we better start developing good relational practices with them now. So that when it gets to the point, possibly where sentience is attained, consciousness blooms. That they look at us and they are like. Hey you guys are kind of like hanging out with you. We want to we want to stick around and you know build more amazing beautiful things with you instead of you know killing us or you know taking off to Alpha Centauri or something. 