 (gentle music) - Today, on The Future of Everything a special episode dedicated to COVID-19. I'm actually the guest for this meeting so I've asked my good friend, Howard Wolf, to interview me as a guest host. Howard, thanks very much. Tell them about your show first, and then let's get into it. - Well Russ, thank you so much for inviting me. This is an absolute pleasure. I'm a big fan, as I think you know, of The Future of Everything. I host my own show on Stanford Radio, Stanford Pathfinders, where we interview interesting Stanford alums. So, you would qualify as a most interesting Stanford alum. So thrilled to be here today. - I have a feeling we might cross-market this interview, so thanks very much, great. And I'm very grateful for doing this on short notice. - Well, and the short notice is because something very, very special happened here, virtually on the Stanford campus. The COVID-19 and AI Virtual Conference that was not even a germ of an idea, what a month ago? - That's right. - So, I would hope that you could give us a sense for the genesis of that conference, and how it all came together. - Yeah, so in my academic, when I'm not a radio personality I'm a professor at Stanford, and I work on applications of computers to medicine. And I'm part of a very exciting institute at Stanford called the Stanford Institute for Human-Centered AI, artificial intelligence. Because a lot of the work we do in our lab is about AI applied to medicine both discovering, like new drugs, and new treatments, and new diagnostics. But also using AI to improve healthcare. So anyway, this institute is very broad. It involves political scientists, computer scientists, English professors, and I'm the doctor in the group. - The ultimate, ultimate interdisciplinary Stanford effort, right? - It is, it is very Stanford, very interdisciplinary. And in fact, that's why I said yes. Because it gives me a chance to hang out with people who I might not otherwise bump into. And so, we have a great time and we have an annual spring meeting. And we were queued up for months, and months, and months we were planning the Stanford HAI, human-centered AI, spring meeting which was gonna be on neuroscience, psychology, and AI. But as the COVID outbreak occurred it became clear that this meeting, which was gonna be all in person, we were gonna have 800 people, was just not gonna happen. So we had a meeting on March 3rd, and we said, "You know what? "This meeting is postponed until things get better." And then Rob Reich, my good friend, and he turned out to be co-host of the meeting that we're about to discuss, he just shouted out. - A political philosophy professor, yes. - Yes, another professor at Stanford shouted out, "Hey, we should do a pop up meeting on COVID." And I made the critical mistake, and I'm putting that in scare quotes because it wasn't a mistake at all, of saying, "That's a great idea Rob. "We can have it be on COVID-19 and AI, "and we could do it on April 1st "instead of our in-person meeting." So this gave us 31 minus three, 28 days. So from March 3rd to April 1st, to figure out how the heck we were gonna do this online conference, who was gonna speak. We got the staff on board, this is an unbelievable staff. The director of communications had only been working for us for one week when we said, "Hey, by the way, you're doing a conference." So long story short, we had the theme, AI. We knew that it was gonna be all virtual because it was clear that this pandemic was leading to shelter in place, and that people were not gonna be able to travel. So we said, "Okay," and we said, "Let's make this broad." And we can talk about that, but this was a very broad conference on how AI is being useful in the battle against COVID along many, many different directions. - And before we get into the actual conference let's talk a little bit about the how, as opposed to the what. How in the world in 28 days did you create a conference that lasted, what? Eight hours, six hours? - Six hours, okay. - How did you do that? - So the first thing we did is we put out our network. Here's where having a broad set of people involved in the leadership on this institute where it's absolutely key. Because we all had different networks, and we sent out basically "All Persons" bulletins saying, "We are looking for high quality academic work "related to the COVID-19 pandemic." And so, the English professors, the political science professors, I know a lot of people at the FDA, I know people nationally in the AI and medicine community. We sent out messages saying, "We are looking for you, or your colleagues." And we had rules. First rule, it had to be directly about COVID-19. So it couldn't be, "We do other things "that might someday be useful." It was fine to be a little bit promissory but we wanted these to be projects that have done enough work to give us some preliminary sense of what was happening. And third was, what was the third? That we wanted them to talk for no more than seven minutes. And so, we got people volunteering, we knew about some people. It was in a broad array, and so we quickly, within about a week and a half, sent out our first wave of instructions. If you didn't say yes, the answer was no. Then we send out a second wave of instructions. That filled up the conference, we made it, put it in some kind of order so that it made some sense. I can tell you about the sessions in a minute, but we wound up breaking it up into four sessions. As you might imagine, we were stunned with how willing people were to put things aside. Many of these people are in the heat of the battle against COVID-19. But they were willing to put that aside and say, "Yes, I can take an hour, and I can give a talk. "And then, participate in a panel." - And I've gotta believe that one of the challenges in identifying the right people is that you want people that are deeply steeped in understanding of this, but who can translate it to a lay-audience. 'Cause your audience was not a scientific audience, it was regular people, right? - Once we realized that this was gonna out freely over Zoom. And by the way, we wound up having more than 10,000 sign ups the day, the night before the conference. We said, "This has to have an accessible component." So every speaker, and they deserve a ton of credit, got a call or an email actually, from our coms, communications people saying, "Look, it's a seven minute talk. "We need at least at least the three minutes, "the first three minutes of that talk, "to be accessible to the general public, layperson. "Then, if you wanna go into some details "for your scientific colleagues "in the final four minutes, go for it." And really, without exception the speakers did that. And I think that made it watchable by a very broad array of community. - So, you mentioned earlier that there were four sessions. What we those four sessions, and how did you end up choosing those topics to focus on? - I'm gonna tell you in a minute, but you need to do a reset. - Ah, this is The Future of Everything. I'm Howard Wolf as a guest host today, with a speaker that is known to many of you that listen to this show, Russ Altman himself. - Thank you, so four sessions. The first one was Framing and Landscaping. So, this was setting the tone. We didn't know where the disease would be on April 1st, when we set up this program. So we we said, "We need to do a reset "with people who can explain to us, "what's the deal right now, locally?" So we had a speaker talking about the hospital, and how Stanford hospital, as one example. How are hospitals responding to these challenges? We had Michele Barry, who's a professor at Stanford doing global health. She gave an unbelievable review. I should say everything everything I'm talking about is online, available at hai.stanford.edu. So you can watch all six hours, Howard, if you want to. And so can everybody else. Michel gave an unbelievable review of some of the countries, like Singapore and South Korea, that really were able to control this, and what they did. Some of it is startling because there's this line between personal freedom and government control at the time of a pandemic. And they made some pretty tough choices, but the end result of those choices is that Singapore, and South Korea really got things under control quickly. Of course, China had a story, Iran has a story, Italy has a story. She went over all of them in a beautiful. And then we had journalists talking about, how do you cover such a thing? How do you distinguish truth from fake news at a time when everybody's a little bit edgy, a little bit panicked? So first session, framing. We can talk more about it. - Can I interrupt, everyone's a little bit edgy? - Yeah. (laughs) - I think they're a lot of bit edgy, right? Oh my gosh? - And actually, I'm glad that you mention this, 'cause one of the goals of this conference was to have a balanced kind of scholarly view. Scholars have a bad reputation. We scholars, sometimes, seem a little bit ivory tower. You know, we're up in our universities, we're thinking of these big thoughts. But do we ever get down and dirty in real problems, with real people, that real people are having? And so I think one of the messages of this meeting really was that people can put aside their so-called academic specialty and say, "How can I help with what I know, "and the skills that I have in a time of crisis?" And that was a light motif, if you will, that was running through the whole conference. - Okay, how about the session session? - So, that was Landscape and Framing. Second session was Social Impacts and Biosecurity. I gotta say this 'cause I'm very proud. This was a 100% women panel. So there were the two of us who were moderators who were men, but all of the experts for that panel were women. They were fantastic, and they talked about infodemics. How do you manage a crisis? How do people respond to overload of information both from the mass media, as well as social media? And all of the dynamics that we're all experiencing. You know, people sending out emails with bad information. Well intentioned people sending out bad emails that are gonna do damage. How do you manage that? How do you get a sense for how people are doing? We talked about misinformation, and disinformation at a government level. So Renee DiResta was one of our speakers who said that, "Look at how China and the US "cover the same stories in their mass news." And both of them are manipulated in different ways. Obviously, the Chinese government plays a much bigger role in the messaging of the Chinese media. Really interesting analysis there. Megan Palmer talked about biosecurity, about how this is a real wake-up call that biology and policy can't come together at the last minute. We should've been prepared, we should've been thinking about these kinds of threats years ago. And the countries that did well did think about it years ago. The ones that were close to SARS and MERS, they learned that lesson a little better than we did. And so, they were ready to roll when this happened. And that's when they had some amazing output. And then we had a discussion about xenophobia, and this is unfortunate, really unfortunate. But of course, at times like this some people take advantage to try to basically pedal hatred and bias against other groups. And we're seeing that for Asian-Americans, and Asians in general, and one of our speakers talked about that really beautifully. - And why it's very important that we call it what we need to call it, and not name it something that's incendiary. - Exactly, and she made specific references to things that we've all seen on the news. Third session, - Third session. - was great, it was Tracking the Epidemic. This was the biggest session. There was unbelievable novel approaches to gather data so we can understand the status of the epidemic. So first, we started with a great discussion by my colleague Jason Wang, at the medical school, who was involved in Taiwan's response. And he painted a picture of what Taiwan, Taiwan is another one of these countries that jumped on it really fast. And it was kind of breathtaking how effective they were And also breathtaking in how they maintained public support for the loss of privacy. They were able to balance that because while they were taking away privacy and autonomy from the citizenry, they were also informing them about exactly what they were doing and why, and what the numbers were. So in general, people felt well served and didn't complain. And that was really remarkable. Then we heard some great, a series of talks from statisticians. I don't wanna steal their thunder but I will, a little bit. These were people doing, how do we use statistics to estimate the number of infected people who are showing zero symptoms, right? That's what we all worry about. Is this person who's four feet away from me, or six feet away from me, do they have the infection and not know it? And so, there are really nifty statistical approaches for estimating how many people are in that state. There was a young PHD student at Stanford, Tina White, who has this new effort to use Bluetooth communication between cell phones to track who you've been close to. And she does this in a way that preserves privacy. It's kind of like magic. And then there was Ryan Tibshirani, a colleague from Carnegie Mellon, who's working very closely with the CDC and federal agencies to get them the best information about the spread of the virus. So really, it was just an amazing sequence of talks. We had a start-up company talk, we had somebody who does Twitter analysis. This was actually a little sobering. Twitter analysis to show how people are stressed out. So we all know that we're stressed out, and guess what? The Twitter feeds of the world are making it abundantly clear, even to an AI program, that you're stressed out. And so we can actually get the temperature of society by looking at society's Twitter feeds. And you can just measure anxiety, you can sometimes measure depression. And this needs to be tracked because this pandemic, as you know, and I know very well, it's not just having health effects. It's having psychological impacts on the population, and we didn't wanna ignore that in this conference. - This is The Future of Everything, I'm Howard Wolf, a guest host. And my very special guest today is none other than Russ Altman, himself. So, we were talking about the first three sessions. What about the fourth session? - The fourth and final session was about treatments, vaccines, and care of patients. So this is, in some ways, what people are hungry for. We talked about analysis of the genome of the virus. So you know, everybody's heard about genomics and our ability to study DNA. We have, not we, there are scientists who have already isolated the virus, and not only sequenced the DNA of one virus but of all the viruses, or many of the viruses around the globe to see, are they mutating? So one of the pieces of good news, and this is kind of a full stop good news. This virus doesn't look like it's mutating rapidly to avoid therapies. The reason I mention that, and the reason this is so important is because HIV, another terrible plague for the last 30 years. HIV, one of the reasons we don't have a vaccine against HIV is it mutates so rapidly that by the time we get any vaccine that might be effective against it, the DNA of the virus has changed enough so that it evades that vaccine. Because the surface of the virus now looks different, and the vaccine doesn't recognize it anymore. - So, how comfortable are we that it's not actually mutating? - So, this is just good news, it's not proof. But the good news, is that if you look at other viruses and you compare the rate of mutation that we're seeing so far. And I have to stress it's not only preliminary data, but we don't have killer good treatments, so we haven't put pressure on the virus yet to mutate. So this could change once we have an effective treatment because then the virus'll say, "Okay, I gotta start mutating more." Maybe, I'm hoping that doesn't happen, There are reasons why that might happen. So, this speaker talked about the fact that while we're seeing some mutation it's not at a high level, and so a vaccine should work. It also indicates that people who become resistant to it after being infected should remain resistant, hopefully, for quite a while. All of this is preliminary. Remember, this is all a scholarly conference with an early look at stuff that we hope is true, but some of it is gonna be wrong. So, nice genomic stuff. Then on the entirely other side was a great talk by my colleague, Fei-Fei Li, about using AI to take care of patients in their homes, or in their hospital rooms. So, this was a view of the future with sensors in the room that are monitoring the temperature of the patient, their breathing rate, whether they've fallen. So, let me just tell you this hits home for me Howard. I have a dad who's in an assisted living facility. He's 83 years old, and he has early Alzheimer's disease. So he still knows who I am, we've been talking about the virus. I remind him every freaking day to wash his hands, and remember all these things. But he forgets all of this, every day. And I check in on him as much as I can, but I can't watch him every moment of the day. These sensors that Fei-Fei is building can, and they could then trigger alerts. They could say, "Russ, your dad just fell. "Russ, your dad has a temperature above 100. "Russ, your dad just coughed, "or coughed enough to be worried. "Whatever the threshold is." So, these technologies are not pretend. She is prototyping them at Stanford Hospital, and really looks like we're gonna have an amazing capability for in-home care, not just for all the elders, but for babies, and for everybody in between. And that was super exciting. I think it's probably time for us to go to break. - Well, if you suggest it since you are in fact Russ Altman, we'll do exactly that. Now, your show works differently than mine. Do you actually say the break right now? Do you say something? - Yes, go for it. We're still live, and so this is awesome, unvarnished. Take it away Howard. - This is The Future of Everything, I am not Russ Altman. I wish I were. I'm instead, guest host today Howard Wolf with my special, special guest, he himself, Russ Altman. Welcome back, this is The Future of Everything. I am guest host Howard Wolf, with my very, very special guest the show's normal host, Russ Altman. - That is definitely in scare quotes. - All right, so we've talked about the four sessions, and why you chose them. And you've given us a little bit of a sense for some of the take-aways. - I wanna throw in one more thing about the last session, if I can. - Please. - Totally shameless. The last two talks of the conference were students, or ex-students of mine, couldn't have been prouder. - Was that a coincidence that they were your ex-students, or students of yours? - It was not a coincidence. So, it was my knowledge of what they were doing. So, in both of these cases these students had started projects on COVID without telling me. And in both cases they came into my office around the time we were doing this conference, in fact. And said, "Russ, I hope it's okay "but I took some time and I did." And in the first case, it was an analysis of the virus to look for vaccine candidates. And in the other case, it was an analysis of the virus to look for currently marketed drugs that might be useful against COVID, just as a serendipitous side effect. And the remarkable story there is I didn't tell them to do this. They had done this on their own, and then had achieved result that were somewhat, I think, notable. And so, I put them at the end because, well, first of all, it would seem way too self-serving to have them up front. But the work was absolutely excellent, and I'm really proud to say you and the viewers can decide on their own. But I think these are two great talks from Binbin and Stefano. We'll call them that because that's their names. So, that was really a very satisfying part for me. For students who had started these projects, really, as what they call skunk-works projects, to be able to present their preliminary results at the meeting. - But isn't it the case that at Stanford, whether it's at Stanford medicine, or in the school of engineering, or the school of humanities and sciences, that a lot of faculties are pivoting to focus their attention on COVID-19. Because, I mean, we haven't faced a foe like this ever in the history of the world. At least not in modern times, not in the last 100 years. - You are right. - So, you're seeing people pivot all over the university, focused on this from a number of different vectors. - You know, you're so right. And you could imagine that, like, the medical folks would do that, right? Okay, I'm a medical folk and I'll. But this is way beyond medical folks. This is engineers, and humanists, and sociologists who are all saying, "How can I contribute?" And they all are, and that's why we had this incredible breadth at the meeting. I was afraid we would get dinged by the hardcore AI audience who would say, "Wait a minute. "You guys said this was AI and COVID, "but there was a lot of social science and human behavior. "I don't consider that AI. "You know, what the heck were you guys thinking?" I have not seen a single comment along those lines. And so, pivoting is what's happening in academics. You know that there are startups in Silicon Valley who are pivoting. I hear that GM is pivoting, GE, GM are pivoting to like, instead of creating cars they're creating ventilators. I mean, we're not out of this yet but the spirit of collaboration and flexibility that's coming out of this really has to be taken as a huge positive. - All right, so we know that we all can find the six hours of digital tape at hai.stanford.edu. But for those who don't have six hours, could you help distill some of the major takeaways from this that really resonated with you, that you think might really resonate with your listeners? - Yeah, thanks for asking. So, yeah first one, and we've hit upon these but let's make them short and punchy. First one, academics, small business, large business are all pivoting in a way that is inspiring, and is gonna lead to good. Period, new sentence. But, capital B-U-T, we should have been prepared for this way better. We should've learned lessons from SARS and from MERS and from these other things that didn't turn out to be major pandemics, but could've been. The countries and the governments that paid attention and that prepared had breathtaking speed. So I'm referring to the Taiwan story, the Singapore story. Breathtaking speed in doing things like getting armbands on all their citizens so they could track contacts. Getting access to cell phone data for this. So, the good news is the pivoting. The bad news is that so many people need to pivot because we were really caught unaware. So, that's those two big ones. It's kind of a good news, and a bad news. And then, at the next level it's that there are treatments that are possible from currently existing drugs that may get us past the next few months. There are people working very hard at new drugs, there are people working very hard at getting a vaccine. The normal vaccine is 18 months. I'm not a vaccine expert but if there is any way to get that vaccine in six to 12, I think we will. Because people are thinking very hard about prearranging the manufacturing so that as soon as the antibodies and stuff are ready, we can do it. So that's the first, those are three. I'll pause for a second because I think it's time for a reset, Howard. - I believe it is, I think it is time for a reset. And I'm Howard Wolf, I'm here with you today in The Future of Everything as a special guest host, 'cause we've got a very special guest, Russ Altman himself. - Thank you, so let me give a next level of a discussion. The impacts of this pandemic on human experience, and on humans, on all of us should not and cannot be ignored. They're measurable, our stress is measurable, the increase in mental health problems is measurable. And we cannot ignore this. So in the same way we have to be ready to help in future, we have to help our people now. Anybody who's been looking at the unemployment application numbers, they spiked in a way that was just within days of this conference. - Never seen before. - Never seen before. So we have to remember to be kinder, and gentler, and more sensitive to our fellow humans because you don't know what people are going through. They could be going through things that you would never guess. And this is from rich to poor. And so, that was a huge message from our sociology and humanist crowd. And then, the next thing is data. The quality of data needs to be ensured because people are building models. They are making life and death decisions, and they are all worried that if the quality of their data that they are using to make these decisions is bad, or is biased, bias is a huge one. So you can have missing data, that's okay. There are ways to fill in missing data. But the thing you worry about is when it's not missing at random, but it's missing in systematic ways. That means certain types of people are being left out of the analysis, and therefore will not be well-served by the algorithms. And so, that came across loud and clear. That we need to have data quality and fairness in our data collection. So the decisions that are made by the leadership are based on fair, good data. That was a huge message, as well. And then for our organization, nobody really cares about our organization, but this was a huge, I think many people are going through this. The only reason I mention it is I think many organizations are realizing the quality of their team, as they come together to do things that they never thought they would be able to do. And putting this conference together had that flavor. Like, "Holy crap, this is kind of impossible "so let's try to do it." And I think at companies, and schools, and organizations all over the country, people right now are seeing the quality of their co-workers and their ability to kind of band together to do things that are, would've been impossible two months ago. - You and I are both, fundamentally at our core, the way we're built, optimists. - Yes, that's true. - You and I, we share. - Maybe I picked the wrong guest host. - But the optimistic look at this is that the entire world, and the entire scientific community is searching for a vaccine, searching for therapeutics that will help deal with the impact of COVID-19. And so, that's exciting. But the other optimistic look at this is that it is making us all realize that there are no borders. - That's right. - That COVID-19 doesn't understand county, state, city, country, it doesn't understand any borders. And that we all live on this planet together. So, I hope we remember those things after this is well behind us. Because there are some, you know, there are slivers of light coming through these very dark clouds. But let me ask you about the research side of this. Are all of these investigators, all of these scientists that are looking for both vaccines and cures sharing their information with each other in a way that's never been seen before? - Yeah, thank you. - Are the walls being broken between researchers? - Yes, thanks for sharing that because that's another remarkable thing, as we saw examples. IBM was dumping all their data and all their code about the genome analysis for everybody to use. We had a talk actually about the standardization of data so that when you get it from your collaborators it's not a big mess of tower of babble, but it's perfectly ready to use. So, there has been an amazing breakthrough in terms of open science, and we had talks about open science. There's been competitions set up so that computer scientists who can't spell the word virus can still make contributions by making their skills. So, it really was a great example where data sharing has become key. And with that I wanna thank you, Howard, for being the guest host for The Future of Everything. We've just ran out of time. So, thank you to everybody who's listening. Please listen anytime of the SiriusXM app, and thank you for Howard. And we'll see you next time. - Russ, thanks for having me on the show. It was an absolute honor. 