  John: It's hard to believe that we're-- this is our job and we're getting paid to do it. I'd be doing it for a hobby if I wasn't doing it for DARPA. Ben: We're really excited to participate in the trials and we're looking forward to seeing who wins. Henry: This is a fantastically run competition and is really pushing AI to where it needs to be. VO: The AlphaDogFight Trials are designed to challenge algorithms capable of performing autonomous platform maneuvers in a simulated within-visual-range, air-to-air engagement, otherwise known as a dog fight. Dan: We are here at the AlphaDogFight Trials to see if we can get algorithms to perform at a level that human beings would eventually trust one day. VO: Eight technically and organizationally diverse teams were selected to test their intelligent, autonomous agents against an APL developed adversary agent in a series of simulated dog fights. Joe: Even though we're in first place, we-- our agents still came in slightly lower than our expectations, we actually wanted to be better. Leo: We're definitely going to take a look at our ground-avoidance routine as well as our banked-turn routine. Dan: AlphaDogFight Trials are a subset of a larger program inside of DARPA called ACE, the Air Combat Evolution Program and, in ACE, what we're trying to do is demonstrate scalable, trusted, human autonomy for air combat. VO: The goal is to successfully recognize and exploit adversary weaknesses and mistakes and to maneuver to a position of control while denying and defeating the adversary's weapon employment zone. Chris: One of our agents plays very conservatively. So, it flies around in a way that, you know, has a pretty low probability of crashing, but it also has a pretty low probability of scoring hits. VO: This is the first of three AlphaDogFight Trials competition events. Trial Number 1 is an exhibition match with the opportunity for teams to compete different agents and test the simulation environment at scale. Trial Number 2 is the first competition where teams will be ranked against each other and test their solutions against more challenging adversary agents. Trial Number 3 is the final competition and will take place in Las Vegas, Nevada. Teams will compete against each other in a bracket-style competition, with the top teams advancing to fight against US Air Force fighter pilots in a simulated dog fight. 