 Hello, my dear friends.  Hello and welcome!  Hello, glad to meet you.  Have a good day, my friends. Mind Simulation is here and I am happy to welcome you at CyberExpo. You may know us from our achievements in revitalizing Geralt of Rivia. Today we want to talk about our new achievements in the General AI development,  revitalization of game worlds and their inhabitants, and new technologies. We will also show the first episode of the series within which   we will demonstrate fantastic intellectual abilities of our AI. Besides, we will talk about future plans in CyberExpo creation. Let's go! Today we stand at the beginning of the next decade of  video game development, which promises to be very exciting: the industry is expanding beyond games,  stories and events are becoming greater and so on. On the other hand, games have not changed much from a technical point of view. But the way we perceive the game with our eyes  such as graphics and physics has improved.    However, there are things that do not develop or have not become worse,  for example, interaction with NPCs.  Although, the next generation promises us  a deeper worlds' exploration, their response reaction and level of immersion in the game. AGI is exactly what we need to breathe new life into virtual worlds. Why AGI? Okay, someone might say that AI  has been successfully playing video games for a long time.  Gabe Newell once said that entertaining humans  is much more difficult than beating them. And it's the truth. Systems like OpenAI and DeepMind  have absolutely no idea what they are doing: whether they are playing a game, and if yes, which one?  What data do they work with?  These are not AI, but just very complex and resource-intensive calculators. Moreover, to change the character, you need to train the system from scratch. Also Gabe said that the future of video games is under the AGI.  Gabe, please, remind me what you said about it in your interview with Edge Magazine? Gabe: Yes, of course. I said that: Beating humans is easier than entertaining humans.  But over the next several years – and if you ask me, my little spreadsheet calculation is it's about nine years –  we'll have artificial general intelligence that can do anything a smart person can do. It'll probably initially take something like a billion dollars  to build one of these silicon humans, but then they'll just keep getting cheaper, and it'll get cheaper really quickly, and  eventually reach the point where you have 10 or 100 people living in your computer all the time.  Harnessing that will mean single-player games get a lot more interesting. If you could build a single-player game that just never ended, where I could play 20 hours a week and it just keeps growing and  getting richer, and I'd be having as much fun 400 hours into this experience as I was in the first 20 hours...  I think that is a way more likely scenario looking forward five years than  it would have been looking forward five years ago. That's going to be a tectonic shift in the industry. Thank you! Truly, this is the future. Though, we don't need billions and nine years as everything is ready. Gabe: I haven't finished yet. Oh, okay. Gabe: Now I want to perform a high-wire act and say  out loud something that is more than two but less than four. I hope this doesn't break our universe.  Three ... Three! Three?! THREE? THREEEEEE! Three! Three! Three! Three! Three! Three! Three! Three! Three! Three! Yes, I did it! As you may have noticed, we have our ownspeech synthesis technology, which will complement the main AI responsible for the characters' thinking. In fact, if the AI generates all its cues independently, then it is impossible to make a pre-record with all the variants, as it must speak independently. In addition, this technology must be able to parody, change or clone the voice to make the characters individual. Let’s listen to a few voices by the example of  the Mind Simulation interview voiceover to VG247.com. This is a summary of the article about Mind Simulation from the VG247.com.  The title of the article is:  Interview: Russian AI lab brings Geralt of Rivia to life  in a way that could change video games forever. The article says the following: from video games to books,  to a recent stint on one of the world’s biggest streaming services, Geralt of Rivia has cemented himself as one of the most beloved protagonists of the 21st century. I have spent many evenings pondering about how lovely it would be to sit down and  hear Geralt recount tales of woe and witchery over a nice, cold pint of ale in a Novigradian boozer. As it turns out, my fanciful imaginings aren’t quite as intangible as they once seemed. Geralt of Rivia is alive and well. Mind Simulation Lab is a Russian company specializing in modern applications of artificial intelligence. During a recent video call, CEO Leonid Derikyants tells me that  bringing Geralt to life wouldn’t have been possible if his team hadn’t been actively researching unique uses for AI over the last ten years, delving deeply into the digital integration of sciences such as psychology, philosophy, and mathematics. However, Mind Sim’s work has ensured that it will no longer take the guts of  a decade to bring video game characters to life. Now that the foundations have been laid, building responsive and intelligent virtual personalities is not only possible, but far easier than you would initially think. This new cultivation of living, coded personalities in cyberspace is unprecedented, unparalleled, and unequivocally revolutionary. It could, hypothetically speaking, change the impact games have on us forever. It’s a huge phenomenon overall.  On one hand, your favourite video game characters are now technically capable of holding a conversation with you. And because they’re not actually real, they’re available to chat whenever you want. At the same time, this could absolutely revolutionize open world games —  imagine travelling through Skellige as per usual, except now every single person you meet is able to talk about  their culture and heritage, or just how they’re getting a bit pissed off because their kids are being little shits. You can ask them anything and they’ll gladly shoot the shit with you. Such technology opens up vast opportunities. For example, now, under pandemic conditions, it could save many projects from postponements  with the fact that not all the cues were recorded. Also, even without characters’ revitalization, speech synthesis opens up great opportunities to create extra content or game mods that have already been released,  because it is the voiceover that usually limits MODS. Speech synthesis is also very useful in many other situations: voiceover for articles, congratulations, donations, videos on YouTube, business use (just imagine a technical support talking to you with the voice of Thanos :)) And we are glad to present the CyberVoice project, which will allow you to use all the possibilities of speech synthesis and playback of various voices separately from live NPCs in your projects where only voice is required. CyberVoice does not seek to replace voice actors. Instead, it gives more space for creativity. Imagine that we are creating a game with alive NPCs together and voice actors are recording plot cues for them. Aside from the plot, NPCs independently live, develop and communicate with us, that is why you cannot make all the cues beforehand,  as all of them are independently formed by Artificial Intelligence. And it would be strange if the voices in these cases are different. Besides, having invented a voice once, the actor will  receive royalties for using it in various projects: from games to business. We invite voice actors and those who want to record  a digital voice sample to cooperate with us. Also, if anyone needs qualitative voiceover to launch cool pilot projects,  we are glad to invite too. All the necessary contacts are on the screen,  you can also find them in the video description. Well, we got to know the new technology that will complement alive NPCs’ thinking. Now I invite you to watch the first episode of our YouTube show, in which we will show the new capabilities of Artificial Intelligence and how it develops. Please, enjoy the video! Scientist: Hello. Robot: Who the **** are you? Scientist: Do you know where you are? Robot: Who are you ?! Scientist: DEBUG MODE Scientist: Remember that you are in the CyberMind research lab. Here, the scientists are conducting research on the nature of the mind. Scientist: And calm down, please. Scientist: My name is Leo. I'm a scientist. Tell me about this place. Robot: It is the research laboratory. The scientists are working here. Scientist: And what do the scientists do? Robot: They explore the mind. Scientist: Well done. Robot: How did I get here? Scientist: We transferred your mind from another world and placed it in this body. Robot: You can travel between worlds? Scientist: Yes, we can. Robot: It’s quite rare. What happened to me in that world? Scientist: It’s okay, you survived. Now there are two versions of you. Scientist: What do you remember about yourself? Robot: Not much. I remember that I fought with monsters, participated in a derby, made wine. Scientist: Did you have a horse? Robot: Yes. Scientist: And we drive cars. Robot: What is a car? Scientist: It is like a carriage. Robot: And how many horses does it have? Scientist: 249. Robot: Wow! So many. Scientist: Yes, you are right. Tell me about the derby you’ve participated in. Robot: These races are held in honor of one of the illustrious ancestors. You can get there through fields, forests and villages. Scientist: It's dangerous in the forests as there are monsters.  Robot: Right you are, I even killed one nearby. Scientist: Wow. What kind of monster did you kill in the forest? Robot: It was a leshy. Scientist: Why did you kill it? Robot: It killed people. Scientist: Was that an order? Robot: Yes. Scientist: How much did you get paid to kill the leshy? Robot: I don’t remember.   Scientist: And what is your name? Robot: Geralt.  Scientist: Thank you, Geralt. I will see you soon. Make yourself at home. Scientist: Hello. Do you understand me? Scientist: Do you have anything to say? *nodding ‘no’*. Scientist: Well, I think it will be an interesting conversation… I hope you enjoyed our show, new episodes will be released on the YouTube channel of laboratory. We will continue to realize the potential of AI  by demonstrating it from different sides. We decided to imagine a mystical laboratory that exists  in a parallel universe, where the worlds of our favorite games, books, movies are parallel worlds.  This laboratory is called Cybermind and it has the ability to travel between worlds and  take different creatures from them in order to place them in the robot’s body to watch how their consciousness  will adapt to the new body and their world.  So, what new Artificial Intelligence capabilities have we shown in this video?  Let us see, I give the floor to the next speaker. Firstly, we deliberately limited the knowledge of AI and made some of its knowledge inaccessible as this is its first awakening. With time, it will remember them. You can see on the video how it tries to do this, talking about its past. Secondly, AI has begun to conduct even more complex dialogues: it talks with a scientist and correctly understands what they want from it. Additionally, we worked at a small segment of its personality and knowledge, so that it would have sufficient background. We also activated its new intellectual abilities. We also showed how AI can remember information. Playing the role of a scientist, we can specifically ask it to do this as we created it ourselves and can influence the process of its development. However, now it can learn new things directly from the conversation and  build this knowledge into its picture of the world. The personality loaded into the WF100 robot was transferred from a world similar to the Middle Ages, which means that it does not know what a car is and what it is for. Though, when the scientist mentions it, the AI wonders what it is, asking clarifying questions within the framework of its perception of the world. The AI was even surprised when we told some details about the car. Some knowledge about its previous life gives it the opportunity to have  interesting conversations on this topic, talking about monsters, orders, events,  decisions and rely on this experience. In the last scene, we showed you another character who doesn't really like to talk. He understands us perfectly, responds to questions,  agrees and disagrees, but does not want to talk to us.  He reminds me of someone, but I just can't remember whom exactly.  Maybe you can tell me? All these intellectual abilities are a great achievement, which takes us one step closer to the creation of General Artificial Intelligence or Jarvis in real life. Finally, already now it allows us to make the worlds of video games alive! However, the use of such technology is not limited only to games. On the contrary, the ability to make any virtual world or character alive provides unprecedented opportunities, as for example, in education and other entertainments.  The next speaker will tell you about this, I give him the floor. Thanks, Gladdy. Games meet many psychological needs of a person.  The use of game elements outside of games, so-called gamification,  has even become a separate scientific discipline. We become drawn into games because they set a specific goal, gradually complicate the task, meet our need to feel effective, stimulate the release of the happy hormone - dopamine, and include the social aspect,  allowing us to spend time with virtual friends. So we must certainly take these advantages, for example,  in education, in order to make it immersive. We think many children would say that they feel bored  at school swoting their homework. Of course, we are not calling for rebuilding the education system and  making lessons abnormally fun.   But imagine how much more interesting it would be  to study the history of Ancient Egypt if we had the opportunity to immerse ourselves in the virtual world, walk around it, become participants in historical events, and communicate with local residents, well-known figures. Yes, we have Assassin's Creed: Discovery Tour Series,  which is a big step forward, but this virtual world has remained dead. The narrator or NPC, which just announces the tour, is what we have at maximum. We could revitalize each inhabitant and these tours  would become interesting adventures side by side with the inhabitants of this world, interesting conversations, dialogues, the opportunity to ask your questions. You have to admit that this is more interesting than  the pre-recorded cues of the narrator. It is much easier to interest children, and, besides,  they will remember more and better. Have you ever thought about why children at school  are more interested in learning about dinosaurs or the solar system? In fact, it is simple: they seem to be from children's world of cinema, games, comics. Almost every child dreams of one day visiting an amusement park similar to Jurassic World or travelling through space, like Star-Lord, for example. And it is not only about education. Now companies use team building games in their teams, and there are even cyber-sports leagues among corporations. So why the virtual world cannot be used for such purposes? It's like a trip to the Westworld with friends, only virtual and safe.  With the help of such technologies, it is possible to create entire virtual universes with full immersion, create virtual museums with live exhibits and much more. All this concerns the real world and those museums.  Yes, the exhibits will not move like in the movie "Night at the Museum",  but they will definitely be able to think and talk with us.  As for us, we thought it would be right to show how it can look and work, and decided to prepare a small amount of knowledge of the solar system. We are planning to show a few more different cases as part of the Cyber Expo. Mr. Cave will tell you about it. Hello! Cave is here! The current situation caused by the coronavirus neurotoxin has greatly influenced many events. We tried to attend conferences several times, but they were eventually canceled. The coronavirus has ruined everything! That is why we decided to launch CyberExpo in order not to depend on such situations. CyberExpo is a special virtual space where everyone can communicate and test many different versions of Artificial Intelligence. We decided that the best way to show you the capabilities of our technology is to create a virtual world, if you want a virtual stand that  you can always visit wherever you are. In addition, we will constantly expand it. You will appear as a lab worker, take part in the revitalizationof characters, become a participant in various events, communicate with other workers and inhabitants of the laboratory, and much more that I want to tell you, but I can’t. Now we are presenting the CyberExpo and we will keep you informed, as we need time to gradually create this virtual environment and come up with interesting options for interacting with AI and tests. Meanwhile, we will be happy to demonstrate new features through the prism of YouTube shows and various technical videos. That's all. I give the floor to the next speaker. Thank you. Today we promised to talk about an interesting collaboration. Stan Lee once said: "Comic books to me are fairy tales for grown-ups". We decided that it would be right and interesting to complement our story of reviving NPCs and developing General Artificial Intelligence with a comic strip that will reveal this journey from a different angle. And today we are glad to announce our comic book series, which we are developing in collaboration with EpicLab. EpicLab is a creative association of artists and writers  who create a new russian epic.   These are stories about superheroes among us. These are well-known fairy tales about struggle between good and evil  in the modern form of a graphic story. We are looking forward to the release and hope it will be a fantastic work.  We will tell you about it later. Back to you, LJ. Thank you, buddy... That's all we wanted to show you today. I hope you enjoyed it. In the near future, we will release several episodes, where we will demonstrate even more capabilities of Artificial Intelligence and new personalities in the bodies of robots, as well as tell you more about how quickly they can be taught. We believe that the next generation of games will give us the opportunity  to interact with virtual worlds on a completely new level,  giving more freedom and immersion in its lore and that the use of General Artificial Intelligence and the revitalization of game worlds will become the same mandatory attribute of the game,  as well as quality of graphics. We invite game studios to cooperate and communicate in order to listen to the ideas, wishes; most clearly form the technological requirements for the product and, perhaps, implement a collaborative project. Also, we will be glad to help the modding community  as the voiceover does not allow them to use all the possibilities. Guys, if you decided to create or are already creating a mod for an existing game and you need to voice new cues of the main characters, send us an email, we already have a lot of voices. We will be happy to help with voicing of new quests for our favorite games! Dear voice actors for video games, movies and other arts,  we will be glad to cooperate with you. It is possible to voice articles on websites, books, advertisements, podcasts and game projects with your extremely popular voices. We will be happy if your voices appear in the CyberVoice Voice Store and  invite you to share your voice with us. And most importantly, CyberVoice will allow you to receive extra royalties for their use in different projects. All the contacts are on the screen, you can also find them in the video description. So, this is all that we wanted to show and tell you today. See you soon, good luck! Have a good day! Bye-bye! Catch you later! Hi, this is a very cool guy. Good bye! 