 Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning are often referred to each other interchangeably. And it is a fact that the average person isn't able to distinguish between AI and ML even though we rely on both technologies in our daily lives. Did you know that both AI and ML are very different? Let's find out the difference! AI stands for Artificial Intelligence,  also known as machine intelligence. Early development of AI focused mainly on calculation. Today, we are interested in AI applications that can make decisions on its own. There are two types of Artificial Intelligence. Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) and  Artificial Applied Intelligence (AAI). The primary goal of Artificial General Intelligence (AGI), also known as "strong AI" or "full AI", is to develop a machine's ability to understand, learn and carry out tasks in the same way a human can. Artificial Applied Intelligence (AAI),  also known as "weak AI" or "narrow AI", refers to software that is used  to automate a certain task. However, AAI doesn't aspire to simulate the full range of human intelligence. Meanwhile, Machine Learning (ML) is a set of algorithms that analyzes large amounts of data to detect patterns  and make educated guesses. There are different types of Machine Learning, one of which is Supervised Learning. Algorithms are taught using labelled data, applications such as Google Maps are trained to using data such as time and date in order to calculate how long it will take a user to get home via a given route. Next type of Machine Learning is the Unsupervised Learning, which on the other hand  uses unlabelled data. It enables machines to detect any patterns it can find. However, it can be a useful technique to find previously undetected patterns  and unsupervised data that are less obvious. The last type of Machine Learning  is Reinforcement Learning. Algorithms that learn by trial and error in order to achieve a given objective. Reinforcement Learning was used to develop AlphaGo, the first computer program able  to beat a world Go champion. There are 4 key differences between AI and ML. First, Machine Learning is one of many Artificial Intelligence applications.  Secondly, Machine Learning is a subset of AI. All Machine Learning is Artificial Intelligence, but not all Artificial Intelligence is Machine Learning. Third, there is a more specific objective behind Machine Learning applications.  And lastly, Machine Learning learns from data, while Artificial Intelligence is  a simulation of human intelligence. The truth is Artificial Intelligence  and Machine Learning are already very much a part of our daily lives  and it has also made possible a wide range of applications to make our lives easier and more fulfilling. As for what comes next, the sky is the limit! 