 - [Narrator] Healthcare is transforming right before our eyes. Across the entire ecosystem, providers, insurance companies, pharmaceuticals, device manufacturers, and Health Information Technology firms are all grappling with changing patient expectations and payment reimbursement models. Balancing the competing priorities of financial performance and quality of care. The need to be always on, always available, and always connected with the need to ensure the security and confidentiality of all patient records and communications. To meet these challenges, it's essential to have a network capable of securely connecting patients, providers, and the entire ecosystem that supports them. That's why you want Masergy. Masergy pioneered software-defined networking over 20 years ago. And year after year, is named by Gartner as a visionary for global network services. Healthcare providers are deploying our SD-WAN to gain needed IT agility and flexibility while supporting HIPAA and MACRA compliance. It comes out of the box with flexible access options; embedded security based on Gartner's Secure Access Service Edge, SASE, standards; direct connections to cloud applications, including voice and video to support the rapid adoption of Telemedicine, all embedded in the Masergy platform. Plus, all of this is managed via a single portal with real-time analytics, controls, and AI-powered automation known as AIOps. And you can be confident in our quality of service as we offer a 100% availability guarantee to the cloud and your applications. A key difference for Healthcare firms is Masergy's extraordinary customer experience. We work with each provider individually to establish the right design, security, and support. Our unwavering commitment is evidenced by our customer retention rates and NPS scores that lead the industry. Whether you're deploying new medical IoT applications, launching telemedicine services or implementing the latest compliance procedures, Masergy is the partner who can bring you the security, flexibility, and reliability to meet your cloud and network needs. 