 Citrix is a partner of the episode. Supplier of support solutions user and working environment remote and modern solutions with network area and application security. SD-WAN seems to have doesn't do anything that couldn't be done until now, because it was possible prepare the configuration, you could upload it and it could be connected to the cloud. It's . everything could be done. But for some reason, it often failed. To this can be added such things that could not be done in fact, like a duplicate package, that is one package we send two by paths. It's on computer networks there's always been a little taboo. You cannot send two copies of the package, because it won't work. We have such reference customers, not in Poland, who use this solution on ships that they're floating somewhere by the shore and there's several modems connected to different operators, and it still uses these which, at any given moment, at any given a piece of coastline work best. Part! My name is Marcel Guzenda, I am an IT consultant and welcome you to my channel, where we talk about various technologies from the IT world, and aspects of of the business they're in. I remind you to download a free document from which you can prove what are the main issues to be addressed take into account when choosing an IT solution. You will find the link in the description under the material. In today's episode you will find out is what SD-WAN is, What are the benefits of to implement this technology, What are load-balancers and how they work a and how modern technologies influence to improve work in a dispersed environment. About these and other interesting topics from of the IT area, I'll talk to my guest today which is Jakub Leszewski from Citrix. Hi, Cuba. It's a pleasure to meet you. to welcome you on my channel. Hello please introduce yourself say a few words about yourself, about your about your career and how you found yourself at Citrix. Hello, everyone. Hello . of all listeners and spectators. My name is James Leszewski and I am sales support engineer Citrix network solutions. A few words about career is difficult the question, because a few years have passed and you have to shorten it somehow, to show it quickly. I think this is quite a typical career somewhere in college, I started working in the computer network industry actually in some little firewall, the kind that and it's still possible to reconcile with college. Then I worked for many years in a big company Polish in various positions and as a Windows administrator, as an information security specialist. Then I ended up there in one of the team he's been working on. Data Center and I have participated in all the evolution of this data center, in the centralized systems. Then in moving this data center. I was mainly involved in the computer network and the whole network, among other things. Data Center starting with the switches through the routers, through firewalls, load-balancers, too. in the end brought me here, we'll definitely come back to that. After a few years in this big company I made some first certificates there and I got to the Integrator It's like you remember somewhere out there, in those days we've met at various meetings. I worked there for a few years doing various projects in the area mainly Data Center and network, but not only, I did a lot of load-balancing there, too How did this come about, as I was I've already had experience from the previous working a load-balancer as if so naturally it came to me. Projects I've done clients in the load-balancing area web application security and all these areas, whose load-balancer is used. And then she showed up such a job offer in Citrix a company I've heard a lot about is a very well-known brand, it's probably also we'll tell you later. I knew they had this product that Citrix was then offering A load-balancer has always been a product that I never I haven't seen the eyes and actually until then, but always he was scrolling as such somewhere a top-of-the-line product. On more developed opportunities always very well rated. I managed to get through the recruitment. These meetings looked pretty much like it's so cool that we got caught contact with people with whom I had a chance to talk. It's been suggested that ok then maybe you want to be the face here Citrix for solutions network in Poland? I found - Why not? If not now, when? Well, I came across two years ago as a sales support engineer. Sure. You said it, You mentioned the Load-balancer I'm sure it's still we'll talk about them. But just, say the network coverage for which you're particularly responsible today? As for the products, for the whole Citrix network product portfolio so here we have actually two basic areas one Load-balancer because this is the base it is very narrow-minded because it's does a lot more things we'll talk about it, and the second area is SD-WAN Also in this area pretty much we invest, we develop this product. We also have some history of previous products and it's like two areas, SD-WAN and Application Delivery Actually, Application Delivery and Security's what it's called a full turn-around now. But there's also some other products. All systems the management that here we deliver for it. Allowing for the coverage of these schemes, these products specific to this one and only the control management element. We also have some cloud solutions related to this network area and such a product is called WEB and API Protection is so cloud-based a service, such as the WAF Cloud and protection against DDoS attacks. This service is also provided by Citrix and now the new things that come up is such a development of the concept SD-WAN, here we are talking about one the SASE trend, which is Secure Access and Services Edge And here they come certain network products. Certain network products run in the cloud. That sort of thing, too. Cloud access point to the application also it's starting right now. And this is another product that I'll take care of it. Sure. A lot of it. To some of the those areas you mentioned, We'll come back later of our conversation. And yet so for starters, tell me and our to the viewers, especially about some interesting whereby you've been involved in the last time or your team or maybe you supported one of the partners. Of course, about a project like this, about which you can say. That's right. the question, because those projects about which I could talk by exchanging a client with names, those are the ones in which the client has agreed to to be such a reference and such We also have projects in Poland a few this year. One project from the network area, where the customer launched our load-balancer and it's big e-commerce installation, but maybe I can tell you other things kind of here maybe without naming customers? I I'm asking more about technology and what's especially in the latter, such quite a bit different from the standard period you've just been implementing, while you were working. Yeah, sure, because here's the Citrix I think most the audience is rather associated with technologies associated with a remote accessible, remote desktop with the so-called VDI and actually those customers in Poland a bit is which of our technologies they use virtualization. And now this year, you know that the year was very specific This remote work as if it had appeared en masse and here it surely we've had some work of this kind projects where it turned out that those customers who have used these our desktop virtualization technologies rather in such an enclosed environment they worked in the offices, and they were connected there to virtual desktops or the application, suddenly they had to go and do the same from home. And they had to be equipped with this remote access element, that is our The access gateway and this gateway prepare to was able to handle this traffic so that an adequate level of safety provide. Here's the possibility these devices are quite large when it comes to the mechanism authentication, integration with various authentication and integration systems with one-time password systems, etc. These are the things that are now the standard, this multi factor multi factor authentication it has to appear in this. And here the customers had a variety of extensive requirements and you needed our gateway prepare for it. There were a couple of such interesting ambitious ones, yes from a technical point of view ambitious tasks, where it was necessary to have such a less standard the integrations to carry out and here I was actually involved because I'm normally a sales support in basically at this post-sale stage I'm already less involved, but in a way, of course, it's also I'm supporting because in the end it's important that this client has decided on our the solution was satisfied and this element salesman, too. In any case. here, too, was my role help you out a little by sending out various information and finding out some things from our engineers, too. developing these products, how to carry out this integration with such less typical products. For example, Multi factor authentication So how to build multi-component contextual policies authentication according to the client so he expects to be sure that remote access takes place in a safe way. Here, too, I'm sure a lot of it. Tell me, Cuba, if it had a connection with the current situation COVID with pandemic and growth demands or have you noticed an increase the needs of customers for some a particular type of your solution whether it has somehow increased avalanche or the customers were already prepared and that was the point Just scale up what they already had? How come did it look from your point of view? Like I said in the previous question, many of our clients when it comes to these the solutions use these solutions rather in a LAN-WAN environment So, in the framework of to the office and they work there. Except they don't have everything locally have remote access to the computer so one party was not prepared to work remotely, because you don't they had this remote access. But what is in a sense the advantage of this solution is that in the case of remote working, nothing does not change from the point of view of of the user. He has exactly the same experience as you with our solutions desktop virtualization and applications. It doesn't matter if he's in the office or if he's at home on your own computer, or on the company computer he took from the office. It has the same access screen, the same a way to apply, just like the authentication process as if you could say employees here they were ready to work with a given the question was to ensure that it was from a given channel, i. e. the launch of this gateway that will let in safely, confirm their identity and it will also provide them with their working environment to the computer it's in the house. There was also the question of more of this the access device, respectively scaled up so that all employees who are to get in remotely, were able to do it. Why am I asking because as demand increases along with everyone else's they started working remotely. Many manufacturers I don't want to say that quickly but started to prepare some the products adapt to this. I have the impression that you as Citrix have so much years you've been working in this area. This shared work, this remote work these shared environments for the employees that, in a way. this period is now a little bit of your normalcy you could say that in quotes, of course. Well, yeah. That's the foundation of Citrix This remote work and remote access is that's where the company comes from. It's all about it, it's all about it all the time that this is your working environment was delivered to him so that he could have like to work most comfortably and efficiently. You're certainly right here, too, and here, as I say from the point of view user, those customers who use virtual desktop solutions, virtual applications, it is from the point of view of the user, i. e. the employee in of these companies, in these organizations, is nothing has actually changed. It launches the same application that we we deliver the one that shows them these their desktops or virtual applications. It doesn't really matter whether they do it while they're in the office, or do they do it while they're outside the company, home on your own computer or possibly a company computer. And in fact, there is a certain advantage here how does this compare to a model in which you had to send your employees home where the only access channel to the application the company's VPN, which so far but was usually used as such solution as such a technical tool for administrators for those more advanced users as such access networked because a large-scale VPN is not a solution that is easy to maintain it's pretty embarrassing from the point of view of and that end of certain risks related to such events. We've also seen this VPN model at customers who complained that this model in access remote by VPN no upscale especially for those less advanced users. And here in Poland maybe less of that kind there have been implementations, but in the world if the thing about Citrix is that we're actually early in the year they switched to support the clients are just so that they they saw our approach to to work remotely and to had a chance to see how then you can compare it with to such remote technical access implemented by the VPN channel Yeah, you mentioned the States of the United States no bo Citrix is a global brand, is a manufacturer in the United States of America, known as most, but on the Polish market you are present for some time, tell me how the structures as far as Poland is concerned You have your office, you have your some kind of headquarters for Poland? How does it look? Yes, Citrix is actually an American company, from there. But I wouldn't say that only in the States is known because it is in many countries. This remote work based on Citrix solutions is very popular in Europe and Asia This is a global company. It's different as far as the regions are concerned. That's probably because of some historical aspects. As for this Poland, our our presence in Poland is actually there has been a representation for many years commercial, let's call it that such a sales office where I, among other things, work as technical sales support and here in this sales office in Warsaw we have a few people say yes because it's responsible for the minor the person responsible for Key customers of larger so-called "named customers" is the Country Manager who's been here everyone is coordinated the person responsible for marketing, for working with a partner channel. There are engineers, me and another one the person who deals with this part virtualization because, as I was saying, I'm busy and they're not all the same when it comes to Citrix in Poland because there are also a few people who operate in teams more regional or global, that's how it is people connected with marketing, e. g. to the whole of Europe, there's a person associated with a partner channel which is also responsible for the entire area Europe and all that so-called "Europe". EMEA Europe Middle East Africa. There are also consultants because Citrix has also such a plot of land called the "Living Room". Consulting Services. And that's both when it comes to virtualization and about the network, which is people who are just in these consulting structures hired, are implementation architects Do they design solutions for of our clients and then implement them and there are a few more people such as support Support is global as if the main ones the sports hobby is outside of Poland right here in Poland we don't have, but we do have a few such advanced engineers who are such dedicated the support engineers assigned to these key customers. Technical Account Manager we also have such people here in Poland, who they serve both Polish and those in our region with our time zone. Sure, but I also assume that, like other big producers are working in a partnership model, You have partners in local Poland. I know a few myself and I know that they've been for many years present on the market with Citrix products And I understand that there are, so to speak. strong technical and sales resources in terms of your products. Yeah, Citrix, like most of those probably large producers IT industry sells through the channel partner in principle only and exclusively. In Poland it's just Here at all, the Citrix does not sell directly. And of course we have a partner channel in Poland has also existed for many years. Those companies that, that story already is a company that has 30 years of history also of course, it has grown over time. Of course there are companies where they are very good very high competence in terms of implementation of our products those relating to both virtualization and networking Our partners all the time as if they were with us, all the time they're developing technology, but also Citrix in Poland as well is open to new partners new companies would like to join us cooperate. This portfolio is changing a little bit, too and we're also looking for companies, integrators, partners who would like to learn about these new technologies perhaps they have a slightly different competence than these older, top-notch partners of ours. And finally, so that all of this can develop so that our new solutions here too are actively implemented so that there are resources at our partners, people who are able to these new solutions also promote, demonstrate and implement and maintain because here, maintenance is very often primarily on the customer side and also of course our support, but here, as you know, partners, integrators also often have maintenance contracts and also actively participate in the maintenance of systems with customers or in such the ongoing development of these systems for customers. I know you'd be happy to go over to your plots of land and thus for network products But you mentioned history, you mentioned the portfolio, I'm sure our viewers will be there too, IT professionals in general Citrix is very much associated with also with virtualization, so with a solution such as XenServer, Just with the ones mentioned by You previously VDI, so XenDesktop or XenMobile. Tell me. which of these legendary products, they're just legends and which are still important for Citrix is constantly being developed. I know there are new products for them right now but of those heated up on the market, which are for x years, which they're still just from a Citrix point of view, developed. Yes it would probably be easier for me to talk about solutions because it's like this one's mine the plot, but I'll also try a little to answer these questions. Of course, while here in Citrix, but I'm necessarily in contact with those the technologies you mentioned, those all the names you have mentioned XenServer, XenDesktop or XenMobile are all products that still exist. The names have changed, but there is no XenServer anymore is Citrix Hypervisor now, no has XenDesktop is Citrix Virtual Apps And Desktops The point is that this Citrix name is part of product to make it more she said that this is like 1 producer, one the offer and that it's all together integrated, creates a coherent ecosystem but all these products exist, that is, both XenServer or this typically server-based virtualization Citrix Hypervisor is as used as possible. We use it very much if it's about our products it is the foundation for the implementation, our flagship product, i. e. virtual desktop and applications. Where VDI is based on virtual machines. There, very often underneath these machines are that are just running on our hypervisor But there are also customers who they use Citrix Hypervisor simply as as their choice, as an alternative to Hypervisor other suppliers or open source solutions. The same Hypervisor is also used in our load-balancer, if only where we have larger devices in the version the so-called Multi-Tenant where we have virtual instances dedicated to some specific applications or specific segments network, that is many small virtual load-balancer run on a large platform there also used as a hypervisor is our the former XenServer, our hypervisor About XenDesktop I've mentioned it, all the time. the name Cisco Virtual Apps And Desktops has changed that is Desktop and Application virtualization. It's still like the flagship product, although it is also a development the company is going a little wider now. This is just one of the channels access to the application, one of how to start the application. But we don't shut up, as if It's not just that, because it's often so that Citrix is VDI and virtual applications, nobody needs this anymore because after all, it's all because browser and actually what it's for It's not exactly like that because these Windows applications, however, often, especially in larger companies are so deeply rooted that they don't you can get out of here, And two, that this VDI and remote access, whether it's a method remote presentation of these applications Our Citrix applications has also developed, and thanks the development of all technology the network bandwidth that is available the quality of the links we have causes this remote presentation the application also works now much better than it used to. These problems that we once knew that working at the VDI was so hard, because it there was a delay it wasn't for the end was so natural. There was some resistance to using with this kind of technology. It looks much better now. I while being in the Citrix himself pretty much I use my own technology. I, for example, have Mac here needing to draw something in Visio, I run this Visio in virtual form from the desktop that is in our data center launched and working on this Visio after just locally and it's really pretty, quite comfortable. And the moment I have to get this I also have a virtual desktop even when the kids are taking me computer, because they have to have some lessons or to meet, just on my computer because it's better here a voice or a sound. I can move on to a home computer on which the same access application Workspace App I get into that remote desktop and I have the whole working environment and the same Visio that just now here on Mac I was drawing and I can finish there. Keep working on it there. Thanks for the explanation. I won't be with you anymore he bullied those issues outside your area, although just like you said for sure with them also, surely about them the customers are asking you, too. As if working here at Citrix I also discovered this world a little bit because I haven't had with it before technologies to deal with. And I'll admit that this is quite interesting. There's a lot of technology interesting, even so from the point of view of a network engineer who's somewhere I've always been, and I guess deep down I'm still The very issue of these protocols is actually a piece of cool technology. And what else. That's how it all goes down in this a cool really consistent picture. Both networked and these technologies related to End User Computing, which is what you see, that's all creates such a coherent ecosystem. And all this Virtual Desktop, about this we said a little you also mentioned XenMobile, which is managing mobile devices. This project is also being developed all the time or End Point Management and so on. This makes it even more possible to create common infrastructure for users. There are also other products that Citrix here also has, develops something like Sharefile, I don't know if do you associate the name Sharefile? sharing files and data is now called Content Collaboration, it's also very extensive product in that file-sharing department of yours, This is one of the leading products on the market, and it's also very much integrates with the entire Citrix ecosystem. We also have some more niche products like Podio for organisation working solution, we have for digital signatures A solution that integrates, for example Sharefile or Content Collaboration, also is a lot of cool, connected with each other's technology. From my point of view, it was to learn and discover. Okay. Let's go to the part because here, probably. you'll want and can tell us more. We're gonna focus on a few of those the most expressive areas now and most commonly used, you mentioned the load-balancer in the beginning Before you're gonna say that you're gonna say that you're gonna say that you're Load-balancer tell you because maybe not everyone is familiar with What is a load-balancer in general and what role full, which is to what problem it solves. That's a good question because it seems everyone knows what a Load-balancer is Well, because He's a load-balancer Load-balances but often at meetings, which I was taught by this job that our assumptions about what to the knowledge of those with whom talking is not always right. It's not an accusation to anybody but you have to take this and that into account knowledge sometimes even out. I even ask sometimes to meet or everyone knows what it is is a load-balancer and not always this answer is so obvious not all of them use and sometimes they even know that somewhere exist but not entirely you know what they're for. What's this Load-balancer for? Load-balancer is historically a product maybe I'll say otherwise, to implement a load-balancer is primarily to ensure a high availability of applications and comfort the user's work in the application. The name load-balancer comes more from the fact that once that device worked like this the more typical networked ones working on this layer three four throwing network traffic to application servers. Without going into the this move is what it is, what's not going on there. And therefore often this product these load-balancers are often under the care of network teams. at our clients in various types organizations, which is not exactly is right now. But it comes out so historically that the load-balancer was also as we all know the leading supplier network solutions in our market and this load-balancer supplier he used to mount in switches it must have been the product and it went to the network team. That's how I dealt with these products throughout his career with various producers I had to dealing with different versions of these products I was dealing with while the load-balancer has grown quite a lot by the last hundred years, because our history as far as Citrix is concerned, this is the beginning of the year. Early 2000s. There was a takeover of such netscaller product The Citrix NetScaller has appeared and this brand is well associated, for many years functioning. At the moment, formally but she's not all time goes by somewhere and Sometimes even somewhere there, the documentation will go To get at it because right now it's called Citrix ADC or Application Delivery Controller That's supposed to mean that the load-balancer's already a little bit she's doing more than just load-balancing and that's why this one name Application Delivery because a device that is from a traffic standpoint of the network before our resources in front of our application servers this device has control over this movement. First of all, it obviously spreads traffic over individual application servers so that is a server load it was even. But first and foremost, it monitors how these the individual servers work on the fly. The moment a server for some reason He doesn't answer the request that goes to him or it's worse than the others. It is taken out of this pool of active servers and users are not routed there for that from their point of view everything worked out fine. Being in the path of this connection too, the load-balancer is able to collect any kind of metrics related to network traffic, Export them outdoors, allowing you to very accurate monitoring, analysis on any of these movements the network layer because historically, of course, the third, fourth the layer is one thing, but over time, these solutions began to understand the application protocols, in specifically the HTTP protocol and such a very accurate analyst also on the HTTP layer the load-balancer can do and control this traffic too taking into account information from the layer seventh or HTTP we can do too. So here are further applications related to e. g. Web Application Firewall or web application protection related to access authentication to of these applications, which are all authentication protocols also often there are, this functionality is taken off from application servers from applications transferred like a load-balancer to isolate ensure user authentication who will be joining these our applications get it. You could talk about it a lot like that. What I wanted to say exactly was that I myself The topic from the technology side is on a lot more material and yet If I may add one thing: Load-balancer and Application Delivery in fact, this is the area that's it seems a little bit like he stopped develop after the exhibition everyone has even we all know about Gartner's reports. Gartner has stopped publishing reports related to this area. a few years ago. 2017 was the last time report and Citrix was one of the three leading of producers, because this area is a bit other applications appear I mean, the applications have appeared to other places. Load-balancer is a solution usually the physical one that stands in the Data Center. Of course, there's a cloud, getting more companies use the cloud public cloud providers also have some their solutions let's call it from this area load-balancing. They showed up, containerization has appeared. And the environment and applications running in in the form of containers on clusters like Kubernetes And here are some native solutions. Thus, not exactly this one the area of such a physical box he gave it all back. The whole of this area Application Delivery Yeah, and I think the Load-Balancer even in SDN showed up, for example in NSX It's built-in and part of it, part of the solution is and a load-balancer for this environment. It's like a completely different area. There are also concepts such as like service chaining where we have Virtual network devices service, we're just putting somewhere in those our contracts between applications. Here they are often used either virtual load-balancer because even if it was our is available in a physical version and virtual, and as a container, and in the cloud. the same. So whether it's physical or virtual. load-balancer can be integrated with such SDN solution as much as possible, or It can be integrated into the solution in a container, where it's like all this Control Plane, control the load-balancer configuration is realized by by Kubernetes, by that engine that's inside Sure. Tell me this traditional Load-balancer he more often applies at the company headquarters in offices or the Data Center or maybe each of these areas as it looks from your perspective. A load-balancer usually is standing by the application servers. It's usually a data center. If we have a Data Center in our area in particular, however most clients are only the center has. It can of course be in the cloud if there are our servers, there are our applications in front of these applications, is or may be placed load-balancer. I don't think we're in offices unless we have resources computing somewhere in these locations of our scattered in larger offices. Then there, too. In offices, it's probably the next technology for which Now I'd like to ask you, so SD-WAN I assume that in offices. Tell me because we've heard enough about SD-WAN a lot lately, quite a fashionable and catchy subject just as any other type of SDN, or SD-WAN some sort of, say, SDN evolution is. From my perspective, if I were to dress so briefly what is SD-WAN, the most important I guess the hallmark is some kind of intelligent motion control between two or more links and also simplified from such traditional the network we knew so far Network management, automated and that's how I say it from my point of view, most often appearing within the definition SD-WAN terms. Just tell me how in your opinion, what is this one the definition, as you see it from your perspective? SD-WAN primarily be able to work whatever on any link, any channel between two locations. Native was supposed to allow for the connection with a cloud, that is, with public clouds. SD-WAN like the same component, Software Defined definition of this element of Software Defined It's just that we have a controller and we've got a so-called an orchestrator, which is like a whole The solution consists of several elements: these are edge devices We can call it CPE devices like it's operators who call Customer-premises equipment Plus, we have a controller, which is the device that promotes all these central policies, promotes new versions of software. All traffic control rules promotes for this whole network so we have a controller. We also have an orchestrator. an orchestrator, a system that provides the administrator of this network can the management of all this the infrastructure, monitoring it. Defining all policies that then they're supposed to get to these devices. Alternatively, automation if you want By default, the orchestra should also issue some kind of API, so called Northern API to it was accessible from the outside and you could and build your own systems based on it. All this SD-WAN solution What else? Surely the SD-WAN must be more (such was always an assumption) as far as SD-WAN is concerned, it must better realize applications, like our classic network solutions that we're historically familiar with were focused on Well, because, like the network the computer should, focused on providing packages with from point A to point B. It's . taking into account what it really is is what its requirements are. It would be a bit of another step that sometimes it never happened, so we've been creating these routing rules somewhere Quality of Service rules based on some definitions of port addresses etc. But it wasn't always easy translation into what is an application and what her real needs are. SD-WAN had it as if he should. That was the assumption and it was like This is how suppliers try to realize, was to take into account how to recognize applications, was to take taking into account their requirements, adapt to meet these requirements and ensure that these applications, each one of them acted as it should. And one more aspect that I wanted to mention it here too. That's the point. As if the flexibility or agility of this like the one built, maintained, that is. It's a little bit connected to this consistent management, with this one the management system you mentioned. The point is that this network is easier to maintain. For example, the issue of this that SD-WAN devices they work in such a Zero-touch model, that is we send them to the installation site. he calls home, registers in a controller or orchestrator, also the configuration is sent to him and he starts working so that here we sort of eliminate to some extent, this share. Qualified personnel on site needed to make it install the device. That's the start time The location in the SD-WAN model is on surely a lot shorter than that classic network solutions. SD-WAN seems to have he doesn't do anything that couldn't be done so far. Because it was possible prepare the configuration, we could connect with the cloud, it was all done. Is make rules or QoS such an application. But from some because it often failed or It was too time-consuming too difficult to maintain and it's always somewhere it didn't quite work. In SD-WAN, it all just has to act. At least that's the goal and I'm also like my first experience is that It can be done so that it is actually There are really many advantages of the SD-WAN solution in compared to conventional such a network approach. There are certain technically, things that In our reasoning there's a lot of that stuff technical that would be unfeasible previously on a classic network solution based on such typical network technologies, such as classic routing protocols or tunneling protocols because we already have our own solutions here, that do a little bit better like experience is such that actually SD-WAN Maybe not in every case, but in in many cases really is capable of doing that. That one system network construction, easy to maintain which allows for flexible the flexible construction of this network and flexible scaling of this network And to avoid problems that often these WANs made it possible to avoid some of that getting up at night to see what is happening to some router and why there there's no access to a location because here is the second backup link actually join and users in principle they shouldn't have noticed it at all. From what I've figured out on the market there are over twenty manufacturers who have in their offer. Say, I don't know if SD-WAN solutions but I'm sure they call it that. Tell me, is this one of yours solve sth. It has something special against competing solutions? There are some innovations that you won't find in of others, is that standard, standard and most the solution as defined. How does it look? I even checked the last time, You mentioned 20 percent. I in the last Gartner report that I looked it up because it came out a few weeks ago, this year's report is referred to the 80 manufacturers of SD-WAN solutions so that's a big number. However, this market is is already slowly consolidating. There's a lot of takeovers and it's getting sorted out mostly so the solutions differ from each other in the details. The way you look at one the overall presentation of what SD-WAN does is in basically does what we were talking about just now. That's the point and everyone talks about it themselves, but the differences there are big differences in the details, you could say that the producers SD-WAN solutions come from of different stories. So, like us, Citrix Citrix has been providing for many years WAN optimization solutions Classic WAN optimizers, compression, traffic deduplication so we focused on this Application Performance, on this one quality of application delivery, because that was the goal of the optimizer to make these applications work better even on a weak link That's the story behind it now. this layer, let's call it network virtualization to this we add the modern management systems, this zero-touch deployment etc. There's some producers like that typically the network ones who always made routers, that's this Routing & Switching and this is their history. And here they usually continue to use these with classic network protocols only that they do it better, faster and more flexible, because it's also added to this one layer of the common controller or the orchestra. It's a bit on the SD-WAN market companies that come from more like Security. And it's also a pretty strong trend. I mentioned this date to SASE there will be this evolution of SD-WAN. This term SASE is probably the most hot topic in quotation marks when it comes to the IT market Now as if the most talk about it I've been on I was virtually at the conference SD-WAN Summit because there Citrix was a sponsor. I supported our booth for of this conference SD-WAN Summit Here, you can see that there's something on the stuff and that's very much a broad concept. Back in history, we have suppliers from a variety of different stories from various outgoing products. There are also some suppliers who they noticed that there is this SD-WAN Now suddenly, I mean, a few years ago finally has a chance to happen, because it seems that the expectations of the customers are already enough strongly that this product should burn out and should appear interest should start selling. Also, already I guess customers have a little bit just like I said, it all could've been done before. Yeah, but it was so hard that hardly anyone has succeeded. So this finished product, which all these Advantages finally deliver, has a chance to get to sell. So there was a little startups that de facto only did SD-WAN They focused on doing the WAN market revolution And these startups were largely taken over then by these top players. Some of them survived and actually builds its products and develops them further. Back to the question of what's ours the solution is different? As I mentioned earlier. all these products seem to do the same, but the devil is in the details. Also somewhere in these foundations as regards the basis for action it works a little different than the others. We just because we've always focused on the quality of application delivery, whether it's SD-WAN, it's kind of a target too, there has always been a very important aspect if I mean, like a virtual desktop and applications have always been the protocol that is optimized for this the application was working perfectly. So here these network solutions are like such a natural to develop this approach. So here we put a very big emphasis on this Application Performance. How do you read in, or how viewers will read into This latest Gartner report It is supplied with such an additional report: critical applications the competence is with regard to WAN And there are more detailed divisions like, which was evaluated and Here, when it comes to Application Performance Citrix solutions ranked first for everyone. Also here you can see that this our approach is working like we're going into more detail. How it works. In fact, that's what they're doing. just such aspects as like all the links we have connected to our SD-WAN devices we treat as such one virtual tunnel and it's done with precision a single package, that is each The package can be sent via a different path. All those links that are are included constantly monitored, i. e. each package is also a sample that checks what is the quality of that link, what is there the delay and the level of losses. It's all measured and the whole system time recalculates these the labels to be in able to choose the best link to deliver the package. Here it's done so well that in in principle, it seems best da, because if you can't you'd better do that. like you can't react faster to a breakdown because it needs to be detected somehow. We detect it after several packages that will come to us from delayed, or between with a delayed device. And here, in fact, from the point of view of the actions of the application or the user who somewhere out there he's talking through like we're now talking through the video to see if it works on this virtual desktop or whatever another one is basically doing a breakdown the link is unnoticeable. I know it's everybody's showing that you can cut this cable and that's how it works. But we do it in 10 tens of milliseconds is actually not realisable. And also you can add such a technical thing that could not be done before in fact, like a duplicate package. So one package we send two by paths. Well, in computer networks, it's there's always been a bit of a taboo, because you can't send two copies of the package because it won't work. In SD-WAN, it's like this virtualization technology of this channel between between two locations causes we can send a copy the two-path package and this device on the other side will deliver one of them to the recipient. Even if we have some kind of breakdown of this in-flight connection is even this the package on the flight won't die because his second a copy will be provided yes and the system will be taken into account, even if these paths have different delays or different capacities will take take these differences into account because how will he send these packages in the sense that they've reached close enough to each other to make it possible this whole Flow thing put together then so that these packages can reach the recipient in in the right order. Here, too. I think this is the advantage of our the approach that this Application Performance is actually on the highest level. Well, there's some more the technology is already gone details and One more thing about our solutions are certainly integration, what Citrix always does when it comes to network solutions, is that we've added one of these native integration with our virtual desktops and applications because desktops the virtual ones are delivered, it is like our protocol. ICA or so more broadly known as HDX so that he is natively recognized here by devices with SD-WAN and also is taken protocol to provide a virtual desktop. It's not just it's not like one flow things are happening on this desktop we have the image, we have the redirection devices like a keyboard, a mouse. Sometimes we have a video call there, we want to print something, we want to upload files. It's . everything is kind of within our HDX protocol are such subchannels and they should have different priorities and now SD-WAN recognizes what's in which channel, what this class is. To which one, which queue this traffic has Hit it. That's within even one virtual the desktop with a different queue, in the sense queues on the WAN device another queue delivers, for example, prints or file transfer, and another we provide is which should be interactive, that is a keyboard or a mouse, or even video transmission and as if it fully integrates with our solutions so that also the work virtual dektops and applications via SD-WAN was as comfortable as possible. I've been asking about this most common use-case such places of use load-balancer, yes in two sentences just for the SD-WAN. Where SD-WAN your adoption in particular finds? Basically, every organization which has more or less dispersed the structure has some kind of location district branches or whatever shops in some famous locations that is, de facto, a wide area network SD-WAN networks can be used to see if in their case these the advantages will be worthwhile and will bring them some benefit. I'm sure it's quite strong the point that makes SD-WAN It makes more sense to have a cloud public. Of course, with a cloud, you can get one way or another, you can build IP-SEC tunnels, you can build dedicated links like Direct Connect Whereas SD-WAN is of all this, it seems easiest and most an effective way of access, I think. Cloud-based virtual device becomes part of our network. It works right away. As if there's nothing to be done here. do, this is the next location. It was also one of the foundations I mentioned this earlier of what SD-WAN is. SD-WAN is to natively support the cloud. In locations in the public cloud is like our next location and here all our control policies traffic, safety is all implemented in the same way, also the cloud is definitely pretty strong the factor that makes it worthwhile look at SD-WAN solutions where we always have, where we always have such as locations where quality the links that are available are a little lower than we'd like. There's an SD-WAN there that really allows enough smart grind switch very quickly to some kind of interference, aggregate all these available the links are all in one, so that the comfort of work was as high as possible. Hence these may be niche applications but we have such reference clients, just not in Poland who even if they use of this solution on ships that somewhere they float there by the shore and there are several modems connected to different operators and sd-wan all the time benefits those who, at any given time in any given piece of coastline they work best. Also such locations where this quality is lower, somewhere in the middle urbanised areas in surely that's another aspect. And you can name a few of those from your point of view, the most clear business benefits. from using SD-WAN technology? I've already answered that question a little bit in kind of because it's like the foundations of where SD-WAN came from he took it and what it's for. So that this one this network worked. We have simplification and automation, it probably goes for that if we qualify people who will be able to handle this no they'll need fewer, than with the solutions I assume traditional, because despite the large scale, Well, it's gonna be an automation all this and what you said, this zero-touch deployment Something else comes to your mind? At first it's like SD-WAN it also came out that it was said that with SD-WAN, we'll be able to give up these expensive MPLS and we'll switch to cheaper internet. So this cost reduction here seemed to be she's gonna be crucial. It didn't quite work out that way because the links MPLS just stood there too, thanks to to this. So here's this aspect of the same savings on transmission costs alone Probably not too big while savings are elsewhere on I'm sure that's what you mentioned, which is in to maintain this work-related imposition needed to maintain such a network. There's a lot of things here SD-WAN is always a solution that has this central management element. Here we never go into individual the equipment, at least in our solution so that sth. reconfigure it all centrally controlled we always have this model with the so-called source of truth. This central, central repository configuration and this configuration is always consistent, is always like on the controller. We're not going anywhere, Nothing's wrong with us, nobody's wrong with us. burying in device configurations of the target. So, there are far fewer of these failures related to human error, for example. The controller himself can also intercept certain problems certain errors which possibly the operator would have done and warns you that this configuration does not it'll work because you've got the wrong address here, because those addresses at the end are inconsistent. Therefore, this configuration will not work and I won't let you implement it. So, the controller necessarily also allows avoid certain mistakes and make in the end there is less downtime networks less time needed for administrators for persons that maintain this network to work with her. Also, everything is easier, there are fewer failures. Because we can automatically quickly switch to access links, all the links we use in this mode active users us fewer things they report. So they don't charge our first the support line calling us or writing emails after they just don't know about these crashes. We Of course we know about them because the controller is it signals it, but it does not translate into the load on our disk, for example. because for the user nothing's changed. So that's it. aspects and speed of implementation are that zero-touch you mentioned because it's such an implementation detail. In turn, in fact, it is like starting locations where the organisation is such as these changes are a little bit new the points are sure to launch a new location is much easier than in such a classic network approach and also less likely to be a mistake. You could of course configure the router pick him up and he it should work there. The problem is how we'd make a mistake and suddenly there's nothing to do to get there console sth. send it back. This is not a problem here because the device connects to the controller, to the orchestrator gets the configurations if even something's wrong. As long as the system allows us here make a mistake, then we can send as long as there's an internet, as long as it's the device was installed in a state get to the network controller. Sure. Somewhere else to verify also Citrix portfolio I read about something like WAN optimizers. This is the same as the Load-Balancer? In this case, is it separate product? Say in two sentences, maybe not anymore. we've been developing this thread so hard as in the case of SD-WAN, which, however, was z the whole spectrum of technology, really. But say something about these optimizers. I mentioned the WAN optimizers, because here's the story Citrix when it comes to about these wide area networks. WAN Optimizer it's the kind of device that we put on two ends WAN connections so that it's a bit like entitled to provide applications in this the nets. So it optimized What the device was doing was things like traffic compression deduplication of traffic and in some in the sense of modifying the operation such a default TCP protocol Because the TCP protocol, like anyone who's a little bit interested, has such a characteristic that it is very sensitive to, i. e. trying to avoid problems, so it's very slow in the moment that problems arise. Whereas the optimizer is a little bit like overwrote this default action, in an attempt to make this band was available as most used. The slowing down was less. We were taking control of the TCP stack this is how were on the net. After certain flags set, TCP headers they saw that this movement could be optimized. So the compression of movement so that there is less data to send. Deduplication instead of sending full data we're sending some indicators to memory so that the latter device knew what we were talking about, and the modification TCP to as they say technically he was more optimistic. He didn't have the attitude that you need slow down by half when the network failure appeared, only the slowdown was smaller the acceleration was also faster. How is it today? The optimizer is separate product, separate device? A load-balancer is a separate unit and devices to support SD-WAN are also a separate apliance, can we get it in in one box whether physical or virtual just tell yourself to imagine it so real? Typical WAN optimizers We still have an offer. But this is the technology that there's one coming down. There's not much pressure here development of these products. It's from many things it follows that the quality of operation the network is getting better and better. I'll take your word for it, I know these more of a backup environment. Situations where the application of this optimizer, it's with a well-functioning the nets had a negative impact, because these data on one side count and on the other side was to recalculate and that generated more delays than a working network. That's exactly how it could be because, for example, this the compression we mentioned, is an operation that's taken up by some time and causes delays. It may be that the markup associated with the compression is lower than the benefit of sending less data because this network is so capacious that even if we sent a full batch of data, and it will be faster than Pack it in a smaller piece and sending this smaller piece over the net. So it could be exactly like you described. And that's what happens. Only the same applications, the same protocols with applications are also used now more optimized. They're not as talkative as they used to be to of this rush rount-trip exchanged, small the emphasis is on it as in all applications, was the evolution of HTTP by subsequent versions to this newest one, means The evolution of the TLS stack causes that we're all trying to eliminate these Round-Trip so that these applications will work like best and that makes the optimizers, as the optimizers are becoming a little bit more unnecessary. Doesn't mean no has places where they'll work. Like I said, not in every the location of this link is good. Sometimes an optimizer can be useful here. You asked if these are separate the equipment or does it connect somehow? What we're doing right now is because if our story is a little bit optimized As far as WANs are concerned, it has this component of the WAN optimizer We are still able to to be delivered in an SD-WAN solution. This may be one of the functions that this SD-WAN he's gonna be doing. So besides virtualizing the network, we will ensure this aggregation of all connections and monitoring switching traffic etc. We can also add this optimisation component so that he can still pack up duplicated and before being sent by this SD-WAN virtualized network. And here it appears in a way Load-Balancer because when we look at the construction site of that platform that realizes, that is, the larger ones devices that have this SD-WAN component Here it often comes up a virtual machine that is a lload-balancer that spreads traffic between these WAN optimizers But it's so deep we're entering the construction of these facilities that is Wan optimization is actually a similar area is either we are able to deliver on one device SD-WAN. Be sure to run it in this mode two devices, so we have devices SD-WAN and closely integrated with it separate device for optimisation closely integrated, that is managed from one level one management system of our orchestra. We see it all in one GUI we have this single Pain of Glass to which is what we all want to do. SD-WAN in a way provides some of this a single screen to control everything load-balancer, then. is a little different usually. This is a different area we're not talking about the WAN, we're talking about delivering an application or something that stands in a data center in front of our application servers As such a curiosity, I can say that because we also deliver quite a lot of load-balancers so strong machines with a virtualization layer, with our hypervisor about whom and that we were talking. On this platform of ours it's called SDX. Such a service We can run virtual instances of SD-WAN So we can get the device that will do all the work. There will be a load-balancer and an SD-WAN at the same time. And this is such niche applications but in fact, we'll even be I guess because we have. Now we're gonna start soon. I hope it's the first time quite a big event in Poland SD-WAN And that's where the script will be implemented. The client who had our load-balancer with virtualization function and one of these central nodes will be running on this load-balancer, as a spare controller. Also such a curiosity that's the kind of thing we are able to make it happen. Clear I still wanted to ask as seen from your perspective Except, of course, for yours. the answers are that all Then tell me, primarily in those listed by you today, from your area the products that you think, especially on our market in Poland, over the next year, two will be especially developed and for which you see the greatest potential for development. I wouldn't be here he assumed it was somehow different in Poland than in the world, some differences are sometimes it's later, so sometimes it actually like that public cloud. In fact, we have a slower option. But I think that it will change for a variety of reasons. One the reason is that this pandemic probably has shown that maybe the cloud is certain to solve the problem of scalability or the availability of these resources and two that I hope to see you in end of local public cloud regions because those big players they're supposed to be here. I think it's gonna be one that accelerate the implementation Cloud technologies in Poland although it's not like that in Poland there are no clouds, because sometimes when you talk to many companies are finding that out that they're long gone in the cloud. There's certainly more resistance in those the biggest companies because they also have most resources and have their own date center where it always works so it worked as if there was a reason to change it. It's not exactly worth it doesn't quite make sense since this cloud appears. I think the SD-WAN here is definitely this technology that has a chance launch itself quite strongly in the Polish market for the very reason that you may have to connect But I also think that on the Polish market we see a shortage of people to work qualified people to support our IT systems. All those technologies that allow simplify the way it is managed will, however, have more interest because it's not that simple anymore. we employ three engineers to they maintained our WAN network. As if there's not quite where to get them from. I think that SD-WAN will surely be in this trend and we'll see how it develops this pandemic world because here there's no denying that suppliers our customers, or big companies have to prepare for it somehow, so we assume they will be in some way to prepare for possible similar scenarios in the future. Maybe they'll change their ways at all functioning also on this remote working is a lot to say that maybe we can all remote working because almost everyone maybe not, there will probably be hybrid scenarios here But this infrastructure she must be prepared for that. And here, SD-WAN, too, against all appearances it might make sense. We also have customers in Europe who they use SD-WAN as that ending in the Home Office whereby we have a device installed in home office and this in particular in combination with other with Citrix technologies, you can make such virtual, remote working environment in by any means a computer anywhere. As for the load-balancer, I here think there's certainly a growing issue of the importance of these issues related to application security. Also here the protection of WEB applications which is the WAF, but also such wider protection against DDoS attacks, in front of the bots, the things that also these our cloud services security related applications are implemented. I think it's getting bigger too interest in this area and here because a lot of companies, as I see it works on, he's got this load-balancer at his place, but often it's a solution open source, it is claimed that so to speak, on my own. I see a growing interest in this but to move on to solutions commercial, because they have so more possibilities. There's also some support that's behind this. The security issue is that here you have to keep up to date and someone has to to keep an eye on that, and here the vendor is a supplier who can do these things realize. Hardly is to keep it all able to up to date by their own efforts only. Especially if it's increasingly critical. Also these two areas SD-WAN and application security. These are I would say most mundane applications that I think will have a good chance. You have strongly confirmed my opinion on the subject even though I just in person in the WAN technologies themselves I've never specialized, but once I heard about the SD-WAN is such a light bulb it's on fire and automatically another idea of a public cloud. That's it. That's the subject already who is already finding his adoption has its application and it will probably be to popularize it in the coming years. I just wanted to ask if anyone would be interested in exploring a little bit knowledge, except of course the possibility of contact with you is what other sources are there get to know this information to some kind of documentation. up to maybe some online resources the technology of these solutions with that you mentioned today. So of course I encourage you to contact me whether it's with me or with other representatives Citrix or with Citrix partners and if it's about partners on our website you can find a list of partners. There's a locator their specialties, it's like any other leading a manufacturer in this industry. We have, of course. documentation. Whereas documentation is such I'd say documentation is the source when we want to do something. It's written how you do it. to get a little bit closer to the offer because we're also doing a YouTube recording. Well, we obviously have a YouTube channel like and there's a lot of companies and there's a lot of fun materials and I confirm. I confirm that I was watching very interesting. There's material from short marketing demonstrations such as some things are done, but we also have such recordings of our own because Citrix also organizes conferences and both for customers as well as more technical for developers. There was recently, that's the conference, and there's very technical content When it comes to working with our with solutions. Conferences are always combined, whether this involves both of this area of virtualization, that is of this End User Computing like and that part of the network. Here must also be taken into account I also recommend YouTube and I recommend the recordings from the conference it worked out well for me forever when it comes to learning about this technology. Because there's a lot going on right now he says maybe we talked less about it, but issues related to automation especially in the data center area. With the containers we also have our repositories on Git Hub which I also recommend you take a look at. When you get into github/citrix There are our repositories and that's the area of containerization in particular. Integration of the load-balancer into the container environment There it is all very well explained, are our the components that are needed to make of this integration, and some I would say theories but how to run it. Git Hub is just another source of knowledge which is increasingly is more likely to appear as a source knowledge of the technologies of a given manufacturer. Maybe we should make an agreement that at least these three: your location, your location YouTube Citrix and Git Hub locations I will include in the description under under this material, so that people those concerned may have contact or that's what you get. We have as if, going to the end. That may well be for some even the most interesting part, because we have a contest. To make it more interesting, we have one competition and another it's hard to call a contest. Activity in which prizes are guaranteed but let's call it a contest with guaranteed rewards. I'm gonna talk about the first one first because I've been here since Cuba get especially for our viewers three pairs of headphones with a very interesting microphone and it will be very simple the possibility of obtaining them. Those who want to have such headphones are a request to write in commentary under this video on YouTube. Which of these technologies or maybe from Citrix technology about which today less we said, there is for you especially interesting for you. Write in your commentary, please. And from those answers, from those most interesting the answers I will choose three people and contact them these headphones will fly. But I know that Cuba is strongly he fought and prepared for you something special, special because basically anyone who takes part in this activity he will get a reward but here he gives the voice to Cuba. Cuba, tell me more about what you have prepared Yes. Because we talked a lot about SD-WAN technology and I'm not hiding that like I said, I think these solutions have a good chance to be on the market in the near future. We'd also like to get some feedback the state of the market in terms of people in Poland. We prepared such a short survey where you can share information about how the audience approaches SD-WAN. We collect this information and for filling in The survey is scheduled for a prize. The same headphones about which Marcel he just mentioned to the first 25 people who will fill out such a questionnaire and let you contact each other or will allow this data to be collected. Such headphones will also be sent. But for those who don't make it fit into those twenty-five we have various other things we have cups SD-WAN we have socks. So here's something for everyone there will be a survey. The link to it is also under the material. I encourage you to participate in and share it about your interest with SD-WAN technologies Yeah, and that's basically it. That's great. Great. Thanks a lot. One of the questions is whether take a closer look of this technology also, of course, if somebody would like to meet individually this please mark this and these meetings then we will organize. Very nice. then let's put our proposals on the table some contest time frame. Let's say that both of these the comments, so about this part of me is will be by the end of the year and I understand the survey it will also be active until the end of the year. Unless such thousands of millions of people they're just gonna come in until until the survey is active. If, before the end of the year the link will be inactive, which means that The awards are over. I hope so, although I think it's enough for all of you also so exactly you said the survey to the end of the year is to be hung Here too, I encourage you to fill in the additional bonus a on all others Something there too, some little thing we have. Great, super little opportunity now. gather at various conferences to visiting manufacturers' booths so no though it may be to wipe away tears for people interested in the IT industry for people interested in modern with technologies. Well, we're done. Thank you KUBA VERY interesting also the information presented today. I've learned a lot, too. and, well, I hope to see you in the future, maybe by the way the more technical material we'll also see what our of the audience, so to speak, feedback and interest maybe some specific topic, then I hope to see you again. Thank you very much for meeting me. It's nice that we managed to get to him and that I had the opportunity to tell a little bit about our technologies I'm also open to it so that we can meet again and maybe they've overlooked more specifically, but I'm also alone curious to know what is very interesting we'll see what it's like what's going to be the response here and which way we could possibly go here. Thank you very much. Thank you all the viewers. Thank you again. I encourage you to subscribe to the channel to of watching. And well, we see to be in the next material. 