 One of the obvious things that COVID has done has bought the cloud to front and center and bought the idea that you can transact business over the Internet. You know at this point, a good majority of the world's business population are working from home over you know consumer grade internet and while people's experiences may be varied and not perfect all the time, they're getting the job done and so I think that's making people realize that you know public shared infrastructure is something that should be really a big part of the mix a big part of their WAN strategy. Another you know thing that's obvious is that people are working from home and so they're evaluating what's the best way for them to work from home from a networking point of view and you know traditionally that's been a classic VPN. So everyone VPNs from home to one of their company's data centers and out there onto the Internet and back again. And obviously it's working okay but people are really interested in newer and banner solutions. You know one of those is zero-touch network access where you can get access both to your cloud applications and to your data center hosted applications or through a browser without any need to have a VPN client, without need to backhaul, you can go straight to SAS service via a cloud security system. So that's one of the trends we're seeing and you know it's driven some spectacular performance and in the stock of people that deliver that type of solution like Zscaler. Another trend that we've seen is that for use cases where people really need always-on connectivity where they can't have any drop calls, they can't have anything go wrong. They're looking at extending their SD-WAN out into the home and creating if you like a micro branch inside the home, often leveraging multiple forms of connectivity ,so maybe using 4G LTE and parallel with their their consumer grade internet and with our solution they're able to take their environment from work maybe you know they're using a certain kind of IP Phone, they're using certain VDI terminal, they're able to take that work environment and translate it directly into a home environment and so we've had a few case studies one with a customer called TrialCard who rolled out a few hundred sites and in just a week or so and it was exactly that type of use case. We've also seen the same kind of micro branch being deployed in COVID testing tents where people want to be able to get their connectivity up and running really quickly and you know I think it's part of a broader trend that we're seeing where SD-WAN is you know, it's not just about the factory or the office or the branch, we're seeing our technology being deployed in trains. We're seeing it deployed in ships, in emergency response foot vehicles and even in emergency responders backpacks. So it's really interesting to see how things are evolving and how those use cases are broadening 