 All right. Hello everyone. We are here today to do a webinar on the trusted internet connection and IT modernization efforts being undertaken as related to the trusted internet connection or TIC update initiative that's been coming out of OMB and supplemented by guidance from CISA, the Cybersecurity and Information Infrastructure Security Administration under DHS. So, my name is Jim Russo, and I am with GSA Federal Acquisition Service IT category and right now the technical lead on the EIS program, Enterprise Infrastructure Solutions. Later on, I'll be joined by Sean Connelly. Sean is with CISA. He is currently the TIC program manager there, and he was the prime speaker during the TIC road show that took place earlier this year, January, February timeframe. And we know a lot of people saw those either in person or heard the webinars that we did online, but you know, this is pretty important information that we want to share. It's something that you can listen to multiple times, sort of to refresh yourself and learn something that maybe you missed the first time through because there's an awful lot of information that's been discussed throughout the slide deck. We also realize that lot of people didn't have the opportunity to either see or hear the road show, you know, when we were doing a lot of presentations, as I said earlier in 2020. So, this is an opportunity, we thought, to put this down on video, record it, and have it available for folks to look at pretty much anytime. So, with that, I want to launch into the agenda for the briefing today. I'm giving the welcome and background now. The agenda slide shows that the next thing up is Sean Connelly, and he'll walk through the TIC 3 draft guidance that CISA published right before Christmas. Then I'll come back and wrap up with EIS and TIC 3 solutions. And that is how we're accommodating potential solutions under the EIS contract. And then, Q and A, well that's what we had for folks that were watching us in person, but maybe we'll throw out a couple questions for ourselves to answer. Okay. So, let's go to the next, that's background, and then after that, just to give you some backdrop on slide four, the TIC Policy Update Memo and Guidance. The policy was out in draft for a long time, most of 2019. It was final and OMB released it as M1926, September 12, 2019. Shortly thereafter, CISA put together a set of TIC-free guidance documents and published them right before Christmas, as I said earlier. There are nine documents in that tranche of documents, so, it's a lot to go through. They, CISA that is, opened up a RFC or RFI period, which closed earlier February. Those comments were received in good shape, and I know that the team is looking at them now. Subsequent to that, we at GSA released a TIC update RFI late February, and we're looking for comments to come back from industry and agencies we've shared that with by the end of March 2020. Realizing some of these dates may have gone by by the time you watch this, but that's right now the plan we've been following since the OMB memo was released. So, why do you ask, is GSA even involved in this. It's primarily OMB and DHS, correct? Well, that is correct to a point. DHS has a lead role in managing TIC pilots, approving use cases, and collecting feedback from agencies and talking about, well, with a new governance, what does compliance really mean. GSA for our part, we are assisting or sort of supplementing what OMB and DHS do from a contractual acquisition perspective. We are also supporting DHS in the collection of feedback, witness the RFIs, I talked about previously, and we're also tackling the governance issue as well. It's going to be different than it was in the days where the only solution there was was [inaudible], and we'll talk about that a little later. But now it's much more diverse. Okay. So, that was just a little bit of introduction, and I'm going to go ahead and turn it over to Mr. Connelly now, and he'll walk through the TIC 3 draft guidance.  Hello everyone. My name is Sean Connelly. I'm with CISA. If you could forward the slides two more slides, I think. There we go, and there, thank you. So, again, my name is Sean Connelly with CISA. Just a little background on myself. I've been involved with TIC since the beginning of TIC back in the late 2000s. I was originally part of the TIC office at State Department in 2013. I moved from state over to CISA, and I've been supporting the TIC program office ever since at CISA as a federal employee. I've also been part of the CDM program at CISA, helped set that up. The Einstein Center deployment program office at CISA, and then more recently in 2017, I was one of the authors of the IT modernization report to the President. And then even more recent than that, the NIST Zero Trust Special Pub that was released last year in draft, I was on of the four authors on that. I bring that up, because I think all four of those elements, CDM, Einstein, the IT Mod Report, and NIST Zero Trust, are all developments of where we are today in TIC. So, next slide please. So, just the agenda. We're going to talk about the history of TIC, talk about where TIC is today and a little bit about the future of TIC. Just a recap of what, some of what Jim was talking about earlier. In September, OMB released their update to TIC memo to 1926. In December, CISA released our draft guidance. It was about or nine different documents, and we opened the documents up to a request for comment period. In January, both GSA and CISA, we did a number of webinars, road shows, and talking to agencies and different stakeholders, familiarizing everything with the new guidance, and then we closed the request for comment period. And now that RFC has been closed, the TIC PMO is in the process of adjudicating the comments. Next slide please. Well, go one more. Thank you. One more slide. So, where did TIC come from, what's the beginning-- oh, go back one, I'm sorry. There you go. To start where we are, where we began with TIC or how it initiated back in the mid-2000s, when Karen Evans was the head of the OMB cyber office. OMB asked a simple question of the agencies. How many external connections do the agencies have? And that opened a lot of new discussions. What is an external connection? What does it mean to have an external connection versus my internal connections? But in the end, the number that came back between all the different agencies was well above what everyone expected. There was over 4000 external connections. And both the OMB and the Agency CIO and CISO shop and then CISA ourselves at DHS, no one was aware that total number of connections would be that high. It was recognized there was not a parity of security policies across all those connections, and then, most importantly, everyone recognized, everyone was just going to become more interconnected, how are we going to manage growth or scale? Then lastly, at the same time, DHS, we were beginning to mature our authorities to monitor and secure the federal dot gov horizon. Next slide please. So, from this OMB created the TIC initiative with a number of TIC memos. The memos had explicit goals and what we call implicit goals. The explicit goals, the primary one on the strategy side was consolidate the network connections, those external connection through a number of thick access points, which we'll talk about in a moment. But consolidate all those connections into a finite number of TIC access points. Really what this was doing was this was creating the internal and external strategy of the federal government for the next ten years. Beyond that was the standardization of the secretary perimeter. The agencies are required to build out these physical TIC access points and the service providers build out what was called MTIPS TIC access points, and these were where the agencies or providers would have their firewalls, IDF sensors, all their telemetry requirements. These were what were [inaudible] those security perimeters. Then lastly, it provided a platform for CISA to deploy our centers, our ability, CISA's ability to gain situational awareness from those environments. This is the beginning of that. But I think more importantly was the implicit goals that came with these new authorities. It empowered enterprise CIOs and CISOs. I remember in 2015 or so, a deputy CIO said TIC is a hammer, and it told me that they understood how to use the powers within TIC to be able to move the authorities or expand the authorities of the CIO and the CISOs to gain an awareness of those type of connections, what was going through those connections, who the people are talking to, what was on the other side of those connections. Next was motivate all agencies toward a stronger cybersecurity posture, heard over and over again during early days of TIC, rising tide lifts all boats. And that was to mean across that dot gov horizon, making a stronger cybersecurity posture for all agencies. And third, it was part of our initial efforts to, from the DHS perspective, the weaken exfiltration activities across dot gov. Next slide. So, the TIC 1 and then TIC 2 iterations were around for almost 10 years between the two, but over time, there was a number of challenges that came about. From the TIC 2 perspective, that consolidation of networks, it was a challenge to move all traffic to these finite firewall stacks. Essentially, it was a binary choice for agencies. Either everything was inside, it was trusted, and everything on the outside was not trusted. There was only one security architectural model. We recognize that the perimeter was starting to dissolve. Mobile, Cloud, partner networks were all ways the perimeter was not what it was anymore as it was in the traditional TIC 1 and TIC 2 iterations, and the risk tolerance of agencies varied. I think from before, there was this one policy, this one model for all agencies, we recognize the agencies had different models based on resources on risk omission. Then also, the traditional security assets that were in those tradition TICs, the firewalls, the web-application firewalls and antivirus, they may not work as well in these new environments of mobile and cloud. It began to be recognized that the security architectures that emphasize the traditional [inaudible] strategy are inhibitors to the dynamic access requirements of today. Next slide. Now we'll move onto the present day of TIC and where we are. Next slide. So, the memo that we mentioned earlier, memo 1926, was released in September 2019 from the federal CIO [inaudible], tasked DHS with modernizing the TIC initiative. It calls for update program guidance and use cases. And then the focus of the memo is on the strategy. Where before the strategy was this consolidation of networks, now there's this controlled expansion of circuits and connections at the discretion of the agency CIO and CISO. The architecture, where for the last 10 years the architecture was simply that traditional TIC access point. Now, we had the options for alternatives, what we call use cases. And third, visibility. The telemetry and situation awareness, both toward the agency and CISO. What is needed for the agency to be able to understand what's going on in those environment and then what is available or what's possible for CISA and our situational awareness requirements. What you don't see in this memo as much is governance, and we'll talk a little bit about that. But the paradigm is moved from that fixed asset and fixed networks and what we meant by desktops. For right now it's less fixed assets and less fixed networks means laptops maybe [inaudible] Wi-Fi. Pretty soon we know we're going to be on an entirely new platform that isn't fixed, mobile and tablets. So, we're shifting from that single network boundary to more of a distributed secure architecture. The new policy begins that transition to multiboundary to trust zones. It allows us to be more iterative and adaptive. It gives broader interpretation authorities to the agencies and also rescinds the old OMB memos. Next slide please. Well, this shows the old, what was called the TIC tax, the cost to support the TIC policy. And as agencies had their offices and their mobile users around the continental U.S. or with some of the agencies, OCONUS, overseas, there was still this cost, if you will, for the traffic to come en route through these physical TIC access points. And so the idea with TIC 3 was to eliminate that TIC tax, to reduce the transport cost, to reduce the latency, meaning the time it took from the server to talk to the client or for the client to talk to a server, and last to improve the user experience. We recognize that the access requirements were becoming inverted with more users, applications, devices, services, and ultimately data outside the traditional enterprise environment than inside. Next slide. So, multiboundary approach. This is the trust zones that are discussed in the reference guidebook that we'll talk about in a minute. It's important to understand what a trust zone is. A trust zone is an abstract concept. It's elastic. A trust zone can still be a network. But conceptionally, a trust zone can be an application. It can be a user identity. It can be a cloud container. It can be an endpoint. Ideally, also, when we start talking about zero trust, the trust zone can be that narrowly defined, trusted enterprise resource, the trusted application has defined, as outlined in the NIST Zero Trust Special Publication. Part of the challenge right now is until we develop more pilots, it's difficult to embed the expectations of what the trust zone could be and the current artifacts. But in the end, even in a zero trust environment, there's still something that's trusted, whether it's the user, the app, or the data. One of the aspects of the TIC program in general is we had to accommodate multiple architectures. And those multiple architectures means agencies that still want to support that traditional TIC access, would show before the TIC tax, and then ones that want to support more modern environments, zero trust, or micro segmentation. Ideally, we want to shrink that trust zone down as small as possible, but TIC 3 cannot only be about micro segmentation or trust zones. We want to contract that-- I'm sorry. We want to contract the attack service to as narrow a vector as possible. So, this framework that we've outlined in TIC 3 is to accommodate multiple types of trust zones and architectures. Next slide. So, now I'll go through each of the documents that has been released. It's important to understand with these documents, these documents have been two years in the making. The documents can be grouped into two different categories, if you will. The first one is the program guidebook in the reference architecture. We consider those to be more strategic and programmatic. We suggest those be the first ones that stakeholders look at to understand the TIC program. And then what we consider the more operational of tactical documents, that Security Capabilities Handbook, the TIC Use Case Handbook and Use Cases, and the Overlays. We believe those will be the documents that agencies use more on a day-to-day basis. We mentioned before about these documents being built over two years. We've had multiple interagency working groups. We've had participation from over 50 agencies in those working groups. We've also held through GSA, Jim's team, multiple meetings with each of the [inaudible] vendors. We've also had [inaudible] and one-on-one meetings with cloud providers, security vendors, and agencies themselves. And we've also completed a number of TIC pilots already. Next slide please. So, the first document is the program guidebook. It talks about the history of the TIC initiative. It gives a direction for TIC outlined in IT modernization. It gives core updates and changes to the program itself and gives an idea of how to use the different documents together, the orchestration of the use cases, the capabilities, and the overlays. The goals were more boundary focused, what I mentioned before, the trust zones. It's not only about internal and external. Now, we can shrink those boundaries down to more trust zones and multiple trust zones. It's descriptive, based more on objective and intent, and that is about saying this is the only way to meet a capability. So, risk based mean agencies are able to employ and secure environments using the risk policy of their agency. Trying to make it more environment-agnostic means not only for the agency's on-prem environments. Dynamic and adaptable, how we'll be supporting new information and new use cases on a [inaudible] basis. Automated and streamlined verification. How we're looking at gaining telemetry. Then also last, about how the TIC program and the Einstein program are being decoupled somewhat. Traditionally, the Einstein program, known as NCPS, has been embedded at those TIC access points. As we start to move toward virtual environments, physical centers may not be the only way to gain situational awareness, and so we are starting to both work together with NCPS but at the same time let each program involve independently. Next slide please. The reference architecture. The reference architecture, traditional TIC, TIC 2, was the primary document for the program. A lot of the material that was in the reference architecture has now been split up into other documents. We still believe the reference architecture is of primary importance. It serves as the reference foundation for solutions. It's being used for comparison and lineup purposes. It provides common language and terminology. It ensures consistency of technological implementations. It supports solution validations. We know some agencies use the reference architecture to justify their budgets and acquisition requests. It encourages adherence to common standards, specifications, and patterns. It also defines the concepts used throughout this document, the trust zones that we mentioned earlier, the PEPs, which are the policy enforcement points, use of security environments, and the management plane. Aside from the user plane, the data plan, and also go into discussion about how to secure the admins that secure these environments. Next slide. The next document is Security Capabilities Handbook. The objectives, which you see on the right side, manage the traffic, protect traffic confidentiality, integrity, ensure service resiliency, ensures effective response. What's important to understand about the capabilities wherein the old TIC 2 reference architecture that was a static list, we now have the ability to update the capability list periodically. As we have new use cases and new overlays and services, we can update the capability to help agencies to meet their mission needs, meet market trends as the threat landscape evolves. Next slide. The application themselves, the capabilities that are in the document, they're grouped into two different types. We have the universal capabilities. [inaudible] those example would be configuration management, lease privilege, time synchronization, those are ones we recognize are important for most every type of use case. We give some guidance on those, but we believe that those aren't the focus of the use cases, so we lead the guidance at very high level and recognize that they're still important to be addressed. But now we just start putting out the use cases to the different environments, and we also have a second group called the policy enforcement point capabilities, and these are the ones that are more focused on the different use case. Right now, the PEP capabilities are grouped into about eight different categories, support applications, services, or devices along the path. For example, we have a PEP capability for email, a grouping for web browsing, and a third one for bio protection. What's important to understand is not all capabilities, not all PEP capabilities are applicable to every use case. We can also cross map the capabilities both to the NIST cybersecurity framework and 853, and what's different from TIC 2 to TIC 3 is PEP's policy enforcement point and the security capabilities themselves can be embedded in multiple locations and not about just one location where the PEPs are located. Next slide. The next book is the, the next document is the Use Case Handbook. The Handbook itself is only a few pages long, and then the Use Cases, which are separate documents, they can be somewhere between 20 to 30 pages of guidance, and we'll go into detail on an example use case. The use cases give a description, identify the scope of the use case, identify the assumptions and constraints, map out the proper security capabilities, [inaudible] conceptual architecture, and define security patterns. Next slide. So, now I'll go into one of the use case examples. When we released the documents at the end of December, we released two draft use cases, and the reason we released two was we wanted to both show what we were planning to do with the use cases and gain feedback from the agencies before we invested too much time in building up the rest of the use cases. We wanted to hear if these use cases gave the right level of information, gave the right tone, gave the right cadence. So, right now we'll go through one of the two use cases. The other one releases traditional TIC access point, which sort of covers what we've been doing for the last ten years. So, we focus on the branch office because this is unique and different. This is what's new about TIC 3. What this does is it eliminates that TIC tacks, that network gymnastics that we talked about earlier having to route traffic back through the TIC access point of an agency as a branch office. In this use case, we let the agency show scenarios where the agency connects to the internet, connect to different cloud providers, and because we are allowing the agency to connect directly to those different environments, we now give guidance in a way we didn't before, which was the agency back to the headquarters of the campus as we call it. Those donuts you see there, those represent the policy enforcement points. And we struggled for a while with the placement of these PEPs, these donuts as you see here, in terms that we recognize that PEPs can be put in multiple places. I could be the branch office side. It could be at the cloud provider side. It could be multiple PEPs in there at a time. But in the end, we put one PEP in there, just so that it shows the conceptual architecture itself. Next slide please. Along with security patterns that we talked about, the branch office use case, is how the branch office can connect to different internet environments. We offered three different security patterns, going from left to right. The first one is if the agency's branch office wants to go directly to the web. We give a number of capabilities on how to secure those type of environments. The second one is the branch office wants to go back through an agency campus through the web, and you can see the connection it has, both PEPs in this location between the branch of the agency campus and then separate PEPs possibly from the campus to the web. I forgot to mention those triangles there. That's the management. That's what we were talking about before where it gives guidance in terms of how to secure the management connections for the admins to be able to monitor and administer those environments. And the third option is the agency branch office using a CASB to go between the agency branch office to the internet. So, what you see here, these diagrams are detailed out in about 20 different pages of guidance between the capabilities and the different security patterns. Next slide please. At the same time, we want to make sure that the agency understand the side for securing the connections. There's also the telemetry requirements, both for CDM and for NCPS Einstein. While the use cases themselves are not focused either on the CDM program or Einstein, we want to make sure that it's understood that it's still a requirement. So, in each of these use cases, we also put at the end some very high-level guidance just about the agencies recognizing the requirements both for CDM and NCPS. Next slide please. The next one is the Service Provider overlay handbook. This is a draft document that we're just developing. We didn't have this and released, as we mentioned, with all of the other documents released in December. The reason was, as we developed the use cases and we started to focus on infrastructures and service use case, at the use cases themselves have to be very agnostic, have to be vendor agnostic, environment agnostic in a way, and we recognize that left a gap in terms of the service provider services that may be able to support those use cases. So, we introduced these overlays, which creates a high-level mapping of the vendor security functions to the TIC capabilities. We addressed some of the use case limitations, but they are independent in the use cases themselves and do not [inaudible] civic use case. And we recognize at the same time the mappings may be imprecise. The vendor security solution may not map exactly to its security capabilities. The overlays don't talk about the strength of the mapping. They don't address the configuration, but it just gives a high level idea to the agencies about what services can be used by the provider to be able to meet those TIC capabilities. Next slide please. The important thing to understand is the guidance that's released from CISA, OMB, and GSA, the guidance we released in the documents, is intentionally notional. It's conceptual. It's abstract. It's theoretical. Provide agencies with flexibility they need to interpret the guidance to suit their requirements. Agencies are expected to incorporate the guidance into their risk management strategy. Agencies should determine if the protections are commensurate with the level of risk pertaining to their computing scenarios. Next slide please. This shows how all the documents that we just went through work together. The agency has the Use Cases, that shows the different architectures. The Security Capabilities will give the services, the security services that are required to meet the agency's risk management. And then the Overlays give an idea of the provider service that can be used to meet those security capabilities on top of those architectures. In the background, the NIST Cybersecurity Framework and the NIST 800-53 are our foundational documents. All these work together to help the agency's risk management decisions, the agency's architectural documents, their system design documents, security documents. Next slide please. So, now we'll go into TIC future. Next slide please. So, this is just a subset of the total number of documents that were released. Again, we released these in January, I'm sorry, December. They are accessible on the CISA TIC website. They are still in the draft form, but where we are right now, addressing and adjudicating those comments, the expectation is that the documents will be released in a final form later this year. Next slide please. At the same time, one of the documents that was released was an update to the Einstein program. The NCPS team released their draft cloud interface reference architecture. The agency will refer to this document for telemetry requirements and contact the NCPS PMO for additional information. Again, this was released by the NCPS PMO. It was released at the same time as the TIC documentation. It had a different iteration. You see this is volume one of the NCPS. This will be a separate [inaudible] documents. The NCPS team will be releasing what we thought was important for the agency to understand how the two programs are both evolving and what's important [inaudible] moving forward. Next slide please? So, now we'll go into TIC pilots. Jim mentioned a little bit about this before. The TIC pilots have a number of stakeholders. They had to sponsor an agency, OMB, the federal CISO Council, GSA, and CISA. Next slide please. Now, we'll map out the TIC process, the pilot process. For the federal CISO Council will announce a data call for pilot proposals. Agencies will then have a number of days or a month or so to cement pilot proposals. At the same time, CISA and GSA will be providing a number of templates to help agencies to position their proposals. Once the agencies submit them, the federal CISO Council will select proposals for their pilots. The agencies will then work on their pilots, both CISA and GSA. We will monitor those pilots. We'll work with the pilot agency. Once the pilot is complete, the agency completes the pilot [inaudible], we will [inaudible] the pilot lessons learned into use cases. We'll turn that draft use case over to the federal CISO Council. We'll approve that use case for adoption across dot gov. At the same time, GSA, they will add those use cases to their service packages. Next slide please. The lessons learned, so we've had a number of pilots already. You'll hear me talk about just pilots without addressing all the agencies. We work on a number of pilots at any one time. We intentionally don't talk about the agencies unless the agencies themselves are promoting their pilots. For example, SBA promoted their pilot. The Department of Energy has promoted their pilot. So, we talk about them. There's also been a number of other pilots that we're working on at the same time. And so, when we talk about let's learn, maybe we're talking about SBA or Department of Energy, but maybe we're also talking about one of the other ones we haven't talked about yet. The pilots are unique to each agency and impacted by the tech acumen of the project team. We know that pilots only represent a snapshot in time. We mentioned SBA before. If we look at how SBA's environment is today, it'd be radically different than the time we did the pilot two years ago. We recognize that when the pilot agency proposes a pilot, it may not use the full suite of the cloud provider services. And cloud provider differentiators result in customized pilots. It may not be adaptable to broader use case, so this where I mentioned before about the use cases themselves are agnostic. But we have to make sure when we're making these use cases that doesn't focus on any one particular cloud provider. The pilots have been susceptible to delays that may prolong both the pilot and use case development process. Next slide please. There are a number of use cases, both I already mentioned the OMB memo and ones we've already discussed as potential ones I mentioned earlier on the left side. The ones that were mentioned in the OMB memo, the traditional TIC and the branch office we released as draft use cases. But we are still responsible also for building out infrastructure as a service use case, software as a service use case, email as a service use case, and platform as a service. And now also remote user use case. At the same time, we know there's [inaudible] Zero Trust use case. We're talking about to OMB about maybe mapping the Zero Trust use case to the remote user use case. This is outlined in OMB's memo. Also, there's interest in other use cases. Internet of Things use case, partner networks. When an agency is talking to a bank or maybe a research and develop or to universities, how to build out those connections securely. Also talking to the [inaudible] team about maybe building out one unique to the managed services but part of EIS. And lastly, one we've heard for a long time is unified communications. What used to be instant messaging, if you will. Now, with the type of communication solutions for today, how agencies can build out secure connections. Next slide please. I'm going a little bit on TIC 3 and Zero Trust. But we recognize that there's been independent Zero Trust activities going on for over a year. We know that the enterprise perimeter is no longer single location. As services move toward the service edge, unless were the central hub, LAN services will begin to offer more security services. The trust zones in our guidance aligns with the trusted resource in that Special Pub. At the same time, we know the trust zones themselves need to be flexible to support TIC 2. We believe the TIC 3 guidance aligns with the Zero Trust goals objectives. For over a year now, OMB, NIST, GSA, and ourselves have been meeting with agencies and vendor on different Zero Trust solutions. We think there's enough crucial mass to begin to formalize the Zero Trust activities toward TIC 3, but we also recognize that Zero Trust is not a complete enterprise solution [inaudible] federal enterprises. Next slide please. So, we wrap up here. We recognize that data centers are no longer the center of the enterprise. The federal enterprise of tomorrow will support more work off of the enterprise network than on it. More workloads are running in the cloud than at their enterprise data centers. More traffic destined to the cloud than to the data centers. More traffic from the branch offices going directly to the cloud than to the enterprise. We also recognize the growing enterprise needs for this [inaudible] computing capabilities that are distributed and closer to the systems and devices that require low latency. Next slide. This just shows the difference between TIC 2 to TIC 3 where TIC 2 on the left side had that consolidated architecture where everything routed through those TICs. Now, we have distributed architecture with distributed capabilities, distributed security. As we wrap up, the focus is still on that strategy, the architecture, and the visibility. But [inaudible] move the inspection capabilities closer to the sessions, no longer need to reroute the sessions through the inspection engines. Next slide. So, the future for TIC, what I mentioned before in those explicit and implicit goals, the implicit goals are still relevant. Empowering the enterprise CIOs and CISOs, give them the authority they need to support their mission. Motivate all agencies toward a stronger cybersecurity posture. And assessing the CISA that would weaken the exfiltration activities across dot gov. Next slide. And with that, I'll pass it back over to Jim. Thank you.  Okay. Thank you, Sean. There's an awful lot to absorb there, as you figured out. It's almost a misnomer in my mind to, I mean we're calling it TIC 3, we're calling it TIC update, but you know, TIC 2 was in place for an awfully long time, nearly a decade. And you know, the pace of innovation there was pretty slow. With the explosion of services capabilities moving to the clouds and some federal agencies going ahead and starting to move their, you know, their operations into the cloud, the previous TIC 2 solution set, although a lot of agencies are still using them, are obviously strained. You know, as Sean showed earlier, and the TIC tacks is real. And so, again, to emphasize what he just said, you know, the CIOs and CISOs have been empowered, but you know, there's a lot of responsibility there and a lot of questions that each agency has to ask itself as it designs its enterprise network and then how to secure that network. So, you know, how do we approach that from the EIS standpoint, and why are we focusing on EIS so much. So, hopefully I can answer those questions as I go through the last set of slides here. So, let's move to the next slide, which is number 42. These are some of the points that Sean's already made. You know, the typical agency network, you know, there's a lot of cloud usage. There you know, may be pockets of static enterprise networks with a known perimeter out there, but by and large, a lot of agencies are doing at least something in the cloud, if not everything in the cloud. So, you know, now the solutions are more focused on, you know, in the future securing the data, securing, and the transport from the agency's let's say headquarters or premise to cloud applications, data centers, and now especially remote users, and you're seeing that now with the COVID-19 situation. There's a lot of stress on the networks, as you've really energized, you turned full throttle on remote users. So, you know, now transport and the security of that transport is very important and access and authorization to get to the cloud tools and datasets. So, it requires proactive network management and information sharing going forward. You know, that's one of the things that, you know, we've tried to foot stomp on in our contract requirements where we're really looking to our industry partners to, you know, share vulnerability, share solutions to vulnerabilities, and knowledge of attacks, you know, how they're found and defended. That becomes even more important. You know, that typically was handled through telemetry and as John talked about with NCPS, but I think there is probably room for that proactive network management to reach directly to the agency that's, you know, buying the service from industry provider. Because, you know, the sooner that everybody knows what's going on, the better off everybody is. Let's move to the next slide. A again, the focus on EIS really is a followup to the Report to the President on the Federal IT Modernization back in 2017. There was concern there that, you know, there was many places, many ways to get solutions to a particular security question or challenge. And it was an attempt to, well, I guess if you look at it in one way, the agencies, if they're doing everything themselves, could very likely reach out and buy a solution set from one provider and transport from another in cloud services from yet another or maybe multiple others, and when you start stacking all of that up, there's an awful lot of acquisition burden that falls back on the agency. Now, some of that is going to remain, but there's an intent to try to reduce that explosion of contracting and try to aggregate or consolidation acquisition into an enterprise solution set. And that's really where we want to focus EIS as a primary acquisition vehicle for enterprise network, that would include IT modernization and security and especially TIC improvements in the solution sets that get delivered. So, all along, EIS has encouraged the use of coming technology, such as software-defined wide-area networks, Zero Trust networking, 5G, and especially cloud-based security solutions. There has been actually a question that's drawn out of that is because, you know, in our previous contracts, we were kind of rigid in terms of where a particular service was homed, whether it was a security solution, let's say, or a cloud solution, or a transport solution. When you're looking at an enterprise solution, it really cuts across all of those. And we tried to make EIS flexible so that it, you know, it's not as dependent on whether a policy enforcement point is provided as a fast tool or as a managed security service. The point is that you get the security capability that you need. So, the focus is on delivering solutions that way. It's sort of breaking out of the box that we were in for some other contracts, and it definitely is a challenge going forward. But, you know, we're trying to make EIS as flexible as possible and useful to the agencies as they tackle both IT modernization and security with that. As Sean says, we've reached out to industry. We've had, you know, meetings with all EIS prime certainly, and you know, in terms of putting solutions on the contract, it's a little too early to say how those will totally shake out. We developed our managed security services area to take into account the types of potential solution sets we would get in the future. We're currently, I guess, working with our EIS prime contractors through our RFI process right now and some one-on-one meetings to sort of work out what would be the best way to put those solutions sets on the contract. We need to really find a baseline first before we come up with the ideal way to do that, but one thing that we've decided is, you know, we're going to do what's reasonable for the agencies and reasonable in terms of are we putting things on the contract that can be leveraged by multiple agencies or is the solution set that we're looking at just really helping one agency or a couple of agencies? That really is going to dictate how we put the type of solution sets agencies need on the contract. But for now, as we said for many of our other services, you can buy solution sets now through the EIS program, and it is flexible enough to accommodate customer-unique requirements, and you know, we're still standing by that, and we're still in place and position to service requirements that way. Let's go to the next slide. This is a graphic, and it sort of places, we were trying to figure out how we would position TIC 3 in relation to all of the other things going on as part of the modernization challenge. So, modernized transport, we're looking at moving from TDM to ethernet transport by and large, software-defined networks, and more of, you know, more apparent SD-WAN. And secure access to the cloud. You know, how do you get that? You kind of need all those in place, or having all those in place really helps put energize TIC 3 solutions. And TIC 3 solutions also would enable, or not totally necessary, but would enable some of the mobility and 5G challenges and also Zero Trust as we go forward, as Sean alluded to with the pilots. So, you know, TIC 3, we kind of show it here as the center of the universe. It's, I guess it's arguable, but we do see a lot of synergy between those modernizing technologies and TIC 3. Both says that enabler and enabled, if you will, each other. So, by each other. So, let's go to the next slide and talk about how EIS, as I said just a few minutes ago, you know, we're telling agencies and industry to not, you know, necessarily wait for the perfect contracting solution. If we have something, an agency has a requirement, and industry has a solution, let's figure out how to do it through the contract. And then that'll build our set of solutions that can be leveraged by other agencies. So, you've got a number of tools on the contract that we're planning to use to make that happen, primarily our managed network services. This would enable SD-WAN type solutions and secure connections to cloud services. In fact, we're making SD-WAN a stand-alone managed network service. So, we're moving forward in that direction. That's modification is in process as we speak. Also, the secure connections to the cloud service, the cloud service provider connection mod is going on as we speak. So, those will be more defined requirement sets that can be used as a baseline both by agencies and industry, and, you know, those will be on the contract very soon. Our managed security services are defined as they were when we awarded the contracts in 2017, and that's based on managed prevention service, our vulnerability scanning service, and incident response services. Some of these are holdovers from our previous networks contract. The managed prevention service, in particular, was refactored from security solutions or the security capabilities that were in networks, and you know, these really do focus on I'll say network hygiene in terms of making sure that software is patched, updates are put on in a timely fashion, and threats are both found and resolved in a timely manner. We're keeping MTIPS. I reference version 2.2, which was the latest version that was before the TIC 3 update came out. MTIPS still remains available. It's a baseline package. It's defined, as it has been defined in the past, thru version, the reference architecture 2.2 that CISA had put out. It's still useful, we think, in certain situations where an agency still has maybe a premise-based segment that they want to apply MTIPS to. It can still be used, you know, that TIC tacks though becomes more and more onerous as more and more cloud services get used. And we see it sort of as a stepping stone for agencies that are trying to modernize, they're trying to upgrade their security posture, and they're trying to transition from networks to EIS all at the same time. Very difficult triad to navigate. And, so we left MTIPS in there. It's maybe not the best solution in some cases, but it is a stepping stone into more modern TIC solutions, and so for that reason it remains in the contract. SaaS based tools. I sort of mentioned this before or alluded to it. We see many of the solutions that are going to be applied to the TIC and likely to Zero Trust as a SaaS tool. It'll be a cloud-based tool. And of course, the fed ramp certification will apply to those. The EIS contracts mandates that any cloud solution, whether it be SaaS or [inaudible] infrastructure has to be fed ramp certified to be delivered on the contract. So, that's our tether into cloud. So, you can see there, there's a lot of places that solutions can borrow from when being put together on EIS. And we have the flexibility to update and add new capabilities, new services, as we go along. Okay. Let's go to the next slide. It'll be number 46. One of the things we do in terms of our transition efforts from networks to EIS and modernization support with agencies is we have a solicitation assist tool that we offer to agencies in terms of we'll work with them using the tool, which basically spins out a template, a contract template, and a questionnaire for agencies to basically sort of determine what the requirements are and map that into an EIS solicitation. So, we've extended that basic tool or template to include modernization such as SD-WAN and TIC going forward. Now, we're sort of piggybacking on what Sean's team is doing in terms of putting out the TIC guidance. We've overlapped, I would say, a little bit in terms of their [inaudible] idea, and we've also wished to borrow, or we will borrow heavily from the security capabilities and the PEP capabilities that are in the TIC 3 guidance documents as part of this tool. So, that is being put together as we speak again. It's nearing finalized form. And, you know, with this tool, we can help agencies customize their requirements and map them against TIC use cases that have been established or will be established through a pilot later on. Okay, let's go to the next. Okay, the template, as I said, borrows heavily from the TIC 3 guidance. I guess I shouldn't really say it that way. It really employs TIC 3 guidance and supplements it so that when agencies are developing requirements we can refer to the TIC volumes three, four and five and in reference architecture as well, as Sean already walked through, and apply them to well how would you overlay that, how would you map those to an EIS solution or an EIS solution set. So, we're using that concept as well to try to get to solutions that agencies can buy on the contract and ways to offer those solutions on the contract. Okay. Let's go to the next. All right. So, I've mentioned that we're in process of doing a lot of things. So, what are we doing with the contract? First thing is, obviously, we've got to update the policy references in the contract. When it was delivered or awarded, I should say, everything pointed back to the OMB memos from 2008, 2009, 2012. Those have all been wiped away. We're referring to the latest memo that came out in 2019. We're updating the cloud service provider connection feature. Right now, this is a feature on our transport VPNS service. It could be extended in the future to other types of transport, but for now, we're leaving it there, and we're sort of leverage the existing services that have been in place already that use that capability. We're updating it and right now that modification is out basically working directly with the EIS primes to get that on their contracts. SD-WAN availability as a defined service. As I said before, SD-WAN could be delivered today using existing services, but we're going to define it as a separate managed network service with a set of standard requirements. That will be coming along shortly. That's being developed. And then, you know, we want to flush out the TIC 3 solution areas on EIS. Because I keep saying TIC 3. It's very easy to say that because it follows 2, but it's really a TIC solution area. We've, you know, we're looking at different ways we could do that. We could have sort of a general TIC solution where industry can put packages together and offer them to agencies, or we could them by use case, you know, get a little more granular. At some point, you know, there may be too many use cases to do that effectively. So, we just have to sort of sit back a little bit on that and wait and see how the initial use cases turn out and how they're leveraged between or among agencies before we make a final decision on that. But we will have a way to have those solutions developed through the contract either way. I've talked about our RFI out to industry in March, that since we're still in March it's still open. We have in this slide an email address where comments and questions can come in regarding this, sdintake@gsa.gov. So, we'll respond to anything coming in through that and add that to the pool of comments and questions. Let's go to the next. So, we're to the end. I just wanted to use this just real quickly. We do, we have been getting a number of questions regarding the MTIPS service, and one of the questions was, well, can we still get that? The answer is yes. And another one is, you know, what if you have to, what if you decide to modify MTIPS? And here our current stand is that we want MTIPS baseline to stay as it's currently defined. If CISA comes out in the future and redefines the MTIPS security stack let's say or no longer requires that Einstein be part of the MTIPS security stack, then maybe we go back and we edit MTIPS and it becomes, you know, MTIPS update. But for now, since the agencies have relied on the MTIPS to work in a certain way, the requirements still have not really been rescinded. The policy says that for the traditional TIC baseline, MTIPS can be leveraged. So, what does that mean? In terms of the contract, we've taken that to mean if it's MTIPS, we're going to use the MTIPS requirements and solution as it's defined in the contract. If it's MTIPS like, it's MTIPS with a shorter security stack or an expanded security stack. We want to put that in our managed security services basket, just for contract management purposes, really nothing else. So, that's where we are on that particular question right now. I've also gotten some on are the use cases in the policy the only ones we're going to have? Well, I think Sean's already answered that question, showing that there's possibilities for many use cases. And again, one early one we had was are TIC solutions going to be seen as cloud based or security based, and the easy answer to that is really they're both. So, with that, I want to thank Sean for joining me. Thank you for listening, and hopefully you gained some knowledge from listening to us talk for the last hour or so. And we look forward to your input and questions. So, good day. 