 Trust is good. Control is better! When it comes to autonomous driving the traffic will change completely. Above free control of the technique behind it  is the most important basic precondition for trust into the system and all the changes with it. Are you ready for autonomous driving? Lean back and enjoy the ride! Here's "What's up, Audi?"! So Maj-Britt, you did the research. Are people ready for autonomous driving? That's exactly what we've asked 21,000 people in nine countries on three continents. In the representative online study "The pulse of autonomous driving" 82 percent of the respondents internationally are interested in the technology and more than half of them want to take test drives. That's good news. The study also identifies diverse customer needs and designing cars according to those specific needs of course is one of Audi's central visions for the future of mobility. We are already designing cars for specific use cases such as the Audi Ai:con which is an autonomous car for a long-distance driving or the Ai:me for the megacity of the future. Were you able to see the actual differences where those differences were coming from from people who are pro autonomous driving and people who are skeptical. The young well-paid and well educated, those are the people who are most excited about autonomous driving. But you also see difference between the countries. For example the Chinese and the South Korean, they are really euphoric about autonomous driving  whereas people in the US and in Europe are a little bit more hesitant. So it is important to not look at the attitude to autonomous driving in separation from their lifestyles from their from the living environment. This approach led to five user types. What are those user types? We have the suspicious health driver who likes to preserve the status quo and who would only use autonomous driving when it's fully established. Then we have the safety oriented reluctant. Their view: the technology has to be tested for years before it's approved. Then we have the open-minded copilot who clearly sees the advantages of the technology, but he wants measures to be taken by business or industry, science and also politics to put those cars on the road safely. Then we have the status oriented trendsetter. Who is really positive about autonomous driving, also because this allows him to show of his progressive lifestyle. Probably me. Well I'd go with the tech-savvy passenger. Those people already trust the technology and well they hope for the comprehensive introduction of it. And for those people who are skeptical: do you know of any ways how you can pull them over the fence to become excited about autonomous driving. Well what we've learned from the results of the study is that there's first of all a high interest in autonomous driving, but a low level of knowledge about the technology. With our initiative and Audi we want to enhance this knowledge and what we've also learned that there are different measures that would strengthen people's trust in the technology. For example a strong legal framework or certified safety. Quite a big task! with the an Audi initiative we want to foster interdisciplinary corporations between industry, politics and science to address those questions and those measures for the people. Thank you very much for these amazing insights. What about you guys? Are you still skeptical about the autonomous driving or are you very much excited? Let us know in the comments! By the way Germany's car youtuber JP performance had the chance to experience Audi's autonomous Drive and here's what he had to say about it. "What's up, Audi?" Audi wants to get electric. Audi reveals its electrification plan. Make some good cars even better! At Tech Day journalists had an exclusive opportunity to get an insight into Audi's e-mobility road map. By 2025 already Audi wants to have 30 electrified models in its range and at Tech Day it has presented four plug-in hybrids with which you can travel up to 40 kilometers fully electric. Audi told us about their strategy and their plans for their next well upcoming years. So there's actually a lot of electrification going on in Audi's whole line. So there's gonna be 30 electrified cars, 20 of which are gonna be fully electric. What Audi is doing here is electrifying their whole line of models and I think Audi is one of the first one to really push it in this direction. Audi's slogan is "Vorsprung durch Technik" and to achieve that you need people with determination, passion and creative ideas. And 5000 of them are present every year since 2014 in Munich at Europe's largest founders festival "Bits & Pretzels" and their Audi had the honour to talk about the needs and challenges in the fields of connectivity, artificial intelligence, autonomous driving, e-mobility and sustainability. We have the right audience here. it's all the young ones, it's the Millennials, it's the young crowd who get really excited about the stuff we are doing. Audi is changing, mobility is changing and we want to be part of this and that's a fantastic opportunity. E-scooter sharing has become a prominent part of every modern big city. It has absolutely transformed the urban mobility. And now Audi's daughter company Italdesign has developed a similar concept for wheelchair users. How does it work you think. Do you need to hop over from your existing wheelchair to another wheelchair? No absolutely not! And that's the beauty of it. You just connect your wheelchair to this device. Germany is one of the biggest markets when it comes to station wagons. And it should be obvious don't you think? They're great looking such as the A6 Avant. They offer plenty of space and of course they have the performance. But for some reason they are not that popular in the United States. Nevertheless Audi is brained RS 6 Avant for the very first time to the United States. Will its mind-blowing performance and the breathtaking looks be sufficient to convince the United States drivers? I have the perfect guy for the job! One of the world's most famous automotive journalists from MotorTrend Jonny Lieberman who is not afraid to express his honest opinion. Hi there! Hi there! Hi there! Hi there! I'm Johnny Lieberman I host a show on MotorTrend called Head 2 Head. The Viper in hospitable place to be. Hey Jonny how you doing?  I'm good how are you? Fine fine. Will the RS 6 Avant convince the people of United States to love station wagons? It better! Station wagons are just went away. Everyone went crazy on SUVs. But we always had the RS 7. People know about the RS 6. Almost everybody who buys an RS 7 would rather have a RS 6. But do you know why there is the disliking of the station wagons in the first place? The story that like the PR department tells us when we say: Why won't you sell the wagon here? Because that's what their parents drove. But now it's what their granparents drove. So it's so long ago. That maybe what's uncool is now cool again. We're just dead wrong about not loving station wagons. But they also don't even have a chance to buy one. And again I think Germans are more logical. Obviously, why would you buy any other car? It doesn't make any sense. Where Americans are like: I need a tank. That's what I need to take my one child around a giant SUV. So hopefully that's changing.  When they finally announced that the RS 6 will be coming to America everyone was like on social media losing their minds like finally finally. But do you think it will be actually converted to sales? I don't know, I don't know. As far as I know now, they're gonna sell the RS 6 and they announced the Allroad. Which is good strategy. So you have to build cars with character. And I think having a station wagon model is giving more character. Jonny thank you for these amazing insights. What's more impressive than four rings? Four big rings made by 193 cars from Audi Club of Slovakia. And not only does this sound impressive, it also looks amazing from up in the air. A famous European technology investor front Frank Thelen who is known from the german version of shark tank is always looking for interesting ideas such as Audi E-Foil. Everyone can take a picture from an artwork but not everyone can make an artwork out of a picture like Camilo Pardo with this amazing marvelous fan inspired art. My name is Camillo Pardo. I'm an automotive designer and I'm also fine artist. That's it guys thanks for watching. Make sure to comment below what type of person you are when it comes to autonomous driving. Share this video with your friends and see you next time bye! 