 Hello and welcome to Master Yourself Academy's YouTube channel. This is Narmada Rao, Psychologist and an NLP trainer. We all talk of consequences right? "If I do this, this will happen! If I don't do this, this will happen! You should do this always. That's what is going to happen!" We all keep talking about it, right? What's important about consequences is to understand when to stop. A lot of times, we always have the best of intentions, when we are talking to people about consequences; we want them to do something or not do something for their own good but the way we land up telling about the consequences, it's so bad that they don't feel like doing it at all. I'll give you a simple example: Let's say a mother wants a child to eat and the child is refusing to eat. So, the mother says, "You have to eat better otherwise you'll not get the energy to play"; which is good. So far so good! Now, if the mother goes one step extra and she says, "you have to eat otherwise you won't get the strength to play and your friends will call you a weakling and nobody will like you and nobody wants to play with you", now that's where it's gone over the top. Another example, somebody is new to driving and you, in all your good faith, you want them to drive well. So you tell them, "Be careful, okay! If you drive carelessly you're going to kill somebody". Now tell me who would want to drive after you've given that level of a consequence! After that people will be so afraid that they'll say, "it's okay! I don't want to drive. I don't want to kill people on the road!" You need to know the difference between when your consequence seems to motivate and inspire somebody versus when is it going to actually land up scaring somebody. A lot of times parents use this mechanism of, "Eat otherwise the buchi will come and take you or the ghost will come and eat you". All these kind of weird consequences, you're instilling fears in the child about dark, about cats, about dogs, about so many things. Or, 'do this otherwise you look ugly'; 'if you don't do like this you'll become fat and then nobody will want to be friends with you', 'your clothes won't fit you'. When you're talking of consequences in such negative ways, let alone motivate you are demotivating them not just for that instance but almost for their life. People carry these past baggage monkeys for so long that you will not even believe you had that kind of an impact on someone. So think about when you're giving consequences are you educating  people about it or are you creating fears - lots of fears with your consequences. The aim of giving the consequence is so that the person understands what will happen and what will not if they don't do it. For example, if you tell a child, 'study well so that you do well in your life', that's great! Or, 'if you don't study well, it's going to or 'maybe if you don't study well you will find it difficult in the exams' so far it's okay still but if you say, 'if you don't study well you're going to be a useless person', now, that's not a great thing to say! Because what happens is, the child starts believing in all of those things. Even adults actually - when you start giving them consequences of such strong, severe nature, people might land up  believing in it. They either start rebelling or they start becoming very very timid and fearful about all these things. And you don't want to have that effect right? You have the best of intentions. So, when you do have the best of intentions, why not find good ways of influencing people rather than building monstrous fears in them? So next time when you are talking of consequences take a look at yourself, see what is your consequence about. Is it actually going to help them understand it or are you setting in fears for them? If it is going towards setting in fears, please rephrase it and tell it in a way that helps them understand what it is about - not create unnecessary fears in them and wishing you a great influence on people around, and don't tell people, 'if you don't do this what will people think of you? Oh you did like this, people are going to think you're a bad boy, you're a good girl' - when you do all this animated stuff right, you're actually telling people a lot of things that, 'oh no if you don't do this nobody is going to love, you nobody is going to accept you'. That's not the truth actually. We're not all that mean any time anyways. One or two might be like that, but for those people's sake, you can't tell people, 'you have to do like this, otherwise nobody will love you'. And you also operate on the same fear, then it's a lot worse because we're constantly doing things to please others we are not doing things for the joy of doing. We are doing things for the fear of losing and that's not a great motivation to do things in life. So find ways to motivate people so that they do things only for the love of it, not for the fear of it. Yeah? So find great ways to motivate yourself, influence yourself and influence others too. Wishing you all that great things and more. If you like  this video, please hit like and subscribe and if you have any questions please feel free to reach out to us. If you have any comments, please feel free to leave it down below. If you have things that you would like us to talk about in our next videos, please do let us know. We'd be most happy to talk about it. You can write to us through our website www.masteryourself.in. Thank you so much for watching. Have a blessed day ahead! Take care  