 Welcome to Health Sciences. Now that you are CTC Health Sciences student, here are some things you need to know. You are placed into one of three programs of studies or holding cells, Healthcare Assistant, Healthcare Science or Interdisciplinary Studies Health track. Healthcare Assistant is a program of study for students to complete diploma level prerequisites such as ALHS 1011, Structure and Function of the Human Anatomy. Healthcare Science, and Interdisciplinary Studies Health track are for students who will complete Degree level prerequisites such as Anatomy and Physiology, BIOL 2113, the lecture component, and BIOL 2113 L, the lab component. Please note that if you are Pell eligible student and seeking that admission into one of our degree programs, please be sure to enroll in Interdisciplinary Studies Health track as this is Pell eligible. For more information, please seek financial aid advice from one of our financial aid advisors. We have a couple of programs where you are able to directly admit, such as are CNA Certified Nursing Assistant, EMT Healthcare Management, and Medical Administrative Assistant. These do not require you to complete prerequisite courses. You all will receive an email from a Health Science advisor with an advisement sheet like this one. Please make sure that the information is correct including the program of study. Make sure that your residency is also correct. Please register for the classes that are listed in the middle of this box. Email an advisor for more information about your particular program of study. If you are a student that has some transfer credits, you may receive some information that looks like this. The first column is the course that was taken at your previous institution. The second column is the transfer credit indicated by the letters TR and the 3rd letter is the grade that was earned in that particular course. How do you find your classes? You will find your classes by visiting the CTC website and selecting the Programs and Courses tab. Then select Academic Programs Credit. Scroll down to the middle of the page to select one of the Health Sciences program. After selecting a program, scroll down to the dark blue section of the program and find your classes and other important information under the heading of program specifics such as the program admission information, program admission points, program admission application sessions, etc. Please note that in Health Sciences there is a two attempt policy on courses such as Anatomy and Physiology, one and two, and withdrawal does not count as an attempt. However, transfer credit does count as an attempt on one of these courses. We want you to be sure that you're always in the know. Be sure to review the following information, such as our Academic Calendar so that you will always be aware of the dates that are important to you when applying to one of our programs. Also review the College Catalog when registering to make sure that you have completed either the prerequisite or the corequisite course for a particular class. Know that we have a No Show Policy on all of our courses. Students must complete a No Show Assignment during the first week of the semester to verify that they are attending that particular class. CTC has three terms, an A Term, which is the first 16 weeks of the term, B Term which is the first 8 weeks, and C Term, which is the last eight weeks. We know we've given you a lot of information and now we want to make sure that you know of our CTC resources. We have a designated Licensed Professional Counselor that is here for you. Her name is Ms. Mayi Dixon. She can be reached at Mayi.Dixon@ChattahoocheeTech.edu all of her sessions are completely free and confidential. She's able to assist you with stress or time management, help you to perfect your study skills and also just help you to learn how to be your best self. Please use her as your resource. Now, let's register. As a Health Science student, we ask that you do not use Degree Works for advisement. Instead, we would ask that you would review your program admission information that can be found under their program specifics on each of these program web pages. These will help you to determine which courses that you should enroll in in order to apply to your particular Health Sciences program. How to register? There are two ways that you can register. We ask that our students would please use the Schedule Planner. This will allow you to optimize several schedule options available to you. You can also use Banner Web through the Chattahoochee Tech homepage. Select Me@CTC, then select the Banner Web login with email. Chattahoochee Tech now has a single sign-on. This will allow you to use the same username and password. Your username is everything preceding the @ symbol. There are some CTC codes that we feel that you should be aware of. We have 8 campuses at Chattahoochee Tech. AP is for Appalachian Campus. CA is for Canton Campus. MA is our Marietta Campus. MV is our Mountain View Campus. NM is our North Metro Campus. PA is our Paulding Campus OL or onl is our Online Campus and WO is our Woodstock Campus. M stands for classes that are only on Mondays. T is for Tuesday, W for Wednesday. R is for Thursday, F is for Friday, S is for Saturday. MW means that students would attend class both Monday and Wednesday. TR are for classes that would attend Tuesday and Thursday. Now we'd like you to email us for advisement today. The best way to receive advisement is through your CTC email. We ask that you would include your CTC email address your 900 number as well as any questions that you may have regarding your program of study. Advisors are waiting to assist you with the program requirements that are necessary for you to apply to one of our Health programs. They are waiting for you and will assist you in creating an academic plan as well as provide you with some program admission statistics. 