 Autonomous vehicles are continuing to cause a stir within the parking industry and barely a day goes by without another theory on how it will impact traditional parking. But how realistic are these visions of an autonomous future? For this week's Parking Talks we are joined by two experts from the automotive and parking industries Stefan Bader, Managing Director of Continental Parking Data Services, and Stephane Evanno, CEO of Stanley robotics. Let's start with Stephane from Stanley Robotics. As providers of robotic parking what role do you think autonomous vehicles currently play within the parking industry? So clearly I don't think they play a big role today. They are visible, people can hear a lot about the advent of self-driving cars, for instance, or read, hear, and listen to a lot of information about more robots coming. They are not here today, they are not running real businesses today, at least not in the world of airports, but they are here enough to make people think differently and plan differently. As you know, airports, for instance, doing very regularly the exercise of master planning. And it's important today that they can see with us at Lyon Airport, a service working already at a certain scale, 500 spaces, and where they can already see a fleet of robots working autonomously to deliver a service. And because they can see that, in real, they are ready to enter more projects already with us at least, the let's say, the first movers in this industry, and to think differently in the way they plan and they organize their future airport. Stephane, how feasible do you think it would be to have fully autonomous vehicles in the future? So in your question there is the word future, of course, the future is about more and more automation. This train has already left the station, self-driving cars are on their way to  hit our streets. Nevertheless, my personal opinion is that they will do so somewhat later than commonly expected, by the general public or even by the media. Regarding parking robots, which is what we do, I can be much more definite. We have already with Stanley Robotics reached a pretty high level of automation, and we are doing quite impressive improvements day by day, operating such a service on the tarmac of the our pilot car park in Lyon. And I can assert that full automation, a fully autonomous system, will be available before the end of this year. It's great that fully autonomous systems are already available in the parking industry, what is Continental's view on how autonomous vehicles will be adopted by the industry and general public? It will take quite some time to get there. There is no law regulation in place yet dealing with incidents, there are many very complex driving situations, especially in urban areas and in developing countries, demanding cheap transportation, and not providing the needed infrastructure for it, it will take even longer. It will all start in urban areas in developed countries, with hybrid traffic of classical and autonomous vehicles, and over time the penetration of AVs will rise. So yes, I totally believe it will definitely come, it is feasible and it will happen, but I think we need a bit more, we need to be a bit more patient than the industry currently makes us believe. What solutions does Continental have to offer during the interim period? Automated valet parking will become one of the first use cases of level for autonomous driving. I mean the value of such an offering goes without saying, who doesn't want to skip the hassle of parking. So this is definitely going to be a major use case of level 4. So it will be introduced up after the first level for highway pilots, for example, but definitely it will become commonplace before level 5 Robo taxis will start driving on our streets. The points you have raised about autonomous vehicles are certainly valuable and we will be following developments in the industry very closely. Can you tell us what we can expect from Stanley robotics this year? So this year you can expect us to demonstrate more and more robust and convincing performances of our robotic operations in Lyon. You can expect us to launch a pretty similar service in the airport of Gatwick in London, and to announce more such projects and partnerships. You can also expect us to grow significantly as a company to support all this growth of projects. And Stefan, what will be happening at Continental? This year we are making really good progress on scaling our cloud services, so by the end of this year we will have rolled out our off-street information service globally and will have launched our on street service, followed by a really ambitious global rollout plan in 2020. We are also making quite good progress on the ADAS side of the solution, and yeah it's just great to see how these single components are becoming more and more mature and to be able finally to combine these capabilities towards our final mission. We're presenting our latest technology at Frankfurt Motor Show in September and also at CES in Las Vegas in January 2020, and I'm really looking forward to seeing you and also all faces of course of the parking industry there. Thank you both for sharing insight into this topic. We look forward to seeing new applications for automated parking and how the parking industry prepares for autonomous vehicles. If you would like to participate in Parking Talks, or if there is a particular topic you would like to see in a future discussion please contact us at editor@parking-net.com. Thanks for watching and see you next time! 