 Assalamualaikum and greetings. On the recent video, we can see how sharing economy impacted on automotive industry and we can see how car company change from car as a product to mobility as service. In MaaS, we can see one of the important technology elements is Autonomous Driving. What can we imagine toward autonomous driving? I think most people will  think that a car without a driver. When I was a child, there have a TV series Knight Rider, a black car can talk, self-driving car and equipped with weapons. This TV series was around 1982's, those who 30's or 40's may know this series, if we look at history this autonomous concept designed by Leonardo Da Vinci on 1495s. He designed Self-Propelled Cart, he made it from wood like a toy car, swing around and it move itself. If we see earlier 1920s, has so many efforts to design  self-driving car, they most use radio wave and laser. On 1928, if I'm not mistaken they tried to plant electric sensor inside the road, and car moving like a thunderbird follow an instruction from centre and moving, but all of the technology was failed to be commercialized. Until we have this AI age, when digital transformation happened and it can process the data, can use AI algorithm and Computer Technology Vision getting advance and we can see a lot of autonomous technology nowadays. In autonomous vehicle R&D, the famous one is DARPA GRAND CHALENGE, they created a challenge for those who can create a self-driving vehicle, it was a long time ago around 1960s, they have the research but the first competition is around 2004, first competition they done at Mohave Desert on 13 March 2004. Racecourse is around 240km but unfortunately in 2004, no one can finish the course, they all lost but a great thing about human is, in 2005 the next year, there have 5 competitor who can finish the course. On that time the course is 212km, the first place was finished  it in 6 hours 54 minutes and the last place takes 12 hours 51 minutes. After that, a more competitor can finish it and they started to fight who are fastest. How great human is. When we determined to do something, then we can do it. Even in history, before we entered autonomous, the earlier car is hard to start, we need to swing it multiple times then the start key, now start button, even though power steering, gear before all manual mode, later it become automatic. So, inside the car the small part in car already automated, only left about driver and we still need to drive a car. In order to realisation this autonomous drive, they are doing it by level, from level 1, level 0 until level 5. Level 0 is no autonomation at all, manual mode which is  100% drive by human, need the presence of human. Then is level 1, that's mean need driver assistant,  if we can see the luxe car have a cruise control, it locks the distance with the car in front and control the  speed, all the system can be categorized to Level 1. Level 2, it called Partial Automation that's mean the car can control break and acceleration for example a car had this technology is Honda Freed, we need to hold the steering and it will control a fuel, all this categorized it as Partial Automation. Level 3 called as Conditional Automation, which mean the ability to detect an environment not just control itself but can detect the environment, most of the situation,  it can self-drive but still in certain area need human involvement. If enter to level no 4, it called High Automation, most of the time the car is self-driving, human involvement is optional. The last one level 5 is Full Automation, without a human, also, the car can self-driving anywhere. If we see nowadays, 2020 where is the level of progress  for this technology? most of the company who provide autonomous drive already exist, even though I can't see  yet in Malaysia, but in Japan, US already have that. Most of them in level 2 and 3 a lot. For example  when I went to Japan, my friend drove on highway using this autonomous mode, still need to hold the handle but the car detects and the motion itself, but if we let off the handle, the car will make a noise and turn off, Nissan also have this they called E-power. Nissan Serena E-power, also have the same mode but now the latest Nissan has a new mode, which we can let off the steering and do something else but still we need to sit on the driver seat but we can let off the handle. That technology already commercialized, Tesla also have  this mode, we can call the car and the car will come to us. That mode already released by Tesla, it called Tesla Model S Autopilot if i'm not mistaken. Technology is so cool. But now we can see, even Audi said they will release Level 4, around 2021, and it said around 2025 it can be level 5 If we see practically, maybe R&D and test run, around 2025 I think it will be complete but to commercialized maybe will take another 5 years, We can say around 2030 we can see lot of  autonomous vehicle runs on the road. Of course, the core of this technology is computer vision, camera and sensors, wave, and combination of multiple sensor will make a car be able to sense lot of things and object using AI Technology like Deep Learning, the combination of technology has made the  autonomous can be real in front of our eyes. What is the impact of autonomous? Simple when people  don't need to drive a car anymore, it will create a new economy it called Passenger Economy, that's mean is now we need to drive, that's why we have a steering, carpet, car structure but when we don't need to drive a car the whole grand design for a car will change. Seat, space like a plane, lots of new service to insert inside  a car like watch a movie, or massage chair so a lot of new service can be integrating inside the car, this thing  itself will be innovate and change everything. And there will be the business will disappear for example car mate, no need car mate, steering, gear anymore. So, all these things will disrupt an industry and create the new industry, and if we see when AI start drive a car what will happen? Maybe we feel worried now if we let robot  to drive a car, it could be accident, but the prediction is otherwise. When this autonomous technology enter in real, it will be more safe than human because hard to get an error and it can predict the multiple information simultaneously, for example the countries who has more oldster, lot of accident and must surrender license, but with this kind of technology, all these things can be preventing, we become a passenger. When less accident occurs, what will happen? Insurance, it will affect car insurance and mechanic workshop such as for dent car, hitting everywhere and most probably will decrease and will impact mechanics, like a small business mechanic, SME so most of their income will be reduce with the self-driving mode. What else? In business will also been impact like taxi, truck driver. Company had to pay a cost for the driver. Imagine no need driver, the job will be less or the cost will be reduce, maybe only for monitor not really drive. All these things will impact the labour market. It is said drivers, truck and all the driver who bring a passenger will affect with this technology, for the business side, this is one of the threat for the car companies if we see which company has a greatest technology in autonomous,one of the famous one is Waymo, belong to Google company. Google has invested it. New entrance in autonomous, most of them from company tech. They are more advance from car companies when they  have the technology in auto drive which means they will license their technology. In example the service provider like Google, Amazon they already have a lot of contents to insert into the car, other than Waymo, Google already have advertisement platform. Imagine they put it in the car, we ride the autonomous car, there have a screen and we can see the ads, so they can earn more money, with that they can reduce the car cost, same goes to Amazon, if they want to insert their movie, shopping, so all the function can be insert into the car, like I said just know, passenger economy. Car company must become like a handphone, they must  to be hardware maker, they have no platform like that, they will be threatened because of the last 1 mile,  the closest one with client, taking over by the tech giant company, of course the company like Toyota, Tesla have a great technology and have their own autonomous technology itself, but still can't compete with Google because Google has too many  AI tech they use it with others such as voice, computer vision. So, it's unbeatable and because of data volume own by Google  and another car company will not be same. This is become very intense competition, maybe if wrong  time coming, the car company have no option anymore and must follow the tech company. How the handphone change the revolution and become a smartphone and cause all the company forced to follow android and IOS, it can be happened in car industry and this thing still going on, let see how it will happen. So, if we refer to the previous videos, imagine with our handphone, we can book a self-driving car, car come to us. We can ride the car everywhere, drop us and we settle our  job then next car coming again, can we imagine the damage against car companies, lot of car become unnecessary, we can control using our mobile apps, as a customer we just pay for our ride, maybe insurance and cost  per ride, no need to own the car. It's looks like a science fiction if we stay in Malaysia,  but in Japan, they already have lot of function. We can see this thing in future, but I can't predict what will happen to Malaysia economy, because the development countries still have a challenge compare to infra developed  countries which is they are easier the obstacle if anyone has been to India or Vietnam, the infra place  still not enough, Is autonomous drive can be use it? This is one of the challenges to the tech company and autonomous drive is not always perfect. Of course, there have a risk, for example the cyber security. When a car full of the computer technology, connected  with network, must have a risk like hack. What will happen if getting hacked, all this is unseen but it is there and need preparation, same goes to network infra, bandwidth, mostly nowadays it called age computing, which means in car itself has AI to do all things because they have not enough time to use a network, will become a hybrid. All these seem possible, but it will take time like I said, in 10 years time we will see the drastic changes It will be faster than we see, this is not a science fiction,  we have the technology wise it just, compare with an airplane, they fly on air, not too many. Only take-off and landing need human control then most of part is autonomous,car can be same just  the problem is car has too many, in groups. The sense must be more delicate and possibility to hit each other is higher than airplane. So, it will take time to test, to get the solution, security  and safeness be clearer and then they will be commercialized. Maybe in 10 years time, we don't need a license because  we just ride a car without driver, food things like Grab, Food Panda, maybe will not  bring by human anymore but autonomous vehicle. So, imagine the impact of these thing towards economy. I hope everyone can see the impact about digital transformation. Ok, that's it for today and I will continue in my next videos Assalamualaikum and greetings. 