 How to grow your IXP and make sure it goes to the next step. In fact when you launch your IXP, the first points  to consider are neutrality and independence. In the case of France-IX, we decided five years ago to set up a dual organization. It means that we have at the same time an association and a private company The association is the unique shareholder  of the private company. It does mean that all the contracts  or the operations are dealt with the private company and the association is mainly to represent the members. So in fact each member, each customer, has one vote during the annual meetings and they vote for the board of directors Also, they vote for the validation of the accounts. So they are not only customers, they are members  and involved in the organization itself. When it comes to neutrality, it is not only important to have a neutral organization, it is also very important to select neutral data centers, neutral locations. In the case of France-IX, we started with six  PoPs [Points of Presence] in Paris five years ago and now we are 10 PoPs in Paris and 2 PoPs in Marseille. Each time we want to add the new PoP,  we make sure that this is a neutral data center, a neutral location and this is very important. Otherwise your members may not connect if it's not a real neutral location. If you want to grow your internet exchange point, you need to make sure that you have  a sustainable business model. In the case of France-IX, when we launched  the IXP 5 years ago, we knew that we were not offering the cheapest pricing and in fact, we just wanted to make sure at that time that for the the price we apply, we provide a professional service. And if you know that at that time in France most of the internet exchanges were free, meaning no real business model in front of it, Then you understand that if you need to provide something professional in terms of services, at one point you need to pay for it and this was a challenge and it worked and by the time we decided to decrease of pricing to make sure that it was matching the global tendency of the market but when you launch your IXP, the main point is not « is my pricing competitive ? » You need to make sure that it matches  the market, your local market because you may have constrains locally that other countries may not have so you don't have to apply exactly the same pricing  as the others, you need to match two things * address the market and the expectations of the networks at the time and also * make sure you apply a fair pricing compared to the service you provide. This is a combination of these two points. This is what I call fair pricing and sustainable business model. In order to develop your IXP,  you need to make sure that you work on two items First one : develop your infrastructure Second one : develop the services To develop the infrastructure, you must work on the PoPs and selects the appropriate locations. For France-IX, we started with six PoPs in Paris now we have more than 10 of them and we also developed Marseille by the time We now have two PoPs in Marseille so you make sure that when you put new PoPs that you get closer to your members, closer to the community you want to address. Also by developing new services, you make sure that you both listen to your community but you show them at the same time that you can imagine new services and this is the combination of your imagination  to develop new services and listening to the community so you may start with basic services like  IPv4 and IPv6 unicasts and over time you add multicast,  routes servers, DNS serveurs, SIP peering, whatever you want you. You must make sure that it does much the expectations and the market requests. 