 When you run an IXP, you need to make sure that you apply best practices. Globally you have three points for best Practices. Best practices about : • The architecture of the internet exchange point • about how you connect your members and  the rule you apply for the connection of the members • and the third is how you monitor your infrastructure All these best practices are summarized  in documents that are public. For instance, the European Association of internet exchange points in Europe called Euro-IX, has written a nice document about that and this document summarizing the best practices is available on their website so I do encourage you to have a look at it. This is very important if you want to attract international players because they expect a professional service from you and they want to make sure that You apply the best practices they are waiting for The internet exchange points are changing. They used to be only technical platform to connect professionals from the Internet. By professional entities, I mean Carriers,  Internet service providers. Now an internet exchange  point especially international one like France-IX has a very important diversity of members who are carriers, ISPs, hosting companies, emailing companies, cloud providers, gamers corporates, banks, any type of member Of course, they want to connect on the internet exchange point to make sure that they can peer wich means set up a connection  a point-to-point connection to enable that their customers can see each other but at the same time they want to buy or sell services using the platform of the IXP and this is what will  change in the future for the development of IXPs. If you want to grow your internet exchange point,  we can summarize that to 4 elements : first one, set up a neutral and independent organization and pay attention also to the neutrality of the locations for your PoPs. Second point :  apply best practices on your internet exchange. The best practices are available on the Euro-IX  website and this is a public document. Third point :  have a large diversity of members. This will help you get a critical mass  and develop your IXP. And finally, always listen to the community both to collect requests they have but also to be in contact with them to propose them brand new services. 