 So I'd like now like to invite Wendy Newman and we heard a bit about Wendy's work today. Wendy is the CEO of the Wheatbelt Development Commision and she has been leading a really important initiative called Ageing in the Bush, which really does have potential which I'm sure we'll hear about potential to be scaled up and rolled out in other parts of the State. So welcome to you Wendy. Thanks everyone. It really is a privilege to be here today because I know each and every one of you is actively involved in doing real work on the ground to make a fundamental difference. I'm just going to quickly give you a bit of a case study that talks about collective impact if you like and how collaboration can really deliver an integrated approach to aged care in regional WA. If I could do the analogy this is very much like eating an elephant, it's big. You don't know where to start. You don't know what the reaction will be. It just seems enormous task when you have nine and very vast and diverse regions, over a 100 local governments. In the Wheatbelt alone we have 43. I would love to acknowledge my Wheatbelt local government colleagues here today from York, Pingelly, Wyalkatchem and elsewhere. The Wheatbelt is really leading the way in working together in groups. It was the Wheatbelt local governments  that started this work by all 43 agreeing that identifying this issue of ageing and ensuring that their community members could age well in their communities was a priority. Out of that work we have now worked across the State to come up with a new model that we hope delivers much better outcome that enables people to remain in their communities. This work was being done because of the federal and state level there was huge reform at a funding and policy level. We were wanting to be well placed to be able to contribute to that debate, and to actually come to the table with some solutions about what a a well-aged model look like and that would actually work in a regional context. There was also a situation where we had many providers at a State, local, private and not-for-profit delivery level - perhaps our WA Country Health Service (WACHS) is what we would call provider of last resort of aged care - another residential care and other care services, and as Scott pointed out the population figures are somewhat alarming and the growth rates are higher in regional WA then they are in metropolitan Perth. So this tsunami of need was coming towards us and local governments felt very strongly in the Wheatbelt that they needed to be well placed to make sure this wasn't yet another burden on them and a responsibility for them in a time of fiscal constraint. They were well placed to again come up with proactive solutions that didn't mean they became the provider of last resort. So all this work was very much aligned to the reform process. So aged care in a regional context as I said, the ageing population is increasing, larger than the metropolitan area. There is significant State investment at the moment through Royalties for regions, particularly through the Southern Inland Health Initiative and through the Northern Inland Health Initiative looking at fostering new models. different ways of doing things. How can we actually fundamentally transform what we are doing to get a better outcome for regional residence. On the back that we've been able to influence some solutions so I hope what you've come to at the end of my presentation this morning is - researched, evidence based approach that is well connected to  community need and actually being able to implement real solutions quickly on the ground to make a difference. We believe that this is a timely topic for the State. It was just wonderful to hear doing this morning because I'm just such a firm believer in an asset-based approach and we actually believe that this is in a burden on our communities. Our mature residents are very much the gold in our community, their wisdom, their experience, their commitment community is something that we want to hold to continue to add value to our community. In terms of the industry development opportunities that this industry offers for regional WA it is immense and we need to seize those opportunities. So what we wanted to do was to arrive at a model that but all this stuff together. It actually had to work at a community level. It needed to align to those policy and funding parameters. We weren't in a place of suggesting something different that wouldn't work. It needed to minimise that financial burden dialogue. We needed to move away from that and make sure that we are in fact talking better and different not more costly. And then as i mentioned earlier the evidence base behind this work and the relevance to community was absolutely critical. So we started this collective approach by getting this scope right and it was about identifying those aged care models for regional WA that enabled our residents to age in their community for as long as possible. We had too many residents having to leave our communities because of the lack of service and the lack of community support. The whole process was very much designed to ensure we maximise that engagement. We weren't going to be  talking to them it was very much a process of talking with them, arriving at an agreed vision of scope, making sure that those partners in the process invested in the process so that they were wanting to be part of the outcome, and identifying and linking regional leaders and influences to make sure that we could get maximum broad impact. You know the ripple in the pond you put one bit in but and you get the right people involved so you can get maximum impact. It was also really important that in terms of this evidence-based approach and coming up with new models we had to choose the expert that was held in very high regard. So choosing the consultancy that we did we're very pleased to be able to have someone that was really great at community engagement, but really understood federal funding parameters, and could argue that point very well. Also critical to the engagement was the regional visits and I'd like to acknowledge my colleague Lauren Clark, like me Lauren has come to the Wheatbelt because of love, she has reinvented herself fabulously is a self-confessed aged care junkie. Her positivity and all of this has been fundamental in thinking outside the box, connecting people and making sure we're at the right place with the right people at the right time presenting information to them and having those possible models validated. It was no good us sitting in a room and coming up with wild ideas if the community couldn't touch it, feel it, agreed to it and be committed to it.  That validation of that work was a really important part of the process. After that engagement, after getting commitment to possible models it's making sure that this work sticks, that it is enduring and lives well beyond the life of you and I being here in this room today. So from a community perspective it had to be a sum of the whole so we heard this morning about that continuum of capability this model had to address that continuum of capability from highly capable to less capable, and the capacity to continue to stay in community. We're pretty confident that the model does that. We had to have the right people at the table agreeing and committing to solutions. I'm really proud of our 43 local governments, the Wheatbelt Local governments, they're all at the table. They're all committed to the solutions and can I tell you they hound me on a regular basis to make sure they're getting their bit of the very important investment we're putting into the solutions. We had to work within these budgetary and policy scopes - in terms of the budget I have to acknowledge the Royalties for regions program - because it is providing key investment in enabling us to invest in these new solutions. In essence the solution we came to was what we call an Integrated Four Plank Model. It says that yes the foundation for this work and what we are talking about today is age friendly communities. It is a low cost, high impact solution when we work to deliver in age-friendly communities. The second critical plank and  critically important in regional WA because of the lack of diversity of housing, is the age-friendly housing. That is a fundamental enabler for people to remain at home as long as possible in community. As capacity is impacted that ability to deliver home care and support critically important. And finally that residential aged care as we heard this morning - 1 in 7, it's currently 1 in 9 Australia wide. We think its higher in regional WA because we don't have those under pinning three planks. We are finding people, our elderly residents going into a hospital care setting for the most part for months and years rather than end of life care for weeks and at the worst outcome months. Our model is aiming to focus where we can have best impact for lowest cost and acknowledging that residential care will not exist in all of our communities but across our communities we will have access to those services and we will choose to support those services which are going to be the most sustainable and relevant to our community into the future. I am pleased to say out of that model we are already delivering some pretty fantastic solutions we think. Working with the Department's Aged-friendly, Planning and Infrastructure we came up with a great little online toolkit that enabled communities and it was just joyous to see groups of seniors walking around town with ipads doing a bit audit of their community facilities and the services to contribute to that important age planning work. We are trialling in the Wheatbelt what we're calling this the Cluster Model of Housing, a supportive accommodation model. If we get this right we've Platinum level design of Dementia housing in a cluster that accesses and enables effective and viable delivery of care. We're pretty confident that we're going to come up with a really great opportunity to costly residential care. So it's being trialled in a couple of communities in Pingelly and Cunderdin off the back of unpacking and MPS Hospital and looking at what primary care looks like in an aged care environment. We're really excited about that work that is happening. Seven groups of local governments in the Wheatbelt now have developed and we are starting to invest in business cases through the Royalties for regions programs for this contemporary, well-aged housing clusters that can exist as independent living units. If we get it right we really facilitate the delivery of care, home and community care, lots of reform going on in this space. We're watching with keen interest consumer-directed care, it could be fantastic, it could be really interesting where you have thin markets and where choices perhaps no choice, making sure that choice is available and looking at some innovative workforce solutions through the TAFE sector, making sure we have good pathways of employment for the aged care workforce. In terms of residential care including dementia and respite, looking at as I said earlier that industry development focus jobs and growth, (dare I say oh no), looking at what those real possibilites are there. In regional WA we have a real under participation of women in the workforce we see a real match here about how we increase that participation in industries that match their skill set. My final slide is particularly focusing in on Aboriginal care. As we were doing this work in the Wheatbelt and across regional WA we were a bit struck about the lack of visibility for Aboriginal people in this space. There was some key principles that we think are really important as we move forward to working a case-by-case basis to design the right solution. They are about enhancing family capacity in participation to care. I saw a fantastic example up in Kalumburu just last Friday. A young girl from community trained in dialysis care and caring for two people in her community - a Home dialysis program. It was just awesome. That sort of stuff is the future. The notion of Site managed Aboriginal older housing model which we are keen to trial in regional WA. The importance of Package flexibility which is a federal policy issue that we are came to pursue. Moving beyond the on fixed-term program funding. We all know and we have seen short programs, short life minimum impact. Those sorts of programs that we can ensure we build the capacity and capability on the ground and we build the sustainable, viable model on the ground so that as those programs come and go the impact on the ground is less. There's great models about brokering care in the home that we're looking at. Already this work is reasonably fresh off the press as of late last year. We are already seeing significant investment. We are seeing communities collaborating and engage and make a fundamental difference. We are really excited about the outcomes. I think regional communities are not prepared to accept the status quo. So we're quite confident that a new approach is going to achieve a much better outcome, particularly if we're looking at it from a community perspective and what does this continued continuum of care look like for me in my community. I think historically we are  being great at looking at a program approach or a funding approach and from a community perspective you can have up to a dozen providers doing very little across a thin spectrum. We need to get to less doing greater depth. So thanks for listening this morning. Happy to catch up with you over the lunch break and afterwards to share more about fabulous stories. Thanks very much Wendy and we will certainly be watching this space in terms of how it has rolled out elsewhere the regions. It is now my pleasure to invite Ian Carter who is the CEO of Anglicare to come and talk to us about a very innovative project, Foryer Oxford to addressing issues of of youth homelessness so thank you very much Ian. Thank you very much Jennifer. As well as trying to start a revolution many years ago about not wearing a tie I am also regularly trying to avoid using a powerpoint so I'm just gonna have a yarn with you about some things that are on the go. I don't know whether you will be pleased about that or displeased, anyway that's what I'm doing. Can I begin by saying I acknowledge the Nyungar people as the original custodians of this land and I honour their elders past and present. It was great for me to be here and you know I felt like the wild card being invited here to talk. I'm not involved in age services even though from our market research everyone thinks we're in aged care provider but we're not. Anglicare provides a wide range of services and to read and hear the stuff around the age-friendly stuff was really interesting and certainly the whole approach, the collaborative the co-design, the thinking, the reflection the innovation is very exciting. At the moment I am  trying to think about a homeless friendly community or a family and domestic violence friendly community and I think there are some key lessons from the approach in this area that can apply to where we go with that, leave you with a thought on homeless friendly. In the end of April in Western Australia there were 13,154 properties on the rental vacancy thing at any one time in Western Australia there are 8,500 homeless people, go figure. There's a challenge for all of us. Foyer Oxford was one of those responses that we put in place. If you drive along Oxford Street in Leederville and you ever knew the old Leederville TAFE and the wonderful big gum which is actually heritage listed right there you will see this amazing facility which is Australia's largest by far youth transition, youth homelessness facility. It is a home to 98 young people, right in the middle of Oxford Street in Leederville. It was started by a consortium. It wasn't started by a government program being announced. We had to make our way through the government programs to try and find the money for it. We were really lucky when we started this which is about eight years ago. Tight funding, nowhere near as tight as it is is now, then the global financial crisis hit. I had created a consortium with Foundation Housing and the Central Institute of Technology to try and deliver this concept of a Foyer, a key transition point for homeless people young people, 17 to 23 into independent living. We were fast following an idea from the UK. We thought it was brilliant concept. We stuck very closely to the foyer concept from the UK. We headed off on this journey as a collaborative partnership. We co-designed it together, we worked our roles, we wrote up a five page memorandum of understanding with the assistance of a legal firm on a pro bono basis, and that MOU is underpinned us for eight years. It hasn't changed in the eight years. It's underpinned on the way we operate. It is built on a sense of respect and obligation and trust between the three CEOs which is permeated right across the agencies. For me that is the real critical stuff about trying, it's the good old trust building and relationship building. I am sure Karen is going to talk about it in the work that she's doing down the South West Metropolitan area. It is that trust building, hope building, relationship building which underpin this. The global financial crisis hit and we remember Rudd and Swan came out and some of us has managed to convince in some meetings in Canberra that a social housing package needed to be part of the response as well as the other things that were coming out. When it was announced in Western Australia the Department of Housing put out an expression of interest we were sitting there with this concept and we put an expression of interest in. We said we want to build a 98 unit thing and I got a phone call one day from the Department of Housing saying 'Ian, letter will be following but you're going to get $23 million to build this centre.' So after picking myself up off the floor I then spent the next couple of weeks convinced the board's of Foundation Housing, CRT and Anglicare and we then started the journey of building without any recurrent funding to run the operations with 98 people. We just headed off on a journey. We just believed in ourselves we believed in the concept and away we went. So off we went. The journey was about measuring progress and we were piloting a four year project in Mount Lawley. We used the framework called results based Accountability. We were generating serious and clear data about the change we were making with young people. When we went to the Department Child Protection and Family Support for homelessness money we picked up a proportion of the funding we needed. We still needed money and again this is a journey of serendipity. Serendipitously the BHP Billiton had looked at their own operations and got feedback from staff that they were spending a lot of money in the regions and none in Perth, which I know Wendy would be really happy with. There was a real perception that Perth is missing out, we're not doing stuff so out they went. We put our hand up to fund 50% of the recurrent funding for Foyer Oxford for 5 years which is a million dollars a year for five years which we won. We won it off the basis of a brilliant concept but we had the results based accountability evidence that was all accrued there. We had wonderful grafts and pie charts and bar charts all those wonderful exciting things and they looked at it and said it's compelling and we will fund it. They're still with us on a really exciting journey. So for me there is all those evidence things that people talked about. It was about collaboration and trust and holding us together as a group. Neil Fernandes has left CIT now but we have a new CEO there, Michelle Hode so we inducted her in through some critical issues like lots of coffee and carrot cake. She is now part of the family and feels very strongly the same sense of connection to the journey. If you drive past Oxford Street in Leederville and see that really bright building. It is a huge building and it is the home for 98 young people. It also includes underneath the Oxford Yard Coffee Shop, Pilates studio and the Youth Affairs Council of WA who are all commercial tenants in  that building, to help make it more viable. It's created a sense of community. Right from the start even before the first sod was turned we were working in the community for people to understand it. Most people when they heard about Foyer Oxford who lived in the immediate community thought about rape, murder, pillaging and all kinds of things. We ran some meetings, some of them went well, some not so well. We then got the Police along to another meeting. Had a sit-down discussion with a whole range of people, we brought people on our journey. We again have  tracked that data so we've done community perception community feedback every quarter for the last x number of years. On the last one 98% of people living within x meters of the Foyer Oxford are strongly supportive of the Foyer Oxford. It's been a really important journey of building that relationship. So I've probably gotten virtually no time. As well as that, I also want to take up a couple of quick ones I'm going to throw at you. I was also involved at some years ago its sort of personal in some senses because I knew some of the people involved but I've spent different times in Balingup. Balingup has been on a journey of creating this thing called Balingup Vintage Care. So if you want a google Balingup Vintage Care, I got dragged in for the cost of a couple of jam jars and various  other bits and pieces from people who are involved in it. I spent some time helping them do strategy, thinking and strategy planning as they thought about what that we're going to do. For them we talked about ageing in place. If you know Balingup, Myalup and Nannup Donneybrook, Bridgetown, Greenbushes that little area through there. Of course the Balingup people didn't want to go to bloody Donnybrook which is just down the road. For the them that was an absolutely shit I'm not going there but they're real option was probably  Bunbury, the best option was going to be Donnybrook. So they went through a whole range of processes, went through some things, through Donnybrook Balingup Shire, in the end and a range of other places, and I think its four little units in the middle of Balingup where four people are now living. They rang me the other day and I am doing some Q&A and governance and other stuff because they are now looking at expanding it a little bit. That's really exciting. what a brilliant little journey in their own way. That was their sense of ageing in place. Two minutes. On a lot larger scale when the job network changed some years ago remember the CES, then Job Net.  I was involved with five mates in creating a national thing called Job Futures. Job Futures was 50 odd community agencies around the country who decided we weren't going to be able to compete with the big private sector organisations or Mission Australia or the Salvation Army's big national bodies. We're independent community agencies. So we created a company limited by guarantee who got a formal extension under the Trade Practices Act to collude on price and territory and we put in a tender and ended up with a $150 million contract. Job Futures - interesting story happy to talk about it. You can get it on there. We have just won a contract Anglicare and Uniting Care to run metroplitan financial counseling services. Another model of collaborating and coming together. There used to be a whole range of stuff, I was in the media saying all kinds of things when they cut the Metropolitan Financial Council. In the end the whole thing eventually happened that reinstated some of the money went out to tender we put in a tender Anglicare and Uniting Care. I've got say and I have said this to Jennifer we put in the tender we weren't quite sure whether the partner was going to have the guts to go to with our tender because it was broken into five sub metropolitan regions. Our tender bid said with eight community sector partners the two agencies will want to only run the entire metropolitan financial counseling services. We didn't want to break it up and we weren't going to accept one sub region or two was either the whole lot or none. And we got the whole lot. We are now running a seamless metropolitan wide financial counselling service. If you move from Rockingham to Joondalup you will be on exactly the same system. You'll be locked in terms of the way you operate same database, professional development and same system. It's another way of things. And the last thing I will leave you with is measuring outcomes. It's not age friendly, but I'm really taken by a project in Leeds in the UK. Google Leeds Obsessions. In the UK they have come up with indicators about progress around the health and well-being of young children in the Leeds area, they identified five outcome areas, 17 indicators. They're focusing on three key ones which evidence shows will make a significant difference to the long-term aspirations and capabilities of young people. Those three indicators are what everyone focuses on in the community government, non-government, charitable community education, child protection, the whole lot. They're called the Leeds Obsessions. Talk about focussing on achieving something in a collaborative way. I will leave it there thanks. Thanks very much to you Ian and another great example of innovation and collaboration which I have  going to say that's a project that's having really great great outcomes for for young people in WA so congratulations on that. 