 Tony: Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for our MDI Strategic Planning webinar. The speaker for today's MDI Strategic Planning presentation is James M. Calhoun. James began his tenure with the OCC in the 1980 in the Peoria Field Office. He joined the OCC after graduating from the University of Illinois. Mr. Calhoun's experience in different parts of the country and in large, mid-sized, and community banks provided opportunities to supervise banks dealing with the derivative effects of farm lands speculation, spillover effects from the loss of major businesses, downturns in the real estate, oil and gas in the Southwest, and real estate in the Northeast. He has been involved in managing problem banks for most of his career. Mr. Calhoun served as Assistant Deputy Comptroller in the Pittsburgh Field Office from June 1997 until July 2013. In this capacity, he supervised community banks, thrifts, technology service providers, and trust companies. Since July 2013, Mr. Calhoun has taken a larger role in the OCC's hiring, training, and development programs to meet the OCC's future talents and business needs. Also joining us on the call today will be Beverly Cole and Andrew Moss both from the office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Betty Rudolph, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and [indistinct] from Federal Reserve Bank. With that, I'd like to begin today's conference and hand the call over to Mr. James Calhoun. James: Thank you, Tony, for that introduction. Good morning, everyone. I'd like to begin by just saying my first exposure to the impact that community bankers could have occurred when I needed to borrow money for some large stereo speakers for my dorm room when I was going to college. It was 1970, disco was big, everything was big. I went to the community banker at the then South Shore National Bank in Chicago. I vividly remember the conversation I had with that banker as to why you should save money on something that would lose value and borrow on something that would gain value. But I really wanted those speakers. And I had to give up all of my savings and I had 12 months to pay it off. But I really learned from that particular conversation. I know when I was an examiner in-charge at Riggs National Bank, I recall that during the downturn in the DC market in the 1990s how the bank's residential mortgage portfolio performed stellarly because then CEO Joe Allbritton made it a policy he would only win for a home where the borrower could afford to pay plus a cushion. I just heard yesterday of a banker making a loan to a borrower mostly on character. And now, that borrower is now a substantial owner of the bank; they gave him his first shot. These are part of countless stories of how community bankers have positively impacted the lives of many in their communities, and it's why community banking is still important even in today's environment. However, in today's environment, it is becoming more challenging to continue to be that difference maker profitably. We have all witnessed how the industry has changed in the last 25 years and it's really been accelerating in the last 10 years or so. These regulators have seen what banks had done and not done to meet the evolutionary forces that technology and generational changes are bringing to bear on the industry. Everyone has some kind of plan, but the challenge and the question today is, is it really strategic? I've seen lots of strategic and not so strategic plans, efforts at execution, successful and not so successful. And there are some consistent threads that weave through bank and corporate successes and failures. We're going to spend some time this morning reflecting on some of them. Now I am not a banker, therefore, I don't face the very real challenges that you do on a day-to-day basis, but I have been a director for a nonprofit for more than a decade and that we had been working to serve the needs of the mentally and physically disabled. So navigating social security, Medicare, and disability laws gives me a little first-hand appreciation for the challenges that you face. My primary goal this morning is to convince you why it is very important for you to think and act strategically about your business. I'd like for you to have a greater sense of urgency about planning for the future of your organization more aggressively. Not because we as regulators have recommended, not because it's viewed as good governance to update and improve a plan once a year, but because you fully understand the business imperative that you need to do something different given the current environment and the likelihood that this is the new norm. The objective of strategic planning in today's world for community banks is staying relevant and being profitable. So our agenda, we will cover what is and is not strategic planning; the challenges of defining the problem or the challenges that you are facing; some clarity and confirmation about the realities of the macro, and for many, your internal environments; what's a good plan; some common pitfalls. The purpose and... Sorry... To propose some options for you to consider as you address strategic planning in your organization. The presentation itself is designed to be a tool. You will be provided a copy of this and in previous sessions, participants have used this presentation to have discussions with their boards and management. So it is full of data and checklists and laundry lists, but that is the purpose of the presentation. If we think back over the last 30 years, we probably can count on a single hand examples of bold strategic differentiation in banking. But if you look at those differentiations, it's really more about establishing a niche and then concentrating resources on that product or service and then becoming very good at it. And a bank director publication in 2014, a author went so far as to say, "One could argue that the last great innovation in commercial banking was the ATM." This was in 1969. ATMs will probably go by the wayside in the next 15 years. Yeah, if Coca Cola can be disrupted, so can the industry. You know, people's desire for healthier drinks and less sugar is upsetting the applecart in having Coke to reinvent its products and services. BestBuy is challenged by the fact that people come in to look at the product and then go to Amazon.com and buy it for less. So, banking is being challenged by the same forces of technology change and shifting consumer preferences just like other industries in America have faced. Even so far as back in the 1990s, Bill Gates talked about... that, "The world needs banking but it doesn't necessarily need bankers." And I don't think anybody back then envisioned the Smartphone as being an instrument by which banking would be moving. I've an interesting question, it's more rhetorical but if we look at what happened to the retail credit portion of community bank balance sheets in the last 10 years before the great recession, if we really looked at it, it was a telltale sign of things to come. One of the questions out there, what was the industry's reaction to this change? And if you were in the leadership position in 1990s and saw your consumer report folio dwindling away, what was your reaction to this? How did you counter that? Let's take a quick look at the events that have reshaped the business of banking and financial services for the last 25 years. When we look at some of these changes, some are nuanced and some are seismic in proportion of their impact. A watershed event was Check 21, which helped accelerate the move to digital currency, sped up transactions, and accelerated the pace of change. Most of these events have forever changed banking from a historically staid slow industry to one that will have to operate and change with a measure of speed, with more calculated risk taking and cost containment strategies as tech innovation continues to produce cost efficient alternatives. I think the elements I have highlighted in blue have had and will continue to have the most significant influence on the structural changes in the financial services. Even low rates which are impacting returns are going to have a future impact in terms of creating potential bubbles that must be considered and we will talk about those bubbles in the future slides. Payment systems used to be the big reserves stronghold and nonbanks have been chipping away at payment systems for years. The companies listed were identified as the top payment systems in one of the sites I've visited. Yet I am only familiar with about half of them... on this list. American Express, PayPal most of these companies are well-known market disruptors. Lending Club has been around for, what, more than a decade. Given the erosion and displacement of banking services to date and the economic challenges of our times, the environment seems very compelling enough that we should be seeing more innovation, reimaging, partnering, and differentiation in the strategies being pursued by community banks more so than we do today. The areas in blue highlight bread and butter businesses for community banks. So how do you contain the current juggernaut? I don't think you can. So the question, do you become part of the juggernaut? Let's look at the change in the marketplace from just a purely product and services' point of view. Here's a list of services that are being provided by the companies listed to the right. I would be interested to find out from the audience if anyone is aware of any of these companies, say, half of these companies, and have you actually evaluated their impact to your portfolio of assets? You can just say an yes or no. What they all have in common is they're probably not household names, they have a slice of the banking business focusing on a core audience, critical file or underwriting approach, their differentiation is very clear, but most are funded through the capital markets either to debt, equity, or both. Most are private and nominally regulated and they have concentration risk. But they have proven successful today because they are meeting the needs with ease and speed as an advantage. And I have highlighted SBA Lending and SmartBiz. And we're going to come back to that, spend more time on that because that particular application could impact many of you in the room. So, how are we reacting to all of these events? How will you react? Or are we being the frog in the pot where the heat is being turned up gradually not knowing that we're being cooked in the process? Or at some part [indistinct] have said change is moving too fast for the industry to catch up. I don't necessarily buy that, but whatever the reason, community bankers collectively need to get off the sideline and to be on the offense. The transformation of the financial industry is not an anomaly, nor is it new. It's just getting faster. Lending Club has been around for decades. And regardless of all the noise that's out there, they had shown over the past decade that they have a viable model that banks can get comfortable with. But what's happening is this proliferation of other fintech companies and the volume that they are starting to take from the banking industry is gaining attention. A consultant in CanPetro states that banks are losing significant market share in critical customer segments like younger retail customers, high return bars and prime wealth management clients. Fintech, fintech, fintech. Why all the noise about fintech? Private investment in fintech has increased more than 10 times in the last five years going from 1.8 billion to more than 19 billion last year. While fintechs only account for 1% of the total banking consumer revenue, however, it is projected to account for 17% or $1.2 trillion by 2023. That's only seven years from now. What's more compelling is that they are targeting the most profitable banking sectors. Personal loans, small and medium-sized business enterprises, 73% of the investment dollars are heading in that direction. Small and business enterprise lending is an important asset pool, for most of our community banks. Banks need to be on the defensive in terms of protecting its customer base, but being on the offense by leveraging your existing strengths and advantages to compete with the factors that give nonbanks their current edge, which is automation, speed, and segmentation. For example... I just bought a car. I got a coupon book for my payments. I asked for an online option. The bank didn't have one, in 2016. Really SmartBiz was on the list on the box. Nonbank lenders have been focused on small business lending doubling their outstanding loan portfolio balances every year since the mid-2000. Now we have a company that says it has a business model that now allows individuals to file all of their paperwork for an SBA loan faster. Marry the trend of increasing market share with now a technological application that speeds that process and appears to make it more convenient. So my question to you all who are SBA lenders, where do you think your potential customers might gravitate if there's an alternative out there that's faster? I'm curious. I thought if we could take live questions... I'm curious, any reactions to this summation or aggregation of external events? Does it concern you? Are you aware of it? I'm just curious as to some of the responses to this information so far. Tony: Just as a reminder for all our guests joining us today, if you would like to ask a live question or respond to the question on the screen at this time, you can do so by dialing #2 on your phone keypad which will place you into our live question queue. Once again, that is #2 on your phone keypad to place yourself into our live question queue. We'd also like to mention that our notes chat is still up and running and you can submit notes at any point by using the notes chat on the right-hand side of your screen. And please address all of these notes to presenters or all moderators located in the To dropdown box. James: Okay. No comments? We will proceed. Do we have one? One of the comments I received is the uncertainty about the CFPB will have an impact on the ability of banks to become part of these options. And I will talk about that in a context of how do you evaluate those options from both the business need and a risk management standpoint that might reduce that uncertainty. Another question that acknowledges that these are fundamental strategic issues, but then again also raises the question about the impact on regulation and compliance and how that might impact what your options are? To both questions I would say that regulation is part of the business and whether we like it or not that's what our administration has decided is fundamental to the industry is that we have a level of compliance that meets consumer needs and provides customer protections. My point is that, that's a given as well as the issues and so what you have to do is move forward in saying that's one of the factors that must be considered, so how do you work within that framework to make something effective for your particular institutions? There are some examples out there and we're going to talk about that a little bit later in the presentation. I mentioned frog in the pot. I have Walmart here as an example. Walmart bought S.S. Kresge and became the number two retailer in the market, then Kmart sold Kresge. In 1980, Walmart became the upstart in the retailing business. Kmart did not think Walmart was a threat and instead it focused on its expansion internationally. What Walmart did was change the definition of what it means to be a store. They moved against conventional wisdom at that time and set up a different model based on logistics and centralized processing as opposed to decentralized processing. Where is Walmart today? Better question: Where is Kmart today? While there are other influences in there, to me, the biggest point is that Kmart failed to recognize that there is a new company in town with a different model and they needed to address that competition. The same has happened with auto, and steel, and manufacturing, retail, and it is now happening with banking. There's generally a lot of discussion around strategic planning, and I said everyone has a plan to some effect, but to me, the exercise is what's really important if that exercise gets you to act. Your strategic assessment helps you determine what Jim Burson calls your strategic capital. The combination of brand, culture, innovation, ways of doing business that would ensure future relevancies. Partnerships are beginning to occur with the larger banks, but not so much with smaller banks and credit unions. One author and a CEO, bank director said while many small banks appear to be eager to embrace digital capabilities, 55% of small community and regional banks surveyed have not set up any meetings or presentations with potential fintech partners. Similar to Kmart, fintechs only today take 1% of the consumer revenue. However, younger and even some older colleagues are not buying into the concept of customer stickiness and actively consider other venues for services other than their primary bank. As many of the comments that came in, I do want to acknowledge that the internal environment for many of you are challenging. You know, the long period of low rates, margin compression, excess liquidity, inability to sustain loan growth, risk management, compliance costs, are significant for everyone as well as capital and operational constraints. But I think the information suggests that for many minority depository institutions, these factors are even more significant. And I'm going to share some statistics to help illustrate that. I also talked about bubbles. There are some bubbles that are in the marketplace that we need to be aware of. The increasing size of student loan debt, government debt is increasing at one trillion per year. And in the presentation, I have included US debt clock, the clock that shows what the US debt would be in 2020, if you're interested. But, should we also add auto-financing to the list at 140% loan value at 96 months financing? Are these yet potential risks that are on the horizon? So, since I started this project of doing strategic planning for minority depository institutions back in 2014... I have learned that as a population you do actually have something that is very distinguishable. That you had been serving historically underserved in your communities. You had been providing mentoring and counseling, financial management, social support, helping individuals integrate into American society. Which are all very worthwhile and important activities to be engaged in, but they come at a cost. As MDIs though, from a strategic standpoint, I think it's important for you to determine if the original mission for your bank is still relevant for you and your customers and if you are still committed to that mission. And if you are, the challenge today becomes, how do you do so where you are financially and operationally relevant so that you can continue to meet that mission? In talking to many of you in the audience, these are some of the more significant challenges for minority depository institutions I've come to learn. They're not applicable to everyone at the same time but there is some common thread. You may have limited customer bases. Your customers may not have a lot of wealth. Your opportunities for fee income are, therefore, diminished because your customers tend to be transactionally focused and not relationship focused based on that lack of wealth. Sometimes it's the inability to pay for strong bank talent or just having more people to service the needs of your constituents. And then, many of you are concentrated in very competitive markets which easily adds an additional flavor to that. So, in addition to just the general challenges that all community banks are facing, many of you are facing additional ones and these must become part of your strategic planning process. A key to that process is identifying what is your specific challenge that you need to address. One of the most significant ones is your cost structure. This is a chart that shows OCC's designated MDIs. It does not include large banks nor trust companies. The comparison is between MDIs and non-MDIs in the ratio that's reflective of the percentage of average assets. Banks under 50 million: The infrastructure cost that you're facing is by and large significantly different than non-MDIs. It offers a compelling point in terms of your diagnosis as to why, and that should be part of the strategic evaluation and assessment of your company. One of the more compelling things is I-- This is an update of a chart that we produced in 2013. The range difference reflects an expansion from a narrow 23 to 42 basis points range at 2013 to one of 31 to 82 basis points today. That is six basis points to 40 basis point negative change since 2007. So your cost burdens continue to increase. And as the chart shows, there are some interesting anomalies in different stratas of banks that would suggest that maybe the differences are market-based as opposed to just being size, maybe customer-based as opposed to just being size. But those are the kinds of things that are important for you to identify. Again, the analysis here, the ratios are based on the expense as a percentage of average assets for those companies. The question was, how did we come up with the 1.77? It is the personnel expense, the dollar amount divided by average assets for that group for that period. And yes. There is an interesting observation that $250 to $500 million banks seem to be the strata that are most efficient or most comparable with their non-MDIs. I have not done enough research to figure out why but they appear to get something right. What's more compelling regardless of the strata, if you look at the last column and all the items that are circled, there still is a significant basis point difference between MDIs and non-MDIs. And I think that is something that every bank needs to address in terms of not just cost reductions but does it speak to a need to change fundamentally how you operate? The FDIC study of minority depository institutions in 2014, they had a larger base of MDIs and did an valuation based on efficiency ratio. And you can see from the chart those banks under 100 million have a significant cost burden relative to their non-MDI peers. Using the same survey, if we do break down based on identified minority groups, you can also see some differences in those ratios based on minority class. Asian American designated banks seem to do a better job of managing their operating expense. Other break-outs are either increasing or decreasing, again depending on the specific variables for those institutions. Again, OCC supervised banks, when we look at financial performance, some interesting trends. Everyone's facing margin compression, provisions for loan losses are pretty good for MDIs, at zero, efficiency ratio is down for everyone, a little more for MDIs. What I find more compelling is the reduction in loan growth. What does that mean? Is that just year-over-year, the lack of opportunity period-to-period because of the economy, or are your borrowers seeking alternative providers? And when we take, again, taking the earnings view and breaking it out by chunks or stratas, you could see some differences in each of those stratas. So, I noticed that there are a couple questions that have come up. Let me just stop and open the line, see if there's questions about the metrics, what they say, what do they mean for you? Tony: Just a reminder for all of our guests that if you would like to queue up for a live comment at this time, you can do so by dialing #2 on your phone keypad, which will place you in for our live question queue. Again, that is #2 on your live keypad. Guys, we did get a comment coming in asking, does this include all FDIC insured banks? James: No. The statistics only include OCC designated MDIs. That is the comparison pool... Against other non-MDIs portion would be OCC... Let me verify that. No. The non-MDI portion includes all FDIC insured banks. We only peeled out the MDIs in order for this comparison. Good question. Tony: Just another reminder for all of our guests joining today, we still do have our notes chat up and running and you can submit those to us at any point throughout today's conference. And please address all of your notes to all presenters or all moderators located in the To dropdown box. [indistinct] we have another note question coming through asking, did the location of the MDIs urban versus sub-urban contribute to the difference in expenses? James: Very interesting question. In prior presentations, we actually went through and did an analysis, urban versus rural, and we did it based on population size. And what we found was banks in small communities were being very profitable. Banks in large metropolitan areas were being very profitable. While location and level of competition was a factor, it wasn't a consistent factor. And so, sometimes you have to look at, well, what was different about the asset pool or the marketplace for those particular companies to get some insight into their level of performance. So, it was very intriguing to see banks that-- in the same marketplace that were doing very well in terms of return on assets and others in that same market were doing very poorly. Some of that has to be based on how that bank is choosing to operate, who their customer base is, how those assets are being priced. So, the statistic doesn't give a systemic answer. It really comes down to what that individual company is doing. The reason for introducing the statistics is basically to say that there's a lot of focus on what's happening on the assets side of the balance sheet, but there is a real challenge in trying to address the cost side. And one of the ways to possibly address that is through collaboration. Community banks working in collaboration to share or reduce operating expenses, share technology, share specialized expense, or increase their reach for penetration in terms of cheaper asset pools. I am aware of credit unions that have formulated operating agreement for years and they had shared the cost of running or operating their back offices for more than a decade. I also heard that there are a number of FDIC banks in the Northeast region, which is the Boston and Vermont area that have collaborative arrangements, but I can't independently verify that myself. Even the comptroller has come out in the white paper and talked about our openness for consideration as collaborative arrangement. So, even since 2013, there has been more openness that this is a viable alternative for banks, community banks in particular, and we're going to spend a little more time on that later, but the numbers say it is something you need to address. Let's move forward. My view is that given the metrics in the environmental change, it should not and cannot be business as usual. You have to identify who you are and who you want to be, what are your specific challenges or problems you need to address, who will be your current customer and your future customers, and how will you operate to get them and to keep them. Many aspects of that how will be technology-based. Some will be just new approaches to doing business, some will be partnering. One of the things that's happening with the marketplace lenders is that they are pushing the banking community to act, to do something different. Chase and OnDeck are in collaboration with a small business product. Wells Fargo went alone but they now have a new program for 24- to 48-hour turnaround using technology as part of their underwriting process. You don't need to spend your money developing new digital technology. You don't have to create or own every product or service. You can use it or you can leverage it from someone else if you understand how to manage it. In some degrees, banking service is like coffee, they've got different textures and blends, but it's still a ground of bean that you've got to apply heat to it to get the end results. A local Pittsburgh attorney talked about Starbucks strategy in offering to pay online tuition for employees' B.A. degrees. He noted that this small step is actually consistent with four key elements of their strategic approach: Get them while they're young; cloak the product in preferred social characteristics; create client, not products or services; and keep them coming back. This one small piece is part of a coherent and cohesive strategy that focuses on what young people value and that's their core client. And so, part of the strategic planning process has got to identify who will be your core community and client base going forward. Let's talk a little bit about strategy. It isn't about making bets which way will the market go, which way will consumers go, and do I have a strategy that says, "I am able to meet that need with some degree of certainty." The overall context is unknown, uncertain, and uncontrollable, which is what our market has become in the last 10 years. The planning process helps to reduce some of that uncertainty and rationalize your application of resources and capital to that venture. So, it increases your odds of success, but it's not perfect. And more importantly, if you have a strategic plan that everybody is comfortable with, I would challenge you that it is not fully strategic. What we tend to find is a lot of long range plans that are based on the concept of the future is predictable and conditions are reliable and unchanging. I don't think that's our market. In fact, strategic plans used to be five years, they've come down to three years. But a lot of banks focus on the financial plan. It is accounting focus. It's quantitative. Or it's too iterative. "We're going to grow loans 10%." "We're going to grow assets 5%." How are we going to do that? What are the target products? What's lacking in there is a clear identification of what the challenges are our organization needs with specific steps on how to address that. You are now competing with players birthed in a whole new landscape and attitudes about risk with pure layers. Dodd-Frank is here and it has changed the operating rules for many of you. It is probable that more people own mobile devices a.k.a Smartphones than they have bank accounts. I think the number is somewhere north of 30 million. Young people do not step into branches. Young people look at a variety of sources for their financial services. It is based on price and convenience. It's not based on who you are or where you're located. Even the elders are becoming more tech savvy. My 86-year-old mother started texting last year. The median income in America has only risen $1,800 since 2000. I think this is the new norm. And for us, nostalgia is not a plan, looking for yesteryear is not going to cut it. Regulatory intervention is not going to cut. We were at an outreach where the bankers asked a regulatory panel what we were going to do about Walmart's entrance into the banking business? And our question was, what were you going to do? Because Walmart, that ship has sailed. Walmart is not the first retailer to be actively engaged in a retail deposit gathering and other activities. It's just large, and it will have a substantial impact. But as part of that outreach, we asked the question, how many in the room sat down with their millennials that work in their organization and asked them about their products. What do their generation need from their banks? Out of the group of 100, only three bankers raised their hands or would admit that they had a conversation with their millennials about their business needs. Only one banker did something with the information. And what they did was move from full service branches to a platform that addressed most questions electronically through a call center. And if there was a problem, they have somebody to address the problem because young people like to address problems in person but deal with other transactions digitally. The benefits so far has been the reduction in leased space by two-thirds. And there is consideration of doing more branches in that fashion to save overheads. Back in 2008 in the Northeast district, we started having conversations with our CEOs about how they were going to deal with then the new challenges of low rates, nominal long growth, high cost. And as part of that conversation, we took a survey of the bankers and asked, based on the question, how could good banks get better? And this chart summarizes the feedback from bankers like you about what would it take to compete in the new marketplace unknowingly that the same environment we were starting to see in 2008 would be the same environment which you're facing in 2016? And some answers were a little worse off. But the point in the middle I added to that conversation because one of the things that I continue to see is the lack of definition about what is really going on in my institutions. What is really your real challenge? And one of the conversations we heard yesterday, one of our colleagues was talking with some bankers and the focus was on compliance burden. However, industry-- three major industries in that environment, coal, railroad were two of them, more significant ones were all seeing downturns. Compliance was the topic of the day. But to us, the real challenge is how do you continue to be viable if your key industries are not viable. And to me, that seems to be the real strategic challenge that community bankers are not consistent in identifying that challenge. Tony: Now, James, as we advance our slides here, I just want to say I had a few notes that came in to me during the conference. So if you want to address them at this time, I can read them off for you? James: Sure. Tony: All right, excellent. So the first one that I received directly is asking, are the regulatory agencies looking at what they must do to challenge or to change to allow banks to compete? James: The operating agreements? Tony: Yeah. James: Could you read that question for me again? Tony: Sure, not a problem. So, it's asking, are the regulatory agencies looking at what they must do to change to allow banks to compete? James: Okay. The white paper on collaboration really speaks to what are some of the possibilities that exist out there that you need to consider. It speaks to existing platforms like the bank service corporation which is an existing vehicle for bank services to be aggregated. There are examples in the business world of joint ventures. There's already examples even within banks where you outsource for audit, you outsource for long review, and you just pay through an independent party. So, structurally, if you created a joint venture that provided long review to 10 or 20 banks, it's the same principle in terms of having an independent party, it's just structured differently, and the pay for that is different. Is there another question, Tony. Tony: Yeah. We did receive another question that came through our notes chat asking, do operating agreements require regulator blessing? And what have you seen as a percentage of savings on the expenses on average? James: Well, let me take the first question. My presumption is if it's an operating agreement that is precedential, that it does not conflict to the existing guidance that's out there, rules that's out there, I would say yes. You would want to have your regulator take a look at that. I think that's just good sound business to do that. The second part of that question was what, Tony? Tony: The second half of that question was asking, what have you seen as a percentage of savings and expenses on average? James: I really can't answer that second question. I have no analysis around percentage of savings. Tony: All right. Excellent. Thank you, James. And that is all the questions that we have received up to this point. James: So, let me move forward. The more common attributes of a good strategic plan, and these are identified in more than a thousand books on strategic planning as that it reflects the value and culture of the organization. It is truly strategic, the challenges are identified, and hard decisions are made. It is supported by goals, plans, it identifies change or revisions in products or services or markets, or even an execution. But it sets out a roadmap for how you're going to proceed in the next couple of years. It should be very specific. A strategic mission is to continue to serve our market, provide top notch service and maximize profitability that is the mission statement for banks where the average age of the current customer base is 62. And the demographics reflect a steady decline in the people over the last decade and no new industry in that particular marketplace. So, that mission is inconsistent with what was happening in the environment for that particular community bank. I like the more finer points in that your strategic plans you had your unique and differentiating value proposition, or you have identified your asymmetries versus your competitors. Advantages are rooted in differences. The objective is to identify and decide what differences are critical and that you can turn into your specific advantage. You identified tradeoffs. And you also clarified what you do not want to do. One of the things that I don't see in a lot of plans is explicit decisions about what products or services we're not going to offer because we are not profitable. Or what products or services that they're going to manage differently through brokering, through participations. But I think it's important that your plan has clarity about what's not going to get done. And that it also focuses and matches activities and resources to the place where your advantage can be magnified. In 2008, Starbucks faced stagnant sales and struggled to define and approach because they could not identify what the real problem was. And so they lost a lot of value in that year where sales suffered. Judging by their market price, their share price, they've clearly figured it out. One of the important things to consider here is, what is your corporate mindset? I've heard over the years lots of reasons why banks can't do something. And this is just a laundry list of the things that I've kind of heard. And what I think is important is the next to last bullet is, let's figure out if it's proving profitable, then decide if we want to do it, then decide how do we get it done. Sometimes that's on your own, sometimes that's the work of the regulators or the consultants, but you have to be open to looking at things differently. So, unless you're going to sell your bank in the next 12 months, little will change unless some of you act boldly. But acting boldly does not mean excessive and unwarranted risk taking. It might be dropping a long time account product that is unprofitable despite being well-received. It's also about possibility thinking and managing through change, which is something that is difficult because a lot of managers and bankers have been fighting regulatory fatigue over the past eight years. And quite simply, bankers have a strong aversion to risk because you're stewards of other peoples' money. You have do to something. If you remember Blockbuster, Blockbuster did not react favorably to Netflix. I'd also challenge you that, do you have the right thinkers in the room? Is group think part of the roadblock? Do you have different enough personas in there such as cross-pollinators or collaborators or storytellers? Do you need an entrepreneur to be part of your executive mix? So you would take on a stronger entrepreneurial mindset about how you're going to approach your strategic planning. Quite simply, what do you want to be? Defining your vision. Where are you now? Where do you want to go? There's a lot of folks on this one, how do you get there? What is the appropriate business model? And for some of the organization, that business model may have to change a bit in order for you to remain competitive. I think the other point is execution. Is the staff that got you there today the staff that's going to take you where you want to go? Part of your assessment has got to be around your management talent to move in the direction you want to go. Here's a laundry list of strategic and tactical considerations you all should make. I want to highlight the one in blue. Do you where and how you're making/losing money? I would challenge you that a lot of community banks really don't understand what their all-in costs are on products? When I say all-in, the hard dollars, the soft dollars, the tech, the people, how much time, people. You really need an assessment around what's the real cost of offering that product or service. Do you have the right people with the right skills in place to execute your plan? Are you willing to pay for that talent? Oftentimes I hear we can't afford person X, but person X might be the one that brings in the expertise, has the idea to make the bank or the product profitable over the long term. Is there a way for you to leverage your existing talent to build revenue? What is the impact of the STAR, Society, Technology, And Resources? How is it affecting your customer base? Can you afford to take the risk? More importantly, can you afford not to? Since some of you have low and marginal income clients, I know one of the challenges in that population is income volatility. People need help with getting their arms around planning, for expenses, managing for expenses even though their revenue is up and down. There are applications out there. There are fintech providers that have platforms to help people manage income volatility. And it's fairly straightforward because they use it on their Smartphone. OCC spends a lot of time from the strategic risk standpoint talking about the business model. And that being a point of strategic risk from a regulatory standpoint. I think it's an appropriate time for everyone to step back and really challenge their model, look at everything from how you fund, your product base, your customer base, overhead, your risk management practices, even the role in the community that you serve. All of those should be evaluated from a keen perspective. One of the challenges you have is not be self-centered, not to sandbag the numbers, and making sure that you're getting information from your front line people, even the tellers have good information that is useful in identifying your strategic direction. And there are a lot of tools where we typically see as a SWOT analysis, financial ratios and statement analysis, and even scenario analysis. We typically see that in interest rate risk and contingency and capital planning. But there are a lot of other tools that exist out there that can be helpful in evaluating your particular business. I particularly like the driving forces and five forces analysis because they really speak to things like buyer power, potential interest, which are two of the more important ones that the banking community is dealing with. More importantly, one tool. It is dangerous just to use one tool because there is no one best way. What I've read is use number ones and find a common thread what that analysis tells you about your particular company. Because the overall goal is to make sense of what is happening in your marketplace, what is happening in your banks. It's also to help you identify what is your competitive advantage that you can focus on. Think of it this way, it's like pilots, they can't operate without receiving signals about what lies in front of them, how fast they are going, what's the weather conditions, and how well the airplane is performing. Strategic assessment also allows you to do that. One of the authors that I read a lot about, Robert Rumelt talks about strategic leverage coming from a mix of anticipation, insight into what's most pivotal, critical in a situation and making a concentrated application of effort. In 10 years, from 2003 to 2013, labor participation for those aged 16 to 54 dropped to 55%. Median income only grew 1,800 or 6.5%. While the median price for a new home increased 75%, and even existing homes are now up to 209,000. The number of people in the labor force are declining. The number of retirees are increasing. And the FED did a survey that said middle class folks, about 50% of them could not assign $400 cash in the event of an emergency. Based on those kinds of statistics, do you see opportunities? Do you see changes forthcoming based on these trends? Are there things that you can do? Let me spend some time talking about options. Collaboration is a legitimate and proven way to spread the cost of doing business. And there has been resistance in terms of banks, even credit unions following that line in part because it's never been done in part because of some concerns about regulatory acceptance. There is also a concern from the banker's perspective about how to do that, how to set priorities, how to make that agreement work? Here are some of the possibilities leveraging off of what you do already and what bankers are being beginning to do that you should consider. Collaboration on risk management function. That could be long review or audit. Partnering with the fintech for a specific product or service. So if you are an SBA lender, then maybe a conversation with SmartBiz to figure out what their application is and how it can be useful for you would be an appropriate activity. Source your competitive advantage. I remember last year at an MDI conference there was a bank in Texas that had to build its BSA/AML infrastructure. And because it was state-of-the-art, they began to do reviews for other banks who have less sophisticated systems. Using bank service corporations to prepare mortgage documents, not in the bank, but in the service corps and so, if this is a standard procedure, many banks can use that platform and share the cost. It could be as simply as acting as a cooperative to buy materials for discounts, your paper, your printer paper, your ink. There are a lot of possibilities that may in the aggregate add up to reduce expenses or better opportunities for assets. Any questions about these possibilities? Tony: And just another reminder for all of our guests joining us today, you can still submit note questions to us. We have a notes chat on the right-hand side of your screen. Please then address all of these notes to presenters or all moderators. If you would like to queue up for a live question at this time, you can do so by dialing #2 on your phone keypad. Once again, it's #2 on your phone keypad to place yourself into our live question queue. James: I thought for sure someone would have questions about options. So, everyone is doing these. Everybody's got one of these options, everyone is collaborating. Let's move forward. Let's talk a little bit about collaboration. Here are some examples of where some of our larger banks are in fact collaborating with fintechs for products or services. I spoke about Chase partnering with OnDeck and TD with personnel financial management tools. I've seen where Lending Club is providing both commercial and consumer products for banks based on what particular vintage quality of product that the bank is looking for. We also see where payment, where PayPal, Amazon, Square are now offering credit to the existing business customers. What they are leveraging is the fact that they have payment flow based on the credit card relationship and then using that data to then stream and make decisions around what kind of loans can be supported by your payments. And they have access to all of that data and the other thing they have access to is that they can collect the payments instantly. They don't have to go chase it down if it's direct deposits. A small community bank in Missouri is changing its approach as opposed to focusing on the business of banking, it is focusing on being an advisor around strategic planning and capital raising, instead of the loans and deposits are incidental to the relationship. What I thought was intriguing is one community bank eliminated all its ATMs because there are other ATMs in the community, it didn't impact their ability to, their customers have access to cash and even paying your customers a surcharge was cheaper than maintaining the software and hardware. Tony: This is Tony, your moderator. We did have a note comment that just came through saying that, "It seems as though that credit union structure is more engaging with collaborations." James: I'm not sure of the question, but I will say that they have a long history of successful operations. In fact, one of my work colleagues was a consultant that worked on that-- worked as part of the individuals that provided those compliance services to the group of 10 credit unions. So, there is a history of effectiveness using that model. First National Bank of South Africa has gone a step forward in terms of providing a branded SIM card so that customers can pay their phone bills through calling, basically using the SIM card as a portal to bring all of their financial business together. The bank is doing that as a disincentive for the customer to leave. What I thought compelling about this whole discussion was one where they asked the attorneys and the parties being interviewed assumed that the regulators would not allow this kind of activity to occur but nobody had asked their regulator if it was feasible enough. So, my point is there might be ideas that exist out in the marketplace. If you think they may have liability, talk to your regulator about that at the front-end. Let me talk about just quickly some common traps to avoid in terms of the strategic planning process. You've got to remember that you're trying to manage something that's both uncertain and uncontrollable. Keep in mind that while the company controls cost, customers control their revenue. And so, a lot of strategic plans are focused on what I do on the cost side but don't do a lot of analysis around the asset side. Ignoring what your planning process reveals about your company is another big hurdle. I've seen where there are analyses that suggest that some operation isn't working as efficiently as it should. The examination reports identify risk management or profitability standards that are not operating as they should. Those should be front and center and bankers need to react to those. Short-term thinking. I added the comment fear. Not considering change management as something that needs to occur particularly if you are changing a substantial amount of your platform, who's your target, who's in charge, change management programs can be very important for having a fluid transition. All the deficiencies, you're missing a risk management requirement that's attached to that and if you're an OCC-supervised bank, you know there is guidance out there about new products and services. Or not measuring and reporting on your progress. This is pretty significant where we see a lot of action plans that are set out but not a lot of measurement around, are we meeting that? Do we need to revisit our plan? Do we need to change our strategy? Usually the minutes are very light on that kind of assessment. But it has to start at the top. If the board and management are not engaged, if they failed to walk the talk, changing strategic direction or sometimes just simple execution will not be successful. If you are considering a new product or services or new delivery channels, and those deliver channels could be internal or they could be external, it is very important that you do due diligence on your upside as well as your downside. If you're working with a third party, it's important that you understand the risk in that relationship and that you have ways to mitigate that relationship. I remember a bank, a community bank that pretty much had outsourced all of its operations, a skeleton crew. But what they had in place of that were operating agreements, metrics, threshold to evaluate the performance of each of the third parties, and they did that quarter by quarter. So, as opposed to managing the performance of their employees, they just simply manage the performance of their vendors. Expertise for execution. Sometimes where all banks fail is we assume that the retail person, because they understand credit, would be sufficient in looking at the commercial lending portfolio. Or that the auditor will be sufficient to evaluate credit risk in a participation portfolio of leveraged loans. So you really have to have resources with the expertise to understand the risk you're going to be engaged in. Do evaluations prior to launch, and most importantly, test it during the early phases of the actual launch, making sure that the products or the services are performing as expected. And if you do it earlier enough, you have the opportunity to recalibrate before it becomes too significant. And lastly, having an exit strategy. How do you get out if your particular product or service or idea is not bearing fruit or is costing you more money? There should be a clear exit strategy based on return, based on capital loss, based on reputation risk. It should all drive that exit strategy. Measure what matters. Here's a list of things that you should be mindful of and make an assessment from a strategic standpoint in terms of performance. Again, another laundry list of keys to be successful. But I think one of the primary ones that I've had is just being bold, see the change, respond to the challenge, establish specific and measurable goals, and involve your employees. In the problem bank space where I've often spent a lot of time, I've, it's ceased to amaze me that many of the employees in the lower level of the organization understand the business and the risk in the institution better than management. And so, there are usually a lot of institutional knowledge that sits there right in the bank, so everyone should be part of the strategic process. I will end with this comment. As community bankers, we have an opportunity today to react to what is happening in the marketplace. Reacting to that means, in my mind, being different about how you approach the business, not relying on nostalgia or history to be the driver, but looking forward and saying, both population and industry are undergoing changes, how do I adapt to do that? If you don't adapt, then the question becomes one of... are you part of the steamroller or are you part of the pavement? I'd like everybody here to be a part of the steamroller. There are numerous avenues to gain support on strategic planning, there are consultants, there's wealth of literature for OCC banks. We have information on legal and corporate precedents that shows what kind of business activities other national banks have been involved in to talk about your own employees, but use your regulators. Yeah, make them part of the discussion on front-end, what would be the inherent risk of doing X and Y? Are there some work-arounds that exist out there? You would be amazed how much your regulator may be open to an idea. The question becomes, how to manage it? And since regulators are in review of assessing risk management, that would be the point that I would go to. So, start early having good dialogue with your regulator about what you want to do and see where the conversation goes. I have a list of sources that I've used as part of this. And in the Appendix, I have included some other information that talks about examples of businesses that have reimaged themselves, that have changed the operating platform, that have re-targeted different customers in order to remain relevant. They provide you some examples that banks are doing this, but from my view, not enough. Questions? Tony: All right. Just another reminder for all of our guests joining, you can still submit a note question to us via our notes chat on the right-hand side of your screen. Please then address all note questions to presenters or all moderators. If you would like to ask a live question over the phone line, you can do so by dialing #2 on your phone keypad. Once again, that's #2 on keypad to place yourself into our live question queue. We have received a few questions throughout the presentation today just asking if a copy of the presentation deck will be made available for the guests that just joined in. Male: Yes. So, we will have copies of the presentation available. Each regulator has an MDI website and on those website there should be presentations that you can actually download and the OCC will have it on bank net and also MDI, Minority Depository Institution page as well. Betty, you still have the presentation up from the conference on the FDIC MDI webpage, correct? Betty: Yes, it is on MDI webpage from the conference last July. We'll update it with this updated version and the audio file when you send it to us. James: Will do. Thank you. Male: This is some other notes for all of our guests joining today, the conference itself is being recorded and that recording will be made available in the coming days. So that will include all of the audio and the visuals from today's conference. James: Any questions from the participants? Tony: We did just have a question come directly to my line asking, with all that you have covered today and what is happening now, do you have a positive outlook on the MDI industry for the next 15 years? James: I would speak from a personal perspective. I think that it's very positive if our banks go about their business a little bit differently. The challenge is, to meet you mission, you've got to stay profitable. You have to stay relevant. And so, it may be that you broaden your customer base. It may be that you find additional assets to build your revenue base. There are a number of different things, but I think the back office collaboration would be a significant step in the right direction even for the MDIs. I mean, there is an opportunity there, if you're in the same market then you have the same backend cost, you have the same responsibilities in terms of compliance. That's a starting point in terms of how do you reduce the operating costs on the backend and then after doing that, focusing on how do you build revenue. So, I think the historical ties to the community is a strategic benefit that can be leveraged, but I think it's the back office and how do you deliver that product or services that has to change and attract other people to the bank. So, I personally think that it is an opportune time to take actions, to position yourselves to meet that future need today. Tony: Okay. Well, if there's no further questions, we'll close this out. Again, a copy of the presentation will be provided on your respective regulatory website. And thank you for joining us. 