 Bill Elwood: You know, it's not easy for early stage investigators. Pay lines are tighter. There are more and more  junior faculty competing for fewer positions, as well as for research money. And yet, they are doing extraordinary work, pressing boundaries, stretching methods, asking cutting-edge questions. And so, this year, we expanded our events to recognize these rising stars. Matilda White Riley, early stage investigators, honors, exceeded our expectations. First of all, because we have two people who are going to blow you away today. But also, we didn't know what to expect. We received almost 100 recently published articles between January 2015 and the present. And those were the hundred that met the NIH requirements for early stage investigators. We received more from people who did not read what our policy was. The quality was so tremendous that about 50 of these people we have designated as early stage -- Matilda early stage investigator honorees, both they and our distinguished lecturers today will be summarizing their research in blogposts on the NIH connector. We'll be featuring them through the remainder of the calendar year in December. The best of the best though, we have brought here to you today. And so to summarize our cutting-research on transitions in adolescences and their long-time effects on mental health is Dr. Stephanie Cook from NYU. If you want -- or I can get you the clicker and you can talk from there. Dr. Stephanie Cook: I'll talk from [inaudible]. Bill Elwood: Okay. [applause] Dr. Stephanie Cook: I'm just going to click through to my slides. Hello, and thank you so much for joining me today. So, we only have 10 minutes. So, I'm going to give you a brief but hopefully substantive overview of some of my work and how this paper fits into my overall program of research. So, I'm interested in understanding how attachment is associated with long-term health and well-being among marginalized populations here in the United States, more broadly defined. And my interests really came about through my earlier work on HIV, and trying to understand how features of close relationships are associated with HIV risk behaviors including drug use, sexual risk behavior, and mental health. But what I found is that a lot of social support based HIV prevention efforts were failing. They were not scalable, or the -- we didn't see long-term effects. And so, I thought critically about why this was. And basically, my basic premise moving forward, and what my work is really, really tied into now is this idea that we have to take a step back and think more critically about how people develop socioemotional bonds. So, how do people develop these trusting, loving relationships with family, peers, and romantic partners? And really understanding in the context of poor social conditions and discrimination and stigma, how these attachment bonds develop, and how they're associated with long-term health. So, in terms of this paper, I was interested in two basic questions. One was, first, can attachment style change? A lot of psychological literature -- now it's changing a little bit -- but the basic premise is that attachment style doesn't change. If you're more insecurely attached and unable to develop these bonds, this is kind of how you are for the rest of your life. And it has implications for health and well-being. And the opposite is true for more secure relationships. However, we know in this changing social context and in the context of poor social conditions, that there can be changes in us, as individuals. So, I wanted to first ask in the context of poor communities of color, do we see these changes in attachment, and if so, what are the long-term effects of these changes? So, the current data comes from a 20-year cohort study, the Flint Adolescence Study. We followed individuals from the age of 14. Now they're about 35, and we're doing the second step in the Flint Adolescence Study, so we can look at intergenerational linkages. So, this is the African-American subsample, which is made up of 541 African-American individuals with about half female and half male. So, in terms of the overall study measures, I measured adult attachment or, in this case, friendship attachment during waves three and waves four, which they were about 16 to age 17. And then, we looked at depression from wave five, in which they were about 18, all the way through their 30s. So, I was interested if these change categories are associated with different trajectories of long-term depression in this group of young people. So, the first basic question was answered fairly early on. So, we do see these changes. However, as the literature posits, we see the least change in the stability group. So, most young adults that were stable continued to be stable, you know, in the follow-up year, when they turned about 15. And then, the next stable group was the in-secured group. However, we do see this subsection of young people that had this transition in attachment. The change from either secure to insecure, or insecure to secure. So, overall, I did a growth model to basically look at if these change groups predicted these long-term depression curves. And what I found is really interesting. First, young adults in the stable secure group experience increasing levels of depression through adulthood. So basically, if you were insecure, you have high beginning levels of depression and you tended to increase incrementally through your 30s. In addition, with the stable secure group, we really didn't see a change. So, if you -- young people started out with the lower levels of depression, and then, through adulthood they kind of stayed in this lower level area of depression symptoms. Interesting enough though are the change groups. So, young adults in the change groups experienced decreasing levels in depression over time. And this was really interesting because we expected the secure to secure group, based on the literature, to actually to see decreasing levels of depression. And more interesting is that we found that the secured to in-secured group decrease at a significantly faster rate. Or, the insecure to secure group -- sorry for the typo -- decrease at an increasingly faster rate than the other change group. And so, this is interesting for a couple of reasons. So, as I said before, being secure in early childhood in the literature is just associated with better health. A lot of people haven't challenged that, and we've seen that over and over in the adolescent and the baby attachment literature. However, these results suggest that you might experience some coping strategies with being insecure that are taken into a place of security that actually worked to help you have less depression over time. And this is backed by the resilience literature. So, in the resilience literature, there's a stress inoculation hypothesis, which basically says that if you experience poor social conditions and you have a little bit of adversity -- not high adversity and not real low adversity, just mid-level adversity -- then, you're actually be more equipped to deal with life's challenges and stressors and have better depression over time. So, this introduces us to this whole idea that we must pay attention to social conditions when trying to understand attachment and transitions in attachment. But, what is the main question that I've been asked since these data came out? The main question I have been asked is, "Okay, these are really interesting results, and they force us to really look at attachment as a viable form of intervention design, but Stephanie, or Dr. Cook, what causes these changes in attachment?" And this is something that we've been looking at over the past year. So, we know, as I talked about in the beginning, that we have to look past the social support only perspective. So, we posit that it's not just social support, but the must be other changing conditions, either in the environment or in the social structure of adolescence social groups that actually influence this change in attachment style. And we have a couple papers forthcoming in this area to better specify what we think that those resilient -- I will call resilient -- processes are. So, the other -- the other key thing I want to talk about in looking to the future is, "What are the specific social and cultural conditions that may influence changes and attachment among marginalized youth?" And this was a key and very, very important part of this communication because I posit that when we're talking marginalized groups, marginalized based on sexual orientation or race, we have to look closer at the social and cultural conditions in which these youths develop. And so, in 2016, in the next month, my piece with my student will be coming out in behavioral medicine that posits this attachment and minority stress model. And I posit that we have to look more critically at sexual development, racial development, and the community of social conditions in which youth are developing while they're also developing their transition and attachment style from childhood to adulthood to better understand long-term health and well-being. And this area of research is completely novel, innovative, and new just because a lot of attachment research has stopped at adolescence, number one. And number two, a lot of attachment research has been unconcerned with the social processes and the conditions in which youth develop. And so, this is my long-term plan to go ahead and test this innovative model. And lastly, how can this work in form attachment interventions in policy and practice? What does it all mean? So, coming full circle. I talked in the beginning about this need to step back from social support only interventions. Social support is important and a valuable tool that we use and employ interventions. But if individual are not able to receive or give social support, then we must take a step back and look closer at attachment and attachment related processes in conjunction with social support to better formulate our interventions and to better influence health and well-being across the life course. And so, I just want to acknowledge my team at the University of Michigan and my team of excellent students that worked with me today. And thank you. And should I take questions or should I take questions at the end? [applause] Bill Elwood: What do you guys prefer? Dr. Stephanie Cook: Are there any questions or do you -- okay, not currently? Bill Elwood: Maybe at the end -- I've got something to start rolling with. So, we'll turn things over to NHGRI's Chris Marcum. Chris? [applause] Chris Marcum: I guess I'm the inside guy today. There. So, again I'm going to take a moment to thank OBSSR and the selection committee for featuring our paper. It's a great honor to be featured as an early stage investigator. I'm really, really grateful. I should -- before I begin on the paper, I want to point out that this work is, in and of itself, part of larger social network, if you will. And that it's a collaboration with Dr. Laura Kaylee, who's our section head at NHGRI. I'm actually in human genome, and I'm a social scientist. One of the few, sort of, uniquely positions folks that OBSSR can leverage as a resource across the NIH, as Dr. Riley had mentioned, in that we will do social and behavioral research within the context of heritable health and genetic disease and risk. And so, it's really unique and a really great place to work. And without Dr. Kaylee's support, of course, this wouldn't have been possible. So, my paper. It's called "Intergenerational Conduct from a Network Perspective." I'm a gerontologist by training, and I'm also a mathematical sociologist. And so, I wear these sort of two hats. One's sort of very statistical and mathematical and one sort of very theoretical, and this paper really bridges those two areas of expertise together. So, excuse me. One bottle of water up here. I don't think I'll drink from it. So, our paper "Intergenerational Conduct from a Network Perspective," -- we first seek to examine the ways in which life core scholars and gerontologists talk about, discuss in the literature how members of one generation interact with members of another generation. We often call this social exchange or intergenerational exchange, but it's really about contact crosses between generations. Now, often, these sort of pathways or these modes of intergenerational contact get popularized in both the media but also in the literature by things that we would recognize as model of social interaction. And the sort of canonical example of this is the sandwich generation, Miller's famous sandwich generation, whereby we would think about this generation in sort of the middle, okay, of a family, say, that is sandwiched between the waxing demands of their, you know, about to leave children simultaneously with the -- excuse me -- with the demands of their aging parents. And we think of this sandwich generation, I think, canonically -- Miller, when she posited this Model was really thinking about the baby boomers, in this case where we're going to have, at a societal level, a great demand for educational resources being spent at the same time, health resources being spent on aging parents. Well, I'm a social network scientist, and so when I think about the ways in which gerontologist and life core scholars have thought about and discussed intergenerational exchange, I say, "Aha! Those are patterns of social interaction, and if they are patterns of social interactions, then when we come down to sort of the level of communication, the level of social interactions, the level of social support, we should be able to model those things, formally, using network methods. And so, what we've done is an exhaustive search of the literature. We have identified nine of these ways in which intergenerational exchange can be characterized, and we've mapped those directly to features in social networks that we can measure. Of course, to do that you have to have network data, and we're the social network methods section, and we have lots of social network data. And specifically here, we're going to use our project risk assessment for Mexican-Americans. This is a RAMA project. It consists of about 160 multigenerational Mexican-origin families that reside in the Great Houston Area, and a lot of our work in the network methods section focuses on health communications, specifically about family processes and the structure health communication involving genetic diseases, genomic risk for diseases and other types of health processes that go on in families. So, here in our empirical example, after we've set up how to model these things, what we're going to do is we're going to use health communication to try to understand some of the intergenerational processes going on within families with respect to who communicate with whom about health. We have a really simple research question. It's very basic. Do certain patterns -- do these models exist more than chance, basically, in families? And what we're going to do for our analytic framework is simply going to compare the observed and expected rates of each of the contact models, each of the nine models that we can write down and posit based on the literature, and we just used standard network approaches to analyze this data. Okay, so when -- I keep saying this word network. What do I mean? Well, here's an example from one of our families. The nodes, the circles and squares represents members of families. The colors are generation's memberships, where we have the oldest generation represented by the light blue and the youngest generation represented by purple. Some of these -- in this particular example, some of the family members opted not to participate in the study, but we still have information on them from the others. The arrows here indicate, leaving one family member and directed towards another, just indicate when that family member sent a health communication event. Okay, so I've talked to my mom about heart diseases for example in the family. And so, we have lots of these network, about 160 of them, and we can pool them across a population perspective to do our analysis, and that's effectively what we do. So, of course, we have results. I can tell you that they're very interesting, but without going into too many details, here we have each of the nine contact models across the x-axis here, and these are the distributions of the differences from random, basically, when they're above that red line, that means that there's a significant amount of deviation from random, which means that there's that particular contact model exists in the study population with greater frequency than we expect. And what I can you for sure, okay, is that that canonical example of the sandwich generation, whereby, sort of the middle generation in the family is resource dependent for discussing health communication anything isn't going on in these families. But, what we do find is, actually, rather fascinating, in that there's a preponderance of any effect, okay, for upward and downward skip generation health communication, and what this structure looks like is when, say, grandchildren are talking to their grandparents about their health, and when grandparents are talking about their grandchildren with health, but not talking with their parents. So, the middle generation. So, this is a tie that -- a generational tie that bypasses that middle generation, regardless of which direction it's flowing. So, what we can learn here is that first of all, we can pretty much rule out, at least, four Mexican origin families, residing in the Great Houston Area, talking about health within the families that the sandwich generation model is probably not the right model here to discuss this type of intergenerational contact, but we do see a tendency for upward and downward generation contact to prevail. Now, this is consistent with the long-standing hypothesis within the immigrant and minority health literature that's basically posits that grandchildren act as health communication brokers on behalf of their grandparents. And as a precondition of course, they must be talking about health within families Now, our future work is sort of varied in this area. We do lots of network methods development. We apply these network methods to try to test theories from the lit. But these aren't just -- these particular models aren't just for sort of micro level and network level data. You can sort of understand these things. They're very useful, even in the macro context of family health communication or the micro context of the individual dyad. And so, you might want to apply these to your own work, whatever the level of analysis might be. In our own lab, we have work that focuses a great deal on family health history in the communication of family health history is a very important aspect of the maintenance of the health and well-being of the family and understanding the risk for heritable diseases after all. And some of these models can be used to understand who knows whom about what, with respect to health combination and particular on the constellation of diseases within a family. And some of that work is being done with our post-doc Dr. Jay Loo Leners [phonetic sp.], actually here in the audience today. We're also currently using this approach to understand who are the health encouragers, who are healthful behavior encouragers within families in a multicultural context. And this data is kind of a fun -- it's not actually US data. We're doing this in Australia, in a multicultural context in Australia. And we have a nice comparative basis for work between the Australian multicultural context and the American multicultural context. And that's all I have. Thank you very much. I'll take questions now, or as Bill said, afterwards. Bill Elwood: Okay, Mike, do you want to come on down? Please, Chris, join us. [applause] Male Speaker: Thank you, thank you for that last talk. I want to know what your thoughts were with your findings on the Hispanic paradox and if there is an idea in that generational shift the modality or changing communication style is responsible for the deleterious health outcome. So, is there something advantageous this pointed to skip generation way of communicating health because by definition the Hispanic paradox means the first generation are healthier than the later. So, what are your thoughts about that, thank you? Chris Marcum: Yeah. Oh, I can sit here. My voice is still projected into the auditorium. Bill Elwood: Cool, huh? Chris Marcum: Yeah, it's great. Yeah, but thank you for the questions. The question -- for those of you who don't know, the Hispanic health paradox is sort of long-standing finding that the first generation of, at least, Hispanic migrants to this country tend to be much -- despite the fact that they are of a lower socioeconomic status than the majority of the white population, the non-Hispanic white population -- they tend to have better health statuses. And a lot of that has probably to do with country of origin and diet and healthful behaviors in the country of origin. And the -- what we found over the last 15 years or so is that it turns out that as these families age into the American population -- and what do I mean by that from a social science perspective, sociological perspective is that they had [unintelligible] cohort turnover. Their younger generations regress to the mean. So the new generation regresses to the mean. So, the question is whether or not the upward or downward skip generation models can inform that. Is that right? Yeah. So, the first thing I want to point out is that when -- so, one of my advisors, Judy Treece [spelled phonetically], had come up with this term, 0.5 generation, to describe the oldest generations, specifically of Hispanic migrants to this country. Basically, it characterizes people who are migrating to the country late in life. And if you migrate to this country late in life, you're much less likely to speak English. You're much less likely to know how to navigate the healthcare system. And you're much less likely to be able to leverage the social resources around you that you need on your own. And so, here, if you have a -- excuse me -- a young generation, someone who has acculturated into society, assimilated, if you will, then they're much more easily capable -- excuse me -- readily capable of providing those social support services to their grandparents, to that 0.5 generation on their behalf. And so, to the extent that they can moderate that type -- excuse me -- mediate that type of communication, I think that's where the real money is for that particular hypothesis. Bill Elwood: Could I follow up on that first? Chris Marcum: Sure. Bill Elwood: Do we -- do you think it's possible, then, that the grandchildren of the 0.5 generation are a bit less likely to regress to the mean, because they're brokering for their grandparents into the US healthcare system, but their grandparents also are telling them about their great Uncle Alberto who had the sugar and what he -- right? Do they learn protective behaviors from the grandparents? Chris Marcum: So -- this is a good question. Is there a protective effect for the grandchildren? My intuition about it is one that's shaped by the population. And, so my intuition is no. However, we have specific family level data. And we're doing this in a multicultural context. We could evaluate that to see if whether or not there's variability between families with respect to how these models work out for health outcomes at the individual level, certainly. Neil Wasburn: Good morning. My name is Neil Wasburn from Time Wave Analytics, and one of the areas that my focus is intergenerational models to support adherence to chronic disease management for older patients. So, it's related to what you're doing. And my question is, one, again, how do you measure communications? I know you probably don't want to get into lower level detail, but a little bit of information on that would be interesting. And the second is, how might you relate communications or the relationship between the generations to caregiving, as in supporting, adherences, you know, checking on whether they're, you know, following a diabetes regimen? You know, what is the boundary between communications and caregiving in your model. Chris Marcum: Right, so, one of the details is in the paper that I didn't discuss. This is a very -- this is a very simply measurement for health communication. It's - we've taken a census of the family, and we asked basically everyone in that family, "Did you discuss your health with person A? Did you discuss your health with person B?" And then, that's how we linked them together. So, it was very simply. And there were certainly different ways to do that. With respect to how it relates back to support, you know, one of the -- you know, I love communication, because communication is almost always a precondition for any other resource flow. So, I like to start there. But you're right in that it is probably -- it is probably operating at a sort of lower level than the direct resources that lead to health benefits. I think that's what you're getting at with the support question. And so, to the extent that health communication has to be part of the conversation and often isn't when you're -- or the interaction of interests in the provision of support. We have another study that looks at exactly this question on caregiving support, and I can tell you that often the health communication part is left out, okay. So, even though you may be someone who is sort of the primary caregiver, and you make decisions on behalf of someone who needs a lot of support. Your propensity to be the family health communicator might not be as strong, probably because you're being a caregiver and taking on that responsibility instead, so. Male Speaker: Bill? Male Speaker: Hopefully that works. On the rate of change from secure to insecure or the other way around, do we know anything about that rate? I mean, one would think that going from insecure to secure attachment would take some time? Whereas secure to insecure might be the result of some traumatic event or something at least [inaudible] event that caused someone to become more insecure [inaudible] attachment. Dr. Stephanie Cook: So, in the attachment literature, what we do know is that attachment tends to be pretty stable in short periods of time. So, in the baby -- I call it the baby attachment literature. [laughs] In the baby attachment literature up to about age 10, we see that if we look at it in short periods of time, like six months, three months, to a year, we see that it tends to be rather stable. What we don't know is these longer periods of time, and transitions in attachment after the baby attachment literature. So, for example, among young adults 15 to 16, when we have this prime time, in which everything's changing, we don't know the rates of attachment during that time. But in these models, what I didn't talk about is that we controlled for a lot of -- so, we controlled for traumatic events. We controlled for social support. We controlled for other features to make sure that it was the unique contribution of the attachment change group on depression. But, at NYU, I worked really hard, you know, to get measures of attachment in a long-term cohort study in emerging adulthood. So, over a seven-year period and hopefully will be renewed. So, we'll have the ability to really look at transitions over this longer period of time in a group of sexual minority males. So, another marginalized group of young men. So, we'll be able to better answer that question. But, it's a key questions, and it's part of, you know, my project to try to answer these questions that I think have kind of been lost overall, when we're talking about the importance of attachment on health. Bill Elwood: Right. While you're transitioning, I had the privilege to get to read all these papers, and we did have a handful available, if you're interested to pick up at the registration table. If you didn't, you're welcome to email me, william.elwood@NIH.gov I'm happy to send you those PDFs, and Stephanie, I don't want to steal what might be in press. But one of the things I noticed in your article is you spoke about other family ties and the coping skills that these youths in transition's develop during what then is a difficult time, but ends up being a protective factor. Do you want to mention any of those things on which youth rely that may contribute to that? Dr. Stephanie Cook: So, I really had to fight for this part of the article. [laughs] You know, the journal was like no, and I was like yes, this is important. And it's important because it's the idea that these could be maladaptive coping strategies or, you know, coping with a parent not being there or, you know, coping skills around avoiding coping strategies. But what's interesting is I believe, and what, you know, I'm testing in models right now, is that these avoiding coping strategies that maybe take you away from really stressful events, as African-American youth living in a poor area. Maybe those avoidant strategies, once conditions change or whatever happens, and you become secure. Maybe those are actually helpful. Maybe in some way they become more adaptive coping mechanisms that help you in the long-term, and it's about studying exactly what those coping mechanisms might be. And so, this is where I turn to the more resilient literature. And so, in the resilience literature, you know, there's a lot about exactly what resilience is, what are these coping mechanisms that can be better studied to be help us understand transitions and attachment in long-term mental health, so. Bill Elwood: Nice job, thank you. Karen? Dr. Karen Winermeg: First, congratulations, Stephanie and Chris, on your excellent research. So, I have a two-part question for both of you. So, the first part is, you know, what are your thoughts about how you might marry your two approaches, your attachment research and the social network processes. So, I'll stop there before I give you the second part. Dr. Stephanie Cook: Do you want me to answer this? So, I actually -- so, I also do social network analysis. I have a couple papers on that, but you know, so I think about this often. And right now, we have the -- we've just collected data on our cohort and the children on members in our cohort. So, we're actually trying to build these intergenerational and social network data to kind of look at, first, transitions in attachment. We have a lot of literature that says that, you know, the attachment style of the mother is directly correlated with the attachment of the child. But, we have less information about how the long-term changes in a mother's attachment is associated with, you know, what this child's attachment might be and what that might mean for the health of now only that dyad, but for the child and the mother independently. So, we're trying to build those models to kind of understand what's going on these, and if we can say anything. And I think that, because this work is so novel. It's, first, working with people like Chris, to build these models to kind of test those more innovative questions. Chris Marcum: Yeah, I have a two-part answer to your first part of your question. [laughter] And I concur, I mean entirely with you. So, my work -- the preponderance of my work has sought over my short so far career, has sought to understand changes and age differences in personal networks. So, the social, structural, and health causes of changes and networks. And, so far I've done that in a very cross sectional way. And one of the things I was thinking about as you were speaking is like, "Wow, this is really life-course longitudinal in a way that is so often our work isn't." And I was thinking, "Wow, it would be very interesting to find out how these attachment perspectives, early on, whether or not they predict particular types of relational structures later in life." And in fact, I was thinking way later in life. And I thought that I -- I thought something that came to my mind when you speaking was specifically about the role -- you sort of glossed about it -- I think it up on your slide on the role that stress plays early on, and I think that there's a great deal of work to be done on linking how stress influences attachment and then attachment then influences interpersonal relationship, which then translate to health outcomes. That's my particular perspective on it. I think that there's definitely some work there. Dr. Stephanie Cook: And just to put in my plug -- Chris Marcum: Yeah. [laughs] There we go. Dr. Stephanie Cook: -- that my behavioral medicine paper with my attachment in minority health model, because they're interrelated in such a way that you can't -- it's hard when you're talking about marginalized population, to talk about attachment without talking about the social conditions of stress. And then, think about the health consequences. So, modeling that is going to be really important moving forward. Bill Elwood: So, when you're talking about the minority stress model, you're talking about Ilan Myer? Dr. Stephanie Cook: Yes. William Elwood: I think, for those of you who don't know Ilan Myer's minority stress model is -- he created it in response to sexual identity ministries, saying that, you know, lesbian, gay, and bisexual people exist in this heterocentric society, and so they often are experiencing stress to hide their sexual identity, causing all sort of biological reactions in their body because of the high stress levels. To the best of my knowledge, it's never been used outside that community, and so I really applaud you for stretching it in this area because it is a natural place for it to go. I think that's just exceptional. Dr. Stephanie Cook: Thank you. William Elwood: Nice job. Dr. Stephanie Cook: I think it's really interesting. William Elwood: Back to you, Dr. Winermeg. Dr. Karen Winermeg: Thanks. Have -- how do you think about, or have you been thinking about how to incorporate emerging social media or -- actually it's not even emerging anymore -- social media into your research? [laughter] Dr. Stephanie Cook: So, I -- you know, I learn from my students every day. I'm working on being more engaged with social media. So, in my first social networks study, it was actually looking at how only social network features influence sexual risks behaviors. And so, the platform was to understand and try to model linkages between social media networks. And so, I have tried to, you know, go down that path. What is so difficult about social media is that we have unbounded networks. They're completely unbounded, meaning -- a bounded network would be an island in Tanzania and everyone in that island. But in social media, the reach is so far. So, from a modeling perspective, it becomes really challenging to capture all of the network legs and all of the network strands in how people are attached. But, I think, if we can -- and people are doing that now, and especially in terms of Chris' work, you know, if we can think about how to better specify our social networks, then we have, you know, better chances of kind understanding its implications for health. In terms of attachment, as an attachment researcher, I still adhere to the fact even though I know that there are transitions and changes, early experiences in childhood are foundational to our health and well-being across the life course. So, I think with social network analysis, we will have to think more critically about how we would capture changes in attachment in a long period of time, because we wouldn't see these day-to-day changes in attachment, for example. So, those are all things to think about, and I think that you're challenging me to think about how I can incorporate that into my current program of research, but I think it's an area that we definitely need to explore. Chris Marcum: So, my answer -- I'm going to tag along with Stephanie's comments. So, the problem that you're mentioned is called the network problem specification boundary, and if you can solve it, do. You'll probably win a Noble prize in economics. It's [unintelligible] complete problem. It's a really hard problem to solve. And so, I've sort of faced almost every day of my life, when I say, "Oh what do you do? Oh, I study social networks, " and immediately someone says, "You study Facebook? Or, you study Twitter?" [laughs] No, actually, I study the actually human interactions that we're face to face with on our day to day lives. And part of this issue with incorporating social media, and I -- what we're doing is something slightly different. We're actually leveraging social media to help recruit for our studies. So, that's one way in which we're using social media, Dr. Lairman [spelled phonetically]. But, one of the things that we learned very early on and that I have to sort of think about in particularly my gerontological work. One of our -- some of the work when I was supported as a graduate student at UC Ervine was conducting this sort of online network study. And we're using online -- first time to use online tools to collect network data, and the review committee came back, even though we got funded, they said, "You're never going to get any old people." This study is about, you know, life -- representative of the population. You're never going to get any old people. We were way oversampled at the end of day with people over age 65. And we're thinking, "Well, why is that the case?" Well, guess who's home collecting their mail and doing, you know, answering the phone and then being able to log into these websites. People who are over the age of 65. And so, we didn't have a problem with recruitment for that. And so, I think what -- the lesson learned from that bit of -- that story, that sort of project -- was that social medial is integrated into everyday lives. It is part of real social, human interaction. How we model it going forward, how we incorporate that into and link to actually health outcomes is an open question and it's a very hard question because they are methodological problems like the boundary specification problems. But also there are real practical problems, like if I sent out tweets to somebody, how is that impacting my health? Is it about isolation? Is it about integration? We don't know. It's open. Bill Elwood: And therefore -- how does one engage with those tweets? Just because you send it out doesn't mean necessarily that anyone receives it. Do you get certain -- do you feel somewhat connected if someone retweets, because you can get that on analytic retweets, or people respond directly to you. Is that an actually connection that shows up in your -- yeah. Chris Marcum: Yup, it's all open. Dr. Stephanie Cook: Yeah, very good questions. Bill Elwood: I have a question. But, we've mentioned how the 0.5 and how the longer generations are here in the states the more they regress to the unhealthy mean, and yet, what we are seeing among fully multigenerational people in the United States is the reconfiguration of multigenerational families. You know that's the case when you watch television and you see a detergent commercial. I don't know if you've seen that recently -- I did over the weekend -- in which the sandwich couple is doing the laundry for both their children who are home from college and their parents who are living with them. And I wonder what you -- I know I'm putting you on the spot -- I wonder what you think might be formulating in these reconfigured quintessential American families. What patterns might be developing, I think could look at. Chris Marcum: Yeah, this is a timely question. So, if you chart the progress over family structure, household structure, using census data anyway, over the last 200 years, it's actually not a -- it really is reconvening, right? So, we've seen since about the 1940s to about the mid-90s is a tendency, at least for the majority of families in this country, to be single generation or two bi-generation -- the house is not multigenerational. What we mean by multigenerational is really three generations. And a large part that was due to the success in large [s's] of the 21st century economy -- 20th and 21th century economies. That was never the norm. Some work by demographer colleagues of mine showed that look, household structure in the 50s, 60s, 70s, and 80s does not look like household structure for the rest of history. And this is unique. And then, we entered a period in the 90s of -- we had both highs and lows, and if we could actually chart the number multigenerational houses fairly closely with the changes in the economy. And so, I think the US census at the last records says that there's about 5.1 million multigenerational households. Not all of all is migrations. A lot of it is. Some of it is people restructuring of their expectations for life. People live longer and they -- planning. And so, I think what we need to think about in terms of multigenerational structure is families that we're going to have a lot more heterogeneity than we have had over the last 40 or 50 years in terms of family structure. You have multigenerational families that are heteronormative. You're going to have mixed families. You're going to have more broken families, more same sex couple families. It's going to be much more heterogeneous than in has been in the last 40 and 50 years with respect to the types of people who consist of family members, in terms of generational structure, it's going to look a lot, I think, it's going to look a lot more like families looked like prior to the 1940s and 50s than it has. And, so that's my answer. I think what we had to think about is how we're going to deal -- there's no one family unit. It's going to be heterogeneous, and it's going to be heterogeneous in composition in terms of family membership, generational composition, and just people. So. Bill Elwood: Do you want to add to that, Stephanie, or are you happy with it? Okay. [laughter] Kathy? Hi. Female Speaker: Hello. Very interesting discussion. I'm thinking about the rising rate of suicide, and I'm wondering about your thoughts, your speculations about policies, screening, what are you -- what are you -- brainstorm about policy implications that might address that health problem. Dr. Stephanie Cook: I think that that is a multipronged answer, or question. So, with suicide, depression is a key component of suicide and bullying and other social conditions especially when we're talking about LGB youth. I think in my work, I use non clinical populations and I look at symptoms, but I'm starting a project soon to lose at clinical implications of depression. So, I'm looking at how attachment is associated with long-term depression. So, taking people from the first report of depression and following them until they have a diagnosis of MDD, or major depressive disorder. And so, I think that since the correlation between depression and suicide is so strong, that it's something that I'll have to think about and look at. And I think that attachment does have very really and interesting implications for how we structure suicide prevention. I just haven't done that work yet. So, I don't know -- I don't have specific policy recommendations, but I can conceptually see the links. I think that we need a paradigm change around attachment because a lot of people don't think about attachment as something that can change. They don't think about implementing intervention centered on attachment in young adulthood, and I think that this is key if we want to tackle things like suicide prevention, especially among high risk populations such as LGB communities. So, when we're thinking about looking for social support interventions for suicide prevention about LGB, we really need to take a step back and think more critically about attachment. How do we help these young men and women develop trusting and loving social relationships? What are the building blocks of those developmental tools that we can really intensively help implement? And so, once we get to a place as a society and as a research community, where we can start to really look at attachment in this lens, as something that yes we can create as an intervention tool, then we can really use this tool and these strategies that arise from these tool to address things like suicide prevention and clinical depression. I hope that answered something. Female Speaker: Hi, thank you for your presentations. Chris, I actually have a question for you, and I was thinking about this as you were speaking. And also a little bit yesterday when I was interacting with my 96-year-old grandmother. And she is very text savvy. She's all over the internet. She emails. She open pictures. Everything. And I was just curious how, if you've looked at or are aware of any research, kind of with older generations and now their use of the internet, because I know that my grandma, you know, she reads every paper out there. But in addition to that, she's all over the internet, reading about health information. They're sharing with me something about, you know, the latest health study she's read, or just, you know, information sharing across generations and kind of, you know, how technology has changes that. Chris Marcum: So, yeah, so I -- thank you for the question. This actually relates back to the question that Dr. Lariman asked, and so I appreciate it. I can tell you what I -- that I have not stayed up on this lit, but I used to think about this a lot. So, there's a chapter by Judy, Truce, and myself where we sort of reviewed what older people use the internet for, and what is known in the lit. And what we found is just what you've said, basically, and that was -- oh my gosh -- 10 years ago, that older people use the internet for email and for checking health information and for keeping in contact with family members, okay? That's probably changed quite a bit in 10 years. I mean, all of our behavior in social media and online have changed quite a bit in 10 years. Now, what I find, I think, relevant to OBSSR is the use -- and this is probably true for everyone in this room, not just older people, but older people in particular -- is the use of the internet for health information. Because as we know, the dissemination of misinformation is much more -- it's quick at your fingertips. And so, I think there needs to be some study, and I don't know, because I hasn't stayed up on the lit, if it has -- if there has been already, on health information, the use of health information for managing health, self-diagnosis for example, disseminating health information to others amongst people who turn to the internet for that primary resource, including people, people of older generations. I don't know -- there probably is -- there probably are studies on other uses, but not that -- I haven't stayed up in the 10 years. Some things I just can't keep track of. Bill Elwood: I'm really going to stretch when it comes to suicide, but perhaps some of my colleagues jump in and help answer can this question about veterans, both recent combat returnees as well as all the way back to Vietnam vets. This past weekend, apparently for every Father's Day weekend for the last 18 or 19 years, the Vietnam veteran's memorial fund has held a ceremony for Vietnam vets who have passed as a result of combat related injuries. They didn't die in the war. They died later. And so, they have a name reading of the loved ones of the people who recently passed. I participated this past year, well actually this past Saturday and listened to many families tell stories about their loved ones, many of whom suffered with PTSD, many of whom suffered with depression, some of whom finally commitment suicide. And some of us in this room, including myself, are also on a number of NIH DOD panels work groups on more recent returnees and the struggles they have adapting from the coping mechanisms that they adapt with their "band of brothers" to quote a movie and transitioning. And so, I wonder, stretching back with the intergeneration, the coping skills people adapt on one hand, how we might look at mining or eliciting the resilience strategies that people develop over the course of their life experiences and how we can inter -- use those as teachable moments as points in which we can help them use those skills in productive ways. There may not be an answer because I'm really stretching here. But some of my friends in the audience might be able to help. Dr. Stephanie Cook: Yeah. I don't know. I can speculate on -- but, I know a little bit about this literature because I was on a working group here in D.C. to look at this issue. And there's not a lot of literature on veterans besides more epidemiological work on the rates of suicide. But there's a lot of intervention such as video games as cognitive behavioral therapy to help cope with the PTSD in a way that reduces suicide rates. And there's a few other researchers around the country, I know, doing this type of work, but I think it's a really challenging issue. I'm not sure how to answer. Chris Marcum: So, when you were talking it reminded me that I had formulated a question that I wanted to ask Stephanie, when you were speaking, and it's actually on this issue. So, one of -- as you mentioned, I think probably the majority of folks of your field still think that attachment style's a trait. And, what we know -- what I think of you know -- when I try to address a paradigm shift, such as change it from a trait to a state or the thinking about it, I like to think, okay where are the exceptions. And one of the exceptions I was thinking about it posttraumatic stress and return from combat. We know that a strong traumatic event can change a personality. And so, if it's -- there's something under the skin that is -- that is -- of course the event was above the skin, we know that -- something under the skin that is -- that has changes as a result of that. And so, I think you know, I don' know if the answer to the suicide depression. But I think the challenge for someone in your position, studying attachment, is to get it out there that attachment style, and even some aspects of personality, are states. And that there are -- and that's a very provocative statement to say. Dr. Stephanie Cook: All the psychologists in the room are staring at you. [laughs] Chris Marcum: But over the life course, there's lot of opportunities for bad stuff to happen, and there's lots of opportunities for good stuff to happen, and those things have an effect under the skin. And so I know Dr. Riley is talking about how -- [unintelligible] models that try to link researchers that think about under and over the skin, and I think that that is an area that we just don't know enough about A. But also that people like you are in a position to say something about it. So, say something about it. [laughter] Dr. Stephanie Cook: A lot of pressure there. A lot of pressure. No, I completely agree. Like you were saying, in terms of attachment in PTSD, we know that combat experiences are one of those -- a significant traumatic event. I also have a couple of trauma papers in attachment, basically stating the same things. So, things like childhood, abuse, divorce is big one. These are all significant traumatic events, where the current model that I'm working under speaks to these, but we know that we change attachment style. However, when you get back to thinking about, you know, resource poor communities of color, there's a lot of daily traumatic, stressful, events. So, how do we characterize the traumatic event that will change attachment style? Chris Marcum: What if it's just an environment of trauma? Dr. Stephanie Cook: Right, exactly. And so, that's one of the thing I'm toying with and thinking more critically about as well. Bill Elwood: Sadly, our third panelist, Sarah Moorman caught a bug that's running around the Boston College campus. So, she couldn't be here. But she did have a marvelous award winning paper on mechanisms, linking, neighborhood age composition to health. And one of Sarah's findings -- she looked at the -- she combined the MITA study and US census data. And one of the things that she found is that -- and I work it in here, because it's fitting -- is that it is the neighbor's that have multiple generations that indeed have the highest ratio of healthy people. Those and neighborhoods that are skewed toward older people also are more likely to have healthy human beings. And one of the things that she speculates it is indeed because while bad things to people over the course of their lives, they adapt, they get skills -- good things happen to them as well. And it is that village of multiple generations that not only raise children, but raise one another. So, you have neighborhoods and neighborhood grandparent and neighborhood young people who look out after the older people as they age in place, and that makes for the healthiest kind of neighborhoods in the United States. Dr. Stephanie Cook: No, I thought that that was a really interesting paper. I think that on the opposite end, what she nodded at is the idea that in American society today we have more fractured neighborhoods. We don't have these neighborhoods that have a continuous generational bound. And so, I think her paper was absolutely fascinating, but it made me think about the opposite. So, what do we do with these fracturing neighborhoods and how do they contribute to poor health? So, yeah. Maybe we just need to make sure our neighborhoods are stabilized over [inaudible]. [laughs] That's the easy one. We could all get out there and [inaudible]. Bill Elwood: Okay. Do we have any more questions? No. Well, why don't we bring down the -- well, first of all, let me thank our distinguished early stage investigator winners. [applause] And, I will turn things over to my distinguished OBSSR colleague, Dr. Erica Spotts, who will tell you about the history of the Matilda White Riley Lecture for Excellence and introduce our distinguished scholar. 