 - Hello everyone, thank you for coming to this indigenous anthropology emergent praxis against anthropological deliriums roundtable. We want to invite you all to come up front, this room is a tad bit larger than what we had expected. So please do join us up in the front because we, after having our panelists respond, want to invite everyone to be apart of the dialogue. And at that point when we do open up that discussion time, we ask also that you go to the microphone. This session is being videotaped, just for your awareness, so if you don't want to be videotaped, you might not wanna go up to that microphone. But in any case, thank you all for coming. First off, my name is Ty Kawika Tengan. I'm a associate professor in anthropology and ethnic studies at the University of Hawaii, and co-organizer with Bernard or Bernie Perley from the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. First we wanna acknowledge the Cheyenne, Arapaho, O-Kiowa, and Ute Peoples in territories of Colorado. And also acknowledge the welcome that we received by John Emhoolah Jr. a Kiowa and Arapahoe elder and leader, who honored us with a song in prar-ent Kiowa at the opening of this conference. And in a very moving way, saying how, doing so in that language was one that showed his ability to survive the experience of boarding school. And to be able to share the spirit and language that persisted despite the efforts of erasing his identity and culture, which are essential themes for what we are dealing with. And when we're thinking about in indigenous anthropology emergent against the colonial deliriums that have created notions of disappearing natives or the assumption that the erasure of political sovereignty was something that could be accomplished. These and other stories and relationships are one's that we hope will only grow as the triple A begins to develop new protocols and procedures for honoring indigenous peoples and territories and all their future meetings. With regards to this session, just taking some of the points from our abstract. There's something strangely familiar in the current tension between indigenous praxis and its critics. In the second decade of the 21st century indigeneity is simultaneously celebrated it as quote "engaged practices of self determination "against daily traumas of colonial domination." And also denigrated, as relying on quote, "an obsolete anthropological notion, "and on a romantic and false ethnographic vision." We see in these latter comments, the lasting effect of colonial deliriums as western domination and dispossession of indigenous peoples. Participants in this roundtable engage the implications of colonial deliriums in anthropology and the emergence of indigenous anthropology. Our roundtable follows up on a great dialogue initiated yesterday by graduate students. In the strange affinities of anthropology ultra natives and and ethnographic refusal session. In it, Claudia Serrato spoke of unlearning, relearning and shapeshifting. Indeed, shapeshifting is the reality we live. At once, shifting our own shapes and response to the various contexts we engage, but also, shifting the shape of the discipline at the same time. For our panelists today, we sent the following questions to ponder. One, what does the practice of indigeneity in the field of anthropology look like, based on your experiences? Two, what frames and language do or should we use to articulate understandings of indigenous worlds in the context of healing colonial deliriums? And three, how do we stage alternative conversations that lead to a decolonial indigenous anthropology? Each participant will offer a brief provocation in response to these questions, followed by responses and cross-talk between each of them. And ending with an open dialogue with all of you. So first, I'd like to invite up my co-organizer and the first presenter on this panel, Bernie Perley, associate professor of anthropology at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. (audience applause) - (Speaking in Maliseet) Okay, this is where you say, mege-de-besk-win. (light audience chatter) - [Voiceover] Up-chich - Up-chich (speaker laughing) Okay, and then you say, deng-gok-nagil, (audience chatter) and I'll say neel-namij. Okay, so what I did was just ask you, good morning, how are you, and that's in Maliseet. And you said, well, you said you're doing fine, and then you asked me how I'm doing, And I said, I am also doing fine. Well, when, one of the things that, in this particular greeting, if you translate it literally into English, it's, you know it is, you know, "how are you." But the response it, more, "still the one," or, "just the same." And so this is where, you know, the kind of translation from an indigenous language into English becomes problematic, and, something, is always lost in translation. And so, one of the things we have to do is, when we're engaging in these kinds of conversations, is to recognize that there's always going to be some kind of slippage. And so, for me, the other reason why I introduced with, you know, using Maliseet, is to, give you the, I don't want to give you the false impression that I am a fluent speaker of Maliseet. I am a learner of Maliseet. And one of the things that I wanted to point out is when we're dealing with, you know, colonial deliriums, especially in anthropology, we have to be able to recognize that, there is a lot more going on underneath, than is, you know, on the surface. Okay, so, the fact that I used Maliseet at the beginning does not suggest I am a fluent speaker. I am relearning the language. That's one of the critical conditions of indigeneity that we all have to deal with. The second aspect is, well, my very first language when I was born was Maliseet. And when I went to school, the decision was made that I had to learn English, at the expense of Maliseet. So now that I'm adult, an adult, I have to relearn the language. And again, that is one of the conditions of indigeneity. Now, the reason why I point this out, is, also to indicate for this particular panel, the kind of ideas that we're dealing with, is to also suggest that, the kind of, let's say, reclamation, or repatriation of our indigenous cultures, our languages, our modes of being, is something that we're all exercising in our very different and diverse ways. And I'm really excited about the kinds of conversations that we're going to hear in the next hour. Now, getting back to anthropology, what does indigenous anthropology look like? Well let me start with a story. Imagine sometime in the mid-19th century, you got these two anthropologists, colonial anthropologists charging through woods or forests or rainforests or any other kinds of hostile environment. And they come in to a clearing, and they come across an indigenous village. Okay, so, the first anthropologist smiles and looks at the other and he says, "look, we've discovered Noble." And the other one frowns, and shakes his head, "no, we've discovered Savage." And, in the meantime, the indians are there, and the chief tells his community, "uh-oh, "it looks like we've discovered anthropology." (audience chuckles) Now the reason why I bring this up is to also indicate that when we think about anthropology and our discipline, we're starting to recognize, and as Ty was suggesting and quoting Adam Cooper, our indigenous, let's say, self-determination, from his perspective, is somehow flawed. That somehow the way we conceive of ourselves as indigenous peoples is really based on outmoded anthropological concepts and some kind of romantic vision of a, a savage or noble savage past. And one of the questions that I wanted to raise in the provocation is, well, how do we begin to untangle that kind of irony? So, when Ty and I were talking about this, you know, one of the things that we wanted to highlight was the idea of emergent praxis. Okay, I deliberately did not use the word, practice, and because, that has its own kind of cultural baggage in anthropology. Well praxis has its own baggage as well. And a lot of people are going to kind of point to the kind of a Marxist analysis, and so they say, well okay there's a way we can begin to understand that praxis and practice are two different things. And that praxis somehow alerts us to a broader sort of phenomenon that's inherent in a particular, a, let's say, a anticipatory and a, a articulation of space and being in a particular imaginary. Now, one of the things I wanna highlight is while praxis for me is also a failed attempt, and so we have to be able to use these words in order to be able to begin to question them. So for me, it's every day resistance against these kind of colonial dominations and the kind of traumas that really alert us to the kind of practice, or praxis that we're engaging. And so my question then is, is praxis an idiom that can be translatable that colonial modes of understanding can begin to engage. Can we contaminate colonial categories? The second part of this is a colonial deliriums. So, Cooper makes the argument that we as indigenous peoples, we're doomed to be ventriloquists for colonial ideologies. And so, going along with that, then indigenous articulations are merely the reinvention of the primitive. And so again, Cooper is not stepping back to understand, you know, what his particular position is. That's another form of colonial domination. A kind of devoicing of indigenous experience. And so what I'd like to do in this particular panel, is call on the panelists to really interrogate these issues. And so, is this attempt at articulating an emergent praxis an inversion process? And I would say that yes, it is a inverting the categories but more importantly it's also a conversion process. And so what it does is, it allows both indigenous and non-indigenous peoples to be able to begin to entertain the possibility of epistemic slippage. And through epistemic slippage, what we're doing is, we're shifting our boundaries of our knowledge and experience, in order to be able to better understand the other. Unfortunately, Adam Cooper and like-minded anthropologists refuse that epistemic slippage. And I am delighted that I have these colleagues that are going to really push that agenda, so that we can all begin to understand one another. Thank you. (audience applause) - Thanks Bernie. Next up we have Mato Mamuto Lanning, research fellow at the James Henare Research Center at the University of Auckland. (audience applause) - (speaking in Maori) I'd like to acknowledge the Paiute, the Arapaho, the Cheyenne and the Kiowa people, who, are the home people of this territory. So, I'd just like to acknowledge that I'm here as a guest and I will be going home after the conference. Last night at our conference group dinner, Bernie and Ty asked us to think about the concept shapeshifter, and to translate it into our own language. And, the word for shapeshifter where I'm from in the Waikato New Zealand, and, the Waikato is also a tribe or an iwi, we use the term, the term taniwha. So a taniwha is the type of shapeshifter that is prominent where I'm from. And taniwha are creatures that live in rivers and water bodies, and they can transform and turn into logs, they can tell you when danger is coming, they can be omens of, they can, they can tell you about good things about to happen. So, for where I'm from in the Waikato boonie-and-tie the word is taniwha. The other thing I need to acknowledge is my colleague, Merata, who is the fifth speaker on the panel here, so we're both from the James Henare Maori Research Center at the University of Auckland. So I think I've thanked everybody now, the birds and the bees the flowers the trees. Oh, and Ty and Bernie, thank you for inviting me. So now I'm going to read this very brief paper about the trajectory of indigenous anthropology, so. To discuss the trajectory of an indigenous anthropology, it is vital to recognize that all indigenous knowledge is embedded in groups of people who inhabit specific places. And that the significance of indigenous knowledge, or mar-toh-dung-ah, as Maori referred to it, is the relationships that local knowledge negotiate between people. Now it's impossible for me to talk about the realization of an indigenous anthropology without reflecting on our discipline's imperialist history and its current challenges. Because anthropology is understood and practiced differently around the globe, I will confine my discussion to New Zealand. The origins of anthropology in New Zealand go back to when Maori and Europeans first began asking questions of eachother over 200 years ago. The dialogue between Maori and British intellectuals continued through the 19th and 20th centuries. This homegrown anthropology was influenced by the emerging British model of social anthropology. And it was to Britain that aspiring New Zealand anthropologists of Maori and non-Maori descent, of which Merata's father was one of them, went to professionalize themselves. It was not until the mid-20th century that anthropology became established in New Zealand's university system. Mostly in departments combined with Maori studies and various combinations of the British Social, or the Melenoscian, and the American four field approach, or the bo, bo, bo-asian, how do you say it? Bo, bo-eesian? - [Voiceover] (mumbling) - Boasian, approach. However, since then the world has changed, and anthropology has changed too. Though, for those of us who belong to indigenous communities the discipline probably hasn't changed as much as we would've liked it to. In the 21st century, holistic anthropological community studies have now given way to more thematically focused investigations. Including categories such as identity, globalization, public policy and cosmopolitanism. Categories such as, oh, or specializations such as medical anthropology or environmental anthropology legal anthropology, and legal anthropology. The discipline also analyzes and makes space for concrete issues such as HIV Aids, emerging elderly populations, climate change, militarization and war. In my experience of anthropology, indigenous anthropology as a disciplinary specialization has the potential to transform power relations for those of us who are indigenous stakeholders in the discipline. In the face of anthropology, at home, Maori communities and scholars have asserted themselves politically and culturally and, radically influenced New Zealand's academic mainstream. One glaring example in New Zealand, is that now, our most prestigious research grants, and remember I'm a research fellow, so I don't teach like a lot of you, I actually don't do any teaching; it's a luxury job. Most prestigious research grants require applicant researchers that want to conduct research in Maori communities, or on topics that Maori have interest in, to write a vision mah-toh-dung-uh statement. So, a vision mah-toh-dung-uh statement, is a special piece in the application where you have to say, you know, "this is how it's going to effect Maori." This statement must explain the research project's capacity and contribution to Maori people and Maori knowledge. While vision mah-toh-dung-uh, while vision mah-toh-dung-uh compliance is sometimes considered to be lip-service and tokenism. It forces research applicants into a space where they must articulate the ethical benefits of our, of the research to Maori New Zealander's. Graham McCray, who heeds Massey's Albany Anthropology program, explains that in a recent work, that in the late 1980's and 90's, Maori-trained anthropologists, critiqued intellectual colonization and Maori studies and anthropology parted ways. He raises the idea for the upcoming New Zealand anthropology conference next week that today, Maori studies anthropology remained like former lovers wondering what has been lost and what has been gained, and how best to maintain or hopefully rebuild our fawn-o, or family relationship. I think this is an amiable way of describing the deep tensions that exist between anthropology, anthropologists, Maori scholars and Maori communities in New Zealand. The neoliberalization that has reached every corner of the globe and people's lives, has flavored much of our contemporary anthropology. Last year, before the University of Auckland re-schooled its arts faculty, Maori studies was directed to realign with anthropology. The Maori studies staff response to this proposition was along the lines of, hell will free, let hell freeze over first. Some of the anthropologists, unobtrusively, but backed with, "whoo, that was a narrow escape, "thank goodness for that." At my University, we have moved from a world of departments understood in anthropological terms as semi-autonomous chiefdoms. That were ruled by chairs, to programs that have been disempowered within multidisciplinary schools or academic units. Retired anthropologist, Harry Ellen, commented on the effects of re-schoolin, re-schooling on anthropology and put it this way, "the heart of anthropology has been ripped out, "yet, on the other side of the coin, there are those critics "who think the anthropologists have got what they deserve. "They never humbled themselves to the emerging disciplines. "They ignored them, and remained devout "to a purely objective and academic anthropology." Back in 1998, Paul Selitto warned, "anthropologists need to pay attention, "or other disciplines will supplant it. "Already the agricultural economists, "and human geographers, even foresters "and plant pathologists are stealing our disciplinary clothes." I work in one of the University of Auckland's independent research centers. We do not sit within a particular, particular University faculty. As a Maori environmental anthropologist at the James Henare Maori Research Center, my research is informed and enriched by my position within two distinct cultures. Firstly, I am often a inside, I am often an insider of the culture I am studying, and my research by its very nature, is Maori-related research. My research projects often reflect the key principles of Kaupapa Maori research, talked about by Linda Smith, yep. Which is dependent on my being Maori, is underpinned by Maori philosophy and principles, takes for granted the validity and the legitimacy of a Maori world view. And is fundamentally concerned with the struggle for autonomy over Maori wellbeing. However, my research also draws on anthropological methods and theory, which enables me to offer new angles of vision and depths of understanding to existing anthropological scholarship that has often privileged western knowledge in its examination of other cultures. As an anthropologist, I have been exposed to many western theories which I have begun to extend and apply in Maori context. And brief this blending of knowledge and ideas has provided me with a more sphisticated way of thinking, of understanding Maori. And I also work with Mapuche and Mohawk as well. So, those ones as well, those peoples as well. Relationships to land and resources. So I wonder, might these experiences that I have contribute to establishing and delineating an indigenous anthropology. Kia ora. (audience applause) - Thanks Maroma. Next, we have Darren Ranco, Chair of Native American Programs at the University of Maine. (audience applause) - Alright, good morning. Thank you to the organizers of this panel for including me. Thanks for all, for coming. I was, I did, I was I missed it, but thanks to the indigenous leaders who welcome us to the territory. And, that's a really important step forward for the anthropology conference to do. So, I'm, I'll try to keep this, I'm gonna cut out all my jokes, I swear. (chuckling) And I will get to this in seven minutes. The overall thrust of this panel is one not just focused on the possibility of an indigenous-oriented anthropology, but one in which we try to use anthropology for healing. Or as my favorite Maliseet anthropologist, Bernie Perley, writes, "to engage practices "of self-determination against "daily traumas of colonial domination." I, like many of my colleagues here today, see anthropology, like the concept of culture, to be a somewhat flexible and competed for domain of interests and networks. Thus, our ability to indigenize it, whether through praxis epistemology or some other means, you know, completely under erasure. Require a keen understanding in disruption of power relationships. As part of this discussion, as the roundtable description points out, an element that hangs over our heads is the perception that we as indigenous anthropologists are somewhat involved with our communities, families and indigenous activists, in the misrepresentation of indigenous cultures through strategic essentialisms. People have mentioned the critiques by Cooper, there have been a whole host of them. I always like it when an anthropologist comes to me and says, "well that's strategic essentialism, "and I don't wanna play devils advocate, "but, you know." (audience chuckling) It's like, I'm not a racist, but. I love devil advocate people. That's a real, great thing. Sorry, frowny face, I'm gonna skip through a things. In 2006 I pointed to the ways in which an indigenous anthropology disrupts anthropological narratives, which I referred to metaphorically as hunting stories. And asked what kind of narrative, be it contingent, open for discussion, in critical, this would lead to. I also carved out a space for an indigenous anthropology that can further the ethical and moral standards of all anthropological practice. Both through narrative and a series of relationships. I still believe in this project. Now, after working six miles from by indigenous nation for six years, I would say, nine years after writing this paper, this is really about me, and sort of my intellectual development. (audience chuckling) I doubled down on the potential of indigenous framing of anthropological questions, that seek new areas of inquiry and mobilizations of knowledge and mutually beneficial collaborations and controls. Other forms of inquiry, and, and controls other forms of inquiry based on tribal declarations of sovereignty and nation building. I also recognize, that often urgent need for forms of cultural modeling that addressed tribal cultural and historic preservation projects. And these possibly reflect older or outdated forms of anthropological practice. The discussions around indigenous nation building, which should be by and large happening within our tribal nations, should keep us focused and not let us ray-ify concepts such as community. And, other frowny face for me, is that, moving home, and I would make a joke about this, but, community is the both the love and bane of my existence, as someone working at a university. What it is ultimately the critical discussion around nationhood. So how to think about, or act, or process, an indigenous anthropology. So much of what I do in my current job, and, involves a way of saying yes to activities or scholarship that enhances indigenous nation building. This involves a lot of brokering, building relationships and finding common ground between the university, the state, federal administrative agencies and tribal communities. I believe, this is where I say I'm a sellout. Sorry. I believe indigenous anthropology includes this brokering, to achieve things like cooperative agreements between universities and tribal IRBs, collections and so forth. As well as MOUs between tribal governments, federal and state forestry agencies seeking to control invasive pests that are threatening critical cultural natural resources in my state. And these are just two of the projects that I'm currently involved in that are brokering really important issues for the communities. That said, strategic discussions have taken place within the Penobscot Nation that I've been a part of, reflect a sophistication that fully understands the ways in which we are sometimes forced to use, old anthropological models, to fight for, and preserve, our sovereignty. That, it is strategic, so, the idea that it is bad or wrong, that there's strategic essentialisms, is also, part of the slippage Bernie talks about. And, and lastly, as much as I love to critique the colonial and settlor imaginaries that served to sever us further from our ancestors and historical experiences. I love that. An indigenous anthropology seeks so much more than critique, heal and reflects collective responsibility that is so critical to indigenous nation building and orients us toward action that respects process and maintains and expands relationships. Thank you. (audience applause) - Next up, we have Kehaulani Kauanui Associate Professor of American Studies and Anthropology at Wesleyan University. (audience applause) - Aloha kakahiaka. Good morning everyone, thank you for attending our session. Mahalo to the organizers and also to all the co-participants. I'm really excited to be here and to be a part of this gathering. I want to just, I want to say a few things and then I'd like to around the category of indigeneity and also the concept of indigenous anthropology. And then I'll just shift briefly to talk about some of the work that I've been doing and what I've encountered in terms of that kind of engagement between an independent media radio show, a service learning course and a book project that I'm just wrapping up, at least in terms of the initial drafting of it. I think for me what's been really surreal, twilight zone, about dipping back in to the different series of Cooper debates that have come and gone over the last decade plus, is that it reminds me so much of the early 90's debates between Roger Keesing, Hounani-Kay Trask, Jocelyn Linnekin and eventually Margaret Jolly. In terms of the invention of tradition, and the notion of charging people engaged in political battle and forms of nationalism of inventing the past, and to being, charges of being instrumentalist and essentialist. And so, you know, to kinda revisit all the debates in preparation for this, I felt like I was sort of being transported back in time to my undergraduate days. I also just want to cop to my own ambivalence around engaging the discipline. I, I teach in anthropology, I have a joint appointment in that department at Wesleyan University as well as American Studies. But I have doctorates in neither. And I'm thoroughly undisciplined. I started at community college in the 80's, and I transferred to Berkley as a philosophy student and quickly fled to women's studies and ethnic studies. And then did a year and a half in Maori studies at Auckland University, for a year and a half at the masters level. And then earned my doctorate in history of consciousness. And, you know, so, I, I don't say sort of emphatically I am an anthropologist. I don't identify that as such even though I identify with the discipline at times. It's not necessary a part of my professional identity, and so, when I was invited on to this session I really started to think about what that ambivalence means for me and thinking about the legacy of anthropology in Hawaiian even as an undergraduate. You know, I kinda dipped in, I took a course from Aihwa Ong and there was an amazing group of scholars there as there are now, although there are some differences. And anthropology was, and in many ways, still is just a dirty word in Hawaii. And I really felt that as an undergraduate. So much so that I didn't feel like I could actually even major in it, as an undergrad to be honest. And I, I think Ty Kawika Tengan being the first Kanaka Maoli doctorate in anthropology at UH. - [Ty] kay-howa-bod - Kay-howa-bod was the first then Ty Kawika Tengan. The first two Kanaka Maoli PhD students in the University of Hawaii, says a lot, but also that they are really doing that kind of important cutting edge work to transform what that means and what that can mean in terms of possibility intellectually and politically. I think too about the importance of indigenous revitalization in those charges in the epistemological slip that you mentioned Bernie. I was also reflecting on the ways in which Jocelyn Linnekin's work was used by the military in the court case over the bombing of Kahoolawe Island. In which she had cited in some of her early work that the concept of aloha aina, love of the land was an invented tradition in the 70's and it wasn't until really two decades later that we find through the work of Kanaka Maoli political scientist Noenoe Silva who uncovers sort of a hidden genealogy of nationalist resistence at the turn of the century that one of the most prominent nationalist groups fighting U.S. annexation, was called Hui Aloha Aina. Right, and that group falls out of public memory, the myths still are pervasive if you go to the McKinley statute in Honolulu under his arm it says, "treaty of annexation," and yet, it was Hui Aloha Aina and Hui Kalaiaina that actually defeated the Treaty of Annexation in the U.S. Senate in 1897. So again, those kinds of erasures are things that I think indigenous anthropology attends to and must, in terms of the importance of indigenous revitalization. In other words, it was through Noenoe Silva's adult training in Hawaiian language that enabled her to do this incredibly important primary research to even uncover the work of these nationalist organizations. That had literally been relegated to footnotes. And so, in a sense we don't even know what we don't know, right. And there are just literally over 70 Hawaiian-language newspapers at the time of the U.S. overthrow. And its indigenous scholars primarily who have been learning Hawaiian language as adults who are actually getting into the archives because our ancestors left an amazing archive for us. For those that are fortunate enough to learn and be able to access. In terms of the kind of work that I think qualifies as indigenous anthropology, I was thinking about an independent media show. That I did for seven years at the campus station WESU in Middletown, Connecticut. And that is indigenous politics from native New England and beyond. And I served as a sole producer and host of the show. And I put that forth because I wasn't sort of bound by the sort of framework of being a journalist because I'm not. But it was definitely an explicitly advocacy project. Applied anthropology if you will. And one that I felt was important as a Kanaka Maoli woman living in native america. To be attentive, to what was going on. And what's still is going on, actually. Especially the anti-indian movements emanating from New England. And so thinking about that in terms of ethical obligations, radical realationality of dealing with what it means to live on someone else's homeland. And educating the broader public around the political struggles that tribes have been dealing with. And, it was that show that actually led me to do a service learning course that I'm engaged in right now, called Decolonizing Indigenous Middletown. And part of that was my quest to try to learn about the Wangunk indian people, who have been completely written out of history. They were said to have, you know, been vanished by the time of the American Revolution. And even finding out the name of the people whose land I was on was very challenging and took quite a while once I moved to Middletown, also known as Mattabesset, the traditional name, 15 plus years ago. And, I have connected with an extended family and the tribal genealogist of the line that never left. And so, I'm working with students at the Middlesex County Historical Society to uncover the early settlor documents on Wangunk indian to address, not just the erasure of their history, but the history of their erasure. I want to shift gears really quickly in terms of what little time I have left, to kind of mark how I'm thinking about indigenous anthropology and some of the contradictions that might arise. I'm right now, completing a book monograph called Thy Kingdom Come, with a question mark. Paradoxes of Hawaiian sovereignty that is a critical engagement with Hawaiian statist nationalism. A particular branch of the Hawaiian Independence Movement. And looking at some of the contradictory political claims that arise when indigenous peoples are still subordinated under international law to states. And the rule, of Westphalian sovereignty, that's, you know, that's promulgated and premised on the doctrine of Christian discovery. And I'm thinking here of Steven Newcomb's work in particular, that really, you know, refuses to even call it the doctrine of discovery. But, insists that it is the doctrine of Christian discovery. And it's a form of on, on going Zionism into the 21st century. That states continue, especially the United States, but not exclusively, continue to actually rely on midieval Christian law to dictate the, the social location of political status of indigenous peoples. And of course, that's not just in U.S. federal policy but that's also, totally enshrined still today in international law that purports to be secular. And so thinking about the, you know, the ways in which the enduring concept of the savage heathen is completely codified, and rules. And so, you know, when I think about the Cooper debate, you know I'm thinking, whose really living in the past? Right? Delirium indeed. You've got forms of Zionism that I think demand a critique of the state. And this is where sort of my, anarchist queer sensibilities come in, in terms of looking at the role of indigenous resurgence and revitalization that we can't wait for the state. And also looking at what Hawaiian elites had to forfeit in the early 19th century to secure independent state status that is the Hawaiian Kingdom in relation to land, gender and sexuality, and what that means today in contemporary kingdom nationalist claims. And, this is all happening in the face of a federally and state driven push to contain Hawaiian national claims under international law within U.S. federal policy. Some of you may be familiar with the Akaka Bill or the Native Hawaiian Government Reorganization Act that was before Congress for twelve years and was defeated by Republicans. And so what's happened is you have state actors actually now making an end run around the legislative process and going through the Department of the Interior that just announced, two months ago, that they're going to make a special rule just for Hawaiians, to get federally recognized. And yet I'm living in New England, where tribes haven't even been able to meet, even when they've met the threshold, they've been denied federal recognition. And here you've got state actors driving it. And so, you, you know, these are really, there's some strict confinement, in terms of what one can do. Whether it's the state model of federal recognition like tribal entities, or, you know, the prospect of calling on international law for an independent Hawaiian state claim. And so, I'm, I'm really critical of both of those, but also the idea that we can't wait for any state. And to think through the resurgence of indigenous knowledge and different forms of ontologies that can deal with that healing and address inter-generational trauma as well as confront sort of the internalized racism of dealing with our savage pasts, if you will. Thank you. (audience applause) - Professor Ah-joo-meh Wingle, who was on the schedule wasn't able, unable to join us, today. But we keeping him in our thoughts. Next up, we have Dr. Merata Kawharu, Associate Professor at the Te Tumu School of Maori Pacific and Indigenous Studies at the University of Otago. And also Director of the James Henare Research Center at the University of Auckland. (audience applause) - (speaking native Maori) Thanks very much for coming to this massive room with so many lights. (audience chuckles) I don't think I've ever spoken in a room this big with so many lights and almost feel I should do a haka or something like that, so. Apologies, not going to. I'd also just like to acknowledge Ty and Bernie for bringing us together, I mean, I think I can count on one hand, the number of times indigenous anthropologists have come together. So, it's a real honor for me, so, thank you. I'd also like to acknowledge the tengata whenua, the local people, Cheyenne, Arapaho and Kiowa. (speaking in native Maori) And being a typical indigenous anthropologist, I'd like to acknowledge Professor Por-tep-so and Henare Tun-ee. We debated and discussed these ideas over the last few days about what I'm going to say this morning. So, indigenous not doing things by themselves as an individual, but as a group. Okay, so just a stat. Some general comments here. As humans are to civilization, we are hard wired to form groups. To organize ourselves, and, to be social. So when we talk about indigenous, or indigeneity. Inter-gen and those kinds of terms, we might be interested in understanding uniquely indigenous value systems, patterns, world views, et cetera that, you know, define, shape or mold our social groups. Or rather, our communities. And of course, one community's reality is going to be unique, to themselves, in terms of their world view, and how those views or values are going to be applied. A unique pointer difference of indigenous anthropologists then. Is going to be something like perhaps, to interpret, to understand and to communicate this reality, reflexively. As an insider who operates with an, an implicit understanding of the checks and balances of the kinship system of which she or he is part. And as a co-creator of community knowledge. Broadly you could call this an indigenous anthropological line. Now, does this notion, indigenous anthropological lines, really work? And the kinds of ways I've just outlined. I just want to diverge for a moment and briefly comment on the notion indigenous and actually I just want to acknowledge everything that has been said is, everything that has been said is actually covered in what I'm about to say, really, really well. It's really refreshing to hear these sort of views all in one morning. I think it has taken about twenty years for me to hear these sorts of things in one go. So, thank you. Indigenous is a macro, broad or mega-category. It is a bit of a, as we would say a catchall. It is an approximation and it is abstract. It is not at least in New Zealand used by community people, our people, Maori. In day to day affairs or in communication. And those of us who are Maori, and anthropologists don't really, I suppose, run around too often calling ourselves indigenous anthropologists. Except perhaps and these international kind of contexts. Where it really matters. But for this international interethnic context and manner it does so only when we are clear about how an indigenous anthropological lines works on the ground. Of course there is no singular approach in practice. And there never will be. But there are some key important elements that I think are relevant, and which stand out to one extent or another. These are concerned with the kinds of things that I sort of started off with. Of course there are many others. But is just opening comments and for this mornings brief discussion I just want to summarize three key areas again, some of the things I have already touched on. And so, for me, at least our small part of the world in New Zealand, it's important to use these things to be reflexive. But more importantly, it's important to be accountable when we're doing anthropology, to be accountable to serve our local communities at the same time and yea, I heard your comments about oh my goodness, being indigenous, being an anthropologist and being part of a community. It's more than a seven day a week job. And so you're serving your local communities at the same time as being an anthropologist within this relationship, within a relationship matrix between ourselves, our communities. And you know, there are other kinds of relationships as well between the living, our tup-an ancestors, those that have passed on and so on. So that's sort of a broad context. Of relationships. The second, is to extend the practice of co-creation of knowledge analysis and outcomes. And you know, of course, this isn't necessarily any different to what some anthropologists might already be doing. But the point here is that it is a critical and central practice at least in the Maori community and the Maori world that I live in. This is co-creation, it is not as us coming in as anthropologists into the communities and in defining what that information or knowledge or analysis is. It is a co-creative, collaborative exercise of knowledge creation. And a third indigenous anthropological approach or perhaps contribution to anthropology more broadly. As a counter also I say to anthropological frames is our own development of our own theory and our own theories. Ones that help to interpret what's happening on the ground what is, what has happened on the ground, and what could or should happen on the ground as well. And so back in New Zealand, in our small part of the world, this is a direct response to the problematic of healing anthropological deliriums. We are developing our own so called indigenous theories. And so in simple terms, this theory is for us a stretching or of the human immaterial and nonmaterial realms. It explains and centralizes relationships and I've just tried to emphasize that point a moment ago, between the living, the past, and the future. It's a cross-generational kind of way of looking at things. And it's also about looking at and emphasizing relationships of other kinds. Social, political, economic, environmental lectures and so on. This framework also in this context of these multiple relationships and lows, provides that context for looking at those constraints and opportunities for relationships to sustain, to develop and so on. Briefly, we would call this whakapapa theory. Is where we start when we want to quote, get at, or understand the realities of our people, and their quote, social groups. It works as a frame for investigating issues like, language revitalization, and the constraints and opportunities for it. And also for economic innovation and development. All sorts of things. And I just want to throw this in as a final comment. It is something else that we are kind of interested in New Zealand, we like to do things a little differently. In terms of indigenous social anthropology. It is pretty simply this, we're interested in integrating waste in anthropological theory approaches or thought into our own theory I've just briefly outlined during the kinds of approaches or theories that we have in mind. It is a kind of anthropological reversal if you like. I.e., it's us, indigenous people looking outward studying the other or the western. And bringing those ideas into our world on our terms in ways that make sense and that are going to be useful. Kia-ora-matata (audience applause) - And finally we have Lisa Uperesa from the University of Hawaii at Manoa and the departments of ethic studies and sociology. (audience applause) - I'm gonna put this up a little bit more. Talofa. Thank you all for joining us at this session. And I also wanted to thank, especially Ty and Bernie for organizing and bringing us all together. My final, fellow panelists for all the wonderful knowledge that they've shared with us so far. So I've a, a short piece that I wanna share with you all and it comes, in part from, my position having been trained in anthropology, but being appointed in ethnic studies and sociology for the past four and a half years at the University of Hawaii Manoa. And then using two examples to think through some of the larger issues that we are talking about today. Over the past few decades scholars have posed serious challenges to politics of knowledge production and anthropology and the academy more widely. In the wake of critiques of orientalism and representation, the articulation of indigenous methodologies and the exploration of indigenous epistemologies, not to mention critiques of whiteness and white privilege. We might assume a new more inclusive time in anthropology has begun. Drawing on a recent collaboration and over a decade of experience as a member, including four years as a board member and one as chair of an international anthropological scholarliest organization. I explore here the continuing dynamics of objectification and marginalization of indigenous pacific scholars in and through the claiming of scholarship and scholarly organizations as white public space. And so here, I'm drawing on Broadkin, Hutchinson and Morgan. The fist example I describe briefly and generally which was, had to do with the writing collaboration with a senior colleague that I had to pull out of earlier this year after finally facing some misgivings that I'd had for a while about the project. And I thought through them when I was at home in the field this summer. The misgivings centered on recognizing our differential positioning and the way that has not only shaped our research process, access to interlocutors and analysis, but also the way it would likely shape reception of our respective projects, our research agendas when they're published. In short and, bluntly, I've realized that even though I had begun my research earlier with the community that I still consider home, collaborating with the senior white professor would likely position this person as my mentor and authority on the topic we were both researching. As a white western academic the reception of the researcher in Samoa fell into a longer history of according expertise and status to the learned foreigner racialized as white. As I reflected on my misgivings, I understood that the researcher was not bound by cultural protocols of respect, acknowledgment of hierarchy and gendered expectations that I had struggled with throughout my graduate training, research and continue to. The researcher was also not bound by community expectations and eventual opinion not only shaping how the work would be communicated to the public but in future expectations of service to the whiter community from the position within the University. As I wrote about earlier in our 2010 collaboration with Ty and others, while doing my graduate research. This weight of expectation can be particularly fraught for our junior researchers. And this has been confirmed to me by many, many conversations with junior pacific scholars and graduate students over the past, I don't know, five to seven years both in my institution and in many other institutions. Okay, so in short, the researcher was not bound by the community in any way shape or form but what I wanted to think through here is, not just that particular relationship but our location in the academy, ideas, sort of racialized ideas about expertise and sort of access and reception. And I actually, personally, really like this person but I wanted to think through how we're positioned differently. So at, my time at the University of Hawaii has taught me many things about being a pacific academic trained in anthropology. Living, working and researching in our linked communities and I think like Kehaulani, I entered anthropology as a graduate student already ambivalent about the legacy of anthropology in the Pacific but also in Samoa in particular. And it was a dirty word, and probably still remains a dirty word in our community, so, we can talk about that later. In particular, my time at UH has reinforced to me the importance of positionality and the way it shapes our research process and writing. And this was already evident by some of early drafting and sort of talks I had I had seen in terms of the other analysis that was being developed. So in term of disciplinary dynamics, I think anthropology, probably in part because of the reflexive turn and because of the calls for, calls for accountability by scholars within and outside of the discipline at least has a growing strain of awareness on these points, and as engage in these points, I mean, in the fact that we're up here today in this very large room I think engaging it in a way that other disciplines are not necessarily doing, and it's not even actually on the radar. And that I'm happy to discuss a little bit more later but here I'm also referring to the compulsion to be legible and to privilege a more conventional mainstream appraoach to scholarship which are named as a norm but which also constitute a legacy of largely white western thought. Okay, in the second example, it came from an e-mail on a listserv and I, I chose it because both of these examples are not kind of isolated but they are exemplary of the things that I have seen and observed in our subfield Pacific anthropology but also more widely being involved in the discipline. So in the e-mail a scholar was preparing to do a talk in a Pacific island country and anticipated being asked, why is it always you studying us? Noting that one, one dimension of the issue pertains to Pacific Islanders taking up anthropology. This person was asking the group to furnish them with names of scholars of Pacific ancestry who do or have done field research outside their home countries or outside the Pacific Islands in general. I had actually missed this e-mail first time around because I just tend to avoid the listserv, a lot of listservs is just too much e-mail. But I had been alerted to this particular thread partly because mine had been forwarded and others as part of the 24 e-mail responses in the chain. And so when I looked at the thread I was, I think, appalled is probably the right word. Not only was it obviously participating in the objectification of scholars of Pacific ancestry. The thread was oblivious to the kinds of critiques that would generate the hypothetical question in the first place. So its therefore revealing that in a later response the original writer of the e-mail noted, you know, basically thanking everybody for their continuing thoughts and information on Pacific Islander anthropologists and that, that information would be very useful should a question arise about who studies whom. So it was revealing in the first place that the person was not familiar with some of the scholarship that was being suggested but moreover the solicitation it seemed was made not out of a genuine desire to learn more about the scholarship of indigenous Pacific anthropologists, but rather, the request was made in preparation to deflect a question that, at its heart is about privilege and power relations in the production of knowledge. The unwillingness to prepare to engage this question in a thoughtful manner strikes at the central dividing issue I see in the subfield of Pacific anthropology and that unwillingness at this moment must be named as white academic privilege. So these, as I said, these two examples are not isolated, but are rather, exemplary. And in preparation for coming to the meeting I was following a lot of the emergence of the anti-racist campus activism and the reactions to that, all of that, all over the news has been occupying for the last couple of weeks. And one of the things I saw written by Eduardo Bonilla-Seeva, Silva, who writes about color racism , and the, color blind racism in the U.S. And one of his comments was talking about historically white colleges and universities and the ways in which admitting racialized minority students and faculty didn't fundamentally shift the structure of the institution, its curriculum, its cannon et cetera. And so, these faculty and students were coming as guests who were expected to kind of, not only behave themselves but to adapt to the institution that they were entering. So this struck me as connected to the, this, this difficulty, and I'm, I'm discussing, right, this continuing disconnecting anthropology and particularly in our subfield where the challenge of racialized minority and indigenous scholars, indigenous knowledge and control over knowledge production is strong. Anthropology was not only built on studying the native, and in that study claiming expert status that requires the subject to remain subjected. It is part of the wider world of academia that remains a site of systemic white privilege and advantage from Boards of Regents, to donors, to administrators, faculty, curriculum, norms, values, et cetera. So, without a commitment to anti-racist practice and engaging these questions of power and power relations, it will remain so. And we will continue to have these erruptions when systemic racism is called out. So, by way of closing, I wanted to pick up on one of the prompts of this roundtable. Can this discussion provide the critical catalyst for the emergence of an indigenous anthropology, that signals the end of imperial anthropology? And I think that there are some very promising practices. I have taken a lot of inspiration for example from Ty's work especially in terms of thinking about reading indigenous idioms with and against western imaginaries of epistemology and ontology, which is something I do in my own work, thinking through both the cultural framing and capitalist framework of football in Samoa for example. And so, I hope in the, the discussion and Q and A we get a chance to talk a little bit more about this. But I do want to say that the pressure to render understandings of indigenous worlds or worlds framed by radical difference within the constraints of western culture theory is still present, it's intense, and that pressure is framed by dynamics, which continue to produce anthropology as white public space. Fa'afetai lava. (audience applause) - Alright at this time, I'll invite our panelists to move a little bit closer to the table. We're going to engage in some cross-talk and dialogue here in response to the various provocations and ideas that were offered up in this first round. And then shortly after that we'll open it up to other comments and questions from the audience. - [Bernie] Is this on? Hello? Can you hear me? Okay. Is that good? (mumbling) As I think about what the panelists have shared with all of us. One of the themes that keep coming up is a tension between the discipline and our experiences. And this was echoed, well it was, also a part of the conversation yesterday with the student panel. And it's so often that you hear when our experience going into anthropology is not really a comfortable and welcoming experience. So, imagine sometime in the second decade of the 21st century, two indigenous students are making their way across the kind of bureaucratic forrest of a university. And they come into this clearing, and it's the anthropology department, okay. (audience chuckles) And so, this first indigenous student, (Bernie laughs) this first indigenous student says, "look we found science," and the second one says, "no, we found, culture." And then Adam Cooper comes around the corner and says, "no, you found truth and knowledge." Okay, now, I highlight that because one of the things that, a, a lot of the students and a lot of our experiences have been as we go through this process we call anthropology we are being disciplined. And, I promise you, this is a true story. When I was contesting a grade in my graduate career, the graduate advisor says, "Bernie, anthropology "is a discipline, and you are being disciplined." And I think this is something that we have to continue to grapple with today. Adam Cooper is still out there. And this is where we have to keep pushing back. And I think some of the comments that, you know, have been shared here, really kinda highlight that ongoing tension. And this is why I wanted to focus on this idea of this kind of emergent praxis because in these conversations we're starting that, you know, larger, reformation of not only how we perceive anthropology, but also how we can adjust the discipline. Not to be just, you know, a what do you call it, giving us the opportunity and space, again, it's a white privilege that they have, oh, well we can entertain the indigenous voices. Is it possible? And I'd like the panelists to talk about this, is it possible, really, really? To shapeshift, to discipline from our particular experiences? - Yes. (laughter) I, I try to be the most pollyanna of the group. It, just, to question what you're asking, Bernie, are you saying that, I mean, without some sort of radical power, you know, revolution kind of thing, I think that as we, I mean self consciously, as we exist, as indigenous anthropologists, you know, on a fringe, right, self consciously. The fact that we, I think, the idea that we would code switch, or, or do, some sort of strategic use of anthropology for particular, you know, indigenous nation and should not be a surprise I think, you know, trying to then fashion a space or create the slippage that you talked about, I think, I one of the, you know, it's a challenge that needs allies, it's a challenge that needs, you know, some, something more than, you know, a paternalistic like pat on the head, which, as being someone who went to grad school with you. That's not even the worse story, we could possibly say, about what they told Bernie in grad school. It's always good to have Bernie as a space clearer, in the. Yea, so that would be my response, I think I'll (inaudible). - Yes. (audience chuckles) As well. I think so and that's a very important question for the wider discipline, for, not just us as the boxed anthropological, no, the indigenous anthropologists here on stage. But it's for a discussion for everybody, I think. And that's one approach. But, for us, I think too, and I think these are the kind of ideas that we've all been talking about in some way or another. Is just to go along and do our own thing, and not necessarily call it anthropology. And we, we were just talking a moment ago, about, isn't it funny we can call ourselves indigenous anthropologists. Isn't that a bit of an oxymoron in a way as well. So, therefore, isn't a good idea to perhaps, you know, just do our own thing, And that's what Merata and I are doing now. Own indigenous research school, or, whatever it is. And we look up to to the anthropology department on the eighth floor. Kia ora, hello up there. We're just getting on with it, you know, kia ora, Cooper, gosh, it's actually been really good to really think about Cooper in the last few days, here-exes, yea, brought me back twenty years. But I read the first few pages of his book, as you know, my core text, and put it down. Went to my father whose an anthropologist and said, what the hecks he talkin about, dad, makes no sense whatsoever. And he said, "never mind, you just read "one or two chapters and come up with your own ideas." So, kia ora. - I too will say yes, but I feel like there are a couple of different sort of sites, and sort of scales, if we think about shifting that shape of anthropology. And so, in the subfields and in the organization that I was talking about, one of the things that we've been doing, and, I feel like the comments that I made should be hash tagged, like not all anthropologists. In a sense that shifting a shape is possible, it requires allies, it requires a lot of work and a lot of strategy, right. So, from thinking about a changing, the kind of structure or culture of meeting, sort of making small interventions to make spaces like that open and more welcoming to non-white scholars, right. So, at the very basic level. But then also, keeping in mind that just the presence in the room at the table also shifts the shape of conversations. And so, in terms of like, the ripple effect, on the wider discipline, I don't know. Probably take a lot longer than I've even been in the discipline to see from, kind of, looking back perspective, but, I definitely have hope. (inaudible chatter) - I would just say yes as well. And I say yes because I'm coming from a place of having head of post doc at an anthropology department. Where I was really disciplined, I got disciplined to death. After the post doc, I felt really, as student I was actually nurtured, but as a, as a staff member of a department, it wasn't a very nice experience for me. And so, the option that my university gave me was to go and work in the Maori research center because they didn't know what to do with me. And I thought, oh God I don't want to go down there with all the Maori's. And it freaked me out. Well, being down there with all the Maori's was the best thing that ever happened to me. So I got disciplined by anthropology and they taught me some wonderful skills and I'm going to be very honest, that some of my closest friends are still in their anthropology department. Some of my closest international friends come from anthropology and they've been extremely supportive and they haven't been indigenous. So I think that anthropology itself is a very complex thing. And, it's one of those disciplines were you often act as an idividual. And so individuals have their own agendas and so it's not purely just this, oh, they're racist. I don't think it's that at all, I think, there are all sorts of personal agendas that people have, some people can be very generous some people are extremely competitive and don't want to see you pass them because you're indigenous and they think that you have this step ahead of them. Some people are, like to hold on to territory and only like to work with people that are just like them. And so my, and there's also a subtle class thing that runs through anthropology. So, I'm not going to sit here and say that anthropologists are racists, because I don't think they are, I think it is far more complex than that. However, going to the Maori research center was extremely liberating. I found my colleagues there, we knew the boundaries of what was appropriate. You, know, we had the tribal connections but we were also doing our own thing. We don't tend to butt our nose into one another's business. We just let one another get on with it. And so my experience now, where I don't teach which is a bit of a shame, because I'm actually a good teacher, but doing pure research has been liberating for me. And I actually think I'm in the very best anthropological space. I'm in the best Maori space, I'm in the best anthro space, I get to do environmental anthropology, and so I think Merata and I are cutting out a new way of being an anthropologist. Moving away from, you know, departments and units, but actually finding our own sovereignty our own tina-wora-tia-tanga. So we, I think, we're actually pushing boundaries that have not been pushed before. - Kia ora. I would just, I wanted to kind of riff it off of what you said, Lisa, in terms of thinking through multiple interventions. And this sort of dovetails with your point around the Henare Research Center. Just thinking in terms of not necessarily in relation to the discipline in that grand way, but thinking through project-based interventions I think, for me, is part of where it's at, right. And I think so much of it is about thinking through the, the, the issues around enduring white supremacy and, and colonialism in the discipline. In terms of who's seen as a, you know, can be more than a native informant in terms of the authoritative piece. But also that community accountability that you mentioned is so important. I do want to say a couple other quick things. I mean, for, for the grad students out there, you know, I always tell people, that I'm talking to at other institutions, 'cause I'm with undergrads at Wesleyan. You know you're there to get trained, not tamed. And there is a difference. And I think it's really important for people to follow you know, in Hawaiian we talk about the na'au, the gut. And that's that, that intuition and they say you know, follow your intellectual intuition. But also I do wanna acknowledge that were I am actually has some really nice kind of differences in terms of anthropology at Wesleyan. When I first was on the market, and applied for the job in American studies, owned the line, owns the line that I actually, occupy, for the lack of a better word, at Wesleyan. And, American studies wasn't yet a department so they were compelled to actually shop around with the department. And at that time, only disciplines were departments. So, anthropology actually was a good fit, but that had more to do with the work that people were doing inside that already was friendly to interdisciplinarity, so, this is when Susan Hirsch was still there and does, you know, amazing legal anthropology. Elizabeth Traube whose done some incredible work. And Anise Tamor had already started doing also cultural studies and media studies and so there was an opening. In the year after I came in Anu Sharma, Gina Ulysse were hired and all of us had joint appointments. So Gina at that time was jointly appointed with African American studies, Anu Sharma with then women's studies, which later was renamed to feminist gender and sexuality studies, and then myself if American studies. So I do wanna acknowledge that I feel that I'm in a, a really supportive particular department in terms of collegiality and intellectual rapport. But the other piece around the shapeshifting question, I think there's so much baseline when, when we hear these questions about the e-mail exchange or, the, the senior scholar that you're working with. And when I think about the ongoing battle for NACRA compliance allover the world, but, in this country, where anthropology departments have often used, you know, loopholes to try and withhold the return of human remains, items of cultural patrimony and sacred objects. And, I'm, you know, when I was in undergrad at Berkley the Native American Graves Protection Repatriation Act had just passed. And the first federal test case as many of you hopefully know, was the native Hawaiian case at Cal Berkley. And, that happened while I was there, and thinking through the political economy of it, when the head of archaeology was married to the head of the cultural resource agency. And there was literally a direct link in terms of holding on to collections. And every time Cal Trans would go in to build a road, you know, the protocol was the cultural resource agency would go in and collect the remains and then, you know, there was just this, this incredible linkage, it's classic, follow the money. So to speak. And then the archeology students at Berkley that were then doing contract archeology in Hawaii, to make way for hotels. And so, just thinking through that, I mean there's so much work to be done on the base level around NACRA compliance. I learned about the holdings at Wesleyan in 2003 and was on, you know, the rampage, to try and get a NACRA compliance officer in there. And, you know, fortunately had unanimous support in anthropology, american studies and archeology. But it took us until 2014 to get someone in there that would do it. So this kind of work, I think, the shapeshifting, it's more, I wanna know what colleagues in anthropology besides, you know, the theoretical sort of decolonization, being open to different methodologies, or, you know, kind of rethinking, you know, different particular methods, you know, thinking through the institutional power and the really enduring colonial legacies. So I will just say that for now. - Alright, at this time, we'd like to open it up before comments from the floor and any other questions as well. So if you are interested in offering a comment or, or, giving a question to the panel, please approach the microphone, one of the microphones, so that your voice and your question can be heard. Thank you. - [Voiceover] Hello, my name Kah-jeen-dra Not-or-aya I come from India. This, this question is to Professor Kavanui. I, would like to ask you, you said something very interesting about ancestral archives and how this could be used for both the indigenous people's rights and political movements and so on. Especially, I would like to know little more detail, because, I also work with indigenous peoples in India, and many of them, like they talk about racism in the U.S. they are prone to something called casteism, caste, caste-based humiliation. And disposition and so on. So, I'm trying to, I work with them, I theorize about their movement and so on. I learn a lot about African American movement, terrorization and indigenous people's modes. I, I think there is a connection, big deal of connection, which is not explored yet, which has to be done. Between indigenous people in India, who are fighting against the casteism and racism, colonialism and so on, as well as the other groups. So, in that sense, those communities, many of them are, I'm trying to dig up the world archives, what could be, it could be the folksong, it could be some petition to the British government a couple of centuries ago, and, and, and and their own elders order-lo observations and so on. So, in that sense, what do you exactly mean by ancestral archives and what other potential it has for, for people like us who like to have this cross-fertilization of ideas and exchanges for indigenous peoples like us. Thank you. - Hello, is it on? Okay. Thank you so much for your question. I wanna acknowledge too, there, there are a lot more native Hawaiian scholars who have learned Hawaiian language and of course, learning how to read 19th century Hawaiian language archives. I'm not among them, you know, I have taken some Hawaiian language. But in terms of actually being able to delve in the archives I think of also, Lelani Basham and other scholars along side Noenoe Silva. The thing that I've learned from that work and, and Kawika, I'm sure you have much to say because Kawika is a fluent speaker whose also looked at the archives. But that, you know, Hawaiians really took to the, the the press. And one of the things that's unique about the Hawaiian situation, even though the people who, you know, formed to overthrow Queen Liluokalani in 1893. And then subsequently formed their own government called the Republic of Hawaii. They banned Hawaiian language as a medium of instruction. And once the U.S. annexed Hawaii unilaterally through a joint Congressional resolution, not a treaty, those laws stayed on the books until the 1980s. And it's the activists who largely drew from Maori activism, from Kohanga Reo that formed Punana Leo in Hawaii the language nests. That really challenged that line. At the same time Hawaii had a, a double language as Hawaiian as the official language by the late 70's. But in terms of a medium of instruction those law were on the books until the 1980s. So that's just context for people who don't may not know that slice of history. The missionaries are credited, you know, with bringing the word and the word, right, the written scribe and the word of God. Already what falls out of there is that you had dozens actually of Kanaka Maoli in Connecticut that inspired or is said to have inspired the mission to Hawaii. And they were there before the missionaries ever stepped foot in the island. So there's a, there's an erasure of the, the role of Hawaiian male youth in terms of teaching certain missionaries Hawaiian language before they even got on the boat. And I'm interested in sort of the grammar of that and the, and the written Hawaiian grammar around that but also the colonial grammar of that erasure. Just to get to the bottom line of your question, it's just hard to talk about Hawaii without some of that, that historical context. There were missionary controlled newspapers and then there were Hawaiian nationalist controlled newspapers. And, I hope I'm not getting the years wrong, but if you look at Noenoe Silva's book Aloha Betrayed, it really talks about the role of Hawaiian print media in terms of Hawaiian nationalist resistance through cultural production. And the, you know, the battle of the pens or the dueling out. And one of the things that she tracks is that when American, Americans, and missionary descendants are pushing hardest against Kanaka Maoli, against native Hawaiians. Hawaiians are responding by printing traditional stories often focused on Hawaiian women's power but like serial stories that are really lengthy that are really traditional and sort of, you know, she suggests that there might be an allegory there in terms of that kind of resistance. So why is it that you get the story of Pele, the fire deity and her sister coming up at those critical times that Hawaiian, men, some of the Hawaiian men that she's been researching are the ones actually publishing those stories. But there's this quote in her book from one of the newspapers. It literally, I believe is from 1847, them, they say, we have to write our stories down so that our descendants in 2010 will be able to read us. That's ancestral archives to me. - [Voiceover] Hi, wasn't thinking of saying this, but I have to respond to that. In 1986, I was in Britain, because I was about to go to the International Archeology Congress, which resulted in spinning off WAC. The radical, politically aware archeologists. But just before the Congress, I spent a week in Whales with a Welsh nationalist woman, a retired journalism. And, she told me that Welsh nationalism gained considerable power by demanding that the BBC have a Welsh language TV channel. And the BBC said everybody in Whales speaks English. What's the point. There was a nationalist leader who went on a hunger strike and as he was about to die from starvation, the BBC agreed to have a three-month trial TV channel in Welsh. And my friend, told me that this was a critical turning point. It turned out that very large number of families had the Welsh language channel on, even if the parents actually didn't speak Welsh. It was a gesture of nationalism and rebellion to have the language in their home. And it made a very considerable difference to building a power base for Welsh nationalism. And you know, this is relatively recent. I have tried and tried to persuade my Pekuni friends hi-ah-scapi Pekuni friends to have the commentary on the Browning Indian's the high school, basketball and football games on the local community TV channel have the commentary entirely in Blackfoot. And nobody seems to get the point. So, but what, this actually brings what I was gonna say, I don't think shapeshifting is the best term, I think it's code switching, code switching as a bilingual or trilingual. And I think that using that term dict-ures better. The strength of yourself as a citizen of your nation. And you can be bilingual, trilingual but you're not changing who you are. And I think that's this business of adhering to the discipline. One of the thing I wanted to bring up was that when Virginia . . . . - I'm sorry but if you could try to get to the question because we only have a few minutes left and if we want a response to come in . . . - [Voiceover] Right, right, right. - then we'll actually need the question, thank you. - [Voiceover] Yep, but I wanted to point out that Virginia Dominguez in her presidential address to triple-A, this was in Montreal, what three, four years ago. She specifically spoke to, and these are the words she used, the blatant racism within anthropology departments. Her call to combat this so far as I have seen has been completely futile, I have not been aware of any anthropology departments that have responded to the blatant racism, certainly not in Milwaukee. And I think that this is something that calls for indigenous anthropologists to continue to ban together the way you are banning together, getting strength in numbers in order to be, to, to support one another against, that's what it is, blatant racism. - Thank you. If the, those that are standing just want to offer questions rather than comments, we'll try to get to them in a, set of responses. - [Voiceover] A question on a different topic for indigenous anthropology. My name is Gerald Cider, I have worked in native rights, native issues now for the past fifty years. Over these, everything from federal recognition, to land claims, to domestic violence, child suicide, substance abuse et cetera. The most significant development in both Canadian and North American native communities over the past fifty years, has been the massive increase in internal inequality in these communities. And in my sense of what's happeining, much as we may celebrate the success of the native elites. The vulnerable in these native communities, the poor, women, children, are in vastly worse situation now that they were fifty years ago when the community was more unified. Even though they were unified over poverty. As a, domestic violence has increased, substance abuse has increased, child rape, I mean I'm talking about very heavy diff, consequences of differentiation. As a white anthropologist, much as I have been able to try to do with the oppressions of the Canadian and American state against these communities, I have been completely helpless to touch the inequality within these communities. And to be blunt about it, the role of tribal elites in either ignoring or perpetuating the suffering of the poor and the vulnerable. So I wanted to ask, the wonderful people here, what you see as your possible role if any in that context. Thank you. - Alright, with apologies to those who are standing we just are at the end of the time. So we can just take a couple one minute responses. We're just at, we're at 11:45 already. I think, I don't even think, I'm sorry to those who are standing, but, we're actually at the end of the time, so (mumbles) want to give you at least this chance to respond to either of the, the two questions that were put out there. And, offer any closing thoughts at, at the same time. - Okay, I'll work with tribal elites. I'm not saying I'll work with them, but as an anthropologist I have recently been able to critique, umm. In New Zealand at the moment we have claims to water, tribal elites have joined together and have decided that it would be very good for Maori-dom to own water. I have been commissioned by another group of tribes who are perhaps not at that same level, as far as power is concerned, to create a group and create an identity for this group that will have a counterclaim to water that is more helpful to the ordinary people. So, as an anthropologist, I'm actually representing those, creating new identities for people without power. And that's where I sit socially. And I think that is a contribution that I can make as part to play around with, not play around but, but with create new spaces for people that don't have power. In New Zealand, some Maori tribes have a lot of power some don't, it's all to do with whether they've settled their treaty claim or not, and what sorts of natural resources they have in their territory. But as an anthropologist I'm quite happy to be commissioned to do work or work with those tribes that want to be part of the action, to uplift people inside their tribes. - Sorry we're getting the, you need to get out of here signal already. But I do hope that the provocations offered here are, what? - (mumbles) - Oh, it's at twelve, oh okay, sorry. Why, why did I think that we were done, I'm so sorry. I'm the worst timekeeper ever. (chuckling) Let's pass this on, I thought we were done already. - So I kept my comments brief on the first round thinking that for once I would be the person that afterwards people would want to talk to. (laughing) Joking, it, it is a lonely space. (laughing) So, out, out there, are these issues of both racism within the context of anthropology and also the role of I think both native and non-native anthropologists in the exacerbation of violence and poverty and, and the things within our communities. And I, and I think a lot of the work that I see it's very helpful. It, it goes beyond, you know, the mere publication of such, you know, instances, that it actually is, you know, on the ground. Very active, setting up institutions, that the role of anthropologists who are witnessing such things means that it's not just at the level of a theory anymore that you're building a series of relationships with people who really need help. And I think as an ethical responsibility, just, again, the witnessing requires a set of relationships and responsibilities that as a practice, when I think about working within, you know, my own community in terms of having a PhD and relative forms of privilege and all sorts of ways. I think, just, you know, that doesn't guilt me up, you know, it actually is empowering to say that I actually have access to resources and things that can actually help people. So I think, that's it. And I, I did mention, I did compare the invention of, you know, strategic essentialisms and devil advocate. People said that's a racism, but I, I wasn't calling anthropologists racists necessarily. Although. When I think of, it's only because I couldn't compare them to Nazi's or slaveowners. So, the, the, my ability to have the politics of, you know, I should be running for office obviously. So, the, I, I do think that calling out there is these you know, again, it's about ally building and the, and the ability to call out and really work in collaboration. I, I think one of the hopeful things in anthropology in the way its practiced at the University of Maine is, a lot of us are engaged on environmental issues and I think we're seeking to work collaboratively with each other as well. And I think indigenous and non-indigenous anthropologists working together creates a really powerful set of learning experiences that I see actually are students imitating, and, and that's extremely hopeful. It wasn't, if I just think, that, that the fact that I'm even in the anthropology department at the University of Maine I would have said, you know, twenty years ago, when I was, or maybe even fifteen years ago when I was leaving graduate school that there's no way they would have me. I'm too, you know, weird, or whatever. I just don't fit, but the idea that the, now we have this, you know, we can do practice in anthropology there that is not, you know, so vested in vestiges of colonial imaginaries. I think is really, really hopeful. - I don't think that question can really be properly answered in just a few moments. So I'll, just gonna restrict my thoughts to just one idea. For me, I suppose our role, is to critically support our indigenous, our leaders as drivers of change. That's where the change needs to happen is at that level of their leadership as opposed to us, fighting necessarily. Unless they ask us to on their behalf of their communities. - [Voiceover] Hi, I just wanted to quickly thank you, thank you all for your talk. And also the panel from yesterday, the grad students, indigenous grad students. I wanted a, um, basically ask you guys about the marginalization of indigenous studies in anthropology, as somebody, I'm Tibetan, and I come from a colonized place. And it was actually indigenous scholarship that I'm most related to in terms of talking about Tibet as far as the modernizing projects, the civilizing projects in the form of capitalist economies, especially in China. And for me, that's the most important area of studies that is useful for me and Tibetans also don't identify themselves as indigenous because they don't understand what it means. So I do think the terminology in the international realm is really important as far as solidarity is concerned. And I was at, I was gonna ask you, as far as wha, what do you think is the reason for why indigenous studies is so marginalized? For me, it was really hard to find indigenous scholarship especially in anthropology. So if you could have some words on that. - Should we hear the other question too, since we're short on time? (inaudible chatter) - I'm sorry, we'll take the second question as well so we can try to answer both. - [Voiceover] Okay,it's, it's a completely different kind of question. Hi, I'm Frances Morphy, I'm from the Australian National University in Australia. I was really interested in the phra, the question, can we contaminate colonial categories. And, categories are something that I work on and think about a lot. And the question that occurred to me, is, all of you are having to speak to each other and to us through English, and that's an inevitable kind of consequence of the way the world is today. My question really is, the extent to which that is a complicating factor in this discourse and how you deal with it. - Well thank you for the qwa, ah, both of the questions, and I think they're not necessarily . . . . - Speak into the (inaudible) - They're, the questions are not necessarily separate. And thank you Alice for your conversation and question as well. And language is an important part of this and one of the things that we've been talking about the last couple of days is we are in this awkward position of having to deal with western concepts, western philosophies. And we've been disciplined in various forms and practices. And, but one of the things that is uniting us is that common experience, and, if you want to call it a lingua-franka, indigeneity. You know, let's just put that out there you know, as a conceptual tool. Okay, so the lingua-franka of indigeneity does not preclude, and this is why, Barbara shared the translation of shapeshifter. And this is the next step, how do we, from our respective positions, our cultures, our languages, reinterpret these english terms in such a way that we can then calibrate across our conversations to reform and reimagine what these categories are. What is possible in terms of indigeneity? And because if we can do that, then we can also bring other english scholars into the conversation. And again, I use the term epistemic slippage. And we're all in this because we're engaging in this epistemic slippage. Can our own basis of knowledge begin to move towards an understanding where we may not understand completely but we can become closer in sharing those ideas. And I think this is where the larger global discourse of indigeneity can be useful for other communities who recognize that they have similar experiences. So the lingua-franka of indigeneity is an invitation for this conversation. And once the conversation takes place, then the specificities and the experiences is something that enriches the experience rather than confuses the experience. I mean that's, that's my take. Anybody else? - In my work as an anthropologist. One thing that I've really focused on is, is using some western theories like Frederick Bathe and Michelle Flu-co and others that have written about discourse and knowledge and tried to think about ways in which Maori concepts, fundamental Maori concepts things like, fara-nowa family, fanong-a toa relationships or kai-te-aki tena which Merata has written about a lot. How those Maori concepts can be used and understood in my work and so I've also, in order to do that, I really go right back to where I'm from in the waikato where we have our, our own concepts that we privilege. I'm from the kingy-tung-a which is a, a different type of Maori group. Were we have a, a real hierarchy where I'm from. And so some of the things that we do in my tribe are a little different to what Merata would do in her tribe. So the way that I've pushed forward as an anthropologist is to really know my own people's fundamental concepts. Then apply Michelle Flu-co, apply Frederick Bathe. And try and, and explain environment, bringing the two together. I mean, if I had a whole lot of graphs I could show you how it works, but, I think I've, translation is really important. We're at the very beginning stages in this group here, but I think the key to a lot of indigenous studies is access to knowledge and being able to really understand how those concepts work on the ground at home with the indigenous communities. So, that's my answer. - I just have a couple really quick points. I think the question around indigenous studies, marginalized within anthropology. One of the things that comes to mind is Lee Baker's book, Anthropology and the Racial Politics of Culture. That really grapples with the roots of American anthropology and also the split of how it is sociology as a discipline comes to, to work on black americans and how it is that anthropology gets the indians. And so I think that's one of the, the genealogies think I would take a look at. You know, I'm a cofounder of the Native American and Indigenous Studies Association. So I'd say come on over to nice-a, our next meeting is in May in Honolulu. The other thing is that this question around identifying as indigenous and not understanding what it is. I wanted to give kind of the flip side of that because in the book that I'm finishing now on kingdom nationalists. I'm looking at indigenous Hawaiian nationalists who are focused on restoring the Hawaiian kingdom. And they know exactly what indigenous is but they have dis-identified they disavowed them they disavow the indigeneity of their own selves precisely because they know that it is a category of political subordination. Not just under U.S. federal law, but under international law. And so, that's just one of those kinds of things, I mean, how do we deal with the cul, the cultural contradictions around that. And so, that's where it gets a little bit complicated and the last point I wanted to make around indigeneity and why it bugs people out. You know, we, people know that it's socially constructed people talk about race, gender, sexuality. And other categories of difference as social constructs. But for some reason the burden on indigenous scholars to try and justify indigeneity as a category of analysis or one's indigenous subjecthood is just really over the top. And I think that's about settlor anxieties. And I also think that that's something we really have to tackle. I think it's really still obscene actually. And people will be like, but it's so complicated, and it's like, it might be complicated when you're trying to compare all these different nations. But within our own context, it's actually not that complicated. Hawaiian version for example, is bilateral. You, you get your Hawaiian-ness any way you can that doesn't mean that we don't have eliteism, it doesn't mean we don't have class politics, it doesn't mean we don't have colorism, it doesn't mean we don't have internalized racism. But the indigenous piece is not complicated actually, it's genealogical, it's very simple. It might be very different in Penobscot, it might be very different at Maliseet, Maoridom does it differently. So, just wanted to put that out there. (inaudible chatter) - So just responding to the first question. I think partly why it's difficult to locate those sources is they leave anthropology early. Or at least that's what I've seen. With Pacific scholars trained in anthropology they go to ethnic studies, they go to gender studies they go to Pacific studies, they go to indigenous studies. And the one's that stay in anthropology have to kind of survive the battle. Right. The pre-tenure and then into kind of their life as associate and full professors. And so, just thinking in terms of the work that I've done has been not necessarily to translate but to think about intersections. Where you have different sort of indigenous Samoan concepts Shaping agendas, action, right, values. And the way it intersects with things like American capitalism, U.S. empire, global sporting industries, right. How do we see those coming together, or, you know, what are the places where they diverge? And so that's one of the things that I've been thinking through, but, in terms of the, the kind of Samoan research. I haven't necessarily looked to anthropology. In fact, I've looked to our philosophers, our theorists, our oral historians, to really bring that material together. And then of course I ha, I also have to talk about the anthropology of Samoa as well. Which, you know, I have done. But it, it wasn't my, sort of primary, wasn't the first place I went. - Okay, now we are at the end of time. I also want to acknowledge Aaron glass, who was also a key collaborator interlocutor in, in helping to organize this and trying to give me the right time, here (inaudible). I kept on misreading. But, really I want to extend great appreciation to all of our panelists who joined us today to those in the audience who offered your questions. We hope to continue this dialogue beyond this. And so thank you for coming and joining us. Mahalo. - Thank you. (audience applause) (inaudible chatter) 