 JEFF FARBMAN: I also manage communications, run our monthly webinars, and I've been working quite a bit on food safety for small farmers. I have a bit of an odd background. I was a programmer of a Navy simulator and a database dot com website. I was a high school physics teacher for seven years, a photographer, and a farmstead cheese maker. But it all comes together in my current work. Jim? JIM BARHAM: Hey, welcome everyone. I'm not sure if I have such a varied background, but I guess it's almost as much. But glad to be with you all today. As Jeff said, my name is Jim Barham. I'm an agricultural economist at USDA's Rural Development Agency. I've been with USDA for about eight years. Seven of those years I was with another agency called the Agricultural Marketing Service Agency of USDA, and recently moved over to Rural Development last year. Even with the move, most if not all my work is focused on how to support local regional food system development. Within that space, I have been focused quite a bit for the last five or six years on local food distribution, and specifically on food hubs. So Jeff and I and the Wallace Center and the USDA have been long collaborators on food hubs and other pieces of the food system. And we'll get a lot more into both our organizations in a second. So Jeff, you want to? Back to you. JEFF FARBMAN: Yeah, sure. OK. So just a quick overview of what we will talk about today. So we started with a bit of who we are. And in a moment, as Jim said, we'll talk about our organizations. And we'll talk about what exactly we mean when we say food hub. We'll give you the definition, and then go a bit beyond the definition to give you some good context in what a food hub really is. We'll dig into some of the details about what it takes to be a viable hub in our research and also in our modeling. We were asked to go a bit deeper into the idea of food hubs as processors. So we'll add a bit on hubs working closely as processors, and working closely with processors. And finally we'll give you a whole bundle of resources that we and others have to move you towards making the right decisions for your situation-- from things to read to communities to join. So let me talk about the Wallace Center. I work for the Wallace Center at Winrock International. We are a nonprofit funded primarily by philanthropies who want to increase the prevalence of food that is healthier for people, more environmentally sound, and more beneficial to local economies. We also receive funding from the government and from corporate social responsibility interests from businesses. We have a market-based approach to helping others to realize this vision of a 21st century food system, meaning that although we ourselves rely on grant support to stimulate and guide change, we feel that the way to really move the needle in getting more good food to people requires solid businesses to execute on a triple-bottom-line vision. We have several interconnected ways that we provide support-- technical assistance such as this webinar and our upcoming national food hub conference, knowledge sharing such as on our foodhub.info website. We look for and support emerging models and means for success, such as our work in Group Gap, a collective means for lower resource farmers to attain third-party foods food safety certification. We connect people to the right people, knowledge, and funding as possible, and we connect people to their peers, to our learning networks we call communities of practice. The National Good Food Network brings together people from all sectors looking to scale up good food. Its food hub collaboration coordinated by the Wallace Law Center with USDA as an important member is truly the leader in supporting food hubs across the country. In fact, for most people, if you Google "food hub," our definition pops up right at the top there, which I think is pretty cool. I'll tell you a bit more about some of the resources we have to offer later. But let me hand the mic back over to Jim to tell you about the Know Your Farmer initiative. JIM BARHAM: Thanks, Jeff. Let me go to the next slide here. So I'm going to focus-- obviously I can't spend too much time talking about USDA writ large. It's 26 agencies, and we do a lot of stuff. But what I do want to talk briefly about is Know Your Farmer, Know Your Food initiative, which at this point, hopefully you have heard of. If you haven't it really is the one-stop shop for all things local regional food systems at USDA. It's an initiative that's been around since 2009. And the purpose of it is to really coordinate efforts within our different agencies, like you said. Like I said, we have quite a few different agencies. And to make sure that we actually are talking to each other and understanding what opportunities exist for cross-collaboration within agencies, as well as for other federal partners. And then finally Know You Farmer, Know Your Food is also about outreach and engagement with consumers across the United States to have them understand the benefits of being part of a local regional food system. So I sit on the management team with Know Your Farmer, Know Your Food. We help set the priorities in the policies for USDA around this particular area. It is an incredibly important one for Secretary Vilsack. It's part of what he calls one of the four pillars of revitalizing our real economy. So he takes it very seriously. And it's been great to work under this administration that has taken such a strong interest in this area. So at the end we'll go into more of the resources connected with Know Your Farmer. But I think it's always important in any presentation-- even though I think we were probably talking to a fairly sophisticated audience-- to at least from a USDA perspective of what do we mean by a local and regional food system. And to break it down what we're talking about are all phases-- life cycle-- of food-- that entire supply chain, from the production to ultimately to the consumption, and even the waste and the reuse and recycling of those products. That whole system is taking place within a specific region. And within that region there are specific benefits-- economic, social, environmental-- that accrue to that local community. The idea is these products are being marketed as local, so local consumers can really choose to support local businesses with their purchase. We at USDA do not have a one-all definition for local food. We have a few based on some legislative authorities. But generally speaking, the idea of local food and defining local food is really up to the community. Within the food system space, and what we're going to be talking about today, are regional food hubs. At the bottom line, with food hubs, we're talking about some core functions that a business or organization is doing. And those include aggregation, distribution, and marketing of those local food from farmers ultimately to consumers. We have our definition, which was crafted along with the Wallace Center and other partners. It has become kind of our official definition. It was first posed in a joint publication between us and the Wallace Center and the Regional Food Hub Resource Guide. And you could basically read it here. It's this idea of a business organization-- and again it doesn't really matter. We're not talking it has to be a for-profit or a nonprofit or cooperative. That's less important as the function that they're officially ultimately doing, which is actively managing that aggregation, distribution, and marketing. And here's the key piece-- source-identified food products. That you actually know where your food is coming from, and from whom. And that those products are primarily come from local regional producers who are basically linking into and satisfying that wholesale retail and institutional market demand. Food hubs are more than just a distributor. As many people ask me, how do we actually distinguish or differentiate a food hub from a food distributor? Well, they certainly do those functions. But beyond that, they're offering a suite of other services-- often to producers, as well as consumers, to the community at large-- that really create what we would call a triple-bottom-line business, or aspiring to be triple-line business. So on the left side of this diagram you're looking at a number of the type of producer services that food hubs typically become involved in, or can be involved in. Then you have the kind of core operational services. And then on the right-hand side, more of the community engagement piece of this. And I know this is kind of one of those overwhelming too many letters and too many words and too many sentences and too much of everything on one particular side. But just use it as a reference. And it really helps to clarify much of what we mean by food-- some of those defining characteristics. And I would focus on one piece here-- and this really is the last check mark. And the idea that food hubs aim to be financially viable while also having other positive economic, social environment, environmental impacts within their communities. And I focus on that because food hubs are really at the heart of what we call food value chains. Food value chains are very different from your typical supply chain. The typical supply chain, we're looking at the outside functions here that you see. You see how the farmers, ranchers up top to the production side. Then you have the aggregators and processors. And then you continue to go down the circle to your distributors that are getting the food to the restaurants, food service, so forth, to consumers. Those activities, as we know, happen with any supply chain, whether it's the most local or the most international. What differentiates a supply chain from a food value chain is really what's inside the circle. And it's this belief in this set of systems of mission values and operational values that everyone in the supply chain are trying to achieve. So when we talk about value chains, we're talking about how a set of businesses, strategic reliance between businesses, are there to try to create and produce both financial success as well as social benefits within that supply chain. So we're looking at a set of shared mission values that that particular supply chain may adhere to. Maybe they're really focused on farmland preservation and sustainable production practices. And then they also may be focused on, or they would all be focused on what the value chain, a lot of these operational values of accountability, long term commitment, transparency, and ongoing communication within the value chains. I embed food hubs within the value chains, because it's almost the quintessential business that's helping to link a lot of these pieces together within value chains. And I wanted to at least socialize this idea of value chains with you today as we continue to talk about kind of food hubs in the future, and the role they play within our food system. So how do we classify food hubs? So it's interesting that Josh brought up that your next seminar in this series of food hubs is going to deal with actually the legal structure, which is great. And there's a lot of advantages and disadvantages, whether you're structured as a nonprofit or a for-profit or a cooperative. But when it comes to classifying food hubs in terms of what's really meaningful, in terms of why food hubs succeed or fail, it really doesn't have much to do with their legal structure, believe it or not. And we have quite a bit of data to back this up now. Food hub success and failure has a lot more to do with their function than their form. So when we start thinking about what we want to analyze food hubs, we can certainly analyze them by their legal structure. But we find that there's a lot more value in actually classifying, analyzing food hubs by the markets they serve. Because if you're a wholesale versus a direct consumer, or you're doing a little bit of both, that has direct influence and consequence in terms of how you structure your food hub, types of infrastructure you need in place, the types of labor you need in place. So any case, I'll get into more of that in a second. But just to explain a little difference between these different food hub types, we have the wholesale food hub model, which means there's a food hub that's selling exclusively wholesale accounts to, say, restaurants, grocery stores. It could be to schools, hospitals, other institutional markets. And then you have on the other side the direct consumer food hubs, food hubs that are still an intermediary, OK, but they are selling those products to consumers. They're just managing that supply flow. Good examples of this would be online farmers markets, in which you have could be 10, 15, 20, even 100 different farmers putting their products up on site. You have a manager. The food hub is actually managing those transactions and then managing the logistics of moving that food to either designated drop-off spots, pick-up at workplace or at home. And other examples would be multi-farm CSAs, even mobile markets and those types. And then of course we have food hubs. And you can see here it breaks down almost into 30/30/30. A few more direct consumer, a few less wholesale. But a good number or hybrid, which they just do both. A very common model would be a multi-farm CSA that also sells into some restaurants, has a few wholesale accounts there. They have speciality products, and they can service that. But then you have every variation possible to man and woman as possible here with these different types. But this at least allows you to break it down into some general categories. We could spend the whole presentation talking about food hub best practices. And there's a lot out there. And there's a growing number of things that we're learning about what works and what doesn't work with food hubs. And it's always within a certain context. In some cases, what seems to work for some food hubs doesn't work for others. But generally speaking, I've listed here about 10 keys to successful marketing for food hubs that seem to hold across the board-- things like product differentiation, and making sure that you're not selling a commodity that has no value to the consumers beyond it's just an apple for an apple. Well, you're not just selling apples. You're selling a particular story, a particular for variety of apple that is compelling to a segment of consumers. And so these are the types of things we're looking at. So there's some here. And then I get a little cheeky with this second set of keys to success, or best practices, such as obviously it's not a good idea to poison your customers. They don't tend to like that. But it gets into this idea that when you're thinking of your business and how you're going to ultimately structure your business, how you're going to run your business, there's just certain things that you have to keep in mind, like, say, food safety, and making sure when you're setting up your food hub business that food safety isn't an afterthought, that you've already set up a system that is going to adequately address, both mitigate any risk of food-borne illness as well as have a robust traceability system if something seems to go wrong so you can recall products. All that kind of stuff just has to be built in inherently and at the beginning, and integral to your business. And then there are things like this one. And again, it's kind of cheeky-- never forget supply, supply, supply. And not ensuring a consistent, reliable supply of quality products, you have no business running food hub, and you will have no business. Well it's shocking, actually to the number of food hubs I've talked to who haven't really fully come to terms with what their supply is going to be. Sometimes you have food hubs that set up and say, well, you know what? I really only want to source 50 miles away from where we are. Well, that's all well and good, and that may serve you for two months of the year, but what does that mean for the rest of the year? And will you be able to retain kind of a consistent supply in the years that you may not be able to pull products from that very small supply area? So anyway, it's a lot of things like that. Some are pretty common sense, but tend to be forgotten at different points in time as you structure your business. And then what I want to focus on the most is what I call the oxygen mask rule of food hub viability. We spoke earlier about this idea of food hubs as part of food value chains. It's part of businesses that are looking to be both financially successful, but also develop and accrue a number of social, economic, and another environmental benefits to the community. And that's all well and good, to aspire to be a triple-bottom-line business, and to want to have all these other social benefits. But if you can't secure your own oxygen-- and that's your margin, to actually run a successful business-- then the rest of it-- the mission-- will no longer matter. So it's about securing your oxygen, getting yourself on financial sound footing before really diving too deeply into some of the other social benefits. And again, a lot of these are intermingled and intertwined. But sometimes you have to disentangle and say what are kind of our core operational functions. What do we really need to be doing so that we can ultimately in the end serve our mission? So along those lines, we've worked both with the Wallace center and with folks like Jim Matheson of Matheson Consulting-- he does a lot of work on food hubs-- to kind of look at the viability of food hubs. One of the questions that the Wallace Center and Michigan State University asked in the last survey was about food hub dependency on grant funding. Because a lot of people are concerned that if this external funding goes away, will food hubs still be able to maintain their core functions. And interestingly enough, just about half said they're actually not dependent at all on food hub funding, which was a very actually even somewhat surprising finding, but in the end a very hopeful finding in terms of food hubs being able to maintain their core operations. And even the ones that said somewhat dependent, as the question is framed, and the response to that question that is given, it really is saying we can exist without any external funding and maintain our core operations of aggregation, distribution, and marketing of local food products. That means they wouldn't have the ability to provide a lot of the other services to producers and consumers in the community at large. But still it does mean that a fair number-- over 80% of food hubs that were surveyed or responded to the survey-- were on decent financial footing, which is great to see. We also know from some modeling that we've done with Jim Matheson and his group-- and we actually did a webinar at the Wallace Center that I encourage you to check out that I think we called "The Million Dollar Question." And in one way it's about trying to provide some baseline of what it takes to have an operational break-even or even a viable food hub. It's a modeling exercise, so you have to take all these types of numbers with a grain of salt. That being said, it gives you some kind of bench mark in a way. And what we know from that modeling-- based on real food hub data, so it's not just pulling this out the air-- is that to get kind of operational break-even, you're looking at around a million if you're into wholesale, just doing exclusively wholesale accounts. And to get to viability, which is when you're profitable, and you can put money aside to have your rainy-day fund. And so if your truck breaks down you're fully equipped to finance another one, and can deal with a lot of contingencies, that you're in that kind of 2.4. And in my conversations with quite a few food hubs across the country, getting in that $2 million to $3 million dollar range, if you're a wholesale food hubs [INAUDIBLE] is the sweet spot of where you want to be to really feel like you're in good, firm foundation and can really grow your business, and if some calamity comes up that, you're well positioned to handle it. On the other side, a direct consumer food hub you don't need to generate such high revenues. A lot of it has to do with a smaller footprint of a facility. And it's a lot of just-in-time inventory, moving products in and out. You can rely quite a bit more on the infrastructure that might be already available on farm. Less storage capacity. Just there's a lot of reasons behind not needing that same kind of high level of annual sales. And so for direct consumer to kind of get to that really profitable viable, you're in about the $500,000 range. And I'm going to give you a few scenario analysis, but if you want to go deeper into this I recommend checking out that webinar if you haven't already. JEFF FARBMAN: And let me just jump in Jim. Direct to consumer I think also tends to have a better unit margin. However the market is almost always not super big. So I have a tendency to see, oh, direct to consumer. I need to make this, push $300,000. And I'm all set. But it's hard to find those buyers in some communities. JIM BARHAM: Yeah. And another way of really classifying these two models wholesale is high volume, low margin. And direct to consumers, low volume, high margin. And so trying to balance those two. And then sometimes you can. With a lot of food hubs, obviously over 30% are doing both of this, because they may have a pretty high volume in certain products, which allow them to move to the wholesale accounts. And then they might have low volume but really high-specialty products that they know they can get a high margin by selling direct to consumer. So one of the things we did was provide some scenario analysis. And it all begins with the fact of some assumptions. And one thing to keep in mind with any food hub is that the overwhelming majority, close to 70% of the revenue you generate is most likely to be going back to producers. So that gives you a very small sliver-- say 30%-- in which to deal with all the other costs, operating costs of running a food hub. And so it has a big impact when you start thinking about this particular business model, when you start thinking about what you give to producers, what you're giving in terms of to labor, other additional costs. And so this I think is really one of the most in the study that Jim Matheson did for us at USDA on the financial viability piece, is one of the most stunning ones, which is really what you ultimately decide to pay to your producers. And if we use for the model a baseline of 70%. And just so you know, what the scenario analysis here is based upon the wholesale model break-even operational break-even, which is about $1.3 million. And you use a baseline of 70%. But if you just increase that, and you say, you know what? We're here to serve our producers. And that generally is the bottom line for food hubs across the country-- we want to put more money in their pocket. Which is what you want to do. But even if you raise 5% more. And for 5% more, you're looking at possibly needing another $500,000 before you're getting to an operational break-even. So it's quite dramatic. and if you do an 80/20 split-- and I know food hubs across this country in which they are doing 80/20 split-- it really draws into question whether you're a wholesaler. And this still holds true even for direct consumers to pretty much a similar degree. You're talking doubling-- almost tripling-- what you need in terms of your overall annual sales to get to that operational break-even if you're putting that much more money into the pocket of producers. And this is a conundrum. This is one that, of course, within traditional distributors there's a very good reason why a lot of producers complain that they're not getting a fair shake from the distributors. Well, there's a lot of costs associated with distributing. It's a pretty low-margin business, or tight-margin business. So that's just one of those things to kind of really keep in mind and be thinking about from the very beginning of starting a food hub, like what can we realistically pay our producers that is obviously going to make sure they're getting a fair price for their products, yet at the same time ensures that we can run an operation and pay our expenses. Additional labor costs. Here's another piece of it. And so if we think of just simply 40,000-- maybe a low for in some places for a full-time employee, an FTE, but let's just take it as that as if you were adding one more employee. All of a sudden if you have again starting at your baseline of 1.2, because there's such a small sliver that actually goes toward operations, things get exacerbated quite quickly. So you add a couple employees, you might be moving from a baseline of operational break-even of 1.2, and then all of a sudden you're up to 1.5, 1.6, almost 400,000 more. It can be quite remarkable. So labor is the second largest cost that food hubs face. And thinking how to use that efficiently and effectively. And in many cases, for food hubs at the beginning it requires it's a lot of sweat equity and volunteers. And that can serve you at the beginning. But ultimately over time you want to build up that institutional knowledge and then professionalism and hire staff. It's going to get you into that more viable stage of development. But it is the largest cost after payment to producers. And alternatively-- and this is also quite remarkable, looking at the model, what some external funding can do to help you really cover your operational costs. So $1.2 million again at the baseline, if you were able to acquire $50,000 annually outside of your operating budget to offset some of your operating costs, it lowers remarkably your actually your operational break-even number. So if you get $50,000 you can take it from 1.2 to almost less than a million dollars. So that doesn't mean that we're advocating that you should find external funding for the rest your life, because we know how precarious that can be. But it does make a good case for as a food hub is getting up and started, and is looking to be a efficient, lean business at the same time, an injection of community capital can go a long way to getting that food hub to be on firm footing sooner than later. OK. And with that I'm going to turn over to Jeff. We've been pretty conceptual this whole time. But now we'll at least get some examples, and with a maybe slightly more focused on processing. But I'll let you take it from here, Jeff. JEFF FARBMAN: Sure. OK. So this is an example about how ongoing support can really, really change a whole state's food system, or at least it's on its way. Cherry Capital Foods is a model in many ways. They're located in Traverse City, Michigan, and they are a for-profit food hub. They have really diverse markets. They run the gamut from white tableclothes restaurants-- high margin white tablecloth restaurants-- to school and other institutional food services, which tend to be lower margin markets, and plenty in between. Their growth is truly astounding. Pretty much a 50% growth each year they've been in operation. Which means adding $2 million in revenue over last year. So they are now on track for $6 million once 2015 closes out. And if this keeps up-- and every indication is that it will-- that's $9 million of revenue for 2016. Tons of food-- literally tons of food. Yet-- and here's the point of me talking about Cherry Capital Foods here-- they have still yet to make a profit. They have many employees, many trucks-- 12 trucks currently, I think. Two warehouses. They recently changed the software they use to run the company. There are lots of expenses. These guys are alive, truly thriving, really, because their owner has significant personal resources to support his long-term vision of really changing the Michigan food system in a fundamental way. They'll make a profit-- significant profit-- at some point. And this hub has the resources to build a benevolent yet dominant company in Michigan. That patient investor is key. And I have up here the amazon.com model which is amazon.com, tons and tons of revenue, and only recently has just barely started to turn a profit. Lots and lots of reinvestment into the company. I did want to emphasize that benevolent point. They are committed to supporting Michigan farmers and eaters. And in addition to sales for the farmers they are at some expense building the foundation for a significant group gap program. And if there are questions about that, I'm happy to talk about group gap. They have built a sophisticated shared-use facility for local value added food businesses who are in a sort of tweener stage-- too big for a shared-use kitchen, but too small for their own bricks and mortar. So they are really changing the landscape, and yet not making a profit. So Traverse City, Cherry Capital Foods is a good example of a hub that doesn't fit exactly the $1.2 million or even $2.4 million model. Jim, you want to present this slide, and I'll give a few more examples? JIM BARHAM: Yes. OK. So one of the other things-- and this is when we were talking to Josh, and he was like, look, there seems to be significant interest by at least a segment of our stakeholders to really be thinking about processing, that there's opportunities there for local food processing, what hubs are doing, this kind of thing. Cherry Capital has kind of developed a shared-use capacity. And just from our survey from last time-- and by the way the MSU and Wallace will be putting out, I believe, new survey results sometime in November or so. So we'll have even more update data fairly soon. But based on that, we're looking at very few food hubs actually really are that involved in processing. And there are some reasons behind that we get into a little bit later. But you can see kind of on the right hand side, canning, cutting shared-use kitchen, freezing, all below 20%. And the overall processing facilities is 23%. And that was a low response number. So 23% of 75, we're talking about 14 or so food hubs. And that's probably actually kind of a high number. But we do know that over 50% of hubs are selling value-added products. And I know many, many hubs would love to get their hands on more value-added local products, because it helps them with diversifying certainly their product portfolio, and be able to offer products in off-season times when they may not have a lot of the fresh products available. So I'll stop there and you can go so on. JEFF FARBMAN: Sure. So I want to give you four different approaches to processing that various hubs around the country have taken. I'm going to go pretty fast, but ask me questions in the Q&A period. And also I wanted to note that in almost every case I have a resource listed for you to dig in way deeper as appropriate. Those resources are generally on the slides. Mad River Food Hub is a for-profit hub in North Central Vermont. It's a fully licensed USDA-inspected meat-processing facility-- and indeed the only one in all of Vermont. And Vermont for reference is about a quarter the size of all of Indiana. Mad River also has significant facilities for fruit and vegetable processing. The hub was started only after several years of planning with lots and lots of people involved from private and public sectors to support the Mad River Valley, which is filled with small-scale but struggling agriculture. The facility really is a success. In a rather short time it has become able to support itself-- with a few caveats. One is that grant money supported the build-out of the facility that was already owned privately by the founder. Vermont allows something called a low-profit limited liability company, or an L3C, which allows a for-profit to accept grant funding, such as in this example. Moreover, all along Mad River has been smart about grants and other financial supports to keep things in the black. And the founder did not take a salary for a good while. Again, then we have a solid business that has some excellent and stable backing. Mad River is really best thought of as a business incubator. Folks rent the processing and storage areas, pay for distribution by the Mad River truck, as well as some other close partners who provide additional distribution. And there is significant entrepreneur training that is available-- and in fact required-- in some cases. Robin Morris, the founder of Mad River, has written the entire story in incredible detail, including, for instance, architectural drawings. He offers this probably about 80-page document for $30. So write down this link if you are interested in replicating model of his model. And there's your manual right there. OK. Western Massachusetts Food Processing Center is a similar example. It's run by the Franklin County Community Development Corporation in Western Massachusetts. They are first and foremost about business incubation. They are a nonprofit that has many different services they provide for area entrepreneurs of all types-- not just food. But because they are in a very agricultural area, they invested in a shared use kitchen, which they have over the years built out significantly. In addition to renting a facility at low cost to Meals on Wheels-- a charity that provides hot meals to homebound folks-- they do hourly kitchen rental for folks who have, for instance, their own salsa they want to make and bottle and then market. They also do white-label business, where, say, a business gives them their hot fudge recipe, And has them cook and bottle it, and then brand it with the ice cream store logo. Finally, they do smaller scale processing of a few local products-- chop and freeze broccoli, cauliflower, and one or two other products. This last one is managed by the Community Development Corporation itself, and is really what makes them a food hub. They take both deliveries of product from local farmers, and do their sales primarily to schools and institutions. They have moved from bulk freezing to IQF now. I have listed some challenges here. As a not-for-profit, they are able to receive grants, and have been very careful about the grants they apply for and accept. Slow, steady, careful is their MO. And they have been quite successful because of it, although not profitable if you subtract grants. Common Market in Philadelphia is a wholesale nonprofit food hub, and again is a wonderful model in many, many ways. As suppliers to many schools and hospitals-- which is an excellent way to get good food to underserved populations. And they are in a temperate growing region in Philly-- they started to investigate season extension through processing-- primarily freezing. Through a grant from us, the Wallace Center, they were able to perform a comprehensive feasibility study, understanding demand first, then looking at the supply and infrastructure. Their assessment was that a full processing build-out of their own was not possible, but they did find a local processor about 50 miles away from the distribution center who had similar values and were at an appropriate scale. They started with a pilot of something like I think it was 29 pallets of spinach, which is not a little bit, but not a lot in the grand scheme of things either. The processor was able to provide the cold storage as they sold their stock down. That space was rented by Common Market. This is a great example of leveraging existing resources to keep the focus of the hub on hubbing. There is a link to lots and lots of details at our site. This short link here cmfrozen is for common market frozen project. So dig in for more. Finally, let me tell you about Headwater Foods, another for-profit food hub in upstate New York. Headwater started with a strong, rapidly growing multi-farm consumer [? box ?] program. And after building the supply, they started to enter the wholesale market. They also did a very large and detailed feasibility study, really quite wide ranging. Processing was only part of the study in this case. And there's a link to the study down at the bottom of the slide here. Detailed and beautiful, as it turned out. They did find that there were a handful of products when they talked to their buyers that required processing that were in high demand. So with a careful thought towards efficiency, which absolutely needs to be the food hub mantra, Headwaters has a plan to use different partners for different products. And where there isn't a partner but strong buyer demand, they will be investing in their own processing. So four very different examples. And I'm sure there's the details for you to dig into as required. JIM BARHAM: All right. Awesome. Thanks, Jeff. So one last word on the processing-- and it's interesting because here's a slide before we talked to Jeff that I had, which was just generally speaking local food system challenges and opportunities. And there's three that stood out for me this past year. Clearly, one is food safety. As many of you may already know Food Safety Modernization Act is coming into effect. We [INAUDIBLE] already the preventative controls just came out, and the produce will also be out soon. And as Jeff has mentioned several times, there's opportunities, [? too. ?] There certainly are challenges in order to come into compliance, but opportunities to access programs like Group Gap to ensure that we don't all of sudden get a major drop in the amount of local food supply out there. The other thing, of course, is what we're talking about in the local food infrastructure. And I say especially processing here. And it's been something that has popped up quite a bit this last year from a number of food hubs thinking of, well, maybe we're exploring this opportunity to begin to actually process products. And using the Headwaters examples is a good one, in which they're saying, well, we want to do so some IQFs some quick freeze products, individual quick freeze. But that's pretty pricey equipment. We know there's a partner around here who does do that. Maybe we're best off-- and ultimately, and their study showed that they're best off not making that type of investment, but partnering with others who have that equipment. And they can work together. And then similarly some fresh-cut chopped broccoli and cauliflower and other things that another partner has been doing, it could do for them. But then they're looking at things like fresh salad greens, and in the high demand market for those of local fresh salad greens. But no one really having that. Maybe equipment's probably out there but no one really willing to partner with them. And they're thinking, well, this might be where we might make our investment. So, very selective in terms of their investment in the processing space. And I will say overall that, boy, food hubs who have kind of penciled a lot of this out don't find a really viable option out there to be adding this additional service onto their business. Food hubs are at their core aggregators and distributors. Adding a processing element is precarious at best. It requires a lot of volume. Labor costs are high. The equipment costs are high. So it's something that any food hub or any business who's thinking going to processing should really think long and hard and do the right analysis before willy-nilly going into something like that. So within the food system space, obviously these challenges exist-- whether it's in the food safety, or finding scale of appropriate infrastructure, or just adequate consistent supply of local food, USDA is there to help, as well as the Wallace Center. And we have a lot of resources available. As some of you may already know that we have a lot of technical assistance resources. A lot of that we've done in partnership with the Wallace Center and others. All these can be found in our website that you'll see here. And we'll share this slide deck, or Josh can sell this slide deck, because I want to move through our resources section fairly quickly, because a lot of it, you could just look online and get those things. Food Value Chains is another report that we put out with Wallace Center that goes in a bit deeper of what I was talking about earlier, about kind of the role that food value chains play within the food system. One other thing I want to highlight, and many of you probably already know this as well is that coming over to Rural Development I helped start a new technical report series on food hubs. The first two here listed-- Lessons Learned from the Field. And this operations guide are actually out. Email me if you'd like a hard copy. And then the next one will be on financial viability. It's not out yet. Probably sometime this winter. And it will talk about a lot of what I mentioned today, is the different kind of financial models of getting to operational break-even and [? even ?] viability. And then there's another food hub report that we'll be doing on why food hubs fail, which is my favorite report, not because I like to see food hubs fail, but you can learn a lot, more from failure than you can from success. So we're looking forward to putting that particular piece out on the street sometime this spring. And then there is also some upcoming training opportunities. We have been doing this in partnership with Wholesome Wave. They've developed this fantastic food hubs business assessment tool kit, which is really, it's essentially targeted for investors and food systems funders who are looking to assess kind of the food hub readiness for investment. We've developed a companion online training course to help people walk people through this tool kit. You'll see a lot more of that coming in the future. We also, in [? May ?], we'll be hosting this training that you can download for free on the website. We're still working out some logistics, but its upcoming, and I'll keep you posted. Or at the very least, I'll keep Josh posted. And he can get this out to you guys. We have our own USDA food hub portal, and the Agricultural Marketing Service, with a lot of good resources there. And then of course the Wallace Center through the National Food Hub Collaboration has a fantastic website as well. Really cool webinars. And I'll have Jeff talk a little bit more about those resources. JEFF FARBMAN: Sure, yeah. foodhub.info is great. It's a hub-focused page ngfn.org. And I did also want to point out the webinars. They are great to attend live. And we are having one in two days on working with hospitals to fund good food work. And there actually is a sign-up link for the November webinar as well, which is the presentation of this year's food hub survey that Wallace Center does with Michigan State University. But we also have over 50 fantastic webinars that we have archived. And it's not quite the same, but they are really still excellent learning opportunities. I also wanted to talk about our community of practice. The NGFN food hub collaboration has over 1,100 food hub managers, staff, and supporters who are on a Google group, or a community of practice. It really is the premiere feature of our community. Folks ask questions, and others-- could be peers, could be consultants, researchers-- provide thoughtful answers. You do have to register. So the first, link there is the fhcop bit.ly/fhcp. Register, and then we will add to the community within a few days. We have something we have to do on our end. But once you are added, you can go to foodhubtalk, bit.ly/foodhubtalk, visit the archives of the community, and post your own questions, and share your wisdom, please. So we have our next biennial food hub conference. We are in Atlanta this year, March 30 through April 1 will be the full conference. And we'll have one or two pre-conference days. One of the things that we will offer at the conference probably on one of these pre-conference days is a workshop that we developed that we call early stage food hub development course. It's really a blitz through all the aspects of starting and running a food hub, with a ton of additional resources provided on a thumb drive. But you don't have to wait until our conference for that. Southern [? Sogs ?] Conference in Lexington is at the end of January. And we will be doing one of our workshops there. And there's also one in Durham, North Carolina on November 6, as part of the Carolina farms stewardship conference. So contact me if you would like information on how to be a part of either one of those trainings. And I wanted to mention our general mailing list. There is a sign-up link on wallacecenter.org website. You can sign up for our food safety list. There's our National Good Food Network list. We have an approximately monthly newsletter. And if you want to learn a little bit more about group gap, ngfn.org/foodsafety is the place for that, or wallacecenter.org/foodsafety. JIM BARHAM: OK. Thank you, Jeff. And then the Know Your Farmer, Know Your Food Initiative. The website one-stop shop for all financial, technical assistance. You can go check it out there. One of the things I wanted to highlight is the Compass map, which I'll get to in a second. But just to overwhelm you with a slide. Oh no, not yet. So you can go to the website, you'll be able to really be able to see all our grants, loans, support. We try to use real plain English, not all the gobbledy-gook that we usually put on our website. So hopefully it's actually somewhat intelligible, at least give you a general sense of a lot of different grant loan programs. And then we really do offer support all along the supply chain. This is the slide I wanted to overwhelm you with, which is quite a bit. But I put this slide up here for one purpose only, which is to say there's a lot of grants and programs USDA has to offer to support local regional food systems development. This one I developed thanks to a lovely intern I had over the summer. Because I often think in terms of supply chain management, I decided to list the different grant loan programs by where you may be within the supply chain-- whether you're an aggregator, distributor, processor, producer, or what have you. And then of course along the bottom there's a lot of research education, technical assistance program that we offer as well. And these can all be hyperlinks. So when you get this slide deck and PDF, you can go directly to those hyperlinks. Slides will take you right to the website where you can find more information about this. I also thought it's helpful sometimes to be thinking about USDA programs within stages of business development. So this was my attempt to kind of highlight a few of the I think more key food hub more specific programs that can be helpful to you, whether in the planning stage and implementation, or in your growth stage of development. And I wanted to mention the Compass map. We just recently updated the map. And it's a pretty remarkable endeavor, I have to say, which is essentially since 2009 we have listed on this map every single-- maybe not every single-- but almost every single USDA investment in local food from 2009 through 2014. And we'll get 2015 up there once all the [INAUDIBLE] and loan stuff [INAUDIBLE] gets processed. And we also have a number of context layers there in terms of farmers markets, food hubs, slaughter facilities. So it's a way for you to, say, in Indiana, or even within your county in Indiana state, who is really doing what in the food system space. And like I said here, you can explore different options, and see, oh, here I am. And this is actually in the Appalachian area, Shenandoah area. And looking at who's getting investments from USDA in what area, what grants. So there's opportunities for you to kind of even, you might have been quite surprised-- oh, within my county here in Indiana I had no idea this organization was doing this food hub related or even good system related work. And there are the opportunities for you to engage with them. And then even within our compass map you can actually search something. So if you're specifically looking, oh, I want to see what kind of USDA programs can fund cold storage, for example. You could literally type in "cold storage" and probably get query of 50 or 60, or results of 50 or 60 other examples of cold storage-type investments that USDA has made, and see what kind of programs people are utilizing to invest in that. And I know we ran through that quickly. But we thought we'd be done at 3:45, and it's 3:55. But we're happy to stay on the line beyond 4 o'clock to answer any questions you have. And on behalf of Jeff Barham and myself, thank you for staying on the line. I think most people didn't jump off yet. So that's always good. And we're happy to take your questions. We'll turn over to Josh to facilitate that. JOSH: Thank you Jim and Jeff. That was really good. I'm pretty sure all of you can see the little red mute button next to your name in the participants list. If you have a question that you would like to, just unmute your mic, and I'll ask away, or else you can chat and send it to everyone so everyone can see the question. I do have a few questions of my own. JEFF FARBMAN: Shoot. JOSH: Well, I'll start with one. Having seen a few groups that are in the planning stages of a food hub, have you noticed any common tipping points that move food groups from the planning stages to the building and implementation stages? JIM BARHAM: Jeff, you want me to go first? Or you want me to go? JEFF FARBMAN: Well, you go. I'll respond, too. JIM BARHAM: Anything that sets up the tipping point in moving from the planning to the implementation. I think, I mean there's a number of things. Obviously financing is a big piece of that, which allows you to really take whatever interest, enthusiasm is out there, to go into the implementation piece of it. So that's an obvious answer. But I think also it's the commitment both verbal, and otherwise commitment from producers to say, yeah, we're actually very interested in this, and let's make this happen. All the financing in the world isn't going to get a producer to commit if they're not feeling comfortable that you as the food hub manager has used [INAUDIBLE] organization have not developed that kind of trust and that kind of relationship with the producer community. And of course the same goes for the buyer community as well, who is expressing an interest in buying products. But I think it almost always starts on the supply side. With the case of food hubs, that most successful food hubs have built up a cadre of committed, serious producers who see value in working with this food hub organization. JEFF FARBMAN: And that takes time on both sides, right? And it takes time to build the trust from your supply. And it takes time for your buyers to basically buy enough that it is viable for you to deliver to them. I'm talking about wholesale here. And this is that ramp-up period where you need to feel financially supported to allow for growth. I also wanted to bring up the point that I would like to sort of spread the word around the nation that it takes just as much courage to decide, yes, I'm going to open this food hub as often it does to decide, you know what, this is not right. And there are other ways for me to have positive effects on my local food system without starting a food hub. It doesn't have as cool a name as food hubs, but a value chain facilitator, or a value chain coordinator is a person or organization who makes good food happen, not directly involved in the buying and selling and transportation of the good food like a food hub is, but is that person that makes the connections between the supply and the buyers. It's almost analogous to that person at the party who says, hey, you two should talk, because you're both interested in whatever it is. So that role of connector, value chain facilitator, value chain coordinator, is an incredibly valuable one. And in fact it is a low-cost way to start to build the relationships with the supply, build the relationships with the buyers. And if after doing value chain coordination for awhile-- a couple of years-- you realize there really isn't enough infrastructure, that might be a good time to go and build a warehouse, buy some trucks. You will have the lay of the land. You will have the relationships. And it's like an active feasibility study. You're creating positive change while you're understanding the feasibility of creating a hub. JOSH: So there was a question in the chat box. What, if any, roles have local food banks in your experience, have they played a role in planning and implementation with food hubs. JEFF FARBMAN: Well, one example, that one of the processors in that Headwater Foods example is actually a food bank. They are doing some processing, and Headwater is intending to leverage that processing. There are several great examples of food banks getting into food hubbing, where they are not just having a focus on local donated food, but also buying and selling food locally. JIM BARHAM: Yeah, and just a couple examples of that. There's a group called Harvested Here in Chattanooga, Tennessee that is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Chattanooga Food Bank. And the way they [? did that ?] structure was some food banks are literally brokering and buying and selling food on behalf of growers, just like any food hub. And than others, like this one, is set up as a subsidiary to do exactly that, because they can see the interconnections. And it ended up working out very well for them. And then we know examples-- we mentioned Common Market earlier. When they first got started they worked with a food bank, or a hunger relief organization similar to that, that had storage capacity, or underutilized storage that come to market use. So their first storage and warehousing was with that food bank. And similar situation with another food hub called the Green Market Co. in New York City. Food banks could make fantastic partners, specifically because of the investment they've already made in trucks and warehouses. So it's certainly something to consider as an early partner, as you maybe ramp-up your food hub operations. Or you may even see, as Jeff said, well, maybe we don't need a food hub. Maybe there is a role the food bank can play that would be very similar to a food hub in this community that would really meet the needs of producers and meet the needs of consumers. JOSH: Kind of similarly along those lines, do you know of other models where an institution-- like a food hub, perhaps, a hospital or a school-- has set up it's own food hub in order to facilitate local procurement? JEFF FARBMAN: Well, I want to bring up a technicality, which is that a hub has to have multiple suppliers as well as multiple buyers. So if for instance a hospital-- and several have arranged relationships with a handful or even several local growers to make deliveries, and don't intend to sell-- well, that's not technically a food hub. So there's a great example of that up in Vermont, although I can't-- Jim, do you remember the name of that hospital in Vermont? JIM BARHAM: Uh, not off the top of my head, no. JEFF FARBMAN: It's the largest hospital in Vermont. And they are procuring significant quantities of local healthful food. I can't think of an institution that took on full hubbing. JIM BARHAM: There was a lot of consideration of this, and it may come to fruition-- although I don't think it has happened yet-- in Denver-- the Denver school district there. There was a nonprofit that was working with the school [? district. ?] They had a really good local food procurement program. And they had, because they had centralized kitchen and processing facilities that were servicing kind of all of the different schools in the district, there was a lot of discussion about we don't need to just be-- we've got all this capacity here. We could actually develop a hub that would not just service our school district, but service other institutions, as well as even grocery, restaurant, the whole gamut. I don't think they've gotten there, yet. I think they're still, they have a robust procurement program in which they're doing a lot of this. But they haven't taken that next step to selling into other markets and other buyers, which would ultimately classify them as a food hub. There is one example with the Fifth Season Cooperative, slightly different than what you might be thinking of, but an interesting case study all the same. Fifth Season Cooperative is a multi-stakeholder cooperative. So they have both producers. They have processors. They have distributors. And they have buyers that are all part of the same cooperative. And the buyers are school districts. The distributors is, I believe it's Reinhart distributor. And so that's an example of where part of ownership of this food hub is actually the institution itself, as well as the distributors and producers. JEFF FARBMAN: One item I wanted to bring up, and Jim was talking about deciding how much of the sale the food hub retains, and how much goes back to the supplier. There are a wide variety of food hub models. And some provide more services for the growers. Others provide fewer services to the growers. So one notable low, zero infrastructure model is Red Tomato in Massachusetts. They are a full food hub. They actively manage the aggregation, distribution, and marketing of the food. But they own no warehouse. They own no trucks. They manage the logistics. So all of their growers are of significant size and have their own infrastructure or arrange their infrastructure. And they give a very large percentage of the wholesale dollar back to the farm. But fewer services are offered. Sort of somewhere in the middle would be maybe Farm Fresh Rhode Island, who does not do aggregation, but they do do just distribution. And they do not-- they're just barely starting-- but pretty much they don't do any marketing other than providing a common market online marketplace for growers to list their own products. So they're sort of in the middle of how much they charge for overhead. And then there are the more full-service food hubs that have trucks and warehouses, like Cherry Capital Foods, who then take sort of a more-- that's sort of on the larger end, because the growers are paying for more services. So clever arrangement of businesses, of business structure can help determine how much you can charge. AUDIENCE: I have a question about an existing food hub who might be looking to-- and I think this is common among small businesses of when to grow and jump into that next area of growth in terms of your customer base, or your diversification of customers, and then deciding how that's going to happen. And what are some possible maybe specific resources, or recommended resources that a food hub could use to sort of put themselves through those scenarios that you presented? I really liked those scenarios. That was really interesting. And I'm wondering what an individual food hub might do to sort of do that for themselves? JIM BARHAM: Well we developed the scenarios, and the financial viability modeling piece was specifically to help you with that question. Because it is, well, it's certainly helpful for a food hub that's getting started to kind of look at the bottom line of what they may need to generate in terms of sales at the operational break-even. The modeling is actually a lot more helpful and useful for food hubs in a growth period-- thinking of diversifying their product mix or diversifying their market place-- and running the numbers through that. Of course, that resource is not available yet. But it will be, and that would be one tool that I think will be helpful to food hubs thinking about that. In almost every situation, there's enough diversity. And within the food hub business structure model, to justify investment in a consultant or somebody who could do some financial analysis, an expert who can say, OK, let's actually look at your specific business, and let's sit down and let's run the numbers and let's see what really makes sense. And that cost can be offset. A perfect example is Headwater, that we explained earlier, which they were in a kind of a growth period. And they've been very successful with direct consumer. They started to get into some wholesale. And now they're thinking of processing, and also just growing their wholesale market supply, as well as making a pretty significant investment in warehousing and in trucks in order to really take advantage of the wholesale marketplace. And so they got funds from USDA, local food promotion program. Pretty easy to get a planning grant, $25,000, to run that type of scenarios. And that's what I ultimately suggest is that there are enough resources out there, whether at the federal, state, or local level, to do a good kind of feasibility or even growth study and see what makes sense for that specific hub. JEFF FARBMAN: And if you're interested in hiring a consultant, I think a great thing to do would be to come up with a semi-formal or semi-formal request for proposals. Join the NGFN Food Hub Collaboration Community of Practice mailing list, and post it there. And there are several folks who are on that mailing list who are highly capable consultants, and could help you through that. AUDIENCE: Excellent. Thank you. JOSH: All right. I think there aren't any more questions. I think we'll call it time for now. And I just want to say thank you again to Jim and Jeff for their time, and for putting on a presentation for us. JEFF FARBMAN: Thanks Josh. JIM BARHAM: Yeah, our pleasure. And as Josh mentioned, he's got the slide deck, and he can make it available to you all. And both Jeff and my contact information is on that deck. So if you have any follow-up questions, don't hesitate to contact us. JOSH: All right. I just want to remind you, two weeks from now, there'll be-- at the bottom of the slide it says-- a future webinar on how to choose a business structure. There is a fantastic guide by Wholesome Wave that goes through the pros and cons of the various structures for profit-- even limited liability of all the different for-profit models, nonprofit. And then what we really want from all the participants is some questions for our presenters, because the guide is such a good guide. We just want some questions that you have that will drill down further into that guide, and is more specific. So well, I just wanted to thank you for your time. We've been going 15 minutes past 4 o'clock. Hope you have a good afternoon. JEFF FARBMAN: Thanks. You, too. JIM BARHAM: Thanks, Jim. JOSH: Bye. 