 Hello to everybody. Welcome, welcome, welcome. It's really exciting to be here at Discoverability. It's wonderful that you're continuing to network so actively. We will have lots of opportunity for that. My name is Dr. Sara Diamond, and I'm the hostess of this really fantastic panel. I'm going to introduce our three speakers, or participants, really, in a moment. But, I wanted to talk a little bit about why this discussion is so incredibly important. If we hadn't figured that out already from this morning, it's very clear that there's tremendous disruption underway in all of our industries, and we're at a time where there is an opportunity for really different kinds of economic models. You need, of course, to look to Canada, we need to look at niche markets, and we need to look at international market share. So, we really are shifting from what has been a very subsidized economy, in the Canadian context, into one where that is, as I think we know, going to be changing. At the same time we have a set of new tools that are very, very powerful tools that are from really big data. So, the ability to really deeply understand product, how it moves, where it moves, and how audiences receive that product, how they feel about it, and what their desires and interests are. So, that's really a huge opportunity. At the same time, one can say that, maybe as producers, and I hope there is some in the room, we don't want to completely leave algorithms to their own devices, I'm assuming. So, what kind of expertise do we need, that can balance the really important role of editorial decision making, around content investment and production, and what the data tells us. We have a really fantastic panel here that's going to help with that conversation. I'm going to introduce them very briefly, and then I'm going to ask them some questions. I should mention, I think the reason that I'm here is that I am the president of the University. But in my spare time, I run the Visual Analytics Lab that works a lot with media outlets. We really do a lot of work, trying to understand the kinds of data that we're discussing, and how to make it meaningful for different kinds of expert users, frankly, as well as audiences. We developed analytics for parallel industries, in particular, the news media, and the financial service industry, using things like sensitive analysis, recommended engines, and taste graphs, which relate demographics to media consumption and advertising. We're going to talk about some of those tools over the course of the panel. We're going to also not assume, and this is a reminder to the participants here, that everybody has a deep understanding of analytics, and what we're talking about. I'd just like to a bit of a survey in the audience, and then I'll introduce my colleagues. How many of you are producers? Okay. We have a group. How many of you are distributors, broadcasters? Okay, good. - [Neil] How many are journalists? (audience laughs) - Advertising industry? Okay, a few. Now we have a sense of who we're speaking to, there's no problem. Neil McEneaney, is President and CEO of Numeris. He brings 25 years of media experience. Prior to his appointment, Neil was Chief Business Officer of the CBC's English Services. Prior to the CBC, Neil held various roles at Southam, now Postmedia. Neil has focused on strengthening Numeris' ability to provide eminent broadcast measurement, consumer behavior data and intelligence, in a constantly changing environment. Mark Allen, is the Senior Director of Research and Analysis at CBC/Radio-Canada. He leads audience, survey, and industry research. He has a passion for media technology, and its impact for consumers, and for the future of media measurement. Mark is also an active Numeris member, serving on all four committees guiding television, radio, non-linear and cross-media measurement in Canada. Before CBC, he was a consultant for PwC's Entertainment and Media Practice. He is also an academic, and teaches at Carleton. Felix Cisneros is a New York-based media and technology operations executive, who focuses on optimizing the digital supply chain for global media companies. Felix has worked with motion picture studios, television networks, and digital media companies, to implement technology and workflow strategies across nearly every business segment. Most recently, he is Vice President, Digital Supply Chain Operations, for AMC Networks, which owns the cable brands AMC, IFC, SundanceTV and WE TV. He oversees operations across the entire content life-cycle, from production, through delivery, and distribution to all platforms. What a team. I'd like to start, Neil, with a question for you. Can you talk about the kind of data sources that you measure, a little bit about your characteristics, and give us a sense of how the community market is moving towards measurement capability? - Sure, happy to do that. Just so everyone knows, Numeris is a leading audience measurement company in this country, and a global leader. Just a little bit about ourselves, so that will help frame the answer to the question. We're a non-profit, with our members owned by broadcasters, advertisers, and agencies. We focus on measuring content in that particular ecosystem. On a daily basis, Numeris supplies data that supports over three billion dollars in annual revenues, advertising revenues. So, what do we measure? We measure audio and video, TV and radio. We have what we believe is a world-class measurement system, what we call Portable People Meters, PPM's. Why that's world-class, is because it's a passive medium, that measures live, streamed live, on-demand, EDMAC, both currency, and seven to 28 days. We're also doing over-the-top recently, on all devices, in and outside the home. So, when you're thinking about the video universe, if I can use that nomenclature, Numeris captures over 90% of total video consumed, on a monthly basis, measured by hours. On the audio spectrum as well, using PPM. As well as both the audio and the video diary methodology as well. We capture a significant amount of audience data, the vast majority, and I'd say equivalent, on the world scale. - How does that intersect with advertising consumption by those audiences? - Numeris measures the consumption of content, which then becomes the currency, for purposes of determining advertising rates, and revenue generation. Different than the States. We're measuring average minute audience, versus in the States, they're doing commercial ratings, So, there's a huge distinction, I think. Just to get it out there, the only similarity between Canada and the U.S., in terms of audience measurement, is the hardware. Everything else is different. - I'm going to jump to Felix on this. Mark, then we'll comeback to you shortly. Felix, so you can give us an international perspective, from the U.S. What are you measuring, and what do you learn, in terms of us, with the relationship between content consumed, and advertising placement of dollars? - Sure. Most recent development has really been the Live Plus 7 measurement, Which has become the new currency on a host of broadcasters, where you're measuring content that's consumed live, plus the next seven days, whether that's viewed on video-on-demand, or via a consumer's DVR. Now, of course, we want to slice into that set even more, to be able to see how much of that was consumed on the video-on-demand service, versus the consumer's DVR. We have recently telecast VOD, which is offered by Nielsen, which now measures that post-Live Plus 7. We're now looking at things like cross-platform VOD, SVOD, OTT Services, TV Everywhere, which is authenticated with your cable subscription. We're trying to look at all of the various areas, and all the different windows, that people watch in. What we've seen in some of the most recent metrics, is that depending on how people view that content, within the first seven days, versus a new series that people don't know about yet, they haven't thought to DVR it. So, many of them, they'll hear it out, they'll hear buzz from their friends via social media. So, you'll see a much higher up-tick on VOD within the first seven days, versus the series that's already well-known, is returning, and already well-loved. Most of that viewing is on a DVR. So, from an advertising perspective, that allows, then, your ad sales to potentially look at, "Well, should we start doing a dynamic ad insertion on VOD services, versus DVR" because you might have the ability to monetize that, in a different way for a returning series, versus a new series. So, really using that data to determine the programming and ad sales strategy in order to maximize the revenue potential. - So you'd also be able to, over time, look at changes in audience consumer patterns between different kinds of distribution. - Most certainly. Broadcasters are very much borne of brokering a direct-consumer model. We know more a lot more about our actual end viewers than in the past, where our customers were the cable services, and we were more of a B To B service. Now that we're much more of a B To C service, we know through metrics, through peoples' actual visits to our website, and can start tailoring content and advertising from understanding more about that viewer, with a direct consumer perspective. - We're gonna come back to the B To C transformation. But first, Mark, I was really interested to find out how much CBC is paying attention to these kind of metrics. Within the public broadcast context, some of that would be your commercial competitors, I say folks or colleagues, looking for ad placement, but it would also be great to have tools that understand Canadian audiences. So, tell us a little bit what you're doing. - Well, CBC has always had a long history of really investing in research. We're actually proud members of Numeris. I've got to reroute what Neil said. We really, we take the brand, how excellent a measurement system we actually have in Canada with PPM. We really are positioned to take measurement to the absolutely to the next level, but more than just the technology is the company. It's a cooperative. We don't have two companies like they have in the States, like Neil said, and really track who are fighting over who's currency. You know, you're going to find entry from the industry has come together to actually produce the data that is trusted and transparent, and so, we can build on it. Our challenge in the digital age, how to we move, how to we get set talk box data, how do we get server data into the measurement system. It's a real challenge because we're all companies, and we have our own interests and we tend to want to keep the data to ourselves, but we need to recognize that we will all be better off if we're all part the measurement system and contributing return path data, set top boxes, server data to improve the measurement system before the future comes. - So, can you talk about, each of you a little bit, about where social fits? When you started measurement, this is a company that has a very long legacy and there was no social data. So, in a world where there's both product and obviously is being distributed to consumers as you're doing, but social has a phenomenal impact on, as we've heard, the quality of audience engagement. So, where does social fit in this, when you think about emerging a measurement system? Do you want to start? Sure, I'll get it started. With digital, measurement is clearly a top priority. Numeris has just launched a new strategy that, with a significant focus on digital investment. When you look at digital investment, just going off what Mark and Felix just described, let's put it in three categories, and you have to speak about the integration of data sets. You can have a much greater understanding of your audiences, the purposes of your programming and your commercialization. So, you just simply want to understand your audiences better. So, if you put them into three particular groups, the first one is online integration. That's a huge priority for Numeris. We're just kicking that off. We'll probably do that with a digital partner to deal with the complexities associated with that, which is happening all around the world. That's a priority. Second priority is going to be set top box, and return at the end that Mark just described. So, we're happy to be working with the CRTC. We've been engaged, Numeris has been engaged and doing technical tests, just to see if it's technically feasible to integrate. We're doing it with three mediums to see can it technically be done, If it can technically be done, that report is going to be run back to the CRTC, and then from there, the CRTC will decide if they want to proceed with a test in, hopefully, the Toronto market to see what its value is. (clears throat) So, that's going to be forthcoming. We're very excited about that. Now, the third one is integration of social, to your question. So, Numeris looked at it, to my knowledge, so they have looked at it in detail. The realities of social, Numeris is largely prioritizing its efforts based on the needs of the industry. (audience member coughs) That's, when they get out of bed every day, is, how do we improve the industry? When it comes to social, there is members in this industry have developed social tools to meet with particular businesses. They have social strategies that differ from each other because of their strengths, based on their asset mixes and of the kind of audiences and loyalty they have. They then also have very specific means to measure that. And so, they then have unique social strategies. They also happen to do measurement of that. When Numeris looked at the this allocation, take that on and develop an industry solution, which is a consistent, high standard, uniform solution to measuring social, and the answer is no. It wasn't a high enough priority because it was so fragment at that point in time, and therefore, that's where we are right now. We are not pursuing industry solutions for social, for those reasons. We're going to focus on online, we're going to focus on return path data. - Okay. So Mark, maybe pick this up, though, because what then do we do about social? How should people manage that important - those important sets of data in relationship to what Numeris will provide? Well, you're actually speaking as a broadcaster. - Yeah, sure, well, social referrals are actually a quarter of all of our traffic on our website. So, making all of your content socially share-able is a critical strategy for us. In terms of measurement, that's really a critical metric and consequently, at this time, as you guys were saying, that it would be very significant. We're going to be measuring that space on nothing past the rate of cycle. - But how then, so, let's speak to the folks in the room. So, how then should they think about their own strategies, in terms of using social data in relationship to the kind of data that Numeris is providing? - That's a very hard question. (laughing) Um... - Because we're looking at, you know, trend analytics, and I think people are trying to understand well, if you're a producer, are you dependent on the broadcaster, distributor, there are tools that producers use to look at social and how their product is moving. So, I think, since we're trying to figure out strategy here a little bit for the next stage. - Right. - It is a hard question. - Right. Well, Christopher Barry's on a conference. He's on a panel tomorrow. He's their digital optimization expert. So, he'd actually be a good person to answer, but I think Felix actually, being in operations - - Yeah. - Would know a lot about - - We'll toss the football. - So toss it over here. - To the extent that social can drive the parts of the business that can be monetized. That's what my clients are looking for, which is, how do we drive to them? How do we drive views on our website, rather than monetize via the serving advertisings of that audience? How do we move data? Whether it's through Twitter, Facebook, people think when a website offers you, log in to this website via your Facebook credentials, that's a convenience. We're actually handing over a whole bunch of data. And so, that data, though, is useful because we have to have graphic data. Single or married, we know their geographic region. For cable companies we know who their paid TV subscription is with, which is extremely important in order to help with saying, view this on Comcast or view this on Rogers or Telus or whatever. And so, to the extent that social can drive, and then we use that data to be able to say, we think that the launch of this new show, or we think that we do a catch-up marathon on this service for these viewers, we know that this satellite service is very popular amongst this type of audience, we know who that audience is, based on their log ins to our website, and we can really very much tailor to them, and monetization banks on that. So, that's really where the currency of social really hits the road, is in that regard. - That's very helpful. (audience member sneezes) Do you want to share some of your high level, just content about what you're learning about competing audiences and some of the ways that they're changing? - I think that from, well, in my short time there, what I found interesting, coming from a broadcaster perspective to a measurement company, that is information that's available daily that we should pay attention to. A simple example is simply the change in the demographics of this country. In my early days, part of what they did in the past was various deals and various content to the genres. Just sit back and make fundamental assumptions about audiences. What are the available audiences? Are you aware as to the changing makeup of those audiences? Whether we have changes in demographics, how does the average Canadian, what is the profile of the average Canadian today? And, I think that's really important, continuously, especially since the Discoverability Summit, as you go and discover audiences and how to build a relationship with audiences. At this day and age, content is a very personalized experience, and personalized devices. I would say, and this is what I'm into promoting and having very healthy conversations with members, and so let's really step back and look at the changing demographics and how does that influence your content, as far as, ultimately, how you monetize a relationship is very important. That's what I'd share with you. - Yeah. - Yeah. - Yeah, one of the mote interesting insights that we've identified now is that, first off, of course, as Neil was saying, who are 90% of all TV viewing is still happening on a traditional service, and let's not get too ahead of ourselves, but we have actually identified in our research. We've sent to Google, which we actually coiled the term TV My Way. It's almost 10% of the population. They're mostly young, they're super highly educated, and the key thing is they want to watch online. They watch virtually all of their television online, and - but, most interestingly, too, is they actually prefer to watch it on laptops and phones. This is not, like, I don't have access to a television set, they actually want to watch on their laptops and they want to watch on their phones. Half of them don't even have a television set. So, that's one. The other two is just the reality today is that TV has become like a good book. TV has become like a good book. A lot of these TV My Way viewers, when they think of watching television, they don't go like a lot of our parents do and turn on the television set and try and find the channel to watch something. They think, oh, well, I'm watching Breaking Bad, so I'm going to go to the next chapter in Breaking Bad, the next series. So, for a lot of people, TV has basically just become like a good book. - Well, that's great news for content producers, isn't it? - I think it's excellent, excellent news for content producers, and I think as well, too, what's happened, too, is that we have to think in terms of measuring a ton, because a show like Breaking Bad, people are still watching it. Better Call Saul, one of the best shows around now, had its final episode of the second season. Well, it got over 300,000 viewers, but its a total hit because people watch it on their own pace, whereas people who have DVR'd it and were going to watch it in two months from now or something like that. So, we have to factor in the longevity of content is actually expanding, as well. - Also very exciting, that whole notion of the long tail, which is from almost the previous century. We're actually now beginning to see that come to reality. So, how do you then use data to look at those kinds of trends like that, because something can not be popular and then trend and then go away and then come back again. - Sure. It goes back to data and looking at, and then, so content owners, especially ones that have been in business a long time, have a very deep reservoir of content that they own, that they've produced, that, in some instances, they haven't produced, which, I think, we have that, too, and be able to understand, deeply understand our content and what it has and how it prepares to content that's out there can really help for future monetization, right. So, understanding your own product catalog and understanding what that can offer you, and be able to offer that on many platforms, as these big platforms come about and you have to go and monetize something that could have, potentially, a big limit. In the states we have shows like The Tonight Show, or a show that ran 50 years and is really consumed in three or four minute segments, or Saturday Night Live, which is a comedy sketch show. You can't monetize a single episode of that, necessarily, that's eight years old, but you can monetize the fact that Prince performed on this episode, in this year, and this episode, and this year, and having that deep understanding from a metadata perspective. What is in your catalog can really lead to monetization as these platforms exist, and having that metadata available to you, ideally from a point of production, that can flow all the way through to the distribution side, is really the genesis of that. - Yeah, we had a bit of a chapter occurring for the past - whoops. We're all having a little ear challenge. To understand how producers can take advantage of the big data era. So, you're talking about, though, that - can you maybe go down a little bit about what you mean by metadata for the producers in the audience? What should they be tagging? What descriptions should they be using? - Yeah. So, getting back to from the production side, there's usually kind of a deviding line between production and distribution, and so you have a lot of technical tools that are available on the production side that people use, but much of that data does not actually flow through to the end, and I feel like that's a big gap, because that metadata can actually be used down the road for specifically the purposes I was talking of. That's a really good example of that. Understanding kind of the segment level, and really going down to the strata of what you understand about, down to the shock level, depending on what business you're in. If you're in news or sports, things like that, down on the shock level really matters. I had a project for a television company that specifically focuses on golf, and so we would focus on what hole, what golf course, was it a great shot, was it a hole-in-one, all those kinds of things. And so, you literally had scene by scene, shot by shot, nine levels of metadata that that you could then, from an archive perspective, you want to pull up the greatest shots at Augusta golf course, you could then pull those segments up and obviously integrate it with your media asset management so that you could quickly do that, and that's triggered from the untimely death of a golfer, and they wanted to get all the footage of that golfer that they had. So, they had all the archives (audience member coughs) and they had no way to pull all of that back without having 30 interns that, over a weekend, have to look at all of this footage in order to do that. - Neil, do you want to jump in here and talk a little bit about how, you mentioned earlier that you saw a bit of a shift, a big shift, from the B to B to the B to C world? So, what does that mean, again, for the different audience members here in the room? How should they be thinking about who they are, in fact, using data to speak to? - So, there's a huge difference between what content producers and broadcasters need, in terms of tying the data field as described for their particular purpose of episodic review flow and what cutting it up, distributing it differently to attract new audiences and have different kinds of experiences. That definitely is a content producer or a broadcaster's set of required material. They gotta feel comfortable that they can get the maximum value out of that. I think, from an industry perspective, one of our top priorities is to (audience member coughs) talk with developing a hybrid measurement system that allows us to take traditional panel-based audiences with census-based audiences, and actually be able to understand the holistic, understand audiences holistically. So, what do I mean by that? If you're sitting there, and fortunately at Numeris, working with our members, most of the content is going to be captured. So, that's the good news. So, why would I be so focused on video, and pushing with an expansion of audience, which may have a 90%, over 90%. I think that's going to change. It's changed in the last year. It's gone down a couple of points. So, where does that take us? From the position that we absolutely need to understand every piece of content produced, who the audiences are and how they're consuming it. That will be the goal. So, to get there, we're going to have to help find a hybrid system where we can actually walk in doing the two. How do you take impressions, or how do you take views, and how do you compare that to (inaudible) 40 billion something equal to 5 million data picks. What's good? What's success? What's resonating with the audiences in terms of being comparing those audiences, and what's actually considered, from a sales perspective, a premium, or a unique audience demographic to sell against. We won't have systems in this country that do that right now, and so that's what we're building, to have a better understanding of audiences, holistically. So, that's what we're going to focus. The production side, and the respective tools within the content producers and broadcasters is something nice. Drawing curves and to spend time on, because I think that just informs their content decisions. - I know in looking at what producers need and speaking with them in this. Some of what they want to see are opportunities and barriers relating to a project's cast, for example. How those performers trend and where they're situated, who they speak to in terms of Canadian international audiences, even a title. Which audiences, which market segments will they appeal to, refining genres, and actually identifying and finding audiences, the kind of demographic segmentation that, and then the need to personalize within that context. So, I think given that we're looking at discoverability, not only in Canada but internationally. There is a need for tools for producers as well as the distribution side and the advertising side. - Mark, any comments from you? I know you're also looking at what the next generation of tools need to be. - Well, I think it's interesting when talking about the sort of producers and the kind of research that they need. I think there's a view now that we can use data to create the best show that everybody's going to want to watch, and I actually think that that's a bit of a false goal. I think great content is made by great minds, great creative people. Where there's a lot of development is actually in getting great content found with recommendations and engines, with advertising, to targeting ... Where the excitement is is in the long tail, is getting that show that you'd never even heard of, and getting it in front of you and realizing, oh my god, this is fantastic. I'm going to binge two seasons in a weekend. - Yeah, that's great. So Felix, to you a little bit, on the data be transitioned. - Sure. - You're going to think that I'm getting picky about... A little bit also from the producer's perspectives. - Yeah, so I think having that direct connection with your actual audience is still something that, at least on the television side, is still fairly new, from a historical perspective. You used to serve it out to a big audience, and you really didn't have a direct connection between a very specific viewer, and now, we have that opportunity to have that direct connection, and that really starts from the very beginning. The shows start developing a relationship with their audience, at the point that they essentially announce their production. And so, developing that relationship as you're actually creating the show, behind the scenes footage, having your cast members interact with the audience via social media. All of those things are tools that you simply didn't have a generation ago, with regards to the production. Basically, production was done in secret, you beamed it out and hopefully you got an audience, but now you can actually build that audience from the very beginning. And so, by the time your show actually premiers, and even the idea of a premiere is being turned on its head, because we now have shows that pre-premiere, that may air on an online platform before they air on linear broadcasts that are now doing day-to-day international airs. So, you used to have where a show would air domestically in some country first, then they'd roll out onto the rest of the world. Now, you have global premiers, where everything is airing at the same time. And so, the ability to form that relationship with the consumer from the very beginning is really key to building an audience and really driving that. That's a tool we just didn't have previously. - Thank you. Mark, what do people need to do to effectively integrate this into workflow? I'm going to actually ask each of you this. You work as a major broadcaster, how is ti changing the way that work happens? - Well, it's mind-blowing the kind of data that you can collect. As Felix was saying, you have to do that in a very meticulous way. You have to understand how the data is going to be used. But again, I think the big point is that we can all be collecting our own internal server data, we can then hopefully get it at a full circle level so we can combine it with other data sets and learn how to advertise to people who like yoga... Some of this is very micro niche targets, but the key thing is that we also need to remember that we're in industry, and the best way or all of us to have a good view of the total consumer, the total audience, and the grandeur of that moment is to have a trusted organization that we all work with, and providing data to, as well. - Felix, workflow. How is it shifting, and what are some of the places where its not working so well? - Sure. Well, I think part of it is you have to start at the very beginning, alright. You can't do all this great number-crunching data analytics unless your operational workflows are set at the beginning. So, starting with metadata and taxonomy. So, you're starting to actually see, at least in the states, actual executive positions being created to talk about metadata and taxonomy. So yeah, I've actually seen recently vice president of taxonomy, vice president of enterprise metadata, will actually sit in an - (audience member coughs) we created a director of that data taxonomy because unless you have that structure from the very beginning, you're going to have lots of different silos of data and the unique content identifiers that you need in order to be able to get that data back and be able to tie it all together. Unless you have kind of a master data plan that can tie all those pieces of content together, you're going to spend a lot of time trying to reconcile all that information, and you won't be able to do it in time away to be able to do anything actual. So, having your metadata and your taxonomies in place from the very beginning, and when you're designing your workflows for distribution, keeping all these things in mind because what I've started to see is that as each new measurement type comes about, it might then mean you have a new workflow that you have to implement, a new watermark you have to put on, a new tag that you have to put on, which can then, as everybody's trying to make their workflows more efficient, actually reverse the trend, and now you have a separate version for linear, a separate version for on-demand, a separate version for TV everywhere, which is the exact opposite direction you want to go from an operational cost perspective. So, those are the two things in particular that I would recommend that that's what focused on. - Thank you. Neil, is the technology reliable? Do we have any challenges as we're moving more and more to really looking to those data to help direct our decisions? - Well, Felix is betting on you need to ensure that the data is clean so you can do something with it, and dealing with the complications, and it's not easy. Everyone's dealing with the inconsistency, if you wish, and the operational challenges associated with that, as the industry finds new means to distribute content. So, we gotta get that right, and they're working hard on it. I'm fully confident that that will solve itself. And then, from there, we then need to enhance the system in this country, which is back to measuring audiences by way of the digital measurement system. And from there, we realized then, is we can actually understand across various audience types, then allow the ad effect of these tools to kick in and do what they need to do to inform those sort of commercial decisions. Allow, with a basis of understanding audiences on a holistic level, understand the producers, to understand the trends and the interests and what fascinates audiences, and what intrigues audiences, and what does the nation sharing experiences look like. And so, then they can effectively design content, and then do what this kind of summit is about, discovering audiences, discovering new content. I think if we don't have a stronger measurement system in this country to launch off, those other particular valued ad, if you wish, in this industry is going to be difficult to achieve. - So, we do have some time left, and I'm sure that there's questions or comments, and I see a hand up here. (audience member speaks inaudibly) Oh, microphone. Sorry. It would be great if you identified yourself, too, if you don't mind. (audience member coughing) - [Natalie] My name is Natalie and I'm from MIT. I have a question regarding privacy. So with all this new data that you're talking about, what are some of the privacy issues? How does it fit into the larger discussion about privacy in general, not just in relation to media analytics, and how does that relate to policy? - Privacy, of course, is a significant concern in this country and across the world. No doubt about it. I think privacy will come up more, in my recent experience, in the context of return path data. You look at just reviewing various practices around the world to address that, and respect privacy. So, at that, to the extent we're looking here at in the working booth, I can't comment on that. I'm impartially viewed, but I believe, in that context, beckons new privacy. Outside that, in terms of the standards, there are all these standards under which present day privacy is protected, will continue. I truly believe we're going to expand digital measurement in this country. It's going to be one of the strengths to its measurement standards that currently exist, which fully respect privacy and a respondent level. So, I am not concerned about privacy, in terms of going into the integration with that assessment that way, because we'll build it off the strengths that currently exist that respect privacy. - Do you want to be next? - That's a duesey. (laughing) It is the challenge of the new research age, because we want to have granular level data at the individual level, so that you can actually better offer programs, better target advertising, but the challenge is respecting privacy. It's great when we can post all this stuff on all of your social networks, but we still want - we're surprised when people see it sometimes. So, privacy is part of the new research age. We have to find a way to analyze the data and respect privacy. - Well, I think that that last point is really important, is how to look at anonymous data so that one can look at demographics and trends without... And extract from that the actual individuals - Yeah. - And looking at those sorts of analytic systems, and that's part of why its so great to have an all important census. Thank you, because we now have detail on educating citizens and people who live in this country. - Yeah, one more thing about it quick is that I think the key thing is actually if we can get the postal code level. If we can get to the postal code level, you don't realize how similar you are to your neighbors until you realize that we're going from panels. We're from an era where there's large panels and we have demographics, but then when the third-party data sets get combined, it gets combined at the postal code level, and it's at the assumption that you are similar to your neighbor. And so, from an operational perspective, when you get the postal code, you have a lot of information about somebody. - How has privacy made your risk context? - Well, a bunch of data that we're gathering that I was referring to is essentially voluntarily given, or you sign up for a contest or you sign up to be notified about certain things. And so, people are actually entering this data in or agreeing to provide that data via authentication, via Facebook, and then it goes along those lines to the extent that that data is being collected. It's being done voluntarily, no different that when I install an app on my phone. It says, well, when you install this app, you're going to volunteer where you are and all this stuff, and okay, well, I want it, so I'm going to hit okay. So, to that extent, and how the data is used. Obviously, it's used from aggregation perspective, obviously, but, I can't speak specifically to the regulatory aspects of it, but I know, certainly, that those are the kinds of things that they are looking to maintain best practices on, and making sure that they're not utilizing them in a way that won't be offensive, to the end. - Thank you. It's a little bit hard to see. Oh, Is the question over here? He's coming to you, I think. We will leave after your question. - [Voiceover] This better be be a good question, then. (laughing) My name is Kyle Mack, and my question is what security measurements are in place to protect the data that is in mind? - Numeris, do you want to start with that? - So yeah, elaborate on your question. When you say the data that is in mind, what do you mean by that? - [Kyle] So, the collected data that has been observed through organizations, or, for example, the signaling demonstrated by people entering contests, as you said, but what measures are put in place to protect the data and how long, necessarily, will it be kept? Is there anything in place, some regulatory body? What keeps the data given to solely the company and not given to anyone else? - Well, I can speak just from the Numeris perspective, which is an industry solution, as opposed to an individual member situation, because everyone collects data. Everybody collects data. So, because we adhere to strict methodologies, and very strict audit concerns, all of that has protected the respondent level in everything we do, in terms of integration of data sets, or ensuring that things are summarized at a level that respects privacy and respects the terms and conditions as acceptable, in terms of retention of data and the privacy of data. From an industry perspective, that's never been a concern, as far as I know, but I can only speak at the industry level. I can't speak at the member level. - Our lab actually works with a number of really, really significant data sets. One, frankly, from Analogic, who does some of the computational work behind Numeris, and the other from a major media outlet. All of that data is stripped of any identifications, and is actually kept on completely secure servers. Some of the work that we do only happens within the actual physical space of those entities because people are so incredibly protective of that data. We treat it as though it's data from medical records. So, there's a lot of security surrounding that, and a lot of respect for university researchers, and now, this will be true for your Carlton life. We're all subject to tri-council regulation in Canada, which means that there's a tremendous respect for privacy, securing data once its been analyzed, and I think it's really that industry, frankly, follow that kind of strict guidelines, as well, in how it manages personal data. That, in part, reflects on your question. Any other questions? It's hard to see people out there. Oh, good, good. There's somebody here with their hand up. And if I don't see you, just jump up and down and he'll arrive with the microphone. - [Kate] Hi, I'm Kate Hanley from Digital Theory Media Consulting, and I'm just wondering from any of you, including Sarah. Where we are with data for content creators, if we're to apply a lean, startup methodology to content creation, where we're failing early, we're failing fast, we're making changes to our content, and the data comes in, to our approach. What tools do we have available? I'm wondering if, Sarah, in your lab, if you're working with this at all. - That's such an interesting point. (laughs) There's actually a couple of content-focused companies in Canada right now that are looking at the kind of factors that I was talking about. So, really understanding at a granular level with audiences, casting, the relationship of their content and advertising. Not only understanding that of the Canadian, but the international context, and whether it's looking at aggregating different kinds of analytics tools, from Google Analytics to some of the more advertiser-focused tool sets to develop a new technology that would be specifically focused at the producer community, and would provide those analytics, both for larger companies who operate in the international Canadian market. And for what is described, sadly, as the squishy middle, those producers who do have the right on subsidy, and are just producing. You Tube content is great, but they're not producing for the You Tube environment, but to try and really give people those tools. So, (audience member coughs) stay tuned, because we're in the process of actually looking at some research funding to try build that environment and push it for that. I feel that a producer should not only rely, should not just rely on broadcasters and distributors to help with navigate this incredibly complex environment. I think that there's a need for sophisticated analytic tools that will help the producer community in Canada. I'm very anxious about what's going to happen to the amazing quality Canadian content that has happened. I think the public broadcaster, we'll hear from other people over the next day and a half, has a phenomenal role in maintaining public space and a mandate for quality Canadian content of all kinds, and their film board does as well, but they didn't receive double their funding in the last round of - - What do you mean double? (laughing) - I mean, it didn't receive a significant infusion of dollars, so stay tuned. I think there's a lot of work ahead in this space. Thank you for your question. I don't know if others want to pick that up. - That's a good answer. - Okay. I actually, okay, and then I have a question and then we're almost done. Okay, this one, and then that one. - [Megan] Hi. Megan Wigley. I just have a quick question about measuring audiences, obviously. The bane of any researcher is always, it comes down to sampling. So, we've talked a lot about the Canadian system, the technology, is it reliable, some of the upgrades that are being made, and how we have a world-class system of measuring, all the way down, and in fact measuring audiences as young as two years old. Their listening and viewing habits. I know that Nielson increased their sample size in the US a couple years ago, quite significantly, that they're being at 40% in some of their markets. We do the same here in Canada. So, I was just wondering if you wanted to comment a little bit about sampling and how important that is, for us in here in Canada, particularly, since we are trying to really lead in being able to measure niche audiences and smaller groups of audiences. - Sure, I'm happy to comment on that. So, there's, as I mentioned earlier, the only similarity between the two territories is the hardware, and that's the, because Nielson has the IP for the portable people meter. So, when you're talking about pannels, let's just go through some of the numbers. Neilson just went from a 20,000 to a 40,000 household panel. We're currently sitting at 4,528. On a per capita basis, Canada has a greater representation of panels than anyone. The UK has a 5,100 member panel, but, considering the population, on a per capita basis, so I think the panels of Numeris is world-class. If you look at the Netherlands, I think it's about 1,258. So, from a panel representation, we're on great ground. A huge difference, though, in terms of how the technology is used. Nielson is continuously changing this on the local level, recent announcements, but they've been largely connected to this set. So, it's basically, you're only measuring what's happening with that set at that point in time, versus where we're actually measuring content that's being consumed anywhere they are. People will wear these meters roughly 14 hours a day, so we are picking up a great deal of their exposure to content. So, I think from a panel representation, we're on great footing and representing and accurately reflecting the audiences of this country and the consumption of content. Did that answer the question? - Yeah, I'll just add to that. In the - We're comfortable with the size of the panel. I think we need to recognize how difficult it actually is to the cost and the audit, and the difficulty in sort of recruiting panelists. If we want to add more regularity to the system, we need to have return path data. So, we're going to have to maintain a high quality, large panel for the foreseeable future, but to measure the total audience, we want to get that granularity. It's not necessarily by increasing the panel. That can help if the industry can find the one who can do it, but I think it's actually in integrating return path data. That's where you're going to get your granularity. - Okay, thanks. Kate, I wanted to mention a company. They're - (audience member coughing) the West coast. They're called Alert TV, and they're actually building a predictive analytic system, focused on the needs of producers. So, predictive analytics is where you can look at trend analysis over time, and start to say, we think that these kinds of audiences would be interested in this kind of content. So, I know we have a question over here. You had your hand up? Would you mind, the mike? This will be our last question, and then we'll have a little wrap. - [Gretchen] Hi. My name's Gretchen, and I work in the community media sector, which is largely not served by the kind of data that we're focused on, so I'd like to just, as we're concluding, shift the conversation briefly to qualitative data, and what that can bring us in terms of a vision for new methodologies in 2016. Specifically, we want to think about the evaluation of existing regulatory policies, like the Diversity Voices policy, or to even think about impact, or the - going to the (audience member sneezes) of analysis. So, what kind of methods can we be inspired by, when it comes to more qualitative, or even audience research that doesn't serve a commercial purpose, which is my research interests. - Well, thanks for asking that question. You know, one of the things that I wanted to end with, actually, was to talk about the importance of data and other kinds of tools that we can use to either reflect on basically quantitative data, and I think colleagues also mentioned that there's still an incredibly important role for creative producers and discretionary decisions around what's actually produced, plus on the regulatory level. I mean, part of why I'm so interested in working with the producer community is to understand the long tail under princess markets, niche market capacity and other forms of distribution, which have been a strength in Canada, in a less subsidized world, but we absolutely need to have cultural studies and have graphic work that happens. The long side to the more, sort of, quantitative pieces, and you need those skill sets to look at the quantitative data, and help us understand how to acquire them. So, it's actually a great question to end on. Mark do you want to - - I'll just say that if you're talking communities, you're talking about a sort of micro-geographic area, and with companies like Equinox. They own a fantastic back home prism that lets you really just target in on very specific postal codes, and get all kinds of data about who the people in those areas are, and what they do, and how they get to work, and what they watch, and what they listen to. And so, in terms of community research, there's all kinds of new methodologies with that that open up open up new opportunities quick. - Thank you for your insights. - Thank you. - Non-commercial is my world, (laughing) and my practice. But all kidding aside, my wife runs a nonprofit that actually produces content for the theater community. It's the American theater wing, which produces the Tony Awards, which is a commercial venture, but then, as the nonprofit, her charge for the American theater wing is to expand audiences, expand people who go to see the theater and expand the cultural aspect of theater-going. And so, they utilize a lot of data that's created by state arts agencies, city cultural affairs groups, and also studies that are done through trade associations associated with the theater, in order to then produce, and her team actually produces premium content served, free of charge, to the the theater community, specifically based on these types of things. So, making sure that under-served audiences are presented with content that's specific to them, utilizing these data sources that are available to tailor that content for them. - Thank you. Any final comments? - Sure. I love the role of data, and the kind of intelligence and awareness that we get, in terms of understanding these audiences, and to the extent that, from a non-commercial perspective, that we can leverage the audience data that we have available, and tailor it allow it to be the starting point for a greater conversation around how to reach those audiences, whether community, or regional or national interests that you may have. So, access to Numeris data - produces can have access to Numeris data and use it in a way that fits their needs. So, I think more access to data, more granular data that Mark referred to earlier, and our collective efforts to get there is the way to go. - Thank you. Well, thank you very much, each of you, for participating in the panels. Thank you very much to the audience for being so engaged and asking great questions, and have a great rest of Discoverability. (applause) 