 Hello, my name is Adrian and I'm an engineer here at Keysight Technologies. In this video, we will be looking at an impaired wireless and signal using 802.11a standard to demonstrate advanced and specific demodulation troubleshooting techniques. When troubleshooting there are three key analysis techniques that when put together form a troubleshooting process as observed in this diagram. In this video, we'll be looking at this advanced troubleshooting analysis. The general approach is to look at different measurements and deduce an error. The first thing we do is look at the symbols and errors table. We notice that the value that most stands out from what's expected is the symbol clock error, which is fairly large. We also know that there is something wrong by simply looking at the constellation. In OFDM signals there are many impairments that can cause a constellation to have this behavior. Moving along we see that the error vector spectrum has a V shape with the error getting larger as we go away from the sensor. Looking at the error vector time trace, we see that the error gets worse as we get farther along in the measurement as well. Next, we can look at channel frequency response, which seems fairly normal. Putting everything together we know that we have an error that is frequency and time related; and we know that our symbol clock error is strange. The symbol clock error in fact can cause the behaviors we see in the time and frequency domain. The reason is that in the E spectrum we set the center of the spectrum as a reference point and with the symbol clock error the subcarrier spacing gets changed. As we go further away from the center the spacing gets larger and larger and that's why there is a larger error at the edges of the spectrum relative to the sensor. With EV time as we measure successive symbols the clock error is getting bigger. This causes bigger errors as they measure out in time. We can test this hypothesis because our software allows us to define what the subcarrier spacing is. To calculate the subcarrier spacing we multiply the current spacing by the symbol clock error to maintain the proportion and then decrease the original spacing by this product since it is a negative error. In this example it means decreasing the spacing by 4 Hz. When we change this, we see that the EV spectrum and EV time traces are much cleaner; and the symbol clock error goes way down, near to zero. Alternatively, we can fix a signal by enabling track timing. The software can track symbol clock timing on a symbol by symbol basis based on what we measure from pilots. By enabling track timing it is essentially taking what we have measured as our symbol clock error and correct space on that. Here we have many different selections for correcting. However the standard is very vague about how measuring equipment should be correcting the signal. If the standard doesn't specifically say that something should be corrected, than our product will show it as the error; and if the desired to correct for these and we provide options for the corrections as well. 