 Hello fans of Better Biz Academy and Six Figure Writing Secrets. This week's free training video is about whether it makes sense to use time tracking software with your digital team and how to use it effectively and start off your relationship with trust. When you first start working with someone new and I don't care whether this is your first VA or your tenth VA, there's a tendency to want to know exactly what they're doing and how they're doing it. And sometimes business owners can think that that comes across the wrong way like you want to micromanage the VA or keep track of everything they're doing but there's actually a whole other reason why it makes sense to use time tracking software. A lot of times ,as the client in this situation, we don't realize how long certain things are going to take. I actually don't know how long it would take me to input a newsletter into Mailchimp and send out a test email and then edit it and send it out. I'm not really sure. So for me, having my VA track how long that takes at least at the beginning of our relationship, helps me figure out a couple of things. First of all, it helps me figure out whether it makes sense to outsource that task. Maybe it's something that I actually could do more quickly than another person and I should keep it in-house. The second major thing that I learned from that is how long it's actually going to take my VA to do it so it gives me a sense of a deadline, you know, if it takes her an hour to do it and I want it to go out with you know at least 24 hours ahead of time, I've got to be done at the absolute latest by then and that's assuming my VA has no other clients or projects they're working on right, so it helps keep me on task and ahead of deadline. And then the third major reason that it makes sense to keep track of how long it's taking your VA to do certain things is so that you can get a perspective on the amount of work you're doing per week. Sometimes we get in a delegating frenzy and it's really exciting to take things off your plate and have your VA working on it and occasionally someone on my team will come back to me and say "Listen I've got way too much on my plate." - like this project was much bigger than we thought, it's going to take more time than we thought, so other things are going to have to fall off the list and in that situation someone on my team may ask for a clarification on priority right, like "Can I push off this project because we have this fire right in front of us and that needs to be dealt with, correct?" and they'll clarify that. So for me having a general sense of how long things might take like creating a landing page, sending newsletters, scheduling social media, making graphics, scheduling my podcasts - it's helpful for me to have a general sense of how long that usually takes so that I don't overload people. So your virtual assistant might be a little bit uncomfortable with tracking every minute that they spend their time if they're on retainer, but a lot of VA's actually do hourly packages so they're probably doing this anyway. So if you're just asking them to provide you a quick breakdown at the end of every week or bi-weekly with what they've done and how long it took them to do - it's probably not that much of a hassle for them to do it. It's not really that much more work for them to be able to tell you "Okay, hey I spent three hours on social, I spent two on newsletters, I spent four responding to customer service emails. That gives you a general sense of also where your business is at so that you can hire another virtual assistant or more team members if possible. So one of the things, this actually played out in my business recently, is I have a business manager who is great and I've dumped a lot of stuff on her and some of it has been last minute and so as I realized that she had less and less bandwidth to take it on, it made me restructure how I was delegating to people on my team. I brought in somebody else to help with some of these other tasks that could be time-consuming or so that would free up a little bit of her time to work on the bigger picture tasks. So there's so many reasons why it makes sense to ask your VA to track time now over the course of your relationship you may decide that you no longer need to do it or that it just doesn't make sense for you to be handling your business in that way and that's okay, but originally at least at the outset or whenever you're doing a new project or it's a different style of relationship, I recommend doing it because of all the reasons I already mentioned. It will also make it easier for your VA to figure out what to charge if they're doing things hourly. They should already be tracking it so don't make it seem like you need them to account for every single second that they spend in your business - that's a hassle, that's annoying. You don't want to micromanage them. We're just looking for general estimates here. And of course, there is always the perspective where if someone comes back to you with the task that you thought was going to take an hour and they billed you for five, there's an opportunity for a conversation there about what went wrong like you either clearly misunderstood the scope and the depth of that project or the VA took way too long to do it or you were being over billed and they're being disingenuous. I would honestly say that is really the exception rather than the rule. A lot of times your VA is just going to track time so that they can plan out their week in advance. They are much like you as a business owner - they like to plot things out on a schedule and know when and how things are coming to them and they're probably doing it if they're billing hourly. But most of the time, it's not going to be a situation where the VA is malicious or disingenuous but time tracking can help you guard against that or at least have some peace of mind about how you'll handle it if it happens. So time tracking makes sense there's a lot of free tools to do it - Toggl works really well if you want to have a time tracking tool. If you have a contract on Upwork, you can request they use the time tracker that way. Some form of keeping track of things can help you restructure your business, can help you tell when you've overloaded somebody, and it really just has so many benefits for you if you present it in the right way to the virtual assistant - that you're not using this as a way to keep on top of them and try to make them prove that they're doing what they say they're doing - usually a VA is going to understand that you're using it for different purposes or that you know this idea of bearing down on them and looking into every single minute they spend is not the real purpose of the time tracking software. So I recommend using it. Invoicing software sometimes - FreshBooks or Godaddy bookkeeping will also allow them to track time as well. So whatever they're using, try to work with their system unless it's going to be a big shift for you to adjust your expectations and the software used. Make it simple for them to track time. Provide feedback where necessary and then one of my favorite tips too is - when you give a new assignment, ask them how long they think it might actually take. It's not always going to be perfect especially if it's a new project or at a task they haven't worked on before but that's a good way to have an estimate so that you and the VA are not on totally different pages when it comes to completing the project. So best of luck with all your outsourcing. I hope you're able to take some things off your plate this week. 