BusinessThe CompanyWe are a global leader in the Automatic Identification and Data Capture (“AIDC”) market. The AIDC market consists of mobile computing, data capture, radio frequency identification devices (“RFID”), barcode printing, and other automation products and services. The Company’s solutions are proven to help our customers and end-users achieve their mission critical strategic business objectives, including improved operational efficiency, optimized workflows, increased asset utilization, and better customer experiences. We design, manufacture, and sell a broad range of AIDC products, including: mobile computers, barcode scanners, RFID readers, specialty printers for barcode labeling and personal identification, real-time location systems (“RTLS”), related accessories and supplies, such as self-adhesive labels and other consumables, and software utilities and applications. We also provide a full range of services, including maintenance, technical support, repair, managed and professional services, including cloud-based subscriptions. End-users of our products and services include retail and e-commerce, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, health care, hospitality, warehouse and distribution, energy and utilities, government, and education enterprises around the world. We provide our products and services globally through a direct sales force and extensive network of channel 4Table of Contentspartners. We provide products and services in over 180 countries, with 109 facilities and approximately 7,400 employees worldwide.Through innovative application of our technologies, we are leading an evolution of the AIDC market into Enterprise Asset Intelligence (“EAI”). Specifically, EAI encompasses solutions which “sense” information from enterprise assets, including packages moving through a supply chain, equipment in a factory, workers in a warehouse, and shoppers in a store. Operational data from enterprise assets, including status, location, utilization, and preferences, is then analyzed to provide actionable insights. Finally, with the benefits of mobility, these insights can be delivered to the right user at the right time to drive more effective actions. As a result, our solutions and technologies enable enterprises to “sense, analyze, and act” more effectively to improve operational effectiveness and achieve critical business objectives.The evolution of the AIDC market toward a more strategically oriented EAI focus is being driven by strong underlying secular trends in technology. These trends include internet of things (“IoT”), cloud-based data analytics, and mobility. The IoT is enabling a proliferation of smart, connected devices. EAI solutions, which include these smart, connected devices, capture a much broader range of information than is possible with traditional AIDC solutions and communicate this information in real-time. Cloud computing and expanded data analytics are allowing enterprises to make better business decisions through improved timeliness and visibility to information and workflows. While traditional AIDC solutions sporadically capture limited amounts of data and populate static enterprise systems, EAI solutions continuously analyze real-time data from many sources to generate actionable insights. Finally, the continued rapid growth of mobile devices and applications are significantly expanding mobile computing use cases to levels of near ubiquity in the enterprise. With this expanded mobility, end-users can consume or act upon dynamic enterprise data and information anytime and anywhere. The broad availability of wireless and internet connectivity also supports the adoption and deployment of the Company’s solutions to enable organizations to collect more data in real-time on the location, movement, and condition of their assets.Acquisition of Xplore BusinessOn August 14, 2018, the Company acquired all outstanding equity interests of Xplore Technologies Corporation (“Xplore”), for $87 million in cash, which included, $72 million for the net assets acquired, a $9 million payment of Xplore debt as well as $6 million of other Xplore transaction-related obligations. The Xplore business designs, integrates, markets and sells rugged tablets that are primarily used by industrial, government, and field service organizations. The acquisition of Xplore is intended to expand the Company’s portfolio of mobile computing devices to serve a wider range of customers. See Note 5, Business Acquisition and Divestiture in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.DispositionOn October 28, 2016, the Company concluded the sale of Extreme Networks, Inc., its wireless LAN (“WLAN”) business, for net proceeds of $39 million. See Note 5, Business Acquisition and Divestiture in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Integration of Enterprise BusinessIn October 2014, the Company acquired the Enterprise business (“Enterprise”), excluding its iDEN or Integrated Digital Enhanced Network Business, from Motorola Solutions, Inc. (“MSI”) for $3.45 billion in cash. The Company funded the acquisition of Enterprise through a combination of the sale of $1.1 billion senior notes due in 2022, a credit agreement with various lenders that provided a $2.2 billion term loan due in 2021, and cash on hand. In 2017, the Company executed a debt restructuring program to lower its cost of debt, which included amending its credit facilities, establishing a Receivables Financing Facility and fully redeeming the $1.1 billion senior notes. In 2018, the Company executed a second debt restructuring program, which included entering into Amendment No. 1 to the “A&R Credit Agreement” (“Amendment No. 1”) that included an increase to the credit facility and partial extinguishment of the term loan, further lowering the cost of debt. See Note 11, Long-Term Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Since closing the acquisition of Enterprise in October 2014, integration activities by the Company have focused on creating “One Zebra” by integrating the operations of Enterprise to create a single business with common sales, service, supply chain, marketing, finance, information technology (“IT”), and other functions. Our integration priorities centered on maintaining business continuity while identifying and implementing cost synergies, operating efficiencies, and integration of functional organizations and processes. Another key focus of the integration was to conclude MSI-provided transition service agreements (“TSAs”) related primarily to IT support services. These TSAs were an interim measure to continue the operations of the Enterprise business without disruption while integration activities were completed.During 2017, the Company substantially completed its integration activities, including the implementation of a common enterprise resource planning system, associated with the Enterprise acquisition. The Company also exited the TSAs with MSI. 5Table of ContentsOperationsOur operations consist of two segments: (1) Asset Intelligence & Tracking (“AIT”), comprised of barcode and card printing, location solutions, supplies, and services; and (2) Enterprise Visibility & Mobility (“EVM”), comprised of mobile computing, data capture, RFID, and services.Asset Intelligence & TrackingBarcode and Card Printing: We design, manufacture, and sell printers, which produce high-quality labels, wristbands, tickets, receipts, and plastic cards on demand. Our customers use our printers in a wide range of applications, including routing and tracking, patient safety, transaction processing, personal identification, and product authentication. These applications require high levels of data accuracy, speed, and reliability. They also include specialty printing for receipts and tickets for improved customer service and productivity gains. Plastic cards are used for secure, reliable personal identification (e.g. state identification cards and drivers’ licenses, healthcare IDs), access control (e.g. employee or student building access), and financial cards (e.g. credit, debit and ATM cards) by financial institutions. Our RFID printers/encoders are used to print and encode passive RFID labels. We offer a wide range of accessories and options for our printers, including vehicle mounts and battery chargers. Supplies: We produce and sell stock and customized thermal labels, receipts, ribbons, plastic cards, and wristbands suitable for use with our printers, and also wristbands which can be imaged in most commercial laser printers. We support our printing products, resellers, and end-users with an extensive line of superior quality, high-performance supplies optimized to a particular end-user’s needs. We promote the use of genuine Zebra branded supplies with our printing equipment. We also provide a family of self-laminating wristbands for use in laser printers. These wristbands are marketed under the LaserBand® name. We operate supplies production facilities located in the United States and Western Europe. We supplement our in-house production capabilities with those of third-party manufacturers to offer genuine Zebra supplies, principally in Asia.Services:  We provide a full range of maintenance, technical support, and repair services. We also provide managed and professional services including those which help customers manage their devices and related software applications. Our offerings include cloud-based subscriptions and multiple service levels. They are typically contracted through multi-year service agreements. We provide our services directly and through our global network of partners.Location Solutions: The Company offers a range of RTLS and services which incorporate active and passive RFID and other tracking technologies to enable users to locate, track, manage, and optimize the utilization of enterprise assets and personnel. We provide substantially all elements of the location solution, including tags, sensors, exciters, middleware software, and application software. Our location solutions are deployed primarily in manufacturing, aerospace, transportation and logistics, sports, and healthcare industries. Various sports teams utilize our Zebra MotionWorks® sports solution to track the location and movement of personnel and objects in real-time during sporting events, as well as in training and practice activities.Enterprise Visibility & MobilityMobile Computing: We design, manufacture, and sell rugged and enterprise-grade mobile computing products and accessories in a variety of specialized form factors and designs to meet a wide variety of enterprise applications. Industrial applications include inventory management in warehouses and distribution centers; field mobility applications include field service, post and parcel, and direct store delivery; and retail and customer facing applications include e-commerce, omnichannel, mobile point of sale, inventory look-up, and staff collaboration. Our products incorporate both Android™ and Microsoft® Windows® operating systems and support local-area and wide-area voice and data communications. Our mobile computing products often incorporate barcode scanning, global position system (“GPS”) and RFID features, and other sensory capabilities. We also provide related software tools, utilities, and applications.Data Capture and RFID: We design, manufacture, and sell barcode scanners, image capture devices, and RFID readers. Our portfolio of barcode scanners includes laser scanning and imager products and form factors, including fixed, handheld, and embedded original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) modules. The Company’s data capture products capture business-critical information by decoding barcodes and images, and transmit the resulting data to enterprise systems for analysis and timely decision making. Common applications include asset identification and tracking and workflow management in a variety of industries, including retail, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, and healthcare. Our RFID line of data capture products is focused on ultra-high frequency (“UHF”) technology. These RFID devices comply with the electronic product code (“EPC”) global Generation 2 UHF standard and similar standards around the world. We also provide related accessories.Services: We provide a full range of maintenance, technical support, and repair services. We also provide managed and professional services that, among other things, help customers design, test, and deploy our solutions as well as manage their mobility devices, software applications and workflows. Our offerings include cloud-based subscriptions and multiple service levels. They are typically contracted through multi-year service agreements. We provide our services directly and through our global network of partners.6Table of ContentsOur Competitive StrengthsThe following are core competitive strengths that we believe enable us to differentiate ourselves from our competitors:An industry leader focused solely on improving enterprise operationsWe are a market leader in the key technologies of Enterprise Asset Intelligence, including mobile computing, barcode and card printing, data capture, and RFID readers. We also provide related software, services, and accessories. Our leadership position enables us to work with and support customers globally, in a variety of industries, who are focused on implementing leading-edge solutions.High entry and switching barriersOn a global basis, we have long-standing relationships with end customers and with our extensive network of channel partners. We believe these customer relationships and our strong partner network are critical to our success and would be difficult for a new market entrant to replicate. We believe a significant portion of our products are deployed with specialized product performance and software application requirements, which could result in high switching costs.Commitment to innovation and deep industry-specific expertiseWe leverage our strong commitment to innovation and deep industry-specific expertise to deliver end-to-end solutions to a wide array of industries, with a broad portfolio of products and services.Highly diversified business mixWe are highly diversified across business segments, end markets, geographies, customers, and suppliers. Additionally, we have strong recurring business in services and supplies driven by an extensive global installed base of products.Global reach and brandWe sell to customers directly and through our network of channel partners around the world. This global presence gives us the capability to supply our customers with products, solutions, and services no matter the location of their operations. In addition, we believe we have strong brand recognition with a reputation in the industry as a trusted and strategic partner.  Scale advantagesWe believe the size and scope of our operations, including market leadership, product development investment, portfolio breadth, and global distribution, give us advantages over our competitors. We believe we have the largest installed base of products compared with other companies in our industry. These characteristics enable us to compete successfully, achieve economies of scale, and develop industry-leading solutions.Our Business StrategiesLeverage our market leadership position and innovation to profitably grow our core businessWe expect to drive revenue growth by continuing to outpace our competition in our core businesses, including mobile computing, data capture, barcode printing, and services. We expect to achieve this by leveraging our broad portfolio of solutions and product innovation and continuing to be a strategic partner to end customers. We also expect to drive growth by capitalizing on technology transitions occurring in the industry, including the transition to the Android™ operating system in mobile computing and transitions in data capture to newer technologies involving 2D imaging and RFID. This includes increased focus on market segments and geographies that offer share-gain opportunities. In addition, we plan to leverage our market-leading installed base to accelerate growth in attach-oriented products, including services, supplies, and accessories. Our global channel partner network is vital to helping us achieve these goals. As such, we will ensure that we provide the necessary value and support for our partners to be successful.Drive our Enterprise Asset Intelligence visionWe believe that secular technology trends, particularly in IoT, cloud computing, automation, and mobility are transforming our customers’ businesses and our industry and provide us with significant new opportunities to create value for our customers and for the Company. We expect to capitalize on these trends, and in particular the proliferation of smart connected sensors and devices in our core market segments, by providing end-to-end solutions that integrate these sensors and devices with cloud-based workflows and analytics applications. These solutions will enable increased visibility into the enterprise, real-time, actionable information, and improved customer experiences. Our solutions will also increasingly include common features, functions, and user experiences to drive additional competitive differentiation.Increase our opportunity for growth through expansion in adjacent market segmentsWe plan to drive growth through expansion, organically or inorganically, in adjacent market segments that share similar technology needs with our core markets. We will focus specifically on segments where our products and solutions, workflow expertise, and customer and industry relationships will enable us to provide significant value to end users.  7Table of ContentsEnhance financial strength and flexibilityWe intend to continue to improve profitability and cash flow generation through operational execution and increased productivity derived from continuous business process improvement, cost management, and focus on working capital efficiency.CompetitionWe operate in a highly competitive environment. The need for companies to improve productivity and implement their strategies, as well as the secular trends around IoT, cloud computing, automation, and mobility, are some of the factors that are creating growth opportunities for established and new competitors.Key competitive factors include the design, breadth and quality of products and services, price, product performance, durability, product and service availability, warranty coverage, brand recognition, company relationships with customers and channel partners, and company reputation. We believe we compete effectively with respect to these factors.Mobile Computing: Competitors in mobile computing include companies that have historically served enterprises with ruggedized devices. For some applications, we compete with companies that provide tablets and smart phones. Competitors include: Datalogic, Honeywell, and Panasonic.Data Capture and RFID: Competitors that provide a broad portfolio of barcode scanning products that are suitable for most global market applications include Datalogic and Honeywell. We also compete against smaller companies that focus on limited product subsets or specific regions, including Fujian Newland and Impinj.Barcode and Card Printing: We consider our direct competition in printing to be producers of on-demand thermal transfer and direct thermal label printing systems, RFID printer/encoders, and mobile printers. We also compete with companies engaged in the design, manufacture, and marketing of printing systems that use technologies such as ink-jet, direct marking and laser printing, as well as card printers based on ink-jet, thermal transfer, embossing, film-based systems, encoders, laser engraving, and large-scale dye sublimation printers. In addition, service bureaus, which provide centralized services, compete for end-user business and provide an alternative to our card printing solutions. Competitors include: Fargo Electronics (a unit of HID Global), Honeywell, Sato, and Toshiba TEC.Location Solutions: We compete with a diverse group of companies marketing location solutions that are primarily based on active RFID technologies. Competitors include: Cisco, Impinj, and Stanley Healthcare.Supplies: The supplies industry is highly fragmented with competition comprised of numerous companies of various sizes around the world.CustomersEnd-users of our products are diversified across a wide variety of industries, including retail and e-commerce, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, and healthcare industries. We have had three customers that each accounted for 10% or more of our Net sales over the past three years. All three of these customers are distributors and not end-users of our products. No end-user has accounted for 10% or more of our Net sales during these years. See Note 18, Segment Information & Geographic Data in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016Customer A20.3% 21.3% 20.1%Customer B15.7% 14.2% 13.2%Customer C14.1% 13.2% 12.4%8Table of ContentsSales and MarketingSales: We sell our products, solutions, and services primarily through distributors (two-tier distribution), value added resellers (“VARs”), independent software vendors (“ISVs”), direct marketers, and OEMs. We also sell directly to a select number of customers through our direct sales force. Distributors purchase our products and sell to VARs, ISVs and others, thereby increasing the distribution of our products globally. VARs, ISVs, OEMs, and systems integrators provide customers with a variety of hardware, accessories, software applications, and services. VARs and ISVs typically customize solutions for specific end-user applications using their industry, systems, and applications expertise. Some OEMs resell the Zebra-manufactured products under their own brands as part of their own product offering. Because these sales channels provide specific software, configuration, installation, integration, and support services to end-users within various industry segments, these relationships are highly valued by end-users and allow our products to reach customers in a wide array of industries around the world. We believe that the breadth of our distributor and channel partner network is a competitive differentiator and enhances our ability to compete. Finally, we experience some seasonality in sales, depending upon the geographic region and industry served.Marketing: Our marketing function aligns closely with sales and product management functions to market our products and to deliver and promote solutions that address the needs of our customers and partners. Our marketing organization includes regional and channel marketing teams that interface closely with customers, partners, and sellers. Our marketing organization also includes teams that support global strategies and communications, including portfolio marketing, digital marketing, marketing operations and communications, and strategic marketing functions.Manufacturing and OutsourcingFinal assembly of our hardware products is performed by third-parties, including electronics manufacturing services companies (“EMS”) and joint design manufacturers (“JDMs”). Our products are produced primarily in facilities located in China, Mexico, and Brazil. These JDMs or manufacturers produce our products to our design specifications. We maintain control over portions of the supply chain, including supplier selection and price negotiations for key components. The manufacturers purchase the components and subassemblies used in the production of our products. Our products are shipped to regional distribution centers, operated by 3rd party logistics providers (“3PL’s”) or the Company. A portion of products are reconfigured at the distribution centers through firmware downloads, packaging, and customer specific customization before they are shipped to customers. In addition, certain products are manufactured in accordance with procurement regulations and various international trade agreements, and remain eligible for sale to the U.S. government. Production facilities for our supplies products are located in the U.S. and Western Europe. We also supplement our in-house production capabilities with those of third-party manufacturers to offer our supplies, principally in Asia.Research and DevelopmentThe Company devotes significant resources to developing innovative solutions for our target markets and ensuring that our products and services maintain high levels of reliability and provide value to end-users. Research and development expenditures for the years ended 2018, 2017, and 2016 were $444 million, $389 million, and $376 million, or 10.5%, 10.5% and 10.5% of Net sales, respectively. We have more than 1,900 engineers worldwide focused on strengthening and broadening our extensive portfolio of products and solutions.Our TechnologyMobile Computing: Our mobile computing products incorporate a wide array of advanced technologies in rugged, ergonomic enclosures to meet the needs of specific use cases. These purpose-built devices couple hardened industry-standard operating systems with specialized hardware and software features to satisfy a customer’s mission-critical applications. Purpose-built rugged housings ensure reliable operations for targeted use cases, surviving years of rough handling and harsh environments. Specialized features such as advanced data capture technologies, voice and video collaboration tools, and advanced battery technologies enable our customers to work more efficiently and better serve their customers. A broad portfolio of enterprise accessories further tailors mobile computers to meet a wide variety of enterprise use cases. Our mobile computers are offered with software tools and services that support application development, device configuration, and field support to facilitate smooth and rapid deployment and ensure maximum customer return on investment.Data Capture and RFID: Our data capture products allow businesses to track business critical information simply, quickly, and accurately by providing critical visibility into business processes and performance and enabling real-time action in response to the information. These products include barcode scanners in a variety of form factors, including fixed and handheld scanners and standalone modules designed for integration into third-party OEM devices. Our scanners incorporate a variety of technologies including area imagers, linear imagers, lasers, and read linear, and two-dimensional barcodes. They are used in a broad range of applications, ranging from supermarket checkout to industrial warehouse optimization to patient management in hospitals. The design of these products reflects the diverse needs of these markets, with different ergonomics, multiple communication protocols, and varying levels of ruggedness.9Table of ContentsOur RFID products include fixed readers, RFID enabled mobile computers, and RFID sleds. These utilize passive Ultra High Frequency (“UHF”) to provide high speed, non-line of sight data capture from hundreds or thousands of RFID tags in near real-time. Using the Electronic Product Code (“EPC”) standard, end-users across multiple industries take advantage of RFID technology to track high-value assets, monitor shipments, and drive increased retail sales though improved inventory accuracy. We also offer mobile computers that support high frequency (“HF”) near-field communications (“NFC”) and low frequency (“LF”) radio technologies.Barcode and Card Printing: All of the Company’s printers and print engines incorporate thermal printing technology. This technology creates an image by heating certain pixels of an electrical printhead to selectively image a ribbon or heat-sensitive substrate. Thermal printing benefits applications requiring simple and reliable operations, yet it is flexible enough to support a wide range of specialty label materials and associated inks. Our dye-sublimation thermal card printers produce full-color, photographic quality images that are well-suited for driver’s licenses, access and identification cards, transaction cards, and on-demand photographs. Many of our printers also incorporate RFID technology that can encode data into passive RFID transponders embedded in a label or card.The Company’s printers integrate company-designed mechanisms, electrical systems, and firmware. Enclosures of metal or high-impact plastic ensure the durability of our printers. Special mechanisms optimize handling of labels, ribbons, and plastic cards. Fast, high-current electrical systems provide consistent image quality. Firmware supports serial, parallel, Ethernet, USB, Bluetooth, or 802.11 wireless communications with appropriate security protocols. Printing instructions can be received as a proprietary language such as Zebra Programming Language II (“ZPL II®”), as a print driver-provided image, or as user-defined XML. These features make our printers easy to integrate into virtually all common computer systems.Location Solutions: Our RTLS solutions use active and passive RFID technologies, beacons, and other tracking technologies to locate, track, manage, and optimize high-value assets, equipment, and people. We offer a range of scalable RTLS technologies that generate precise, on-demand information about the physical location and status of high-valued assets. In addition, we offer a selection of RTLS infrastructure products that receive tag transmissions and provide location and motion calculations, database and system management functions and asset visibility. The flexible infrastructure supports large tag populations and coverage areas that range from small to large.Supplies: Our supplies business includes thermal labels, receipts, ribbons, plastic cards and wristbands suitable for use with our printers, and wristbands which can be imaged in most commercial laser printers. Our wristbands incorporate multi-layer form technology to ensure trouble-free printing, wearer comfort, and reliable barcode reading, even when exposed to harsh chemical environments. We offer many thermal label, card, and receipt materials, and matching ribbons for diverse applications that may require meeting unique or precise specifications, including chemical or abrasion resistance, extreme temperatures, exceptional image quality, or long life.Intellectual PropertyWe rely on a combination of trade secrets, patents, trademarks, copyrights, and contractual rights to establish and protect our innovations, and hold a large portfolio of intellectual property rights in the U.S. and other countries. As of December 31, 2018, the Company owned approximately 1,800 trademark registrations and trademark applications, and over 4,400 patents and patent applications, worldwide. We continue to actively seek to obtain patents and trademarks, whenever possible and practical, to secure intellectual property rights in our innovations.We believe that our intellectual property will continue to provide us with a competitive advantage in our core product areas as well as provide leverage for future technologies. We also believe that we are not dependent upon any single patent or select group of patents. Our success depends more upon our extensive know-how, deep understanding of end-user processes and work-flows, innovative culture, technical leadership and marketing and sales abilities. Although we do not rely only on patents or other intellectual property rights to protect or establish our market position, we will enforce our intellectual property rights when and where appropriate.EmployeesAs of December 31, 2018, the Company had approximately 7,400 employees. Some portions of our business, primarily in Europe, China, and India are subject to labor laws that differ significantly from those in the U.S. In Europe, for example, it is common for a works council to represent employees when discussing matters such as compensation, benefits, restructurings and layoffs. We consider our relations with our employees to be very good.Regulatory MattersWireless Regulatory MattersOur business is subject to certain wireless regulatory matters.10Table of ContentsThe use of wireless voice, data, and video communications systems requires radio spectrum, which is regulated by government agencies throughout the world. In the U.S., the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (“NTIA”) regulate spectrum use by non-federal entities and federal entities, respectively. Similarly, countries arou