 Hey, Angie Nelson here from theworkathomewife.com. Have you heard whispers of these mysterious virtual assistant jobs and wondered, "What is this? I really want a fulfilling work-at-home job that actually pays the bills. Is this something that I could do?" Well today we are going to be talking about what a virtual assistant does, what skills and equipment you'll need to get started, and also some great companies that hire at-home virtual assistants. Make sure you stay till the end of the video to find out how you can get my seven day series on finding work at home free. Virtual assistants in a nutshell are simply people who are hired by other people to get tasks done. Now, not only do bloggers hire them all the time, but there are many, many small and large companies alike that do as well. Now by being a virtual assistant you can do a lot of office work, and social media type tasks, all from the comfort of your own home, and also on your own schedule in most cases. There are a number of skills that virtual assistants can offer to others. These things can be email management, calendar management, research, social media account management, blog post services, following up with clients, and more. Any tasks that a blogger or a business owner may need to do, may be able to be done by a virtual assistant. Now, the specific skills, or the amount of experience that you are going to need are going to be dependent on the type of company that you want to work for, and the type of tasks that you would like to offer. For example, if you want to be a virtual assistant for a dentist office, then some knowledge of running a dental office, or secretarial work is going to be of benefit to you. If you want to be a virtual assistant for a well-known blogger, then running your own blog may provide you with the experience that you need. Now there are no specific tasks, or excuse me, classes that you need to take or degrees that you need to have to work in this field. You simply need to have great knowledge of this skill that you are hoping to get hired to do. Whether that's publishing on WordPress, calling clients, optimizing posts for search engine optimization, or even contacting brands for sponsorships. Now, the great news is that you can learn these skills online. You can often get the experience that you need right from the comfort of your own home. Now, one thing you may be wondering is, "How much do virtual assistants earn?" That's a great question. You can really make good money as a virtual assistant if you know what you're doing. You may be able to ask $20 or more for tasks like scheduling blog posts, or blog community management. If you're offering more specialized skills like freelance writing, you may be able to get $350 or more per post depending on the research, and the post length. Now those offering social media management can easily warrant over $300 per month for scheduling status updates, and community management. Now your next question is obviously, "Who hires virtual assistants?" Well, the most lucrative positions are going to be those that you secure on your own, those clients that you go out and contract on your ... by yourself. But if you are just looking to get started, and maybe you want to test the waters to see if this virtual assistant thing is for you, there are some great companies that hire at-home workers. Now, 99 Social is a company that hires social media content specialists. These people handle their clients' social media profiles like Facebook, or Twitter. You do need to commit to a minimum of 10 accounts, that's approximately three-and-a-half hours a week. The pay averages about $12 per hour according to their website. Now Belay is another company that hires VAs. These are really high level executive positions. For this one, they want people with a bachelor's degree, and at least five years of executive assistant experience. Fancy Hands is a company that pays on a per project basis. Each task will be assigned a specific rate based on its level of difficulty and the time that's required. Right now Fancy Hands is only hiring within the US. They're only looking for specialized service providers. You'll just need to revisit their job board often to see what they have a current need for. Now FireGang is a company where no experience is necessary. You do need to commit to 15 to 25 hours per week, and their pay is 15 to $17 per hour depending on experience. Gabbyville is a company that hires at home receptionists. This one, they usually have their openings listed on FlexJobs, which is my favorite job board for at home work. They do all of the research as far as legitimacy is concerned and making sure that jobs are actually scam free. Keep your eye on FlexJobs for listings from Gabbyville. Worldwide101 is another company that's specifically looking for those with advanced skills, and a high level of professionalism right now. The pay is great, and they also offer somewhat flexible schedule, so give them a look as well. Now there are plenty of virtual assistant jobs out there if you know where to look. In the description below, I'm going to go ahead and leave you a link to find a more comprehensive list of virtual assistant jobs, and also some additional places that you can look for job leads. That list should at lease get you started in the right direction. Now if you liked today's video, please go ahead and click the like button, share it with your friends, and make sure that you are subscribed. Thanks for watching, and make sure that you pick up your free seven day series on finding work at home in the description below. I will see you next time. 