 Andrew Eggelton: This is season two of The Business Playroom, and I'm very ... What's the word I'm looking for? I'm very happy. That's a bit lame, isn't it? Andrew Morello: Excited. Andrew Eggelton: I'm very excited. I'm very excited to have the winner of the first Apprentice here, Andrew Morello. Thank you very much for coming on. Andrew Morello: Thank you for having me. Andrew Eggelton: You're the first person I've shaken hands with. And Renée Hasseldine, and over here my other co-host Samantha Riley. I've managed to get in there without spilling water or knocking that over. Andrew Morello: Yeah, I'm impressed. Renée Hasseldin: That's a talent. It's a talent. Andrew Morello: You're doing really well for yourself. You should get a gold star. Renée Hasseldin: You've totally made it in the world. Andrew Eggelton: I'm going off today. Andrew Morello: Fantastic. Andrew Eggelton: Okay, we're starting. This is The Business Playroom, I've already said that, haven't I? And Andrew Morello, tell us a little about yourself. Andrew Morello: I'm just a simple boy from Moonee Ponds, originally, trying to get ahead in life. Andrew Eggelton: With highlights. Andrew Morello: With highlights, yeah. Andrew Eggelton: Simple boys don't have highlights. Renée Hasseldin: From Bondi. Andrew Morello: Yeah, now living in Bondi. Correct, now living in Bondi. I, as you said, won the first Australian Apprentice but I'm also head of business development at Yellow Brick Road wealth management, which is a publicly listed company with our executive chairman Mark Bouris. And probably the biggest thing I'm working on now is my philanthropic work internationally. So I've just gotten back from Papua New Guinea [inaudible 00:01:55] for indigenous education and I leave on Tuesday for Cambodia with Project Gen Z's run entrepreneur programme. We're taking 25 international entrepreneurs to work with the children that are slightly older now in the outreach programme that have gone through Sunrise Village, which helps children from all over Cambodia. Andrew Eggelton: Beautiful. The thing you wanna talk on is building better relationships, and this is just not in business but life. Andrew Morello: Life. Yeah, definitely. So something I'm very passionate about, obviously, is building better relationships with the people around you. I believe that the meaning to life is actually the people we meet and what we create with them. So I have the great honour and pleasure of meeting you guys today and we're creating something here, and hopefully people are enjoying it and they get something out of it. And it really inspires and motivates me to be able to assist people in building those better relationships. Not just in business, but in life, and if I can give them little bits of gold, I've done my work. Andrew Eggelton: Well, we can try. Andrew Morello: We can try, correct. Renée Hasseldin: You can only try. So why is building relationships important? You know, for our audience who are business owners, why are they gonna give a fuck about that? Andrew Morello: Yeah, fair enough, fair enough. So I don't have a degree. I can't spell and I barely finished high school, and I would hope someone would look at my runs in business and say, "Wow, he's done well," and a lot of people have said that to me. And so I would attribute 95 percent of my success to the fact that I've always been able to build relationships better than most. I think when you can build great relationships in your every day life, they transpond into your business and vice versa. Because if the relationships at home aren't right, then obviously the relationships in your business and with your clients won't be right either. Andrew Eggelton: Morello, you're also a, I believe, self confessed hard worker. Andrew Morello: I am a hard worker. Definitely, yeah. I'm in the trenches seven days a week. Between my charity stuff and my business stuff, I've got interest in half a dozen businesses. I sit on the board for two charities and three companies as well. So, obviously it is hard work but, I think everyone at this table would agree, if you're doing things that you love it's not really work. I know that sounds cliché but it's a reality for me. I'm living my life's purpose and I stick to my vision, mission, and values, and because I do that, every day is a reward. Andrew Eggelton: If it's about this balance, if it's about this building better relationships, how do you do that? Andrew Morello: Great. Right, so what I wanted to do was share a couple of the things that I do. I think one of the biggest things is preparation. So what happens is people often ... Like, you're a prime example. You guys are a prime example. You've had me on the show here today, and obviously you would have done your research about the people you're gonna be interviewing, so you can obviously build, in a very short period, a bit of rapport with that person and also have some empathy and understanding of what's important to them. So the number one tip I give people is you do need to put some time into preparation, and it's very, very simple. The first thing that they can do, there's an amazing piece of technology ... Some people may not have heard of it, but there's a thing called Google. It's amazing, I know. Renée Hasseldin: Revolutionary. Andrew Morello: It's revolutionary. So you can actually Google people's names- Andrew Eggelton: Get into it now. If you haven't started, get in there now. Andrew Morello: I know, you should really try it out. Renée Hasseldin: Pro tip from Morello. Andrew Morello: It's amazing. Samantha Riley: Who has not Google stalked someone though, really? Andrew Morello: Of course, that's right. Google stalk them, social media, I think anyone who really wants to connect with another person now should really do a bit of research- Andrew Eggelton: There's a lot of stuff on the internet, just for you viewers, that's not true about me. This being a business show, kind of ... I use that word very loosely. What do you do to bring a business relationship along? Andrew Morello: Yeah, great. One of the other things I like to work with people on, and I speak internationally about, is waking up. You know, the concept of waking up. So, obviously, especially small business owners, often they get caught up in what I call the ninety day hamster wheel, and they just get stuck in this rut and what I think they do is they forget that people ... And when I say this, sometimes people misconstrue me and think that they're expecting me to expect them to be Andrew Morello. So obviously, the way I am, and when I say to people, "Wake up, be motivated." Bring that into your business because people wanna do business, and they wanna be on the team of the successful person, the person who's giving it a crack. And when I say successful, doesn't necessarily mean who's got the biggest bank account because I lose business sometimes. I used to be that 19, 20 year old young buck in my property career where I sold a thousand properties, and I would knock the 50 year old grey haired, gold watch guy off the pedestal. And now that's started happening to me because there's these 20 year old guys that are really good. They're really fucking good. They're more excited than me, but they do it in their own way. So when I said be excited about the business, be grateful for the opportunity for the business, and wake up and get motivated, I'm not saying be Andrew Morello and jump off walls, 'cause I'm being picked off the post by guys that are a lot more subtle than me, but they bring energy and they bring enthusiasm to the opportunity. Andrew Eggelton: Morello, something that I always say, or just now actually, is when you're authentic and standing in their space, you don't create grey area on people, you polarise. And the majority will be your tribe, and they're into you, and then there's just people who just don't get you at all. Andrew Morello: Yeah. Andrew Eggelton: But there's not much grey area when you really stand for something. It's always being the example of what you speak of, you know what I mean? That's the easiest way to lead people is don't tell them what to be or what to do, but it's like, "I'm showing you." Andrew Morello: Yes, definitely, definitely. So the other thing we were speaking about earlier is I have a basic formula that I use for both business and for personal life and I was gonna put it up on the board for- Andrew Eggelton: Would you like to? Andrew Morello: Yeah, fantastic. Andrew Eggelton: That'll be a good segue to the board. Andrew Morello: Shall I show everyone my socks? Andrew Eggelton: Yes. Andrew Morello: I've got my banana socks on today. You know, I thought I'd splurge a little bit and get them out for you. Andrew Eggelton: Nice, we do appreciate that. Andrew Morello: No worries. So one of my first mentors was a gentleman named Chris [inaudible 00:08:10], an American guy who works in Australia now. I have mentors from literally 15, 16, 17 years old. They were paid mentors. I went straight in ... I started my first business when I was 15, so I wanted to show true value, and they always looked after me 'cause it was a novelty for them that some 15 year old was paying them. I'm sure they could have got thousands of dollars from other people, but I would pay them 100 dollars a session, 50 dollars, whichever it was, and Chris was great for me, especially when I was 16, 17, looking to move into property and people and so forth. So he taught me this formula, and for people who always say, "Oh, Morello, I'm not a people person like you," and I say well look, I'll do you a deal. You put this up, you put it in front of your computer, put it on the back of your phone, just give this a crack. Now I'm not gonna lie,[inaudible 00:08:55] two things will happen. One, you'll make lots and lots of money. The other thing is, and you gotta be good about it, you will meet a lot of people that you want to take home. I'm not gonna lie to you, this works on either one. I'm not gonna lie. I'm not gonna lie. So number one, if you go with this formula, is F is for family. Renée Hasseldin: [inaudible 00:09:13] Andrew Morello: Your husband will approve, don't worry. I'm sure, he'll like me. He'll like me. So F is for family. The great news is everyone's got a family. If you stopped Mrs. Morello in Moonee Ponds, my mother [inaudible 00:09:25], and you're selling vacuum cleaners out the front and you talk to her and you let her tell the story about her son that was on TV, her other son whose given her two grandchildren, her daughter whose come back from London, you let her talk for 45 minutes about her family, she'll buy two vacuum cleaners. She doesn't need 'em, but she'll buy 'em. Right? O is for occupation. You go to the corner of Pascoe Vale Road and Buckley Street in Moonee Ponds in Melbourne, my dad's service station is there, 47 years. You let him talk about how [inaudible 00:09:53] have prostituted the independent service stations of Australia, you let him rant for 45 minutes on them, you got a box of [spanners 00:10:01] to sell, my Dad's got a whole building full of tools that he doesn't even use or need, he'll buy three boxes of spanners. Andrew Eggelton: I know someone like that in [inaudible 00:10:08]. Andrew Morello: You know someone like that in [inaudible 00:10:10] Andrew Eggelton: You know who I'm talkin' about, don't you? Andrew Morello: That would be [inaudible 00:10:12] as well. R is for recreation. Andrew Eggelton: Heart of gold. Andrew Morello: Heart of gold. Recreation, what this is here is finding what is the important thing for them. So I started my career in property when I was 18 in a place called Newport in Melbourne. It's a predominantly Lebanese Muslim community. Now I wasn't Muslim, and I wasn't Lebanese, but I would go door knocking and I would get opportunities to go into people's homes and what I did is I started finding out what was important to their cultures. So I would remove my shoes before I walked in with my banana socks, right? When I'd go to the front door, the husband would often answer the front door with his wife, his wife might be wearing a headscarf, and I would shake his hand and so she didn't feel uncomfortable, I would put my hands by my side and I would nod and I would allow her to put her hand out so that way I didn't make her feel uncomfortable about her traditions, her culture, and so forth and so forth. So R is recreation, but at the same time it's also understanding people's cultures and the importance of that and showing that you care a little bit. They knew I was Italian background, I grew up Catholic, I'm not religious anymore, I'm spiritual now, but they knew that, and they were excited by the fact that someone had actually taken the time to understand what was important to them. Last but not least, in the magic formula, is dreams. What you do, is to wrap all this up, Mister and Mrs Klein, Mr.[inaudible 00:11:30], girl you met in a bar, guy you met in a bar, works either way. You've talked to me about your family, you've talked to me about what's important in your occupation, your dreams and your career and so forth, your recreation, what you love to do on your weekends, last but not least you've shared with me your dreams. Now, this is how it works. At that point, you pause and you use this one line, and the one line is very simple. "Mr and Mrs Klein, now that you've shared with me your dreams, can I show you how Andrew Morello-" Yes, talk about yourself in the third person. You'll feel like a wanker the first time you do it, but trust me it has gravitas. "Can I show you how Andrew Morello, and Yellow Brick Road, Andrew Morello, and [inaudible 00:12:04], Andrew Morello and whatever business it is that you're there on behalf of can" ... "Can I show you how Andrew Morello and Yellow Brick Road can help you achieve those dreams?" At that point, you pause. Whoever speaks next, loses. Special formula, FORD. I prefer [inaudible 00:12:23], but let's not get involved. Samantha Riley: Do they lose though? Andrew Morello: They do. They do, trust me. Renée Hasseldin: Oh, I don't know if I like thinking about it that way, if there's a winner and a loser. Andrew Morello: There is a ... I'll tell you what- Andrew Eggelton: Yeah, but that was very dramatic. I think that was done for drama's sake. Andrew Morello: It was done for drama. It was gravitas. Andrew Eggelton: I appreciate [crosstalk 00:12:40] Andrew Morello: What I'll explain is you have to let them respond. Because for the human brain to connect with another human brain, and for that energy to connect, there needs to be a thing called permission granted. It's in basic neuro linguistics programming as well where you're actually seeking their permission, and they're buying into what you're about to discuss with them. So whether it's in business or in your personal life or whatever it may be, this very simple formula, especially people that feel like they struggle with building relationships, gives them a framework, something very, very simple ... Now, obviously, if you came out with me on a Saturday night or you come to one of my appointments, I don't sit there and go the exact structure because this is second nature for me now. The importance of getting them to speak first is the concept of them buying into what you're about to say. And also, you seeking permission. So any great human being that wants to bring someone on their journey and inspire and motivate them, needs to allow that person to actually permit you to take them on that journey. And that's what [inaudible 00:13:45]. But it was just dramatic when I threw the- Andrew Eggelton: I thought [crosstalk 00:13:49] So this is a conversation ... This is ... What am I trying to say? Andrew Morello: Conversation prompter? Andrew Eggelton: Yeah, the conversation structure. Isn't it? I start with the family, 'cause it's always good to start there, and their occupation, their recreation, and then how do I help you, how does Andrew [inaudible 00:14:11] help you with your dreams? Andrew Morello: And use the word dreams. A lot of people say to me, "Oh, it works for you 'cause you're out there and you can get away with it." That's bullshit. Use the word dreams. The average person dreams 72 times a night. You only remember one or two of them, right? But the reality is everybody has a dream, everybody. Even if it's, I don't wanna say it in a demeaning way, but like even if it's a simple dream ... Like, I always talk about how Australia is the land of opportunity, the greatest country in the world. Now, it could be that because your dream might just be to come from a war torn country, come to this great country, buy a nice house in the burbs, send your kids to a good school, even if its public school - there's nothing wrong with that, we have great schooling in Australia - be healthy, not get shot at, like in the country that they might be in. But that's success, that's their dream. Andrew Eggelton: It might just be have a little backyard and a job. Andrew Morello: Correct. And there's nothing wrong with that. Everyone's got dreams, but I think often what we do, especially when you become successful in business or when you surround yourself with successful people, sometimes you forget that all dreams are dreams. And your job isn't to determine or judge someone on the calibre of their dream, because the calibre of their dream is determined by their calibration. Andrew Eggelton: Nice. They're all gold. Andrew Morello: Simple boy from Moonee Ponds. Just trying to get ahead in life. Just battling away, just in the trenches. Andrew Eggelton: That's it. Well, that was very, very good. I actually like this, and I enjoyed the drama to be fair, even if it was lost on the other two. [crosstalk 00:15:40] Is there something ... I'm just gonna wind this up to it's natural place. Sam, are you okay? You've been very quiet. Samantha Riley: I have been very quiet because there's just so much happening over here. Andrew Eggelton: Yes, there is. Andrew Morello: I get that. Andrew Eggelton: It's like a live wire. Samantha Riley: That's why you were looking at me strange, "I've never seen her quiet." Andrew Morello: That's right. We're gonna have [inaudible 00:16:01]. Andrew Eggelton: Now, is there something that you want to ... We'll go through and leave out what we took out of this, okay? Is there something you wanna leave the viewer with, that's fresh in their minds? Andrew Morello: Yeah, maybe a couple pieces of literature. You know, a lot of the time people ... Once they watch something like this, they get onto my social medias and they ask me, "I really loved some of the concepts, what was the foundation for it?" I think a few pieces of literature that I thoroughly enjoyed, that I got a lot out of, that I've taken in - sometimes in my business world, but not just my business world, and then some in my spiritual world and vice versa, is 'Think And Grow Rich' by Napoleon Hill. Great business book, written 100 years ago. Andrew Eggelton: Read that twice. Read it when I was in my twenties, had no idea what they were talking about. Read that about five years ago and was like- Andrew Morello: It's gold. Andrew Eggelton: It is, it is. Andrew Morello: And it's still so relevant. Another one on the business side is John McGrath, a real estate tycoon in Australia, he's one of my mentors, so 'You, Inc' and 'You Don't Have To Be Born Brilliant', his two books are fantastic. And then on the spiritual side, something that I'm quite passionate about is 'The Four Agreements' by Don Miguel Ruiz. Samantha Riley: The best book. So good. Andrew Morello: Amazing book. Literally will change your life. So don't use not reading as an excuse. The next one as well, 'The Power Of Now' by Eckhart Tolle. And last but not least, I had the privilege of meeting Deepak Chopra and spending some time with him as well over a few days and 'The Seven Spiritual Laws' by Deepak Chopra. Andrew Eggelton: Love that. It's beside my bed, it's been there for the last 15 or 10 or 15 years. Renée Hasseldin: Still haven't read it? Samantha Riley: That's what I was thinking, why do you sleep with it next to your bed? Read it. Andrew Eggelton: I pick a passage out quite often, like once a week I just pick a sentence out. What did you take out of this? Samantha Riley: Yeah, so what I loved was talking about the preparation of relationships. But adding onto that, and I see this a lot, when people do go and try and make relationships with people that are maybe a bit influential or someone they look up to, they aren't authentic. They start to mould into a different person, so it's not just the preparation of the relationship but then going into that in an authentic way. We're all human, but sometimes you get caught up in that ... You know, when I meet [inaudible 00:18:20] I'm a little worried about how I'm gonna act. Fan girl. But you know, being authentic I think is really important. Andrew Eggelton: Mine is the ... Reality for me, and I feel the same way is that my play, my life, my business, it's all the same, but what I really got out of that is, and this is what I've started doing too, is as soon as I start to not enjoy something and it feels like work, I really have to reevaluate. You know what I mean? It's, "Okay, that's drying me creatively, I'm not enjoying it. It's time to reshape it." Renée. Renée Hasseldin: So I think what I was getting as you were talking through this and the way that I've heard you speak about people and mentioning that you're a simple boy from Moonee Ponds. Andrew Morello: Yep. Renée Hasseldin: What I think is really important for us all to remember, whether we're talking with clients, family, we're all human beings and there's just a real equaliser of everyone is a human being, to have compassion and respect. As you were speaking about going into someone's home and removing your shoes, that comes from respect. Andrew Morello: It does. Renée Hasseldin: And I think that that is super, super important when you're building relationships. Andrew Morello: Perfect. Beautiful addition. Andrew Eggelton: Nice. Andrew Morello: I love that. Andrew Eggelton: Andrew Morello, are you ready for ten questions in one minute? Andrew Morello: Can I take up the whole minute? Andrew Eggelton: Of course. Andrew Morello: 'Cause I don't like to finish quick, I like to ... Andrew Eggelton: Ready, go. Who's your biggest role model? Andrew Morello: My father. Andrew Eggelton: Nice. You're stuck on an island, what is the one thing you have with you? Andrew Morello: 'The Four Agreements' by Don Miguel Ruiz. Andrew Eggelton: Whoa, a book. Andrew Morello: Yeah. Andrew Eggelton: Okay. Best advice ever given, personal? Andrew Morello: "More is lost with indecision than wrong decision." Andrew Eggelton: Oh, I love that one too. I'm a [inaudible 00:20:07]. Although that wasn't [inaudible 00:20:10]. Worst advice ever given, personal? Andrew Morello: It was girl related. Andrew Eggelton: Okay. Lot of those. Andrew Morello: [inaudible 00:20:19], but definitely girl related. Andrew Eggelton: You're rubbing a ball and a genie pops out and you're given one wish, what would it be? Andrew Morello: Unlimited Tim Tams. Yeah, the packet never ends. Renée Hasseldin: What's your favourite children's book? Andrew Morello: It was Babar. You know the elephant? Andrew Eggelton: Oh yes, I do. Andrew Morello: That's what it was. My mom had to read it to me like a thousand times, yeah. Renée Hasseldin: How do you find play in your business? Andrew Morello: I do what makes me happy every day and I make lots and lots of money to pay other people really, really well to do the things I don't wanna do so I can do more things I love with the people that I love. Renée Hasseldin: Fuck yes. Name something that makes you go 'Mmmm'. Andrew Morello: Short glass full of ice, double shot [inaudible 00:21:08] Sailor Jerry spiced rum, dash of coke, no lime. Andrew Eggelton: Nice. Renée Hasseldin: Where did you have your first kiss? Andrew Morello: In the movies. Renée Hasseldin: Tell me something we don't know about you. Andrew Morello: I have a tattoo on my back from Fiji. It says [inaudible 00:21:24]. "Tomorrow may be raining, but tonight, us, we have the stars." Andrew Eggelton: Nice. I love the drama behind that too. Andrew Morello: Interpretive dancing. Andrew Eggelton: Andrew Morello, you were the worst so far. Andrew Morello: Was I? Or one might say I lasted the longest? That's what I have to say. Andrew Eggelton: This was one reality show you did not win. Samantha Riley: It's all about balance, right? Isn't that what you were saying? Renée Hasseldin: You win some, you lose some. Andrew Morello: But we had fun. Andrew Eggelton: We had fun and I fully appreciate, we fully appreciate you coming on and sharing your time with us. Andrew Morello: My pleasure. Renée Hasseldin: It's not if you win or lose, it's how you play the game, right? Andrew Morello: Correct, correct. Thank you for having me. Andrew Eggelton: Thank you, Renée. Thank you, Andrew. Thank you very much, Samantha. And thank you to our crew as well. That was 'The Business Playroom'. 