 Welcome to the Utah Assisstive Technology Programs latest informative video using electronic aids to daily living. This production was made possible by the Utah Assistive Technology Program located in the Center for Persons with Disabilities at Utah State University. With many thanks to the Utah Center for Assistive Technology for sharing their expertise. Good afternoon, we're here to talk about using the digital assistance editor, now on the market for Electronic Eight's daily living. I'm Bryan Carroll. Colleague here is Kent Remund. Presentation, we're gonna cover given the purpose of the different devices. Introductions, overview of the currently available devices. What can be controlled and how the devices compare. Then what you need to get started. And then we'll follow up with questions at the end. Purpose, demonstrate how the individual systems can be used. Three place holder for expensive ADL, but Amazon Echo will cover Google Home and will lightly touch on the Apple Homepod. I am Bryan Carroll, graduate from the University of Utah with the bachelors degree in electrical engineering minor in computer science. Original stuff at, so there were sort of occasion there for the original stuff that you can't been there since 1993.  Yes, I'm Kent Remund. I got my undergraduate degree in Family Human Development, I then went on to become a Rehab certified counselor through Utah State University. I've also got my certification as the assistant technology professional, and I've been at UCAT since 2001. I was UCAT director there. I served in a couple of different roles at UCAT. Currently I'm serving as the Utah Assistive Technology team director along with doing other evaluations at UCAT with the citizens throughout the state. And that's myself.  Thanks, we're from the Utah Center for Assistive Technology. We're at 1595 West 5th South in Salt Lake. Yeah, go ahead.  So our purpose at UCAT as you can see on the slide there, we're kind of considered the hub of the Assistive Technology throughout the state of Utah. And as all we mean by that is, we're kinda centrally located. We have nine staff members at UCAT that range from computer specialist to occupational therapist. We have a shop where we can modify, create different products. We do a lot of modification of things that are off the shelf that we need to modify for an individual that might need to be, to help them be more independent in their lives. We work closely with Utah State University. And the Center for Persons with Disability, the Assistive Technology lab at Utah State. And then, we work closely with other agencies throughout the state also. Independent living centers have and Assistive Technologist specialist that we work fairly close with. And then the division services for people with disabilities, which that anyone throughout the State of Utah that has a need for Assistive Technology in their life. And our purpose is to go out and do an evaluation of somebody and look at their abilities, their disabilities, any limitations or barriers that they might have in their life. We try to implement any technology that might be needed, so we can come in to somebody's house, for example, that might have a spinal cord injury but they want to control their lights, their fans, their television, some of this things that we're gonna get into today. We look at any barriers that they might have. We look at what their abilities are and then we start to find the correct technology that they might need In their lives. And then we connect them with funding sources or give them quotes, or tell them where to purchase things so they can gather the equipment. So we're kind of a third party, we don't have any alliance to any certain product. We try to find the best product for that person to make them more independent in their lives.  We'll be covering the Amazon Echo which digital system is called Alexa. We'll go over Google Home and Google Assistant, and like I said we'll lightly touch on the Apple HomePod, it's kind of in third place on technology. It's a bit behind where the other two are and significantly more expensive. Amazon Echo family right now has four main products. You've got the Echo, at $99 the Echo Dot. The Echo Plus, which is similar to the Echo but it has a ZigBee hub built into it. With the Echo Spot you've got small display as well. And the Echo Show has a video touchscreen, so you can show what they like with on the camera or things like that, see what's available. Then we've got the Google Home family, which gets us the Google Home, Google Mini, and Google Max. As you can see the Google Max tends to be the highest price of the devices we'll be mainly looking at.  So the difference in these Bryan, we see the obvious price difference. They have the same controls as before we can get into the functionality?  They generally work similarly, and Google Home does have, it's easier to control a bit. It's more free form, you can talk to eat more in a conversational type of language, where the Echo, you have to be fairly strict on your vocabulary. Speaker wise will they're close, at least in the Echo and the Google Home.  But I guess I'm curious, the $49 will do the same as the $129 and the $399. The difference is what?  The difference that it look the speaker quality. Although we'll be able to control the smart home devices, it's just a difference really in the audio that you're getting back from the [INAUDIBLE] different devices.  Okay, great.  And then we've got  the Apple Homepod, as you can see it's rather pricey. And it doesn't control nearly as many devices as the other two. Then it's just not nearly as many devices available at this point to be able to control. What can they do, and how do they compare? [INAUDIBLE] The Amazon and Google both understand multiple user profiles. The HomePod does not. Google Assistant can understand up to six. Peoples voice, voices you can answer calendar queries or play music lists, face time users on Google accounts. So what that means if I was talking to it, it would. Some code as long as it'd be on my playlist. If my wife is talking, it would bring up automatically as long as she is on her playlist. Alexa, you have to specifically ask you to switch accounts. So it's automatically switching There were persons using it. With your account set up, you can ask what's on your calendar, add appointments, that sort of thing. Alexa supports iCloud, Gmail, G Suite. Office 365 and Outlook. Google Assistant will support Gmail, but not G Suite accounts. Alexa is the only one that will let you change the wake word. It can be either Alexa, Echo, Amazon or Computer. Google Assistant [INAUDIBLE] will let you change between a male and female voice while Alexa only has a female voice. Both of them will But you create timers, alarms. You can name the timers, so you can have several timers set up at once. Alexa and Google assistant you can share shopping lists between your accounts. Both can also set locally timers. The like so list you'll see any any list and to do list. Where Google systems Our groceries and to do list. Both the Google and take Google Home provides a richer, more well-rounded sound than the Echo does. The Echo is a little bit louder though, by about five or four decibels. So not loud but it is it can be a most difference of how loud you can play the music at both devices iHeart radio, Pandora Spotify and Tunein. The Echo will also support the Amazon Music, while Google Home supports Google Play and YouTube, in addition to the others. Google now also lets you upload music libraries to the cloud. So you can play your own playlist and that, the songs that you've previously acquired. Amazon used to be able to do it but they've disabled that ability and for users that were using it lose that ability in 2019. So basically, if you wanna be able to play your music that you've already have, Google kinda wins out in that, in that area. Okay Fpfrom entertainment, Alexa and Google assistant. Can both be used to control TV and home entertainment systems with the appropriate hardware ad-ons. Alexa uses the Amazon Fire TV device, where Google Home works with its associated Comcast, with Google Assistant. If you wanna be able to control things in the home like stereo stuff. Then you'll need something like the Logitech Hub. Which can transmit inference signals to any of your home entertainment devices. They're both now what you control your Google app or. So that you can playback, [INAUDIBLE] recorded on it. And we'll show you an example of that.  Alexa  Tune to CNN.  Tuning to CNN on Dish. This is the situation room with Wolf Blitter.  Alexa, turn to velocity.  Tuning to velocity on Dish. This is [INAUDIBLE] Alexa tune to channel 5.  Tuning to 5 on dish.  Alexa fst forward. Alexa, rewind three minutes Alexa, pause. Alexa, resume [INAUDIBLE] At the progress. Ask about. [INAUDIBLE]  Alexa, stop.  For 18 years.  Alexa, open the guide.  I can't do that on dish. Bryan it does some things but it doesn't give you full control. So like I said it gives control of those playing switch downs. You can't do things like volume up volume down or easily bring up the guide to navigate you through it. We will have the example of Google Home doing it they have the skills available. But we were unable to find it through their menu to actually download it but it is theoretically available now. Smart Home not only that's kind of where the rubber meets the road for using those needs today living. So the Lexa think of a system now both be control pretty much any devices that are out there. About three months ago, if I would have been doing it, that wouldn't be the case. Google home has done a good job at catching up and getting manufacturers support. So they are both able to do, control any of the devices out there now. You can setup multiple rooms, multiple device controller, you can. So, you can so have it both steps. We'll show you the example of what happens when I say goodnight on upgrade video. Most, more on devices, work out one or three radio frequencies [INAUDIBLE]. Wi-fi is the way to intersect media, both [INAUDIBLE] Control the wi-fi devices without any additional hardware. However if you wanna control things like the fill up few lights or use the or the slide smart home which runs on Z wave that dedicates smart home Smarten up like Samsung SmartThings or Wink 2 will be required. The hub that's built into the Echo Plus will let you do basic things. Turn lights on and off. Like for the For the hue. But it won't let you change colors and stuff. So it does a lot of things. But it comes down to having a dedicated, to be able to have full control over a lot of those features.  Hey, Google. Turn the TV lamp on. You got it, turning on the TV lamp.  Hey Google, turn door lamp on.  Okay, turning the door lamp on.  Hey Google, turn door lamp off.  Sure, turning off the door lamp. Hey google,turn tv lamp off.  Okay turning off the tv lamp.  Alexa,turn door lamp on. [SOUND]  Alexa start good night. [SOUND] Hey Google, run lock up.  You got it, activating the lock up. [SOUND]  Hey Google, run release me. Sorry, I'm not sure how to help with that yet.  Alexa, window light on.  Okay.  Alexa, picture light on.  Okay.  Alexa  Picture light off.  Okay.  Cabinet light on,  Okay.  Alexa, cabinet light off,  Okay.  Alexa, set upstairs to 74 degrees. Set upstairs to 71 degrees.  Alexa, all lights on.  Okay.  Alexa, all lights off.  Okay.  Alexa, play classical on Pandora.  Getting your classical for the soul radio station from Pandora, classical for the soul radio. [MUSIC] Alexa, give me my flash news briefing.  Here's your flash briefing. In BBC News from TuneIn.  BBC News, Islamic State fighters have launched an attack on refugees in Northeastern Syria. Activists say that IS used-  Alexa  Read the The Nightshade Apprentice on Kindle.  The Night Shade Apprentice, the sword of rogues book one, buy Michael Offutt reading from Kindle chapter one, I'm 15 years old and I feel infinite, there is a man behind the lightly colored darken desk.  He leaves forward into the flickering light of burning candles.  Alexa, stop.  Okay. Both of those systems now will let you make outgoing calls, so you can just tell it to call. Usually it will call somebody on your call list that's on your phone, or you can give it the number you wanna call. This opens up definitely the good safety feature where it's always may not be able to reach their phone but where Google and the Alexa can hear you. Pretty much anywhere you know within a room at least you can tell it to dial a number and it will. Google home can't receive calls but the echo you can. It will receive calls from other echos, so like your family member has an echo you can have, it could receive your calls and it can call you. Alexa also has the ability to answer your home phone line with additional device. The echo connect [INAUDIBLE] which is about 35 dollars. Fortunately, we don't have any videos demonstrating. We do. Alexa, call Miranda.  From whose number? Bryan or Nedra Jane?  Bryan. Calling Miranda's mother from Bryan. [SOUND]  Hello?  Hello, I was just calling you to test this out to see how Alexa does making phone calls.  Wow, it sounds really clear.  That's good. Better than I am when a normal speaker phone I bet.  Yes, it definitely is much clearer.  Okay, I may call you again later, bye.  All right. Talk to you later.  All right, Alexa-  Bye.  Hang up. Hey Google, call Miranda.  Calling Miranda mobile. [SOUND] Hello.  Hello, I'm talking to you on Google Home. How do I sound?  It sounds pretty clear.  Better than Alexa or the same as Alexa?  I'd say about the same  Cool. Talk to you later. Bye.  Okay, internet queries. I've been searching things, google assistant is much better handling freeform web-based queries. Google  Google search is more efficient. It's relying on Google's search engine which is arguably one of the best out there. Alexa is a stickler for the wording of words. [INAUDIBLE] In that particular sequence and make sure you pronounce them correctly, like [INAUDIBLE] on Wikipedia for its knowledge based queries. One of Alexa's, area Alwxa beats Google, predictably, is in shopping. It really likes to be able to let you buy things off of Amazon. So it's gonna feel like you're shopping things. Buy things like voice Google, Alexa you definitely do that better than what Google Home will. Both can spell words the timers, read you the news all that kind of things, it's doubtful I'd be able to give you kind of what's going on. Google Assistant is more conversational. It'll often remember what you're talking about, then let you carry ideas through the conversation. For instance, if I ask how old is George Clooney? I can then follow up with what movies is he in? George Clooney.  56 years old.  Okay, Google, what movies did he play in?  Batman and Robin, Ocean's Eleven and 59 others.  Alexa, how old is George Clooney?  George Clooney is 56-years-old.  Alexa, what movies did he play in?  Here are a few movies playing near you today. Ready Player One, A Quiet Place, Black Panther, Blockers, Pacific Rim Uprising, and I Can Only Imagine. Would you like to hear more movies?  No.  Okay.  The things that makes both of those powerful is, the availability of third party skills. These skills give skills do everything from giving you local traffic status, to checking your credit card balance. To trivia about your favorite college teams to playing games and singing songs. Amazon's voice it's just the ecosystem system has been supercharged by ten thousands of third party skills. Amazon has the great dictionary of them on their website. So it's easy to seek them out and find out what's available. You do have to be specific about the syntax you use to activate them and get them to run. Google Assistant does fewer skills that are currently available. Google is definitely working hard to close the gap between them. Yet, Google has the advantage of being able to have a lot more free form conversation. So you don't have to be quite as specific on exactly what you say. And the biggest trick is being able to find out what skills are actually available there to have a web based directory. And trending them there through the app is a difficult challenge at this point. ADT to arm the system.  I found one open sensor, basement window, as well as three offline sensors, exterior basement and interior basement and front door. Would you like to continue arming the system?  Yes.  Okay [SOUND] I'll arm the system stay.  Alexa, ask ADT to disarm the system.  What is the pin? [NOISE] Okay, the system has been disarmed.  So, as you can see the skills are, it's getting that the skills that just available for let you control your security system. Alexa has thousand of skills available. So it's just a matter of searching for them and getting the right ones.  Alexa, ask ADT what the thermostat is set at.  Thermostat is set to heat to 72 degrees. The current temperature is 72 degrees. ADT still would not let me change temperature on this thermostat. It wouldn't let me find out what it's set at, so there is a difference between manufacturers devices and how much control you can have. That you saw in our previous example. Mike was able to easily change the temperature on his thermostat, so it's still differences in manufacturers' devices. As well as what each of the particular devices can do. Okay, what's required to get started? Does it get the wi-fi network and we'll need a smartphone or tablet to be able to set things up. You can decide which line of smart speakers or assistant you wanna go with, whether you wanna go with Amazon. And stay in its family or go with Google and stay in its family. It definitely do not like to switch between the two, so you're gonna have to choose a family and stay with it. Then it comes down to choosing the devices you wanna control. Whether there's light switches which can vary in price. From 20 to $50 a piece, depending on what brand they are and whether they're three way switches. And whether that's the lights themselves. There's appliance modules so you can just plug it into the plug switch, then plug the lamp into it. And it'll control it. You can replace the existing switches in the wall with that could be controlled with either Alexa or Google. Door locks, you could control security system, and there's a wide variety of things to do. Being made accessible, things like ranges that you can control different cooking devices, refrigerators there is all sorts of stuff now. That's being made available with the internet of things.  So, we are coming into a great time right?  Where the technology is advancing, the prices are coming down. Ten years ago, maybe explain to people what it would take to go into somebody is home to have them control a couple of lights, a fan. And most importantly to call people by voice and the cost involved with that.  We used to, the system cost would probably be a minimum of 5,000 to 7 or 8 be able to do what you can do, now with the smart digital assistance. Typically devices were the ones we typically used for voice recognition, was the made by table data. They were 12 for what it can do but it was definitely quickly without having to update it and keep it running. And the recognition was nowhere nearly is good as what we can do now. So we're definitely able to do a whole lot more easier. And for a lot less money than what was required even two, three years ago.  Yeah, rght, so I would say now, to get an Echo Dot or a Google Home for $50, a light switch you put in the maybe $40, correct?  Yeah.  You can do a number of throughout your house. I think that we saw his video and Nest Thermostat with the couple light switches. Amazon Echo Dot Maybe under $500, right? The control-  Yeah.  A fair amount of controls, lights, fans in your home. And then you knows what he can control. I bought a new sprinker controller and lo and behold I didn't notice but I got an email from them saying that Echo dot was able to control my sprinkler controller. I could say, Alexa, tell, I'm trying to remember the name of my sprinkler system now. Do you remember? You bought the same one right?  Yeah.  Anyway, I'd say turn zone four on for ten minutes. And suddenly my sprinklers outside are turning on. How useful is that? I don't know. Is it making us more little lazy, maybe but, in the world of people with disabilities. It's really giving them a lot of independence as you can attest to, right?  For me, that's huge cuz I can now control it and not have to worry about it. Finding a neighbor to set it up or my wife to set it up, I can all by myself.  Right and I'd like to add also as you mentioned that setup is quite easy. Once you get things installed, get them connected to the Internet in your home. Everything is talking to each other and maybe you wanna talk about that.I just know that on our small board of work you can tell it to find devices. It finds the devices and then repairs it almost automatically,is that correct?  Yeah,it does a good job of finding what is out there and it, you know setting it up, is pretty simple. And the more devices you have, the better it works because they each repeat the signal that's being sent to him. So the more devices you have, the better reception gets, because each device will broadcast the signal that it hears. So being able to control things, becomes a lot more reliable, the more things you add. We're definitely able to control things a lot easier than we were able to do previously, for a lot less money. The device is now getting pretty comfortable. Alexa still may have a slight advantage in what it can control. There's still more skills currently available for it, but I don't think that's gonna be a big issue for much longer. They're both trying pretty hard to. Control everything that the other won't do. How would you have to restamble the word between the two sometimes one could be placed unlike the other one from that it will allow you to control. So basically started is just simple, cuz your price range can be as what was $50 for a Google mini or the Alexa dot to be able to get started. And then the plugin modules run from $25 to $30, so you get in to build the lights and other stuff pretty cheaply. Then definitely makes things a lot easier to control than what it meant a few years ago. And then I guess we'd work if you have questions would be willing to answer them. You can call us or email.  As mentioned with any of those services that we can provide. If you have any questions, again we're from the Utah Center for Assistive Technologies. We're right there in Salt Lake but we do travel throughout the state. And help any citizens or individuals within the state of Utah. We're state employees and we're funded through a project or a state agency there. So that's how we can come out and do free evaluations. And then the contact information is there, 801-887-9380. Will get you in contact with Lynn Mark, that can then direct you to any specialist in our office, depending on the need. If you wanted to email us directly, you can see the email addresses there, bcaroll@Utah.gov or kremund@Utah.gov. And typically, what's needed is a referral form that you'll get sent if you'd like our services. And to have us visit you, a one-page referral form that has name, address, phone number, some basic information. We serve anybody with any type of disability. It doesn't have to be a documented disability, just any limitation that you may have. We'll accept that. And we ask for that disability on the form. We ask for any type of service that you're looking for. It could be electronic aids to daily living that we went over today. It coud be wheelchair seating, computer assistance, augmentative communication. It could be any number of things, and even recreation. So we'd ask people just to fill out the form which then gets submitted. And we put that in our database as a tracking process, so that you can then get contacted. And we can start that process with anyone. [MUSIC] 