 Alex: Hey everybody, welcome back to another episode of Small Business 101 here on Arbeit U. Spencer: Yes and as always, another fantastic episode. This one, same thing as always, we deal with something in the week. We bring it up in the middle of for this episode and, so we just met with a virtual assistant company right. So they basically what this company does is they're so they have all these virtual people all over the world and Alex: they're real people.Spencer: Yeah they're real human beings. Yeah. Alex: They're not fake. Spencer: Yeah they're not robots and you you can outsource certain aspects of your work to them like if we go on conferences they'll like you know set up the arrangements, will book the flights will do all that and it gets it off of my plate or Joe's plate or whoever's plate it happens to fall on. So this is something like you're actually the one who found it right, so it's never occurred to me right like virtual assistants is never something I thought of and there's such a value to that. Alex: I honestly didn't know what they were and I read about it and then I was reading it. Spencer: You thought it was for WoW or something. Alex: No. yeah. I'm reading the description I'm like wait this sounds like I always thought was like a like an AI. Spencer: Yeah, no yeah. Alex: Virtual Assistant was not a real person cuz a virtual that's just the old man in me not understanding. Spencer: Damn internet. Alex: Yeah so and then I started to read about it and I realized it's a big thing for small companies, especially you know startups with like one to two people. Spencer: You don't have to bring on a salary for a full-time assistant lets say. Alex: Exactly. You can get a virtual assistant for a few hundred dollars a month. Spencer: Yes it's like 500 a month. Alex: They can do certain tasks for you from marketing to data. Spencer: They do sales automation. Alex: A lot of big thing that they're involved in is like e-commerce. Spencer: Yeah cuz I and I think like the thing is when you say virtual assistants like people automatically think of like when I brought up like booking conferences right, but they're so they're a capable of so much more than that. They really can like they they could they do like accounting for you, they can do you can literally there's a person out there who will assist with anything right like. We can, they'll do our marketing work for us, SEO work Joe. So you could literally outsource anything, Their is, it's a specialist out there who will do it. So though you say here's a job one outsource. They take it and send it up their network and someone who specializes in SEO will be like hey  can do this and here's what it'll cost you. Alex: Right and a bigger another thing that they could be used for is at larger companies with more employees than just one or two people you can actually get them for your employees, to help empower them and make them you know just that much more productive . If you have really really stellar employee at a certain thing in their time it's about doing it spent doing mundane tasks you know, even half their time, twenty five percent of their time, you should look into this. Get somebody get like a virtual system to take out their plate. Spencer: Yeah, just automate it. Alex: For a few hundred dollars a month and boom. Spencer: So yeah like to perfect example, we talked about someone who has like a really focused skillset right. Alex: Right. Spencer: Like our sales team, we want them actually selling, so we want them on the phone. We want them talking to people, but they spend a lot of their time now logging information with CRM or writing a note or whatever. Alex: Researching. Spencer: Yeah, stuff that anyone can really do right. It's not it's not their skill set, so basically but like you know with the core competency. If it's outside that outsource it basically. Alex: Exactly. We haven't done yet. We're gonna try it. We'll let you know how it goes. If you've had experience with virtual assistants let us know how that one and yeah. Spencer: Joe says we have to point down. Alex: Yeah, but now that we're done, watch these videos because they're cool and subscribe. Alex and Spencer: See you next week. 