 - When you interview candidates, you really have three main objectives that you need to accomplish during your process. First, of course, you need to verify that the candidate has the skills, experience, and culture fit for your office, but you need to do that while also getting their buy in. They need to like you as much as you like them. And then of course you have to do all of this as quickly as possible because you're busy and your candidate's busy and if you put too many steps into your process you risk losing great candidates along the way because another employer swoops them up. So how do you get all of the information that you need to make an informed decision about a candidate and how do you do that as quickly as possible? Hi, I'm Vanessa Rosenblum. I'm the President of Pro REA Staffing where we are passionate about fostering careers in real estate and growing real estate teams. And while I don't have a magic bullet or a magic solution for you, I do have some well-researched suggestions to help you navigate the interview process and screen your candidates as effectively and efficiently as possible. In this video I'm going to take you through a three-part interview framework, and I'm using the three-part framework because you really need to meet with a candidate three times before you make hiring decision, but you might actually need an additional step in your own process, so this is a suggestion. It's not a hard rule, but it's easier to talk about it as a three-part process. Now I've created an interview guide to go along with this video. So what I recommend that you do is that you pause this video and you go to proreastaffing.com. Go to resources, interview guide, and download the interview guide so that you can follow along as we go through this talk today. I'll see you back in a second. (upbeat music) All right, so do you have your interview guide? Now before we dig into it we screen real estate assistants. We place real estate assistants with real estate teams. And no matter what the specifics of the job description are there are really five key qualities or traits that every person we place has to demonstrate. These are just universal for this job. And so as you're interviewing your candidates you need to be thinking about whether or not they possess these traits. So these are the things to keep in mind throughout your entire interview process. First is, a demonstrated ability to organize themselves and others to create systems and consistently manage processes. I mean that's basically what a real estate assistant does all day, right? The next is they need to pay close attention to detail while working in a fast paced and rapidly changing environment. Next, they need to be a leader in their role. They need to need minimal supervision or direction, and in fact, they need to naturally manage up. They need to develop solid strategies for solving problems. So this is the person who sees a problem and comes to you with three solutions for you to pick from, right? We love those people. And then finally we're looking for someone who is a natural caretaker. And this is just essential. Every leader of a company, every top salesperson needs a caretaker in their corner. This is the person that looks at your schedule and realizes that you're not going to have time for lunch and so they have a sandwich delivered to you so that you can eat it in your car on your way to your next meeting, and they remember that you don't like goat cheese. So the first step in every interview process should be a phone interview. This is just a really quick and efficient way to screen out the people who have low energy, who lack the level of professionalism that you require, and who just don't meet the basic requirements of your job. Make it simple and use an online scheduling system like youcanbook.me or simplybook.me. These are easy to use online schedulers that will link to your calendar, and you can just email the link to candidates and they can book themselves on your calendar, and then you can just go boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, through your phone interviews. Keep these short. I would schedule them no more than 20 minutes apart. And honestly a lot of my phone interviews don't last more than seven or eight minutes. As soon as I know that they're not going to be a match for the job, we wrap up the interview. In my interview guide I have a template for a real estate assistant phone interview and in the email that you received with the interview guide I have an editable version so you can create your own template around these questions. So I put the most important things at the top, the things that are disqualifiers, we just get that out of the way up front, and then we dig more into who the candidate is and we get some additional information about what they're looking or and why they're looking, those kinds of things. Remember to take notes. Trust me, after you've interviewed 20 candidates, you will not remember why you liked candidate number four. And make sure to include notes about things you wanted to follow up on or dive deeper on in your in-person interview. But once you've completed this you're ready to move candidates forward to your in-person interview. (upbeat music) So let's just talk about some basic tips for interviewing candidates in person, and these are mistakes that I see new hiring managers or people who are not comfortable interviewing, these are the kind of mistakes that they make. The first is, listen more than you talk and stay in the question. This is hard for a lot of people. But just ask your question and stop talking. Silence is okay. Just ask your question one time and stop talking. The next is to have an outline of questions that you want to ask, but don't stick to a script. In the interview guide you'll see that I have a lot of questions in there. Definitely don't ask all of those questions. But pick and choose the one that are the most relevant for you and have a list of maybe 15 or 20 questions that you hope to cover in your interview. And then have a conversation with your candidate, remember, you also need to build relationship with this person as you move through this process. And really, there's nothing more off putting than sitting across the table from someone who is reading questions off a list and just checking off every question they're supposed to ask you. It's really off-putting so don't do that. The next is to ask followup questions. And this is important no matter what, but this is a lifesaver when you've asked a question and maybe your mind has wandered or you're not quite sure what to ask next. A followup question gives you a second to compose yourself and plan your next step. So for example, let's say you asked a candidate to tell you about a project that they completed in their last job that they were really proud of. So your follow-up questions might be as simple as tell me more about that or what did you learn? What problem or what challenges did you face as you completed that project? What did you enjoy most about that project? How did you balance working on that with everything else that you had to do? And looking back what would you do differently now that you have hindsight? So think about how much more information and how much deeper you can go with a candidate by asking followup questions to a key question. And really, most of the time the more interesting information, the stuff that you really need to get to isn't answered on the topical question, it's answered in those followup questions. And then going along with that, you need to dig in for details. A lot of candidates stay on the surface and they won't really get into the specifics, and you need to get them down into the details so that you can really verify that they actually do know what they think they know or what you think they know. So for example, let's say a candidate told you that they were used to managing 10 transactions at a time in their last real estate office, 10 transactions a month. And so your followup questions would be walk me through a typical transaction and tell me about your specific responsibilities at every stage of the process. And slow them down if they start to get too topical with you. You want every single step. And this will really clue you into really how much they were involved in those transactions. Other questions might be how did you organize your files and how often did you communicate with the other parties in the transaction? I would also want to know if something was going off the rails in a transaction, at what point did you bring your agent back into the deal? And then finally, what types of problems were you able to handle on your own. So that tells you whether or not this person was just collecting signatures or if they were really managing the transaction. (upbeat music) So interviews are more than just about gathering information. They're also about building a relationship and so you need to make sure that you take the time in this first face-to-face interview to share a little bit about the company and about yourself and if you're interested in a candidate there are three important questions that they must be able to answer before they walk out of their first in-person interview. This is to secure their buy in so that they'll stick with you through the rest of your interview process, because we're not done yet. So the first thing that candidates need to know and want to know is why are you passionate about what you do? Why are you on this mission and why should they join you on this mission? That's key. Second, they want to know why you're interested in them. What is it about them that has you excited? They wanna know why they're valued. And then finally they want to know how they can win with you, how they can add value. And think about this, if they're currently employed and they're considering changing jobs, and that's the scenario for most candidates these days, they want to know that they're going to be successful in their new job, that they're going to succeed and win with you. So if they're not clear about that or if they have concerns about whether or not they can meet their expectations, they're probably not changing jobs. So it's important that they have that information at this point in the process. But at this stage after you've met with the candidate at least once in person, this is where you can have candidates complete a behavioral assessment or do some kind of homework or skill assessment outside of your office. I'll create another video and I'll talk about the disk and how to use behavioral assessments during your interview process, but we just don't have time to get into that on this video. But I'll make sure to tag it. And by the way, if you'd like to be notified of new videos as we put them out, make sure to subscribe and ring the bell so that you're notified when we post new videos. (upbeat music) All right, so at this point you've narrowed down your field to two, maybe at the most three, of your top candidates. And now it's time to go deep. This is a long interview. This is your skill assessment and goal alignment interview. And it should last at least three hours, maybe four hours. And during this interview you need to accomplish three important things. The first is to validate skills. Now we've tried every skill assessment under the sun and there's just nothing that compares to putting a candidate at their future desk and asking them to complete a real world project to validate that they really do know how to do the things that they say they know how to do. The next is assessing culture fit. So if this candidate walks into the office and they suddenly realize that they're gonna be alone in a back office and have no interaction and that doesn't work for them, wouldn't you rather they figured that out now and vice versa. If your office is wild and crazy, people are running around and it's stressful and there's papers flying, that's gonna be great for some people and a total nightmare for others. And you need to see how they fit into the vibe in your office. So they need to be in there during work hours if at all possible. Now I realize that if this is a confidential search you can't do that. But you could at least bring them in on a Saturday so they can see the space and hopefully meet some of the other people that they'll be working with on your team. Finally, this is your chance to talk about standards, expectations, vision, admission, and goals. This is the deep stuff. So this is when you ask questions like how should I manage you? How honest can I be with you? What is it about our mission that you connect with? This is where you share, these are my standards, this is what I expect from the people around me. Can you live up to that? And vice versa. What do you expect from me as your boss? Candidates might say things like I expect you to be perfectly honest with me. If I'm bothering you, tell me. Or if you set a meeting with me expect that you honor it. So you guys, this is your chance to come into alignment so that you guys can move together with a strong foundation of trust and respect and communication. This is essential. (calm, relaxing music) All right you guys, we've finally get to the end of this process, but you're not quite finished yet. By the time you finish your two or three deep dive interviews with your top candidates you should be really clear about who you're excited to hire, and they should be equally excited about you and the opportunity. But you're not quite done yet. So this is where you need to wrap up your references if you still haven't spoken to at least three, but hopefully five or six professional references, you need to make sure you do that, just so that you can validate what you think you know about a candidate, and uncover anything that you, any issues that you might need to address with the candidate. And now you're ready to write an offer and go off into the sunset with your ideal candidate. Congratulations, wooo, you made it all they way through the process. Now I know it can be a lot, but it's essential that you follow a framework and you work a process in order to make a hire and that you don't skip any of these essential steps, especially the deep dive interview. Even if you think someone is absolutely perfect and they check every box, you still need to validate their skills. You still need to make sure that your standards and expectations are aligned, and you still need to make sure that they're a good culture fit for your office, that they fit into your environment. So do not skip this step. If I can help you with any of this. If you'd like help with screening candidates or you'd like some coaching on how to improve your process, reach out to me. You can schedule a free 30-minute consultation by clicking on the link in the description below. And I'll see you in the next video. 