 Hey guys it’s Greg with Apple Explained and today we’re going to discuss the current state of Siri, Apple’s virtual assistant that’s used on almost all their products. Now Siri has been around since 2011, and at the time its technology was considered pretty impressive. But it hasn’t aged well at all, and in the last seven years Siri has fell behind its competition. So why wasn’t Apple able to develop Siri as quickly as they needed to? And why does it still perform so poorly? Well that’s exactly what we’ll find out today. Now this video topic was the first place winner in last weeks voting poll and if you didn’t get to vote, make sure you’re subscribed. That way the polls will show up right in your mobile activity feed, and you can let me know which topic you’d like to see next. Now I want to start off the video by providing evidence that Siri is in fact one of the least reliable virtual assistants on the market. Let’s take a look at the most recent data for 2018 collected by Stone Temple. They tested Alexa, Cortana, Google Assistant, and Siri by measuring how often each assistant attempted to answer a question, and then measure what percentage of those answers were accurate. And as you can see from the graph, Siri came in last place for both metrics. Only attempting to answer about 41% of questions asked. And of those attempted answers, only 80% were accurate. That means only 32% of questions were answered accurately by Siri. So it makes sense why Apple users are so frustrated by the feature and find themselves hardly using it. Now lets compare Siri’s performance to its competition. Amazon’s Alexa came in third answering about 44% of questions accurately, Microsoft’s Cortana came in second with 60%, and Google Assistant came in first with an incredible 74% of questions answered correctly. So when you look at these numbers through an unbiased lens, you begin to understand just how far behind Siri is. And it’s worth investigating how exactly that happened, especially considering that Siri has been on the market twice as long as Cortana and Alexa, and more than three times as long as Google’s Assistant. And although it spent two years in beta after it was released on the iPhone 4S, Siri still feels like an unfinished feature for many Apple users. Now in order to sort this whole thing out, we have to go back to when Siri was released by the SRI International Artificial Intelligence Center as a third party app for the iPhone. And yes, that means Siri wasn’t actually developed by Apple. It caught Steve Jobs eye when it was released in 2010 on the App Store, and two months later Apple bought the technology for $200 million. And here’s where the problem began. Because according to the co-founders, Siri wasn’t built to perform exactly how Apple intended. The original plan was to create a virtual concierge that was very useful at specific tasks. If you were traveling, for example, Siri would be able to search for flights, buy tickets, and book hotels. But Apple wanted to expand Siri’s capabilities to nearly every area of user’s lives. And that simply wasn’t the vision Siri’s co-founders had for the product. So Apple had to almost force Siri to handle queries that it wasn’t designed for. And this mismatch of intentions resulted in complaints about unreliable voice recognition and unhelpful responses on the first day of its release. So many people believe the core technology of Siri just wasn’t meant to be used the way Apple would like. And there’s further evidence to support this theory, since one of the cofounders of Siri actually went on to create a new virtual assistant project called Viv. Which was designed to handle more complex questions. And this suggests Siri’s technology wasn’t advanced enough to meet the needs users have today. Now you might be thinking, well, couldn’t have Apple just developed Siri’s capabilities to remain on par with its competition? And that question brings us to another theory why Siri fell behind so quickly. You see, the guy in charge of launching Siri, former Apple executive Richard Williamson, made some decisions that were said to’ve impeded its development. One of them being that Siri should only be updated once a year alongside each major iOS release. But Williamson himself denied that had anything to do with Siri’s stunted growth. Saying, “After launch, Siri was a disaster. It was slow, when it worked at all. The software was riddled with serious bugs. Those problems lie entirely with the original Siri team, certainly not me.” So assuming what he said was true, that means the Siri team was aware of serious bugs and chose to do nothing about it, or there weren’t bugs and the Siri team simply didn’t do enough to advance the technology as quickly as they should’ve. Either way, the finger pointing didn’t end there. With one of Siri’s co-founders responding on Twitter, saying, “This statement, wholly false, was made by the architect and head of the biggest launch disaster in Apple history, Apple Maps. In reality Siri worked great at launch but, like any new platform under unexpectedly massive load, required scaling adjustments and 24 hour workdays.” So now there’s three possible mistakes made to Siri. First, the original code was perfect and Apple’s Siri team simply failed to scale it properly for use on millions of iPhones. Second, the original code contained serious bugs that couldn’t possibly be ironed out by Apple’s team. Or third, maybe it was a little bit of both. And I think that’s likely the reality. Because as I said before, Apple was trying to turn Siri into something it wasn’t engineered to become. So making it work reliably would be nearly impossible. Now Williamson was eventually fired from Apple after helping orchestrate the disappointing release of Apple Maps. So in 2014 Eddy Cue took control of the Siri team and started patching as many bugs and issues with the virtual assistant as possible. But there were more challenges on the horizon for Siri, since the team had trouble integrating new features from two of their acquisitions: Topsy, an analytics company, and VocalIQ, an artificial intelligence company. Part of the issue was that members of the Topsy team who joined Apple after the acquisition didn’t want to work with the Siri team, since they viewed the technology as slow and bogged down by the initial codebase that had been patched but never completely replaced since its release. And it was reportedly around this time that Siri engineers tried persuading their leadership to rebuild Siri from the ground up. With core technology designed to power a modern virtual assistant. But in 2017 Siri management was switched up yet again. This time landing in the lap of Craig Federighi. Now this could be a good sign, because if Apple is starting fresh with a new Siri, maybe they want it to be overseen by a new executive. But it could also be a bad sign. Maybe Apple is change the management of Siri because significant improvements aren’t being made. And I really hope this isn’t the case, because Siri is becoming a larger part of the Apple products we use everyday. I mean, the HomePod is essentially Siri in a box. If the virtual assistant doesn’t perform well, then the entire product becomes useless. And that’s something I want to talk about in more detail. Because when Apple first began developing the HomePod, they supposedly didn’t plan on including Siri. And I find that to be very strange since it’s such an integral part of the HomePod today, but according to reports from earlier this year, the Siri team didn’t know anything about the HomePod until 2015 about two years into its development. And although Siri seems to recognize my voice quite well, it’s still plagued by the same limitations its always had. Which means I can only give simple commands that I’m confident it can handle. Now there’s one last theory as to why Siri sucks, and it has to do with Apple’s hardline stance on privacy. Because as we all know, Apple is one of the only tech companies that doesn’t siphon and store user’s personal data. And while that’s something most of us appreciate as customers, it may come at a cost. Because with the data Google and Amazon collect, they can pick up on voice patterns from the millions of questions asked every day. And analyze which responses from their assistants were correct or incorrect, and resolve any recurring issues with their algorithm without requiring an update to the operating system. They can create user profiles to customize the results a particular user might be looking for based on previous questions and behavior patterns. And although Apple denies their stance on privacy has any effect on Siri’s performance, it’s undeniable that having more data could allow for a smarter virtual assistant. Now I would never want Apple to change their stance on privacy, but if they could utilize the anonymous data they do have more efficiently, it might give Siri a chance to at least catch up to its competition. And considering Tim Cook has been talking about things like machine learning and artificial intelligence, I really hope they invest in a completely rebuilt Siri that helps reestablish Apple as a leader in AI. And I believe they are making efforts to dramatically improve Siri. Because back in 2017, two months before the HomePod was announced, Apple began posting more job openings for the Siri team than ever before. And earlier this year Apple began to hire talent from Google like their former head of AI and search, John Giannandrea, to help clean things up. And that brings me to the last point I want to make about why Siri sucks. I think Apple has a tendency to focus their resources on projects that they think are the most important, and this results in other things falling by the wayside. And Siri just might’ve been one of those things. Maybe Apple felt Siri was good enough and minor improvements would prevent it from falling too far behind its competitors. But I think Apple is finally realizing how important Siri is to their products. It’s the way many people like to interface with their Apple Watch and HomePod, and it represents the foundation of Apple’s artificial intelligence technology. Which is likely the future of the tech industry as a whole. So Apple is finally beginning to invest more resources and money into their virtual assistant in order to build a solid foundation for the company’s future. So that being said, it appears Siri has a bright future, but that light at the end of the tunnel isn’t likely to arrive anytime soon. Because if Apple has decided to completely rebuild Siri, it could take years to complete. And by then who knows what Amazon, Microsoft, and Google will have accomplished with their assistants. All we can do is hope Apple has something amazing up their sleeve to reestablish their position as a leader in AI. So that is why Siri sucks, and if you want to vote for the next video topic don’t forget to subscribe. Thanks for watching and I’ll see you next time. 