 Nate, we've talked a lot about outsourcing. Where specifically can we find Virtual Assistants. How about we show them? Well dive right in, we'll grab my MacBook and we'll show you exactly where I find and hire my Virtual Assistant team. How about it. Hey, it's Scott Christopher from the Scott Christopher channel. This is just right up there above me. As far as I know. Along with Nate, "Be the hero", Nate Woodbury and this is Nate's time to shine. Because we're going to kind of dive under the hood today and... He's never done this before. Go online, know exactly and see what, how in the world... We've talked a lot about... Talked a lot about sourcing and finding Virtual Assistants all over the world but primarily in the Philippines. Yeah. So, we're going to actually go under the hood like you say. And we're going to show you how to actually find a Virtual Assistant. Check the tires, take for a spin around the block, baby. So, we are here at the Virtual Assistant tool. And this is virtualassistanttool.com. Yeah, virtualassistanttool.com, that's right. So, I'm going to scroll down, I'm actually going to skip down to the bottom and show you a really cool... Right here. Advanced skill search. We're just going to jump right to that. There's other... You could explore this website, you'll find some cool things. You can go to this website right now and find it. Just virtualassistanttool.com. Name a type of skill set or a position you would hire in a company. Like a real one. Not basket weaver but like a legit. You know, administrative, clerical, office receptionist. I don't know, I guess we wouldn't do that virtually. Basically, just a cell phone with a voice message on it. I don't know, how about a graphic designer. I mean, is that too obvious since we're talking about this. Yeah. Let's even be more specific, let's do somebody who's really good at designing logos. Okay, because I don't need anybody. You're asking the wrong guy. Who do I need I need? I need a wife which I have. Alright, so look at this. We can come down here and there's a category graphics and multimedia. There we go. Each person that's in this database has gone in and rated themselves. A receptionist. Oh, sorry. Keep going. Alright, I'm just catching up. Alright. All the 200,000 people that are in here have gone through and rated themselves. Now, these are specifically Filipinos who have rated themselves in terms of their skills in certain areas, correct? Yeah. And they're only allowed to rate themselves at 5-star for a limited number of things. So, it's a great way of filtering them down for the real skill sets. Obviously, if I'm hiring somebody for logo design, let's let's try and put a 5 star  right there and you see how it says, "I'm an expert or I'm the best in the world." What else should we put here. You know we want webpage design. Now, this is what I'm looking for. Write below logo design. So, if I want somebody who really is an expert at Photoshop... Okay, let's just use those two criteria. But wait a minute, just scroll up for a second. Affice and admin, see? A Virtual Assistant not receptionist. Well, it'll be a virtual receptionist. Okay, keep going. So, I mean this get... This will give you an idea. I'm not going to check any of these boxes. And another that's that's pretty good though. We can say, "I want them, you know, at least to consider themselves pretty good at writing." Yes. Okay. In English. Yes, right. We've got writing, advertising, all these different broad categories but that's what we've selected for now. And I'm also going to do one other thing. This is pretty cool that this website does is an ID proof scorer. It always do greater than 70. Why not? This has tools in there. There will automatically detect if these people are real or not and give them a score. Meaning, some people have multiple profiles. They'll describe themselves as a logo designer, as an opera singer, you know, not that you're going to hire a virtual oper... Well, maybe you could. You could voice over. Yeah, right. This will give them a score based on their their history here, based on, if they're they have an active Facebook profile that they use and a lot of different criteria. And this just helps you as the searcher, as the recruiter to kind of possibly weed out fraud or fakers. Exactly, another thing you can do is state that I want to find people that are that are looking for full-time employment. And another thing right here is date. How long ago do you want them to have updated their profile here. If they haven't updated it in the last year or versus. Oh, that's what date means? Yeah, I'm going to leave it blank for now. I'll leave it "as any" and I'll show you the difference. So, I'll hit search resumes. These are way better than resumes by the way. But these are real people. We're looking at here is showing us on this first page 30. It's narrowing it down I think that they'll be happy. Now, you'd think so. I think they'll be happy. Yeah, because these are profiles that they put up here on the public and it shows you what they're asking for. 35,000 Filipino pesos, 679. He's asking a lot higher than what most do. Same with the one right down here, about the same. Only a High school diploma. Yeah, so he's only got a High school diploma but he says he's got 11 years of work experience. So, you know, he's got an ID proof score of 90, he's included his photo which I usually check. So, if you scroll down here, look this one this person doesn't... They don't have a photo, at least it's not showing up and they're only asking for $194 per month. That's probably why they don't have a photo. Another one there. Yeah, you think a graphic designer would know how to upload a photo? That might be a good, a good soldier. Yeah, we're really kind of charged very little they don't actually... She has a photo, she has a good score, she's got a bachelor's degree and she's wearing glasses so she looks smarter. And she's only asking for between there's kind of a range that are 15,000 to 20,000 Filipino pesos which is that most it's under 400 bucks a month. Now, she says she worked at Hooters. Oh, no, no. Hootsuite, sorry I got. A big difference. Yeah, okay. Let's actually dive in here. Let's look at the full profile. She's got an 86 ID. Yeap, so, she's got an 86 ID proof. With no name. That is funny. Doesn't show her name here but we see she's 31 years old, we see like her discompliance, this is like personality and skillsets. Let's check out her English, let's see what she wrote about her skill summary. "I'm a freelance artist, but it doesn't mean that I am limited to arts and crafts. I've also done a lot of online jobs from the past which include typing, data entry." It's pretty good English. Yeah. Pretty good, it doesn't sound... I mean, there's some, you know, a period out of place there. And there's a space there in the word emails. I noticed those as I read it. Of course. So, you might filter that or not. And then you can look down at all the things that she's rated herself very skilled at, or somewhat skilled at, or she's not very skilled at -- blogging according to what she said. She said some instructions. It says so... Anyway, that's that's one example. If you're looking for a Logo Designer, you know, here's some examples of people that we could hire or you know reach out to to see if they want to apply for this position. And I did want to change the criteria. What if we go last active... Oh, by the way, I can check that box that they have a picture. So, that one individual would no longer be there. Yeah. And if we say "Last active in a month or less." So, we read a list... Recent. Yes. Yeah, we're going from 257. See how much that filters out. So, it cut the list in half. It cut the list in half. These are people who have updated their profile in the last month. Which means they're going to reply. They're going to reply when I reach out to them. If the list is still too big, I mean 114, that's still a lot. So, I might cut it down to a week or less. You can play around with these tools to narrow it down even more. So, let's do one more example. Okay. So, coming back into the event skill search. Let's see, we had English checked, I'll just uncheck that. And what we had under graphics design we had those two checked. It's not unchecking, there we go. Okay. Do we have anything else checked? I think that was it. I think so. Alright, now let's look for somebody who is going to be great at bookkeeping. I need to hire a bookkeeper. Yeah. This is good. So, that's not going to be under graphics and multi media. What if finance and management. Okay, we want somebody who is best in the world of bookkeeping. You know, and I don't hesitate from, you know, maybe I'll put expert on both of those but then over here, I'll put specifically QuickBooks. So, I'll do all add QuickBooks in a minute. Maybe our QuickBooks is down here, sweet. So, I need somebody to do that and you know, depending on what I want. So, maybe I do want English. Let's go back and add English here. That they're good at speaking English. I'm an expert at it. Let's just see what results we get. So, this is full-time, ID proof score greater than 70. Let me just show you what happens if I if I say greater than 30. Wow. A hundred and thirteen. So, I did narrow it down quite a bit. So, if I change it to greater than s70 ID proof score. Okay. Okay, so good. It may be it automatically filters out a lot of the the riffraff. If we want to filter out those with pictures, so we're down to 102. There's a couple they didn't have a picture. And then if I want to add a specific search criteria, what would that be? I'll just say... Maybe I'll put in quotes that they know how to use QuickBooks online versus the desktop version. Alright. So, if I search for the Quickbooks online... Okay, it didn't like my search. Wait... Oh, Quickbook. Well maybe it's Quickbooks with an "S", does that help? Alright, let's try Quickbooks online. It narrowed it down to 16. So, that may or may not be a good search phrase because that means that they're not qualified. If they didn't include that exact two-word phrase. But you know, what that's an example of how you could use this tool to really narrow down the list. Well, she definitely says, "I'm very familiar with different accounting software such as QuickBooks Online." You know ,so you want to dig in deeper and kind of narrow it down. I usually suggest a list of 30 to 40 people. So, narrow it down different ways to get that list and then you can start reaching out and we'll talk about that in another video. Hmm. Alright. So, obviously, I'm a big fan of the virtual assistant tool. You can check it out and do searches like that on your own. Just go to virtualassistanttool.com And checkout...I create a lot of videos about why the Philippines? And how to hire them once you find them. Stuff like that. So, make sure you subscribe to the channel. Anything else you want to add? Alright. Nothing else I'll talk to you tomorrow. 