 - You guys, Jonathan here. Hope you guys are doing amazing. Today, was Google I/O 2018. And even though we didn't really see any new hardware in terms of like a Google Pixel 3, my overall impression of the event was... (applause) Now it's no secret that Google Assistant has been kicking Siri's ass for quite some time now, but after today it's almost like Google Assistant is playing games with Apple at this point like it's not even fair. For starters, Google's debuting six brand new voices to Google Assistant, one of them being John freaking Legend, yes. Let that sit in for a second. John Legend is going to be a Google Assistant voice, kind of crazy. - You can find me on all kinds of devices, phones, Google Homes, and if I'm lucky, in your heart. - Set my wake up alarm for 7am.   - Good morning.   - So I'm kind of on the fence of whether this is awesome or kinda weird. Let me know what you guys think with a comment down below. At the very least, John Legend is getting that Google money, but I think the better question is if you could have any voice on this planet be your Google Assistant, which would it be and why? Now for sure, the craziest thing shown off today was Google Duplex, which takes AI to an almost eerie, scary, but also awesome at the same time kinda level. Google Assistant in the background will make a call, act like a human, interact with a real human to get the task done for you. Just listen to this. (phone ringing) - [Woman] Hello, how can I help you? - [Google Assistant] Hi, I'm calling to book a woman's haircut for a client. I'm looking for something on May 3rd. - [Woman] Sure, give me one second. - [Google Assistant] Mm-hmm. (audience laughter) - [Woman] Sure, what time are you looking for around? - [Google Assistant] At 12pm. - [Woman] We do not have a 12pm available. The closest we have to that is a 1:15. - [Google Assistant] Do you have anything in between 10am and 12pm? - [Woman] Depending on what service she would like. What service is she looking for? - [Google Assistant] Just a woman's haircut for now. - [Woman] Okay, we have a 10 o'clock. - [Google Assistant] 10am is fine. - [Woman] Okay, what's her first name? - [Google Assistant] The first name is Lisa. - [Woman] Okay, perfect. So I will see Lisa at 10 o'clock on May 3rd. - [Google Assistant] Okay great, thanks. - [Woman] Great, have a great day. Bye. - Wow. - So yeah, that's kind of weird, but also again awesome at the same time. Again, keep in mind, this is the best case scenario. There are probably tons of disasters, but the fact the technology is this far is crazy. Google did say though we won't see this in its full form any time soon which makes sense. It seems really complicated and there's probably tons of bugs and complications they got to get through first. Rather, something we may see sooner than later, let's say for example, a store has a different holiday hour, instead of thousands of people calling that store at once, Google will make that call, update the information for you so you never have to make a call. Either way though, I've never seen something so awesome and scary at the same time. The robot sounds like a human, down to saying ums like that's kinda weird and I don't know where you guys stand. Do you guys like this or is it the first step to robots taking over the world? Now from there, Google is rolling out what they are calling continued conversations so instead of having to say hey over and over again, you say it once and then it'll let you keep a natural flowing conversation until it makes sense to stop. - [Google Assistant] Sure, here's the Golden State Warriors game on YouTube TV and turning the popcorn maker on. - [Man] Oh and can you dim the lights in the family room and in the kitchen? - [Google Assistant] Sure, dimming the lights in the family room and in the kitchen. - Now it is worth noting that Alexa and Amazon already has this feature, but it's obviously more prevalent on smart home devices, whereas this is more advantageous on smart phones, and then obviously it will trickle down to Google Home devices as well. From there though, what blows the pants off Siri is Google Assistant will now be able to handle multiple actions, meaning you can ask multiple things at the same time, so for example, hey, who was the governor of California when Kevin Durant was drafted and what team drafted him? - [Google Assistant] Arnold Schwarzenegger was the governor in 2007. Kevin Durant was drafted by the Seattle Super Sonics. - That's pretty neat. - Now, just for fun, if I went ahead and asked Siri that, who's the governor of California when Kevin Durant was drafted and who drafted him? - [Siri] Checking out California. Which athlete? Daniel Scott, Brendan Smith, Michael Saffle, Poundesy Poundesy, Gennan, Ryan Walt, Jeremiah Hawkins- - This list is like forever long so not only was that a massive fail, you can see what Google is doing is freaking really cool. Now beyond just some cool features, Google Assistant is also getting a massive overhaul where it's designed to take up the full screen and I got to say it looks really clean. From there, Google's also working with various food chains so you can actually make and place pickup orders with your phone so if that's huge in your day to day, it just got easier with Google Assistant. - [Google Assistant] Hello, welcome back to Starbucks. That's one tall, non fat latte with caramel drizzle. Anything else? - No thanks. - [Google Assistant] And are you picking that up at the usual place? - So I'm gonna tap yes. - [Google Assistant] Okay, your order's in. See you soon. (applause) - Yeah. - One of the smaller, but really cool features that I think is overlooked today at Google I/O, they're calling Pretty Please, which will teach kids to say pretty please, thank you, give them some manners, instead of demanding things from their virtual assistant. Make me a damn sandwich. - [Siri] There's no need for that. - Pretty please. I know it might seem silly, but you got to think about it. A lot of these kids, they grow up interacting with smart phones, with tablets, with smart home devices, so that might translate over into the real world when they don't deal with people the best proper way. Overall though, really freaking impressive stuff from Google today. Super excited for the Pixel 3 coming out later this year. Also, the Android P Beta is available. Details on how you can install it is down below. Thank you guys very much for watching. Hopefully you liked the video. If you did and you're feeling like being awesome, make sure you go pretty please on that like button. This is Jonathan and I will catch you guys later. (calm music) 