 - Boom, what's going on everyone? It's Steve Larsen, this is Sales Funnel Radio, and today I'm gonna talk to you about how I found my VAs. I've spent the last four years learning from the most brilliant marketers today, and now I've left my nine to five to take the plunge and build my million-dollar business. The real question is, how will I do it without VC funding or debt, completely from scratch? This podcast is here to give you the answer. Join me and follow along as I learn, apply and share marketing strategies to grow my online business, using only today's best internet sales funnels. My name is Steve Larsen, and welcome to Sales Funnel Radio. What's up, guys? Now, I don't feel, some people have asked, hey what's a VA? Or just so you know, I'm talking about virtual assistants, I'm talking about how I found my team. Now, what's funny is, I remember sitting at a few events and I would watch these guys who had made two comma lists through their funnels, their sales funnels, and, but there was this interesting correlation that I saw as I would watch these guys. Someone would get up. They'd take the picture. Rah, you know, they'd take the picture with the two comma award, mine's over there. And they'd take the two comma club pictures and they'd be like, check it out, this is so cool. And the next person would get up, and they'd do it again. Woo, what's up, take the picture. I finally did it, yay! Which is really, really cool, but I started noticing this very interesting thing about all of them, right. I can't help it, I'm kind of a pattern junkie, and I started looking. I was like, what do each one of these people have? Like, why is it that that guy can do that, right? Why is it that guy can do that? And I'm not trying to be weird or whatever, but there's a lot of them that would stand up and I'd be like, I think I can build a funnel better than that guy can in his own category, but he made a million bucks. And right, this is before, like why didn't I, right? You know what I mean? It's important to ask those questions. And the thing that I started, one of the things in you know, amidst many other things, one of the things that I started realizing that all these people had that I did not at the time, is this certain mentality, right? I was lacking in this area, okay? Growing up, I'll just tell you guys, this isn't to get all sad and soppy or whatever, but I didn't know what I was good at. And growing up a lot of times, entrepreneurs don't. They don't know what they're good at for a little while, you know, until they kind of, I was teased a few, but it's kind of like the X-Men you know. You're like still trying to figure out your powers. Whoosh, and I hate the misty crap that people try and lace around entrepreneurship. It's not mystic okay. It's business, it's giving value and getting paid for it. Entrepreneurship is not mystic. You're not like a godsend to humanity to get you, you know, to go bless, anyway. You know what I mean? You guys know the mentality I'm talking about you see around a lot of times? That irks me a little bit, okay? But anyway, right, I was young and I was like, what am I good at? What am I good at? And as I started getting a little bit older into my teens, I started realizing that I had an ability to focus hard and go sell stuff. I had a very intense fascination with the act of selling. And as I started learning more, and there's a lot of self-discovery involved with entrepreneurship, I decided like, oh my gosh, right, I started learning how to learn and I got addicted to it. And I started saying things like, well I'm gonna learn that, and I'm gonna learn that I'm gonna learn that, I'm gonna learn that, right? And I'm gonna try and be the best at this, and the best at this, and the best at this, and the best at, I'm like, I'm gonna learn it all baby, bring it on! And funny enough, that's like the exact opposite of what each one of these entrepreneurs on stage were doing. And I was like, well, what are they doing, then? Like, how does this actually work? And I remember I was sitting in, I was sitting next to some extremely successful people. And one guy, he leaned back and he goes, "Yeah, I have no idea how to draft Facebook ads." And I was like, are you serious? Now, I didn't either, but it shocked me that the guy didn't know how to because that's where I saw most of his stuff. He was like, "Yeah, I just outsource it." I was like, huh, that makes sense. You really have never done one ever though? Wow. Even I have massively failed at least getting one out the door, right? And I was like, what's the issue? Like, huh. And then the next guy was like, "Yeah, I didn't write my own book." I mean I created all, I wanna make sure I actually write my book. I'm writing it right now. But he's like, "Yeah, I went through "and I just dictated over the phone or whatever, "and somebody writes it as I'm speaking." And I start that way when I'm doing it, a lot of guys do, and then I like to go back and rewrite again. I'm too much of a, you know, I do like the art of writing a little, but anyway, so one thing that started fascinating me, though, is the incredible obsession each one of these guys had at having a team. That was it. The thing that they all had that I didn't, right, the thing that I had that they didn't, I was focusing on being a renaissance man. I will tell you, that has never paid anybody a ton of money. Okay? Right, to a certain point, right, it's great to know how to do a little bit of everything, to a certain point, to a certain degree, especially when you're brand new and you just, you gotta wear a lot of hats, okay? But there comes a point where you gotta stop doing that, right? And so, the thing that all these guys have that I realized I didn't was a team, right? And so, what I wanted to do, and when I suddenly realized that, that's when I actually started getting into things, like affiliate marketing. I started getting cash in and hiring out tasks that I could have done, but should not be doing. Does that make sense? So this episode's a little bit different. So, what we're gonna do is I'm gonna go cut in. I took a lesson, one of the lessons, or parts of it, from Affiliate Outrage. It's a free program, right, and this is towards the end of the program. I wanted to go through and share with you guys my strategies for finding good people for the team, because I've wasted a lot of money on bad talent, right, there was no talent. So anyway, we're gonna cut over here. I hope you enjoy it. There's several strategies that I'll walk through for how to find good people, how to vet them out. Is this an actual employee that you're bringing in, right, or, and I'll show you guys how, you know, that kind of stuff. I'll actually show with you guys as well things like, specifically, I wanna show you guys how I found VAs. These are the people you're not gonna hire, but you need them to do specific talents, right, specific things that you need done. So anyways, I'm excited for this. Let's go cut over there. This might be a little bit of a longer episode, but I think that's okay, and pay close attention to this. This can save you literally time and money with the wrong person. So anyways, guys, hope you guys enjoy this. Thanks so much, let's cut over now. What's up, guys? I thought it'd be cool to be able to go through and do a lesson today on how to find good people for your team. A team is something I like to, it's so funny, like, I know there's a lot of people that go back and forth on this, like, you're so stupid for doing it by yourself. Okay, well, if I don't have cash flow, I'm not gonna go like, go into debt to get a team, right? So that's why I started doing affiliate marketing, and then when I had a little bit of cash from the affiliate sales, I would go and get good people. But then, like, man, this is like, super choice cash, you know what I mean? It's like really protected special cash, so I don't wanna go just blow that, so how do I find good people? And I totally get that, right? Some of you guys might be feeling that, like, how do I get good people, then? So, in college, I wasted a lot of my own money on bad VAs, like, just tons of them, like, just so many, 'cause I wasn't a coder, and I know like, sometimes I needed a website, or I need this, or I need that, and I was, there was this one time, I spent $500 for this guy, saying that he could put together a very simple thing, and it was garbage. I mean, holy crap, it was so bad. I wasted money on, anyways, I wasted money on bad writers, bad image people, bad, I mean, it was so, anyway, and the issue was this. In pretty much every single platform where you can find like a good, like, virtual assistant, or you know, you know, a place like Upwork.com, or Freelancer.com, or Fiverr. You know, don't try and hire talent on Fiverr. I like Fiverr for like, really tiny stuff. Why? 'Cause it's five bucks. Like, how good a talent can you get for five bucks? So anyway, what I started doing is, it was the way that I was going and finding people that was not good. So, two things here, okay? I just wanna show you guys real quick how I find people. It's actually, well, it's pretty much the same strategy. When I need somebody for a specific job that has to do with like, a creative thing, you know what I mean? Like, hey, what's up creative person, I need you to go make this image, or make this video intro or outro, or make this jingle, or voiceover, you know what I mean? Stuff like that. I will go in and I will just try and get a someone real fast, pay 50 bucks, 100 bucks, $200, $300 to go and do this thing. Okay? When it's somebody, though, that I'm wanting to actually bring onto my team, whether or not they're like a 1099 or actually W-2, okay? The process for it is actually very similar, but one's just more intense than the other. Okay? So to go forth and actually get like a creative, for like, hey, I'm building this funnel, Steve, and I wanna find somebody for this, this, and this. I actually like Freelancer the best. Freelancer.com is amazing. If you guys go over to BestMarketingResources.com and scroll down, you'll see my video on how to get good people, okay, and it's a whole, this is a big topic, right? So you'll see my video on how to get good people, and then what I wanna show with you on that, though, is, actually if you use the link to get a Freelancer account, I think they give you like, $50 credit or something like that if you use that link. It's my affiliate link, of course, but anyway. But anyway, you get a little goodie for that. So, what I would do though is, what I think is really cool, there's a really good book called, I mean, I remember the sub headline of it. It basically is called, Why, oh, it's called A Whole New Mind, and it's called, Why Right Brain Thinkers Will Rule The Future, or rule the world. It's something like that. And I was like, right brain thinkers? It's a fantastic book. But if you think about where we are right now, and you're like, Steve, what's this have to do with getting a team? It has a lot to do with it, okay? Are you farming right now? Unless it's by choice, probably not. You know what I mean? Are you going to a well everyday to get your water? I doubt it, right? Are you going, the point of the book at the beginning of it is like, look, there's so many things in life that are already taken care of for us that like, in the past, the fortunes were made by supplying the basics of life. Fortunes were made that way, right? Let's get power to you, let's get internet to you, let's get water, food, let's get shelter. Right, you're not building your own house, most likely. Does that make sense? The system is created around the basics of life, and it goes around and it talks about, and it makes the argument that like, because of that, those are very left brain ideas, right? Okay, what's logical, why I should go and make a system to bring water to your house? That's a logical thing, right? And so, it says, because so many of the logical things have been taken care of now, the future is ruled by those who can be right brain thinkers, those who are the creatives, those who can sit down and say, hey, you know what, you know, I've got this idea, right? And so, those who become creative, those who are, that's why right brain thinkers rule the future. I know that's one of the reasons why I do so well with my stuff, is because I try to be creative, right? And I wouldn't say necessarily it was the beginning of life, you know, but that too can be a learned trade, and so, what I decided to do, anyway, in that book, it goes on to say like, you've gotta figure out how to be creative, but the problem is that you wanna make sure that you get someone on your team who is creative, right, who's actually good at what they do, right? I still believe in capitalism, baby. Whoo, right? I want the best of the best, I do, in every area of life, and so, what I, so how do you find a good virtual assistant? How do you find a good freelancer to come and do this task or that task for you? And so, I stopped following the capitalist rule. I stopped just going and try to find somebody who's awesome. Instead, I created contests, okay, and this is literally how and why I was able to do what I do. Because while I was working a job, I had these rock stars getting these things done for me, which was paid for by affiliate cash, okay? So that's why I'm trying to help you guys understand this thing, okay? So one of the things that I did, though, with this is I went in and I grabbed, funny enough, like, Upwork doesn't even do this anymore. They may have added it in the past little bit, but I've looked, anyway, Freelancer.com is my favorite, because they are the only one that allow me to actually create a contest, and Freelancer facilitates the contest. So, what I like to do, and I'm like, man, you know, I need somebody to create images for me. I still do this, guys. I've got a bank of people that I'll go back to because of this process, okay? And this is the process. I had somebody complain to me once. They were like, but that sounds like it's gonna take a few days. I'm like, you're not gonna spend a few days finding somebody who's really good? What's wrong with you? Right? Come on, right? So, this is what I do. Right, and it's all automated, but Freelancer is the only platform I know of that automates this and facilitates this contest process. So what I do is I try to make sure to overpay a little bit in these contests. So the contest runs like this. I don't have to pay you unless you are the contest winner, okay, so here's what I do. I say, "Hey, what's up, everyone?" And let's say it's an image, and I just need a simple cropping done and put on the background of something else, something really, really easy in Photoshop, honestly, right? Something I could probably take my own time to go do, but I'm not the expert at it, so why would I do it, right? So I don't. So instead, what I go do is I'm gonna go in, and in Freelancer, I can put a contest up that says, hey, I need this image, and I usually do a little screen record, I need this image placed on this background, right, with this stuff cut out, and it's a contest, and if you win the contest, I'll give you 100 bucks. Like, $100, what? That's part of the strategy, understand? I make sure to overpay a little bit for it. Why? Because it attracts a butt-load of people to me, right? Lots of the Freelancer people, they start jumping on, and jumping on, and jumping on, and jumping on, and they start submitting this image, right? Well, I make the contest a week long, okay, I make the contest a week long, and then what I do after that is I make sure that in the contest, I've got my critiques set to public, so that everybody else can see all the other submissions, and everybody else can see my critiques. So what I do for the first five days is I am pretty harsh in my critiques, okay? I'm not saying I'm rude, but I'm not mincing words. I hate this, I hate that, I love this, but change that, I hate this, this is terrible, no, nothing like this at all, why did you do this, right, and I'm actually very, very forward about it, and I don't wanna say rude, I don't wanna say, I'm not rude about it, but I'm so forward because I know hundreds of other freelancers are watching my comments, okay, and they're watching my critiques, and what's funny, because it always happens this way. I always do it a week long. I always do it a week long, and, and I'm publicly critiquing, just once a day, hard, heavy, okay? Public critique, public critique, public critique. I'm like, holy crap, this is terrible, or like, whoa, no, not this at all, are you kidding? You know what I mean? I'm super forward, and I'm specifically giving very specific feedback back on the critique. Well, everybody can see that, in the contest. Everyone sees it. Everyone can get notified by it. It's always been this way, though. The funny part is that on the last two days, it's always been, the real talent will swoop in those last two days. The real talent swoops on in, they see the comments, they see my critiques, and then it's at the last two days, these guys swoop on in, and they'll make just this incredible stuff, and I'm like, where have you been? I've been trying to find you in all of Freelancer and all of the freelancing world, the entire VA world. Where have you been, right? And the last two days, what's really cool is I'm extremely, I'm even more interactive, and I will farm out like the top 10 people, and keep interacting, keep interacting. Yes, I hate this, no, I don't like that, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, right, back and forth, back and forth, and then, it's always within the last like, 12 hours, just the most incredible work comes through, and I only have to pay the top one, okay? I did this once on a t-shirt, and I had, is it t-shirt or an image? I can't remember. There was like, over 200 submissions. 200, okay? And it was cool, 'cause the last little bit, though, the last few hours, the last real talent came in and true designers, you know what I mean, just really gifted people, I can tell, and they came in, and I only had to pay the top person. But now, the next time I needed a t-shirt done, I just went to those top three. I can go back to them afterwards and just go straight to them, rather than a contest, okay? Does that make sense? I literally filtered out hundreds of people that weren't good, right? I've done that whenever I need like an image. I don't keep doing it, because I found who they are, right? And so, I'll go in, and like, that's literally how I created the graphic for Sales Funnel Radio, with me pointing at my shirt, it was through a contest. That's how I came up with that. The t-shirt that I have for Hey, Steve, that was a contest. A game, an actual coder, right? I found it, actually, that was a help with Freelancer themselves. It's like an extra 10 bucks and they help me find out a good person. Anyway, but I love Freelancer for that reason. So, number one, the biggest way to create and grow a team is, you gotta understand, like, I use contests. I use them heavily, and not just when I need like, a freelancer position. I actually use it when I am hiring out for team members as well. Okay, so when I found my incredible Facebook coder, and you guys, sorry, Facebook traffic driver, and you guys know that story if you're this far in the training, right, you guys know that story of me hiring Selma, and you guys have learnt from Selma. It was literally a contest, and she was just winning in the contest, and after that, I found out she, I was like, holy crap, you're Dan Henry's guy too, that's crazy. Right? She's very, very talented, but it's because of contests, okay? I don't just go out, I don't give a crap about resumes, okay? It's what piques my interest initially, but who I actually decide to have a long term relationship with is based on contests, right? Who makes it rain? Who can make it happen? I want those kinds of people. And so, I make sure to do that. So, a few caveats with this, okay? So, I use contests regardless of it's on the Freelancer platform or not. Usually, I try and always go to it, though, because there's great talent that's on there, you just gotta find them, and then in the future, you don't have to do it again. Okay, a few caveats, though, with this whole thing. In college, I was taught to hire for the sake of building a business. Okay? Before creating revenue. That's backwards. That's dumb. Don't do that. In my honest opinion, that is some seriously terrible advice, okay? I think that college taught me some great things. That was not one of them, okay? Instead, and if you guys have watched my podcast, anyway, you guys know I've talked about at the beginning of this year what really happened to me. What happened to me was I got, there was a lot of, it was like 200 grand, almost, that came in, just bam, real fast. But my business structure wasn't there to support the revenue coming in. I had never considered that a funnel was not a business until like, two or three years ago, right? I was like, yeah, well, I built the funnel, so therefore I got the revenue, that's it. Like, no, no, no, you still need a business to support the revenue, right? Support itself, fulfillment, right? Maybe you gotta get out there and actually do, maybe to chip in stuff. Maybe you're gonna, I don't know, maybe it's up the high ticket, like you're gonna fly out to him. What if the process is, if I handle every single customer complaint different? Now, if I handle every single Dream 100 package I send out, right, totally different, right? I'm not saying you shouldn't customize, but if I handle every single purchase different, if I handle every single aspect of every single thing I do every time different, I don't have a business, I am the business. Okay? Does that make sense? So I can have a funnel. If there's no systems, there's no business, right? And so, that's exactly what I'm, that's what I'm trying to say here. So, I don't care about this whole like, go build a team thing. Don't do it until you have freaking revenue. Right? Otherwise, you're gonna go into debt. That's why they teach go get a loan, go get business loans, go build a proposal to get a loan. Why? What does that money do? Right, they always ask, what are you gonna do with this money? Right? And the scary thing is when you find out that money that you've taken on is to build business structure only, okay, that's freaking scary, because it means that you literally have no proof of concept the market has said, "Yes, I like that." That's it, there's no proof of concept, there's nothing, right? And so, what I'm trying to say is, you guys gotta understand, don't go build teams for the sake of people saying you need one, okay? Hire when it hurts. That's my whole thing. I hire when it hurts. Okay? Which means I gotta run hard. I'm totally fine putting a little sweat equity in, which I totally am known for doing, and I'm cool with that. I'm not telling you not to get help. I'm not telling you that you should be the one to do all the aspects inside of your company, but until you get revenue, man, I would not go out and hire people. I mean, for real, okay? Don't go hire people. When it comes to team things, though, as far as like, or creatives, like, I'm not gonna go take the time to learn some aspects of Photoshop that I know some other guy can just, I can pay him 50 bucks for and just have him do it, right? You see what I'm saying, right? You know like, Russell does all those doodle drawings, and I went and I found this awesome doodle drawing guy on Freelancer to do very similar things for a workbook I was putting out. Okay? It was a huge process to find him, but when I found him, I go back to him all the time now. He's awesome, he's super cool, and he does all my doodles for me now, he does all that stuff. So anyways, I want you to know, like, when it comes to creative, or when it comes to things like, just 'cause I can do something, right, that's what I'm trying to say, like, there's several schools of thought with this, right? Yes, the business should not all be you, eventually. It's fine if it is for awhile, in my opinion. If you're just standing up, you're just barely getting revenue coming in, I don't know why you'd ever go hire somebody. All your revenue should be back into getting more sales, right? So eventually, eventually, don't be the business. You know, or don't be the business. Don't be the only one running the business. Get a team, get a system running, things like that. Totally, 100%, love it, okay? To contrast that also, I believe that you should hire when it hurts. That's something that Russell always told me when I was there with him. He said, "Hire when it hurts, "hire when it hurts, "hire when it hurts." Meaning, if you can handle it, keep doing it, right? Most people, a lot of companies die because they hire too quickly. Seriously, that's one of the major reasons why companies die quick, is because they hire too fast, right? To caveat that again, with a third point, though, just because you can do something, doesn't mean you should be doing it, right? Like I said, I'm not gonna go learn crazy things in Photoshop in order just to pull off this one image. I'm just gonna go, I'm just gonna go hire a dude. You know what I mean? So the trick, what I'm trying to help you guys understand here with this is that the trick is seeing what task needs to get done, and asking yourself, is this a task that I can do, right, or is it a task I should do, or shouldn't do? You know what I mean? You're trying to figure out what scenario to go for. Am I just gonna go grab people, and should I pay 50 bucks for someone to get it done for me in the next 24 hours, or should I just do it because that's okay also, right? It's totally, guys, entrepreneurs wear a lot of hats in the beginning. That's totally fine. It's the reason you love your company so much. It's the reason I love my company so much, right? It's the reason I'm very babyish of it, right? I have given much family time to the business instead of my family. You know what I mean? Because I'm wearing a lot of hats. As things have grown, though, I find out other places and people and stuff like that, and other systems to take over aspects of it for me, okay? But you gotta ask yourself, right, and then the fourth point to think about with this is, is this a revenue generating activity? If it is, you should do it, okay? If it's not, don't do it, right? Right? Is the image you need to go get created, is there potential for it to bring revenue in? If the answer is yes, okay, that's fine, but does it mean you should do it? Well, I don't know. Maybe you could just go pay someone 50 bucks to get it done, or run a contest and find out who the person is. You understand what I'm saying? I'm trying to teach like, several different schools of thought that I've heard and also know. I run my entire thing off of a, mentally, I'm thinking of this thing called, I call it red dot, green dot, and red dots, like, I just, guys, I think entrepreneurs are really good at just writing massive task lists, and that's cool, but the problem is that bogs you down and it stresses you out, and overloads you, and there's things that should be getting done, but you never get done, because they're important, but not that important. You know what I mean? And so, I like to list out all the things I needed to go do, and then I'll do a red dot, green dot, right, there's several planning systems I use. This is the one I really like, though, a lot also. And I'll just list out all the stuff and be like, oh, green dot, that's the one that makes me revenue, sweet. And if it's a big green dot, I do it during the parts of the day that I know I'm most fresh. Usually for me, that's like 7 a.m. to like, one. Okay? I do the small green dots, though, in the evening, or in the afternoon. They're still revenue-generating, just not as big, right? Like a big green dot, that's like, script-writing, right, certain aspects of funnel-building, right, doing sales videos, where I need to be fresh, I need to be awesome, I need to be hopping on. Does that make sense? A red dot is something that needs to get done but there's no, there's literally a cost on the business. I should never be doing those roles. So, an easy way to do it, and the way I did it for quite awhile was, red dot, green dot, right? Is it a green dot or a small green dot, and then, what's the red dot? And if it's a red dot, don't even worry about it. Like, most of the time, most of the time, you really don't need to worry about those things, unless it's like, set up an LLC, you know, or something that's truly foundational, but I guess technically, that's revenue-generating, that's why you're doing it. But anyway, so, I hope that helps. Hope that helps with the whole team-building thing, okay? I just wanted to do a lesson in a day real quick on how to actually find good virtual assistants, on how to find and how to source things out. I'll tell you, I just wanna finish with this real quick, I'll tell you something that Dana Derricks told me. He and I were chatting on Voxer one day. Anyway, and he said, he said, "One thing that's really helped me out "is I've always made sure to do," like if I'm gonna do support, right, at the beginning, you're probably the one doing support. That's fine, right? That's fine, especially when you're wearing a lot of hats, right? After awhile, you don't wanna be doing that, but for awhile, like, you know, is it revenue generating? No, but you may not have the revenue to get rid of it and buy back your time. You know what I mean? So just keep going on, that's totally fine, but one thing he told me I thought was really cool, he said, "I always make sure "whenever I'm about to go do a process "that I do it the hardest, "most arduous way possible, "because when I do that, "I make sure to document what I'm doing, "and now, I literally, "after I've done it, "I literally have the system that "I know I need to hire someone to do." He's like, I make sure I do it the hardest way, which is completely 180 of how most people react to pain, or any kind of discomfort, or growth. Okay? Like, I don't wanna do it the hardest way, are you kidding me? Don't make me do it the hardest way. But it's like, actually the exact opposite, man. He's like, funny enough, I do the exact opposite. Do something the hardest way the first time, do it a few times to document your system, document the process, and now you have the system, right, and you know exactly what to hand off to somebody to buy back your time and replace you. I thought that was very, very key and really cool that he said that, so, anyways, guys, hopefully that's helpful for you. I just wanted to tell you a little bit about that. So as you start to grow this, and I just start to get cash coming in, honestly, strategically what I would do, start thinking about what it is you really wanna go sell, okay? Affiliate products are incredible. You could make a whole, a lot of people make a fortune just selling other people's products. It is a lot more fulfilling, right, both to your wallet but also to you to have your own product, right? So, as you're kinda beginning to stockpile cash, you're trying to figure out what you wanna go sell, or whatever, it's important to think about that kinda stuff, okay? I've never seen a two comma club winner do it on their own, ever, right? They might be the solo-preneur, but they got a team. They at least got an assistant, a support guy, a high ticket seller, you know, stuff like that, a fulfillment guy. You know what I mean? A sales guy, right? So I, does that make sense? They're the ones that are running it, but they got the team below them, doing all the dirty work, making sure the stuff gets done, so they can keep selling. You know what I mean? I've never seen a two comma club winner ever to get it solely on their own, where they're doing every function of the business. Yeah, right. Yeah, right, that doesn't happen. So just know, like, as you start to get cash in, I know a lot of you guys may not have money right now. That's totally fine. As you start to get cash coming in, though, start stockpiling that with the idea of thinking, like, where do I wanna drive the ship? Where do I wanna go? How do I wanna make this happen? And as you do that, hire smartly, hire slow, okay? Hire very slow. Be very careful of who you bring in, and be very careful what they do. Are you actually hiring a skill, or just a heartbeat, right? Are you hiring a skill, or just a heartbeat? Make sure that that's exactly what, anyways, anyways, that's all I gotta tell you, and with those few things in mind, like red dot, green dot, you know what I mean? Should you be doing it? Can someone else be doing it? Do you have the revenue to do it? Maybe you don't. Go sell something else then, right? Anyway, super cool, guys. And hopefully this is a helpful lesson to you. I said that was the last thing, but this is the last thing here. When we were getting Tony Robbins to come speak at Funnel Hacking Live, when Russell was getting Tony Robbins to, he's not cheap, okay? I'm legally not allowed to tell you how much it was. It was an absolute crap ton amount of money, okay, it was a huge amount of money. And what I thought was cool is I know that Russell follows a principle called, the question is not how do I do this, it's who already knows how to do it, right? It's not what, it's who, or it's not how, it's who, right? Who knows how to do what. And what was interesting is instead of shockingly going like, Tony, you want that much money, what? Huh? And freaking out about it, instead, he said, "Okay. "How can I afford that?" Now, he could've paid out of his own pocket, but that's not the point. He's not gonna take his own cash out. How can the business pay for it? So instead, he added a few extra things to the event in order to pay for the thing he most wanted. What I'm trying to say is, there was a guy who taught me once. He's the man, actually, it's Don Hobbs, and he taught me once, I was on a call with him, and he said, "Stephen, "the question you need to start asking yourself "is you're leaving click funnels here, right?" This is a little bit after I'd left. He said, "The thing you need to start asking yourself, "you need to ask yourself the question, "how can I hire people that I can't afford?" And when you can hire people that you can't afford, it means that your vision or what you're trying to take down is big enough, but also realistic enough that it's attracting actual talent, right? It's attracting actual talent. If you look at the list of people that I have had on this course so far for you guys, I could not pay all of their fees together. Right, in a lump sum, there's no way, there's no way. I sold them, I hired them to come to do this, right, because of the vision and what I'm actually trying to get done. Okay, when you actually go and actually start grabbing people in, you need to make sure, when it's actual growth time, you hire slow, and you're hiring people that you actually cannot afford, because when you do it that way, you're actually gonna be protecting your vision, you're going to be hiring people that are also not just materially, but actually themselves vested in it. What are they doing in the night time hours? What are they doing in the evening hours? What are they doing, right? Man, I'm still building Clickfunnels Dream even I don't work there. You know, I'm 100% vested in that. I know I am, right? I'm 100% vested in the products that I sell, because I change people's lives. I know I am, and when I find people that are aligned like that, it's a huge deal, right? So I make sure I go and I grab, like, that's why you hire slow, right, and you try and find people based off of talent, not how much they're gonna say, like, "Oh well, I'm this much money." Well, if the vision is big enough, and it's cool enough, and it's not just like, far-fetched, but it's actually real, you know, then you're gonna have a great time, because you're gonna start attracting amazing talent to you, that scratches your back and theirs, and it might mean a partnership. It might mean that you just give them out some revenue. It might mean that, anyway, I hate it when somebody approaches me and says, "Hey, I got a great opportunity for you, Stephen." You think I need another one? Okay, I got plenty. I'm trying to manage the opportunities I'm finding on my own. I don't need anymore opportunities. When someone walks up and they go, "Steve, I got this great idea. "Why don't you go, do it, "okay, here's the idea. "Here it is, okay, "if you go build it, "I'll give you like, 50%." And I'm like, huh, you know what's fascinating? I could just do that on my own and keep 100% of it, right? Ideas are nothing, guys. Idea is not an asset. I got an idea, so? It's worth nothing. I don't care what the idea even is, right? That's why I always laugh in Shark Tank when they're like, "Well, I actually haven't sold anything yet." Then you have nothing. Even if you're holding the freaking product, you have nothing. Ideas are nothing, okay? They're nothing. There's no value attached to an idea. Show me an idea that was sold for a whole bunch of money without some asset attached to it. It doesn't happen, right? So when you're going out and you start getting actual team people to start joining you, you need to make sure that what you're actually offering to somebody to come and join your thing and do your thing has everything to do, right, with selling them on a vision, making sure that you've got assets, are you gonna sell something? Idea is not, ideas are nothing, okay? So make sure, anyway, there was a podcast episode where I ranted about that awhile ago, about like, I think a little like 100 episodes ago, but it just makes me laugh about that. So anyway, rant over, okay, rant's done, but I just want you to know that when it comes to time, that's how I find VAs, that's how I find freelancers, that's how I find people to come join the team, that's how I find 1099 versus W-2. Like, it's because I'm trying to make sure that it is aligned with my vision, right, that there are people that will add constantly to the vision, and be, right, guys, I worked way more than nine to five for Russell. Holy freaking crap, right? And I'm totally cool with that. No contest. He spent zero time indoctrinating me into the culture of Click Funnels. No time. I hit the ground running, no training. Tweaking, sure. Stuff that he wanted me to change, absolutely. But man, I was there to run. I produced day one, right? And it's because I'm trying to, and so because of that, when it comes down to actually hiring hiring people, man, there's no better way to do it than hiring from your own audience. Right, 'cause they're sold on the vision, they know who you are. Right? And you're like, man, I don't have an audience yet. That's totally fine. That's exactly my point, like, then don't hire someone, like an actual W-2, for awhile. That's totally fine. Anyway, so, this, hopefully it hasn't felt like it's been all over the place. There was a lot of nuggets in there that I dropped with it, but I'm trying to help you see, like, when it comes to it, okay, the sales funnels, sales cycles are different than a business, like a business cycle, okay, and you should be, you're gonna be the one most likely doing both for a little while, and that's okay, okay? Eventually, yes, you shouldn't be doing both, and you hire when it hurts. It's probably gonna be a little bit uncomfortable anyways, at the beginning. It is for everybody, and that's okay. Okay, somebody told me this great quote that said, "It's gonna take longer than you fear, "but not as long as you think. "It'll take longer than you think, "not as long as you fear." There we go, that's what it is. Anyway, so when you're jumping out, it's like, you're gonna feel alone. You are alone. No one's around you. That's okay. Right, but when you start to hire, man, it is methodical, okay? It is not easy to work for you, okay, it's not, it shouldn't be. You shouldn't just take anybody on. That's why I still go the VA route forever, because it works. You know what I mean? There's not like a huge, I still have, I got my content team. None of them are W-2s. They don't need to be, right? I still pay them a lot of money, right? But I... They're sold on the vision. They get crap done and problems solved I didn't even know were problems. Right? They're sold on the vision. They understand where I'm going. I'm trying to be a voice of clarity against a lot of gurus that are out there, because I've actually done a lot of it. It's not just theory. You know what I mean? Anyway, and when I find people who are not just willing to accept, but also wanna protect and grow the same vision, it's like, what do you want? Yes, come with me, you know. What is it that motivates you? Okay, Tony Robbins, you want that much money? Okay, okay, I'm not gonna say no. Instead, let me figure out how to pay for that. Right, instead let me figure out, anyway, so, this might feel like a little bit of rant, and maybe it is a little, but I want you to understand, when it comes down to the hiring thing, I'm very opinionated on this topic, okay? Because I wasted a lot of money for a lot of years, until I made it hard to join my team, whether or not it was a $50 image or like a big thing. So anyway, guys, thanks so much. Hopefully it's been helpful to you. Again, please reach out. We got just a few more things here, a few more lessons that I wanna drop out to you, as far as making, you know, making it all work for affiliates, making new money. Anyway, and then, that won't be done, and I wanna challenge you guys, if you want to, if you have validated, just promote my stuff. This is my free stuff. You can always look at the paid stuff is. So, my products are good. I'll take care of your customers, I'll take care of your traffic, you send over to me, and I really appreciate it. Guys, thanks so much, and I'll talk to you later. See you in the next lesson, bye. Woo-hoo, hey, thanks for listening. Hey, many don't know that I actually made my first money online as an affiliate marketer. If you wanna know how I funded my entire company without using any of my own money ever, you can learn to do the same for free at affiliateoutrage.com. 