 Friends, in today's generation we all know that what is a Computer. All of us has learned at school in basic that what a Micro, Mini, Mainframe or Super computer is. But do you all know that what a Quantum computer is? If you know it's good but if you don't then watch this video because today I'm going to talk to you about it. A computer processes data through a CPU. (i.e. Central Processing Unit) A CPU is made up of a microprocessor. And a microprocessor is made up of transistors. A transistor is such an electronic component which we can use as an amnplifier or as a switch. And in microprocessors we use it as a switch which either stops the flow of electrons or allows them to flow. And there are millions and billions of transistors present inside a microprocessor. Basically, a transistor is the smallest component of a computer. And in today's date the size of a transistor we are using in normal microprocessor is 14nm. Friends, now let's talk about Quantum computers. The thing that happens in a Quantum computer is that the transistors inside the microprosseor is exactly the same as the size of an atom. When a transistor's size become equal to the size of a single atom then even if you try to stop the flow of electrons they will tunnel to the other side due to the Quantum Tunneling phenomena of Physics. And we utilize this phenomena in Quantum computers. Friends, in general computers we measure data in Bit. But in Quantum computers we measure data in Qubit. In Quantum computers a single Qubit performs the task of 2 bits. That means it can work as 0 and as well as 1. Due to this the logic gates can give the outputs of all combinations together at the same time. And because of this the processing power of the computer will rise to a great extend. Then we can use Quantum computer for very complex processings. Such as Weather Forecasting, Deep Space Exploration or any complex scientific calculation. We can perform these tasks very easily. This much for now, hope you liked this video. If you liked this video do subscribe to my channel. Will meet again in the next video with a new topic. Goodbye for then and take care. 