 My name is Leo Kouwenhoven, I'm a Director here in Delft for the Microsoft Quantum Lab, where we develop a topological quantum computer. Quantum is a theory that describes how small particles behave, and by 'small particles' I mean atoms. For instance, two atoms glue together and form a molecule, and the glue that keeps these two atoms together is, as far as we understand, only described by quantum theory. We don't have any other theory that describes how atoms behave. The glue between atoms is actually very interesting, and funny, and counterintuitive. What happens in the glue is that we have two atoms and one extra electron. That extra electron could sit, for instance, on one atom or the other atom, but it doesn't. What it actually does, it sits on both atoms simultaneously, at the same time. This is what we call a 'superposition': one electron that sits on two atoms at the same time. There are many things in nature that we only understand because of this superposition. This includes, "Why is grass green?" We only understand colours because of those superpositions. Or photosynthesis: that light in a green leaf is by some chemical process converted into, in the end, oxygen. It releases oxygen. These are quantum mechanical processes that make use of superpositions in order for this light particle to be converted, after some complicated process, into an oxygen molecule. In a classical computer we're not using these superpositions. We're encoding information in zeros and ones but there's no such thing as encoding information in superpositions of zeros and ones. With classical computers we can do many things, but not those quantum things. The classical computer is a very ill-built machine for solving quantum problems. What is a quantum problem? As I said, everything on Earth is glued together by superpositions. If we want to do something that helps us in using our natural resources more efficiently, or curing our bodies from a disease, we're usually invoking some chemical process, like you take a pill. That pill does something chemical in your body, and you hope that you recover from your illness. At the moment, we don't know how to compute these processes. We don't know how to predict or simulate processes in nature or in biological systems, so we just try and see if it works or not. The method is trial and error. If we would have a quantum computer in hand, then we can use it to help solving those problems at a very fundamental level. If you want to make a battery to save some energy, how do we actually store energy at the level of atoms and molecules? Can we do that and retrieve all the energy out of the battery with 100% efficiency. There still are fundamental questions with respect to quantum computing. Nobody has ever made before a large-scale, controllable quantum system. At the moment, we don't know what a quantum computer can do on a large scale. We know a certain set of problems where quantum computers will be revolutionary. Problems that are impossible to solve with classical computers will be solved on a quantum computer, but to predict what it can do on a large scale, at this moment that's too early still. We're still learning what all the applications of quantum computer can be. We're are at the very beginning. Let's say we're in the 1980s for the Internet. Who knows what the Internet is going to bring us? 