 be counterintuitive, it is what will empower quantum computers to be significantly faster that classical computers.Superposition allows quantum computers to process more information and process multiple scenarios at once. Classical bits, shown by the diagram on the left can be in either state 1 or state 0. Qubits, as shown by the diagrams on the left can be in superposition in multiple states at once. For example in the diagram, the one qubit is in a superposition of one, zero and some complex states in between. The diagram on the right shows five qubits in superposition. These five qubits can be in 32 different states at once, in contrast to five classical bits, which can only be in 5 states. This means that the qubits can process large amounts of information in parallel, which make them efficient in some types of problems. So what are these qubits in a quantum computer? In a quantum computer, the qubits can be many things, but the most common forms of qubits are the spin of an electron or the polarization of a photon or the nuclear spin of an atom, with some value of each quantum property representing a state. Now you know what qubits are, and what makes them special, but how do quantum computers use these qubits to actually process information? At first, all n qubits in the quantum computer are put into a superposition of 2n states. The problem that the computer is trying to solve is then encoded into this superposition. So our qubits are put into a superposition of all possible solutions to our problems. Then by performing operations on our particles, we can transform and/or analyze all of the solutions encoded in our superposition at once. This is what grants quantum computers significant advantages over classical computers when solving specific types of problems. However, there is catch. When the quantum particles are measured after the algorithm is completed, the superposition is collapsed and one of the many possible solutions in the superposition is measured at random, and all others are lost. We would seem to be no better off than if we used a classical computer and tried out one randomly chosen possible solution—in either case, we end up knowing about only one possible solution. Thankfully, at the quantum scale particles can be represented as both particles and waves. This allows quantum algorithms take advantage of wave interference. Wave interference refers to how waves in phase add and waves out of phase cancel each other out [Show diagram, wave interference]. Waves whose crests and troughs align are in phase and will add, called constructive interference, whereas waves whose crests and troughs are not at the same places will subtract called destructive interference. Quantum algorithms exploit this property. In superposition, when incorrect solutions are detected, destructive interference is used to cancel out these incorrect solutions . Whenever potential correct solutions are detected, then constructive interference is used to increase the probability that these correct solutions are measured at the end. This leads to extremely high probabilities of measuring the correct solution at the end of the computation. So, after the qubits are placed in superposition, the problem is encoded onto these qubits, and operations are performed on all qubits at the same time, and wave interference is used to eliminate incorrect solutions, ultimately providing the correct solution at the end of the computation. Quantum computers operate on completely different principles to existing computers, which makes them really well suited to solving particular mathematical problems, like factoring very large prime numbers. This provides quantum computers with many benefits over classical computers allowing to solve many types of problems that classical computers could potentially take years to solve. An example of this is simulations of complex chemicals. In order to fully simulate a chemical reaction, a large amount (billions or trillions) of sub-atomic particles have to be simulated. Electrons in a chemical exert a charge on every other electron in the chemical. This means that every time something is changed the charge, position and many other properties of each and every sub-atomic particle have to be re-calculated. This makes it an extremely difficult task for classical computers. However, quantum computers can simulate these reactions much more effectively and efficiently than classical computers, taking advantage of their superposed and entangled qubits. The simulation of chemicals and other sub-atomic particles can lead to making of better medicines and an overall better understanding of chemistry and how sub-atomic particles interact with each other. So why don't we have quantum computers yet? So far, the largest and most powerful quantum computers have less than 50 qubits. In contrast, a classical computer with 8 Gb of ram has 64 million bits. One of the factors constraining the growth of quantum computers is their physical size. Even though most quantum computers today only have a small number of qubits, they still occupy an extremely large amount of space. These quantum computers need to be made smaller before they can be made bigger. Another problem is that the sub-atomic particles, like electrons and photons that are used in quantum computers begin to become unreadable and loose their superposition as they interact with their environment. This process is called quantum decoherence. In order to prevent this, complete isolation of the qubits is required. However, this is not feasible, but this is also the reason why qubits are kept at extremely low temperatures, to prevent decoherence. The final goal is to create a quantum computer with over 100,00 qubits. So, in summary, a quantum computer uses special quantum bits to store and process information. These quantum bits can be in multiple states at once, allowing for operations to be run on large amounts of data and numbers all at the same time. Quantum computing would be beneficial for cryptography and encryption, by providing methods of encrypting data that would be almost impossible to breach, it would be beneficial for medicine and chemistry by allowing complex chemical reactions to be simulated accurately, leading to the creation of better medicine. Quantum computers would also have benefits for searching large amounts of data, machine learning and AI as well as any kind of optimization problems, but there are still some challenges to overcome before this can be actually created. 