 A major challenge in quantum computing has been designing a system that can operate at room temperature. Lightwave valleytronics, which uses intense lightwaves and the momentum of electrons to process logic, could be a solution. It starts with a 2-dimensional semiconductor -- a single-atom-thick material that has unique conduction properties. In this type of semiconducting material, the electrons happen to favor one of two specific momenta. These two preferred momenta are often referred to as valleys. And it takes a lot of energy to get the electrons out of one valley and into the next. To get the unexcited electrons into either valley, energy must be introduced with circularly polarized light. And as it turns out, a pulse of clockwise circularly polarized light will excite the electrons into one valley, but counterclockwise light will excite the electrons into the opposite valley. The resulting valley state is easily observed because the spin of the light emitted by the electrons depends on which valley they’re in. But the electrons will only remain excited in either valley for a few femtoseconds before the material returns to its normal, unexcited state. In order to build a conventional computer, there needs to be a way to represent a bit of information with two possible values, zero or one, or in this case, valley 1 or 2. But that bit must also be able to switch between zero and one to perform logic operations. This is done with a high intensity, linearly polarized pulse of light to force the electrons to change momentum and hop from one valley to the other, which opens the door to incredibly fast valleytronic logic. If this system is scaled up to build a conventional computer, it would be millions of times faster than what exists today. And better still, these valley states can exist in quantum superpositions of one another, meaning that the electrons are in both states at the same time. The bit is both a zero and a one. This could make it possible to build a quantum computer that works at room temperature. [music] 