 Early Last Year (2017), Scientist and Engineers was exited about Quantum Computing. What is the diffrence between Quantum Computing with the current computer system? We could understand by exploring how the system works. Current computer system is by utilizing semi conductor. made out of silica, similar material to make glass Semi conductor means, we could instruct it to pass a proton, and when they do, we code it as 1. On any other occasion, we could also instruct to blocked the proton, which we coded as 0. This code/language could be assemble to process calculation. 001 similar to telegram (Morse code). But here, We are using Binary language. 001001 means 5 (should I'm correct) or is it? whatever... This process is improved along the time (more compact), allowing current mobile phone could play video In one video processing there are a lot of process to be calculate. (01001) The process is so complicated even to process one pixel at one color. Computer experienced a lot of thinking process. You should have mercy to a computer. It is a difficult life for them. What is the difference with Quantum Computing? In the last two decades, Scientist have the ability (tools) to observe the world inside proton size. The material is called "quark" The world at below proton size (quark) is really different. the Law of Physics is totally different. In our world (3rd dimension), should we want to migrate from point A to point B, we shall walk/move, In the world of quark, quark could suddently disappear and appear in another place simultaneously, sometimes it could appear as a wave, sometimes it appear to be two materials and back again to be one. At the begining, Scientist were baffled of this material But then They manage to build Mathematical Model to predict character of quark The Mathematical Model or Theory is called as Quantum Mechanics. By the discovery of Quantum Mechanics, There is one Scientist with applicable hardware engineering knowledge, at 1980's proposed a Quantum computing So that the idea of quantum computing has been around for almost +/- 40 years Yet, it just early last year we could start the project. To build a computer that no longer depend on semi conductor 0101001 One semi conductor could only process two option 0 or 1 of Binary Language But we could imagine quark, which have the ability to process 3, or 4. No longer just 0 or 1. This allow the computer to be more powerfull and compact But the Project was just began at early 2017, we do not know when it will reach consumers level. This could be a milestone for Human Civilization. This could be even bigger than the discovery of Computer itself. and That has been my explanation of Quantum Computing. I do hope it will benefit to our knowledge. Thank You. 