 Thank you for showing up at our APAC community online conference. So let me introduce myself. So my name is Adityo Setyonugroho. I'm a Software and Cloud Engineer. I'm doing mixed reality, cloud and also artificial intelligence. I'm currently working in Dattabot and also doing the mixed reality things with Hologram Indonesia. And I'm also in a mixed reality community in Indonesia. We are part of the top communities here. You can see our community at meetup.com, and you can reach me at my Twitter and LinkedIn. I'm ready to reply any message that you have, any question that you have from those platforms. OK, next.  Welcome.to the new reality everyone. this is the new technology that I will present today. The mixed reality things. Before we go deeper into the top level application and also some little bit of developer things, I would like to introduce you to one more time. If you haven't seen it, this is the latest technology and also the latest iteration of the mixed reality devices that currently available for everyone to use it. So here we go. So this is the new device that released last year,  announced last year, and currently used by many, many industries around the world. To help their businesses and also the daily productivities. So what we can see here is the videos from the Hololens 2. The second iteration of Hololens and this is the 4th or 5th iteration of the Kinect. If you know from earlier years. So, as we can see here, this is a device. The capabilities of bringing the mixed reality capabilities here that you can interact with the holograms and also the holograms can interact with your environment. And I will tell you a little bit about the mixed reality, the big picture of it. The difference between the virtual reality, augmented reality, mixed reality after this video. So what I want to show you here is this, uh, the overview of what mixed reality can bring to you and what you can do and what you can build with it. So this is the Hololens 2 video and you can see more examples on YouTube or Microsoft side. And you can learn everything from there. So next, This is my slide, a little slide, that I usually used to explain a little bit about the differences of the mixed reality virtual reality and augmented reality. So we have to continuum of the XR here. So let me start briefly with virtual reality where this is a technology where the technology brings you  into the virtual environment where you use the devices and bring you as a user into the virtual environment that you can interact into any hologram there and you usually Interact with the device or tools, or understand so that you have around you. There's an augmented reality  where you bring the hologram into the real world application. So this is like, what you play like Pokémon Go and Minecraft, Earth and other application like that, so you bring the hologram into the real world. So offline the hologram into your real environment, so the next is the mixed reality. This is the best combination of  those world where you can bring your environment and the digital content into the same space and same interaction where you can use your hologram to interact with environment around you, something like that. This is a little bit explanation.  Just to offer you a few things. And you can Learn more, more deeper, deeper and so much documentation and so much app you can see and you can also watch amazing videos from some creators that will bring you more experienced view of the mixed reality. I want to talk to you little bit about the application of the mixed reality that you can use in your industries right now. So it is combining between the mixed reality with the Dynamics 365 application that you can use directly. So we have three applications here. There's a Microsoft Dynamics app, Remote Assist and Dynamics Layout and there's another one product personalization that you can also see later on the Dynamic side on the mixed reality features. So how mixed reality with Dynamics 365 can help you? The first one, the guides, can help you to understand. The mixed reality can help you to learn about your stuff. Your works more interactive and more immersive by using the holographic that you can learn directly into the device that you want to learn and the situation that you want to learn. You feel the experience directly around your world. Next, we have a mixed reality that connects you to the expert. If you need the help. If you want to collaborate with others to problem solving that you have currently. You can collaborate more immersive and you can do it more efficient and productive. And the next one is a workspace that this product is the layout that you want to use it to plan your employment workspace to be used. How it will look before you really, really plan to building it. Or you put something on it. Something like that. And more things you can do with this application. This is just the general overview of it. And next I will go to one of the application that we have in Dynamics 365 right now is Microsoft 365 Guides. So what Guides can do for you? This is the hands-on learning that you can directly use on the real situation where you can feel the Instruction or holographic tutorials directly into your environment and you can use the holographic manual that you can build on your PC and push it into the cloud, that everyone on the side or the class, can use it directly using the mixed reality and Guides application. and this is fully customized that you can bring your own 3D models and your own custom manuals into the application you can build it as immersive, as interactive as you want. So this is one of the example of how Guides use on the training. In one of the industries that you can see her following the steps and following the holographic tutorial that she  can use to learn more faster and more efficient on how get this thing done so. As you can see, after this, this is not only problem that you can deliver lessons. Take a lesson from it that you can also see the visualization of how you do things. So there's a graphic, the status of how you finish your job, something like that. How you can be better on the future or something like that. And the next one, I would like to give you another overview of Dynamics 365 application.  This is the Remote Assist application. What is application, can be used? So you can collaborate with others, with experts, with your colleagues in remote areas or somewhere else, to solve your problems more efficient and more faster and you can set any information that you have in your field or someone else at the office or other place that you need some file from them. You can directly get them the image to PDF or voice or some graphical things that you can see holographically. And also it connect to other services that you can use. Like field services on 365, to give more feature on your experience, on the Remote Assist experience. And this is some example of how Remote Assist can be used. So So this woman has a problem on field on fixing the machinery, the electricity things. So she called the expert and asking for help. And looking for the file that she can see the whole group's files directly beside her and she can Fix a hands-on directly without interrupting to use the laptop, to open laptop again, to search something like that, and you can directly talk with the expert and you can see the holographic drawing that stand by your expert and you can draw by yourself asking, "What is this?" and expert will tell you what will you do with this and what it really is. And you can see, from other feature that you can see here that you can connected into the other platform like Power BI to see the performance of the, your services on the, problem solving on the device or electricity that you have problem area. So. And the next one I want to give you some overview. Another overview. The last one is the Dynamics 365 Layout. What is application (or) feature that you can use. This is the workspace plan that you can use to plan your floor, open your space to put. the product that we want to put their something like, if you are in the like big factory, you have the new item coming and want to see how this within it to the workspace, the floor plan and you can, you want to see it a holographic first and then, after you get the right design of it then you can buy the things, buy the machinery and put it where you plan as it in the holographic floor. So you can put the custom hologram of the machinery inside and you can share and collaborate with others to make it more efficient to talk with your colleagues. How about this plan, how about this floor plan. Something like that. So this is some example of how layout be used. So this man is planning the floor side at his office, with a holographic devices that already input the into the Layout applications so they can bring it, he can send it to others and he can send it to his hololens to be used by him on the field so he can see his plan earlier in his office. How did the floor plan looks like? So as you can see here that he had put some devices too far from the floorplan's ends. He changed the position so nobody get trouble with it and you can move around or something like that and you can save it and you share it with others again to to ask for recommendation and also for other insights - how he done the floorplan, something like that. So as we can see here that he can export the files and share it with others so they can use the floor plan to really build it on the real side. This is just the general overview of this top level application technology that can be used directly on your industries. So the next one, I want to talk a little bit about the mixed reality for developer. What you can do to build your own experience application in mixed reality. So this is I want to share the, some libraries and also tools that you can use for you to build your own mixed reality application. If you want to customize it and you look that the current application on store doesn't fulfill your requirement and you want to customize your experience and you can build it also. I will not so deep down explaining all of this. I just want to give you some overview of it and there's engine tools that you can use. You can use Unity and Unreal Engine to build the mixed reality applications and also there's some platform in the middle. There's some platform out there that you can use and on the website for me, on the right side there's the MRTK mixed reality toolkit. Open XR, AR Core, AR Kit, 6D.AI the tools or library that can be used to help you as a tool kit to build your mixed reality application better and faster. So this is the the short session  for me. It is a community event and I hope you get it, the overview. And how mixed reality can change the industrial. And if you have other questions you can ask me from my social platform or on LinkedIn, Twitter or you can join on the meetup.com to join our daily event, monthly event I mean if you're interested so. This is all that I can share for us today, a short session and I hope,  this is useful for you guys. Thank you very much for joining the session and I hope to see you guys and see you later. Thank you. 