 You're watching NextTech Insider but we're looking to banter and engage with some of the most eclectic and inspiring thought leaders in the innovation space whose work could redefine reality as we know it today I'm chatting to Kourosh Atefipour, the fascinating co-founder of a startup that I really am keeping my eyes firmly on Valkyrie. Right, Kourosh thank you for being here. Thank you for having me. Talk to us about what  Valkyrie is all about? Sure so Valkyrie is building a wearable tool that lets you touch and feel objects much more naturally in virtual simulations such as VR augmented reality or the paradigms where you can actually be more immersed in virtual worlds. Right and I've been fascinated with touch reality and being able to infuse the sense of feeling and simulating it's actually gonna touch of digital objects in your virtual environment for years now, so paint for me a kind of picture of some of the fascinating use cases where incorporating touch into a virtual environment could mean the difference between understanding a concept, really understanding what it means and actually experiencing in a tactile way? So one of the really big visions that we have is a doctor a resident in residency in training being able to practice with patients time and time again without any risks or liability issues. Another great example is un-built wind farms or offshore oil and gas sea rigs where you have employees you need to train them perhaps the site's not built yet and then when you add the ability for people to actually start seeing their fingers being able to pick up objects do tasks they can start doing their jobs a lot more quicker. Let's just do some context setting,  what is mixed reality is that the same as crossover reality where you've got VR plus AR+Touch or is it just one end of the spectrum define that for our viewer? Right so mixed reality is this paradigm where you have at one end of the spectrum augmented reality where you have virtual assets overlaid in the real world and then you have the virtual reality sort of an aspect of it which puts in all the virtual assets really immerses you of your senses or your perception or the pro-perception that you have within to actually being in a world that might not necessarily happen. Touch is the third level emotion that we're personally bringing to these worlds it doesn't necessarily define the mixed reality but it is more or less sort of immersive tech that we're personally bringing towards these platforms. Next-gen immersion. Exactly. So I suppose what I want to understand Kourosh is a lot of our viewers will come to us where questions are just this sounds fantastic where can I get one? Now obviously at the moment this is in nascent stage in terms of it's not in our households yet, how far away are we from that and I'm not expecting a specific prediction just a rough idea of will this ever make it through our homes? So touch technology does have a couple of hurdles to go through before it comes in to home use there's a lot of kind of jargon there's a lot of money that you have to spend on different parts how do I know which components I'm going to need to buy in my computer do I even have the right computer or the specification. Exactly. They go on and on and that's what scares the consumer when it comes to virtual and augmented reality so I very much would like to see a future where you don't need the big expensive computers you don't have this limitation of the wire I don't need a 4x4 room set up where I can only access that space but instead you take virtual Augmented you put it under this mixed reality paradigm where I can walk out into the street I'm not bound by any machines I don't have any wires it's the maximum sort of performance that I can get from this product that I've paid a lot of money for but when I walk outside I can have the best of both worlds. I think a lot of questions here and you answer them beautifully so thank you very much being with us on NextTech Insider and thank you for watching. 