 Hello world and welcome to Microsoft Unboxed. [MUSIC]  I'm one of your hosts Colleen O'Brien and I'm joined by my friend and colleague Sonia Dara.  Hello.  Every week, we're telling stories of Microsoft technology as well as the people behind that technology. And this week, our episode theme is Mixed Reality and Indigenous Culture.  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  Sonia, what was your first experience with augmented reality, virtual reality, all of the above?  I think it had to have been at South by Southwest five years ago or six, and it was an Oculus Rift. So I got to try that on in our Microsoft loft area and we had a immersion experience. It was cool. What about you? What's been your favorite MR, VR, AR experience?  Well, definitely up there was when we both tried on HoloLens 2 at build.  Yeah, yeah. I remember that.  So we were interacting in the same space, working through Teams to manipulate a 3D object. There's a lot of opportunity in mixed reality.  You don't get so disoriented because you still see your real world around you.  Right. I could still see you. I could still see our camera people. So both of those anecdotes were pretty cool, but today, we're going to be focused on how to use mixed reality to preserve and evolve indigenous culture.  Yes, that's right.  I'm going to be talking about a former park ranger in Australia who is leveraging 3D augmented reality to preserve Aboriginal rock art.  Cool.  Yeah, and this is of course in an effort to maintain interests of a younger generation who's more familiar with updated media and to make sure that the culture is preserved over time. The star of my story today is Mikaela Jade, a former park ranger who grew up in Australia, remembering what it was like to see these beautiful Aboriginal rock paintings. Of course, she would be thinking about the people who created them. In her time as a park ranger, she would speak to community elders and learn from them that they were kind of nervous that their culture wouldn't be passed on to the next generation.  Right. Because everyone is like buried in their phones.  Doing the YouTubes, doing the Netflix's.  Which we don't hate because that means you're watching us. But yeah.  In 2012, Mikaela saw augmented reality for the first time. She was wowed and started thinking about ways that it could be applied to preserve culture. As you can imagine, as a park ranger, as a woman, and as an indigenous person, Mikaela was underestimated in many ways when it came to an investment.  Like a financial investment?  Totally.  Got it.  She was perhaps seen as risky.  I bet she proved them wrong. She does, doesn't she? Yes.  That did not discourage Mikaela. She got her app Indigital up and running.  Indigital?  Indigital. So she was a park ranger by day, app builder by night.  What a badass!  I know. She was great. Now we have this other character who's entering the scene, Tianji Dickens, and she becomes the Philanthropies Lead for Microsoft Australia. She has this fantastic history of working in philanthropies, including working at that Cambodian Red Cross, and she meets Mikaela at this indigenous women in science symposium.  Nice.  They talked about HoloLens and what an important and game-changing technology it was. So Microsoft Asia extended support to Mikaela so that she could bring her app Indigital to HoloLens to make it a HoloLens experience. Believe it or not, she presented it onstage at the Microsoft Tech Summit in Sydney.  Yeah. Way to go, Mikaela.  From app builder by night to onstage at the Microsoft Tech Summit. That's pretty cool.  That's huge.  So onstage at the Microsoft Tech Summit, Mikaela and her team brought to life an 11-foot tall bark ochre painting of a Namande.  What is a Namande?  A Namande is a spirit indigenous to the stone country in remote Australia.  Cool.  I'm going to read this quote from Mikaela, "When you put on a HoloLens, the Namande is right in front of you and you're seeing him the way the Bininj people see him in the landscape." So as you can imagine, this big cultural experience prompted some questions.  Maybe from some younger audiences, hopefully, which was the goal of this.  That was the goal and that is what happened.  Sweet.  So the daughter of the artist who created that painting, which became the 11-foot tall Namande onstage, started asking questions about the Namande, started expressing an interest in the history of her culture.  It's working.  It's working. Mikaela saw a father and daughter spend 20 minutes having this cultural moment, transferring the knowledge of Namande's to the next generation. Happy to report that Mikaela is planning to grow the program over the next few years, keeping people at the center of the product.  That's awesome. Way to go, Mikaela.  That's it for me. I can't wait to hear your story.  We are going to continue this theme of HoloLens and indigenous culture, but I'm going to take you closer to home over here to British Columbia, just a little up north, to the Heiltsuk people where they have a different perspective on traditional art forms and evolving them into something new.  Very cool.  My hero of the story is Shawn Hunt. He's a Heiltsuk artist and he wanted to take a new approach to Transformation Masks. So Transformation Mask is more than just a piece of art. It's all about community and experience. It isn't just meant to be looked at and admired, but it's actually supposed to be interacted with.  Place on your head or put on your face.  This mask in particular uses the concept of a raven totem and reimagines it as a cyborg.  What?  So Hunt collaborated with the garage in Microsoft Vancouver with a team of artists, designers, and engineers to create this amazing interactive cultural experience. Using the HoloLens, which is built into the mask with 3D printing, they're using a lot of mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, it is literally helping transform the wearer of the mask into a raven as you're wearing it.  Say more.  Initially closed, the 3D printed raven mask will glow red with LEDs lining the inside of the mask. It opens up then showing a 3D painting of a raven as the mask transforms from bird to human. So follow along with me. The mask is nearly a meter long. It was modeled in Houdini, a 3D program, where then it was sliced into 20 sections in a 3D printer. It took over like 300 hours to print.  Yeah, because you got to go back and forth, back and forth.  Then it was assembled using upcycled and recycled old parts USB ports to Windows phones for the eyes. Like they used different old tech to build this raven.  Reduce, reuse, recycle.  I know. So the holographic raven was created using 2D and 3D drawings and was then animated and had particle simulations coupled up with spatial sounds in Unity. So like crazy tech is going into this mask.  It sounds like the Transformation Masks have gone 0-60.  It's a cyborg. Burst of holographic sparks, smoke, and fire invoke a series of 3D drawings that light up and interact with the world around it as they come and go. It's really interesting because it's merging all of this technology with traditional indigenous art to really create this powerful audio, visual, mechanical experience that everyone can appreciate, not just the mask wear.  So from 11-foot tall ocher bark paintings to a Transformation Mask doubling as a parade of one, technology is really transforming how we think about evolving and preserving indigenous cultures. So we're ready to transition to our next and perhaps the most beloved segment of the show: Outside the Box.  Yeah.  Okay. You ask me the question.  Are you ready?  I'm ready.  I hope it's a good one. Would you rather be a centaur or a mermaid?  A centaur is the one with the horse legs?  Of course.  Then mermaid has no legs. Okay.  No, you get extra legs or no legs.  I'm going to go with mermaid, at least at that point I could just sort of be off doing my own thing. If I was prancing around as a centaur, people would be very freaked out.  I get that's your take on it. I would be like I can breathe underwater, I can go explore the world. It's like uncharted.  I'm just trying to not freak people out. What's your favorite guilty pleasure movie?  So there's the guilty pleasures which are actually not guilty, everyone loves them, like Mean Girls and Pitch Perfect. I'm like a sucker for like some Nicholas Sparks movies and like The Fault in Our Stars.  A Dear John.  Yeah. I watch it on planes whimpering to myself, it's fine.  If you have any questions that you would like to contribute to the box, please remember to scroll right down and comment below with your question.  Please remember to subscribe to our channel, smash that button, hit the notification bell so you'll never miss out an episode. New episodes every Thursday at 9:00 AM Pacific, and then you get to see our faces.  Until next time. [MUSIC] 