 [MUSIC]  At Ecolab, we are guided by our mission to protect what is vital: clean water, safe food, abundant energy, and healthy environments.  Working with Microsoft ensures our field teams standout, giving us the data and digital tools to have better relationships with our customers. [MUSIC]  We sell some of the most advanced solutions on the planet. We need to enable our sales reps to do what they’re really good at; selling and interacting and improving a customer’s environment. The sales cycle, it’s hard. It can be from six months, twelve months, even eighteen months. The biggest value of Dynamics 365 Sales is the opportunity to prospect more efficiently and save time for our sales force. Adding Product Visualize with that is really something that’ll streamline their process even more.  Nothing’s typical about my day. There’s not one day that I have that’s the same as the one before. I have to go out and find customers. We call it prospecting. The way I used to do things, I was trying to talk to them through brochures, through sheets. With Product Visualize, customers are now able to bring this new piece of equipment into the real world. It gives the customer a better idea and understanding of what we’re discussing. That’s the key right there, alignment. We can move around it, we can talk about it. It brought something that was at that point in theory, to real life. Dynamics 365 Sales, Product Visualize, and Teams allows me to spend more time with my customers to uncover any additional needs that they need to get met. I don’t want to be a person that just sells you stuff and goes about my way. To have Product Visualize, it’s truly a game changer for us. We can now get ourselves aligned with our customer’s goals more efficiently. That’s real cost savings. [MUSIC]  Having a digital twin helps connect our sales and service teams, providing technical information with the reality of a live environment.  Half of the issues that I went through and spent months on, if I would have had this technology, some of this information at my fingertips, could’ve been solved in twenty-four hours.  Working with Microsoft gives us the data and digital tools to have better relationships with our customers, allowing all of our teams to work faster and smarter together, and more importantly, gives us the ability to have an even bigger impact on what matters most, protecting people and vital resources. 