 [MUSIC]  Hey everyone, my name is Stuart Pitts and today I'm here to share new Mixed Reality applications from Microsoft Dynamics 365. But before I get into what's new, I'd like to share the role Mixed Reality can uniquely contribute as you look to grow your business. Everything I'm sharing today is part of our total vision for Microsoft business applications, applications built around the core functions you have within your business on a unified platform to ensure that people in your organization can pull in just the data they need no matter what app they're using. So Mixed Reality, why care? Perhaps, this is the first time you're hearing about Mixed Reality in any depth or maybe you've explored Mixed Reality, or even deployed a Mixed Reality pilot within your own business. Let me start off by sharing a few things you can use to orient yourself around the opportunity Mixed Reality represents. First, Mixed Reality offers new ways to help you skill up your workforce. We at Microsoft have been on our own Mixed Reality journey for years, and we've seen time and time again how people within organizations across industries benefit from Mixed Reality training. It's a core area of promise for Mixed Reality altogether and I've been amazed to meet individuals who've had their whole work-life transformed with this new tool. Second, this is a new opportunity for efficiency in quality gains. When your employees can work side-by-side with teammates halfway around the world like they're there beside each other, they work more efficiently. When they have the information and data they need, precisely where and when they needed it on the job, they get the job done better. These are simple ideas but it's powerful to see in practice. Third, this is a whole new way for you to empower your employees, not just employees who sit behind a desk but employees who are out in the field and on the line, employees who work with their hands, who build things and repair things, who interact with customers who work together and depend on people they work with, and information to get their jobs done. This is the first group of people in your organization you should think about as you absorb the opportunities I'll share in a moment. Many people recognize this as the next wave of computing altogether. We're all aware of the role of the PC and how it's transformed work, and life for people around the world. We're all aware of the role smartphones have contributed to our lives, both at work and for play. Mixed Reality is the next big opportunity for people to leverage and take full advantage of. It's not just a category of computing, it's a new computing paradigm altogether. We've spent years working with customers to incubate many first Mixed Reality applications. Through all of this, there are five core things organizations everywhere have told us they want to be able to do with Mixed Reality. I think of these as the five core Mixed Reality use cases. A lot like in the early days of the PC where it was all about document creation, spreadsheets, and presentation design. The five core Mixed Reality use cases customers have asked us for are remote assistance, space planning, training, collaboration, and spatial insight. We're building products aligned to those core things customers have told us they want to be able to do. So, what's new this April? We're excited to announce that Mixed Reality is ready for business. There are a few specific announcements I'd like to highlight for you today. The first is Microsoft HoloLens 2, the ultimate Mixed Reality device. HoloLens 2 brings everything we've learned from customers through the first device and takes it further. It's the most comfortable and immersive Mixed Reality experience available. Now, you can see more holograms at once through the greatly increased field of view, read text, and see intricate details on 3D images more easily and comfortably with its industry leading resolution. It also feels so much more comfortable which means you can wear it longer while you're on the job. Feel free to keep glasses on, the headset slides right over them, and when it's time to switch tasks, just flip up the visor to step out of Mixed Reality. Beyond the device itself, we've also announced a full portfolio of Dynamics 365 Mixed Reality applications built around those core customer use cases we talked about earlier. If you've followed us recently, you may be familiar with Dynamics 365 Remote Assist and Layout, the first two Mixed Reality apps from Dynamics 365. This April, we've also announced two new Mixed Reality applications. Dynamics 365 Guides and Dynamics 365 Products Visualize. Let me walk you through each of these apps in a bit more detail. Remote Assist allows employees to work together from anywhere. Now, they can solve problems in real-time by sharing what they see with experts in remote locations. Employees can walk the site without being on-location, helping bring together people around a real-time view of the problem. Remote Assist also makes it possible to bring in work order information from Dynamics 365 for field service, so the people and information you need to get the job done are just a tap away. I'm happy to share that Remote Assist will come to HoloLens 2. I'm also happy to share that Remote Assist is available today in preview on Android mobile devices. That's right, we're bringing in this popular HoloLens experience to the phones and tablets that many employees already carry with them. Customers have also told us that we should make it easier to get started with Mixed Reality. So, we're making Remote Assist and HoloLens 2 available together, starting at just a $125 per user per month. This means you can deploy same-day, no custom development required with low-cost financing. Whether you're looking to pilot a few devices and give it a try or you're ready to deploy devices across your whole organization, this is a great new option. Like Remote Assist, Dynamics 365 Layout is also coming into HoloLens 2. Layout makes it possible to experience room layouts at real-world scale. Whether you're designing a manufacturing floor, a retail space, or an operating room, adding Layout to your toolkit means you can walk through proposed designs and physical space without building expensive models. When you're ready to call in stakeholders who aren't there with you, you can call in folks to look at the design in Layout using Remote Assist. This leads us to the third Mixed Reality application from Dynamics 365. I'm super excited to introduce you to Dynamics 365 Guides. This is my personal favorite Mixed Reality app. Yes, I do have a favorite. Guides allows employees to learn by doing. Step-by-step instructions guide employees to the tools and parts they need, and how to use them in real-world work situations. So, whether you're looking for a way to onboard new employees, improve existing processes you have or deploy a new process altogether, Guides helps employees learn new skills faster. It's also easy to create Guides with the Guides PC app. If you've ever made a PowerPoint, you'll find it easy to create interactive content, attach photos and videos, pull in 3D models, customize training, and get it in an employee's hands. When employees use Guides, performance data is collected and pulled into a Power BI dashboard, making it easy to identify where employees need instruction and also opportunities to improve the process. This is the most inspiring Mixed Reality experience I've used myself, you've got to check it out, I just know you're going to love it. Guides is available in preview today for customers with HoloLens devices and like Remote Assist and Layout, Guides will also come to HoloLens 2. This leads us to the fourth Mixed Reality application in the Dynamics 365 family and it's the first Mixed Reality app we've brought to smartphones and tablets first. This is Dynamics 365 Product Visualize, a new tool for sales professionals which allows them to help customers see and interact with products before they buy. For many sellers, products are too big or awkward to carry around, which makes it difficult to capture a customer's interest during a visit. Product Visualize let's sellers carry these products with them in their pocket and in an instant, they can place a product in a customer's environment as if it were theirs. Together a buyer and a seller can look at it, they can move it around, draw on it, take notes, all to help the seller and the buyer come to a mutual understanding of what it is that they're exploring together. Notes are saved back to the sales opportunity in Dynamics 365 for sales and instantly copied to Microsoft Teams which makes us information easy to reference on future customer visits. Product Visualize is available in preview on iOS phones and tablets today. So, this is it, a complete Mixed Reality solution ready for business only from Microsoft. Now, that we've talked a bit about what's available today, be sure to visit our website to get more information or to contact us, and we'll be happy to help. We hope you love these products, we hope you'll want to try these products. Everything about these products represents the truth about Microsoft and that is we're here to help people get stuff done. Thank you.  [MUSIC] 