 I’m Cécile Legallais, I’m a CNRS researcher, working at the University of technology of Compiègne (UTC). In a research lab named “Biomechanics & Bioengineering”. I’m more specialized in liver tissues engineering As I just said my team works in liver tissue engineering for two major applications. One is to find a way to supply liver functions at the scale of the whole body. So that means to have a lot of cells available and highly functional for extracorporal liver circuit implementation. And we have also another application dealing more with organ on chip technology and in this field we are interesting in trying to rebuild some liver tissues for several applications. One of them is drug screening but also try to find the best 3D organization for the cells so they can be really active in term of functions such as albumin production or cytochrome activity or biotransformation. We know that hepatic cells like to reorganize themselves and, depending on the gel or the environment you are using, they can do it more or less easily. It was the first point in which we went interesting with BIOMIMESYS® technology. But maybe the keypoint is that as I said we are using microfluidic devices like small bioreactors made of PDMS in which we have specific channels and usually we cultivate the cells in 2D, means layer by layer on the surface of the biochip. Including BIOMIMESYS® in this biochip it appears interesting for us to see if the scaffold can really fill the whole culture section of the chip. And to see how the cells reorganizing in the system. So the idea was to work with HCS Pharma to implement the gel into the biochip to look how the hydroscaffhold behave in the chip. We perform the perfusion, we measure the pressure in the system and we found that the additional resistance created by the presence of the gel was very low. That means there are no high pressures in the system and it’s good for us because our cells do not like to be submitted to high pressure. In our application for the liver, one of the keypoint was the perfusion as I said before but also the liver is very soft tissue and we discover recently that when we entrap the cells in different scaffold with different stiffness their behavior was quite different. As BIOMIMESYS® scaffold presents very low what we call mechanical properties, as a gel is a very soft environment, the Young modulus is quite low. That means at least we believed that the hepatic cells will be in an environment that is very close to what we can found in native healthy liver. It was what we postulate using BIOMIMESYS®  in our chip and interesting results we found up to now is that the cells are able to reorganize in 3D , they forms some kind of aggregates, spheroids. We know that in these conditions they are much more active than when they are isolated in the scaffold. We did not go very far in the application, it’s was more feasibility assessment but the first results are very good. The next step will be to switch from cell line to other type of cell such as primary cells or IPS for example. Yes, I mean at least you should try, in my opinion. There are many options now in tissue engineering also combine with organ on a chip technologies. There is no definitive answer I think it’s very dependent on the cell type you are using. In our case I think we need to perform much more tests and to go on with the cell culture with BIOMIMESYS® to make sur it’s a good option but it still a good option at this moment and for other cell type you should just try. 