 The following video contains spoiler from Cyberpunk 2077. Be warned. Hello and welcome to a new video on my channel. Today we gonna mix another drink. Again from the game Cyberpunk 2077. Namely the "Jackie Welles". If you are familiar with Cyberpunk 2077, played a bit, watched a Let's Play. You know that Jackie Welles dies at some point of the story. And in the scene where Jackie orders our "Johnny Silverhands" he also gives his recipe of his own drink to the bartender. "Oh, and by the way, name's Jackie Welles." "You wanna write down my recipe?" "Hmm...sure." "Shot of vodka on the rocks, lime juice, ginger beer ..." "... oh, and most importantly - a splash of love." "Haha, I'll remember that." It's basicly a "Moscow Mule" Nothing special. But ... The splash of love ... the splash of love is important. And that's what makes the drink special. For the "Jackie Welles" you'll need ... vodka, ginger beer, lime juice and ice. And then I would say let's not wait any longer and mix the "Jackie Welles". Normally a "Moscow Mule" is served in a copper mug, but since it's not a "Moscow Mule" but a "Jackie Welles" It's served in the typical Cyberpunk glass. Just like in Jackie's recipe, we are starting with the ice. Secondly we are adding the vodka. I took a higher quality vodka. For Jackie we can do this. The ice is already in the glass, now we are adding the shot of vodka. The next part of the "Jackie Welles" is lime juice. And therefore I'm taking a lime and squeeze the juice out. It's a bit complicated because I don't have a special lime juicer ... but ... But it will work anyway. Now I got the juice of one lime, round about as much as the vodka. But should be still enough. Then we are adding the last ingredient, the ginger beer. And we're adding a good shot. And because I've done it with "love" the "Jackie Welles" is technically finished. But as I told you earlier this is now just a "Moscow Mule" and for the "Jackie Welles" the "splash of love" is missing. But I took a closer look at the items in the game. Because there is one item that stands out with its in-game description. This is the "NiCola Fire" with the description "Drink a big sip of love." Or the slogan of "NiCola" "Taste the love". Sure it can be just a coincidence by CD Projekt Red. "NiCola Fire" sounds like a chili spiced cola or a spicy cola. And because the drink already got spiciness due to the ginger in the ginger beer I thought ... ... it could taste well together. And that's why I looked if there is a cola with chili. Once there was one, but unfortunately it isn't available anymore. But I cant tell if generally not anymore or due to Corona. And thats why I have to mix my own spicy cola. Therefore ... I bought a cola and some chili powder. You can also add some ginger but the drink already contains enough ginger. It isn't necessary. So we are taking the jigger. And fill the "sip of love" in or as Jackie called it "splash of love". And now we're gonna mix the chili in to get the "NiCola Fire". To finish the "Jackie Welles" I'm going to add the most important ingredient to the drink, "the splash of love". And now it's finished, the "Jackie Welles". It's interesting how one part is lighter due to the ginger beer and vodka and one part darker due to the cola. Also the chili particles are floating in the drink. So the "Jackie Welles" is finished and I can't wait to taste it. It's really good. Hmm... Yeah, and that's how you make the "Jackie Welles", not just a "Moscow Mule" but the "Jackie Welles". With the "splash of love". If you want to try this drink at home i've written the ingredients in the description of the video. Again with the amount of ingredients. I hope you liked the video. If you did please leave a like or a comment and I'm going to see you in the next video. Until then bye. 