 What’s going on Neon Nation welcome back to the Neon Arcade for some more Cyberpunk 2077. Today we are going to talk about the 50 minute Gameplay demo shown at E3 during the Private showcases. Now a lot of media outlets are putting out their demo briefing walkthroughs so I thought I would summarize the demo information, put some context on top of it and edit together pieces of the gameplay trailer and screenshots that will help you visualize the entirety of the demo. Now if you guys are wondering when you can actually see the demo, fear not because CDPR released a secret message highlighting that they have the same philosophy as last year and that we will get the demo shortly after E3. Infact Marcin Momot from the team said we will get it at PAX West so you are going to want to mark that down on your calendars. It starts on August 30th. Getting to the Demo we first customize out character briefly and pick a background of either street kid, nomad or corporate. The demo takes place in the middle of the game, and we play as obviously V in the decrepid and battered coastal region of Pacifica. In this screenshot we see that it is in-fact the combat zone we have been speculating it is, and Pacifica in the past was poised to be a resort destination of sorts until investors pulled out in funding it and it went to hell. It now looks like a run-down boardwalk with ferris wheels and empty hotels. Against V’s will he has been implanted with a protoype biochip which is the key to immortality. Johnny silverhand who is a digitized hologram ghost also accompanies V in visiting a The Voodooboys for some help in understanding it’s properties. The voodooboys are a netrunning gang in Cyberpunk 2077 which contrasts slightly with the Voodooboys from 2020 who were violent frat boys. The voodooboys are of haitain descent and V believes their leader Brigitte can help him understand and unlock the biochip. Male V is tasked with meeting with the Voodooboys in a chapel during a sermon and it’s in this sequence we walk up to a poor man to engage in dialogue. Based on the street kid backstory choice we made at  the character creation screen, our backstory V opens up an additional dialogue option with the poor man. This ties in perfectly with the narrative, as a street kid background would give you and the man the comfort of communicating. He ends up telling V that his best bet is to approach the Voodooboys is to head to a specific butcher shop and ask for Placide. When V reaches the butcher shop his face is scanned. V uses his eye augmentations in combination with a language decoder to translate a woman singing Creole lyrics to English. Money is tight in this poverty stricken area and thus synthetic meat is sold here versus more expensive real meat. V heads to the back after he finds out Placide is hanging out back there, but they end up going to the Grand Imperial Mall, which is a hideout for a rival gang to the Voodooboys, The Animals. The animals seem to be a brand new gang created for 2077 as I don’t believe they are mentioned in the lore. On the way V stops at a black market vendor where he picks up a Daemon program which unlocks some new netrunning capabilities, and a samurai jacket and some other clothes are also on sale. In 2020 there are Demon series programs created by famed Netrunner Rache Bartmoss, but it’s unclear if Daemon is any of the Demon Series programs from Cyberpunk 2020. When V reaches Placides office he tells V that he will take him to the leader of the Voodooboys Brigitte if he kills off their rivals The Animals. He also want’s V to jack into Placides hardware, which will allow him to see through V as he kills off the animal members. During the scan Placide sees the immortality chip, and asks V about it and he mentions that a bullet he took to his brain has disabled it, but not much else. The whole time Johnny silverhands hologram or ghost is in the background making snarky comments. Again he seems to be a voice in your head entity much like Halo’s Cortana. V gets on a YAIBI KUZANAKI motorcycle and turns on the radio. This confirms different radio stations to listen to, and the motorbike is chockfull of popculture references. Here are a couple I found from reddit including Chiquita, the sex pistols and akira. You ride off as the sun sets to meet up with some more Voodooboys before your mission. There are no loading screens at all other than fast travelling. V approaches the Animals lair in a stealth and netrunning approach. The animals are big brutes who have heavy mods. They likely have Big Knucks and Gorilla Arms like Dexter’s Bodyguard has in the trailer. They use a steroid “juice” for explosive muscle growth. V dips and dodges through the shadows and around vehicles as we are playing a stealth focused build, and we see a chokehold assassination where V throws a poor bloke into a waste dispoal chute. Some of the Animal guards have an 18 over their heads which denotes their level. This is mid way through the game so 18 seems fair. They have also gone back on their previous mentality of no pacifist playthroughs and you can go though the whole game without killing. Not sure how that would work out in a mission where Placide wants you to wipe out an enemy faction, but hey I’m sure they have that covered. There is a door we must go through and V can’t get through because he lacks points in strength, so V is forced to utilize a hack mini game where you have to align cameras to progress. This kind of reminds me of those times you would have to align beams of light in The Witcher 3. Placide warns V that there is an enemy netrunner on the camera’s network so V disconnects. V progresses to hack a training robot to knock out an animal member brushing up on his boxing skills and also a heavy weight set to crush an animal member during his gym sesh. V also hacks a drink machine to drop a soda, and the noise distracts an animal member. We use this as an opportunity to take out this laser monowhip to slice his arm off. This is likely a Kendachi monowhip from the lore. The mission objective was also to reach a high tech Van which V reaches after this. At this point CD PROJEKT RED showed a different build approach to the demo, a strength oriented solo female V to see how different abilities will allow us to play the game differently. She can knock down a door that Male V could not, but also did not have a high enough netrunning ability to hack the cameras. V makes it to the van and scans the area before knocking out an Animal member and waking up other members in bunks. She proceeds to use a knife and a broken bottle on them in an all out brawl. She finds a revolver and we see a skill tree where Handgun skills are upgraded. Back to Male V and his netrunner build. He gets into the van and learns it belongs to NetWatch an agency dedicated to fighting cybercrime and illegal online activites. NetCops and NetWatch are a part of the 2020 lore. They are spying on the voodooboys who are a threat to NetWatch likely due to their illegal netrunning and hacking activites. V uses the Daemon program to hack into Animal members protecting a NetWatch agent before holding him up. CD PROJEKT RED again swaps to the tankier female build and shows off where it left off. Sasquatch the animal leader who sports a huge hammer, and a weak point in her back makes an appearance and V dodges the hammer to pepper some bullets into her exposed back. Sasquatch drops ontop of V and start to hack into her, although Placide who is in her network prevents it. V ends up killing Sasquatch. She proceeds through a Cinema up to a NetWatch agent called Bryce Mosely. Mosley suggest Placide has double crossed her and that they want to get rid of V. The player has the choice to believe him or not, and decides to stay loyal to the Voodooboys and jacks into Bryce. Something goes a miss and Silverhand tells V the voodooboys has used her, and Placide freed Brigitte from the Net where she was taken hostage by NetWatch and fried Netwatch and V but her immoratlity chip likely saved her. V takes now dead Mosleys money and V goes out and Placides goons lead her back to the Hideout. Placide and Brigitte are there, she and decks him in the face. Brigitte wants to talk to V and PLacide leaves before things get too heated. Brigitte knows about her Biochip and wants to make sure it still works. In exchange she promises V a word with Alt Cunningham, the first Netrunner to upload her consciousness to the net. Alt Cunningham from 2020 is Johnny Silverhands ex girlfriend and created the Soulkiller program which traps a netrunners consciousness onto the net. Arasaka weaponized it and used it against her. Brigitte takes V deeper into the voodooboys lair in an old train tunnel. Brigitte suggests they can use Silverhand from the chip to draw out Cunningham. V gets into an ice bath and jacks in an enters cyberspace. This specific area is a cyberbridge to the deep net. They come across a wall and it start to get hit from the other side and shift and leads to the cliffhanger ending of the demo. Thanks for watching guys and make sure you join Neon Nation by subscribing to the Neon Arcade! 