 Hello everyone and welcome to our Awards Day 2020. We're so excited here at Emory & Henry College to have the opportunity to honor our students for their outstanding recognitions in the classroom. We have our faculty. Many of our faculty are with us today to present the awards and would like to begin now by introducing the Reverend Mary K. Briggs to deliver our invocation. Good afternoon. May we pray together. Ever-loving God, I've been to lots of Awards Day ceremonies at Emory & Henry but, I've never imagined that the tradition would not take place in Memorial Chapel. I never dreamed that we would all be spread out in so many places, but we know that you are with us wherever we are and in every moment of every day. You are our hope and our strength. But in these last few weeks, let's be honest, there have been lots of times when we felt hopeless and weak. We felt angry and sad. We've cried, but yes we have even laughed. We are experiencing all the fields. Help us this afternoon if just for a little while to feel the joy in this celebratory event. May we be thankful for all those who are joining together to salute the accomplishments of those persons in our Emory & Henry family who go above and beyond what is simply required. May we be ever aware that you are the source of our inspiration, wisdom and courageous action. May every person wherever we are today feel your presence. May we remember and be grateful for everyone in our lives who has encouraged us. May we strive to be the best that you have created us to be and may we always use the unique gifts that you have given each of us to strengthen our community and to transform the world by touching one life at a time. Most of all may we continue to thank you oh great mystery for helping us to make the best out of the first of times. Amen. And now we'd like to welcome our president John Wells to deliver the opening welcome. It is my honor indeed to welcome everyone to the Awards Day celebration where we honor our students and their many achievements Emory & Henry is committed to excellence in fact, Macte Virtute, Increase in Excellence is at the heart of everything we do. Despite the dramatic events that have transpired in our world over the last several months we've doubled down on our commitment to send students out into their communities so that they might make a difference and to be forces for change and good. Today we will revisit the many achievements of those who are preparing to bring virtue and excellence into every aspect of life. We join our voices and expressing our congratulations and best wishes to these heroes of the college. They've just begun to make us proud. Thank you again for sharing this time together and congratulations in advance to all of our award winners. At this time I'd like to welcome Dr. Michael Puglisi Provost of Emory & Henry College to introduce our speaker for this afternoon. It's my pleasure to introduce Dr. Sara Fisher, assistant professor and chair of the department of politics, law and international relations at Emory & Henry College. She is a 2019 recipient of the Student Government Association Excellence in Teaching Award chosen by the Emory & Henry student body. Dr. Fisher came to Emory & Henry in 2015 after completing her Ph.D. in political science and international affairs at the University of Georgia Dr. Fisher's research and publications focus on foreign policy, decision-making and conflict dynamics particularly in her studies of territorial disputes in India. She also has several articles published on the pedagogy of teaching political science. Dr. Fisher has become known as a dynamic classroom teacher at Emory & Henry. Students describe her with adjectives like enthusiastic, creative energetic and challenging. A professor who uses a variety of methods to keep students engaged in her classes and to help them understand the challenging and complex material that she teaches. So, I'm pleased to introduce Dr. Sarah Fisher to offer her remarks on the occasion of this Awards Day Convocation. Thanks Mike. Every year in my introduction to international relations class, I play the prisoner's dilemma game with my students. The prisoner's dilemma game is a classic scenario in game theory in economics that poses a simple question. Do you want to cooperate or defect in this scenario. Cooperation means trusting that your fellow bank robber will not blabber to the police. You are cooperating for a better outcome. Defection, on the other hand, needs to cut a deal with the authorities to save your own skin, to throw your fellow bank robbers under the bus for your crimes. I have split students into groups and pit them against one another. The only question they have to answer is whether they cooperate—meaning they trust the other team or whether they defect meaning they distrust the other team. I played this game more than a dozen times with college students at Emory & Henry and the University of Georgia as well as with middle school and high school students in India and China, and almost every time there's yelling. When I've played with middle school students, I've lost some hearing from the high-pitched shrieks coming from the teams who thought they could trust their classmates, only to be suckered by the other team. And with college students, I've had students whip out a wallet to pay the other team for their cooperation. I can tell you that Emory & Henry softball players are pretty competitive and that defecting on your roommate's team might not be ideal for campus harmony. When I asked one student whether he trusted his brother on the opposing team, he definitively answered with no. I know that man plays to win. There are two main components to the prisoner's dilemma and the first is trust. This is a thought experiment about human nature whether you think people are generally trustworthy or not. The second part of the game though is about the rules of the game. While the game is being played I alter the payoffs each time the groups are asked to cooperate or defect. I tweak the payoffs to make it more or less challenging to cooperate. In other words the rules of the game or to be more of a political scientist. The institutions make a difference in how people behave. I could set up a game that made it perfectly reasonable for everyone to cooperate, but I could also set up a game where there is little to no incentive to cooperate. In other words you can work to induce cooperation through institutional design. Despite the yelling there are no prizes for winning the game in my class, only pride. The central question though to cooperate or defect is used as a proxy for decision-making in numerous political scenarios. For example, do you trust that Iran will keep its uranium enrichment to a certain level? You cooperate or do you abandon any agreement of seeming defection? But, it isn't just about trust. Trust might be a prerequisite for cooperation but the institution's rules of the game matter and this isn't just applicable in politics. It's applicable in life as well. And, if you've taken classes with me, I've likely said that everything is political. So, for all of you seniors going out onto the job market or to graduate school, I'm going to tell you the story of how I got this job. Graduate schools often cutthroat. There are too many graduate students competing for limited resources within the department, and even more limited jobs as professors. My two best friends are Casey and Florian both of whom I met in graduate school and by the end of our five years at the University of Georgia, we had earned the nickname the three-legged stool because we were so often seen together. Casey and I were roommates and Florian was our neighbor who would show up almost daily around dinnertime for gossip and food, and all three of us studied similar things. We all three wanted to be college professors and all of us would be applying for the same jobs throughout the application process. We practiced interviewing each other and read through each other's cover letters a dozen times. And, as you seniors might know writing cover letters is the worst and having your best friends read through them and rip them apart is perhaps the only way to make the process more excruciating. Our longtime cooperative strategy didn't entirely alleviate conflict. Casey's in my editing sessions, led to ours in which we did not speak to each other, which is really awkward if you're living together. And, I have a distinct memory of having to take a walk around the building to stop myself from screaming at Florian as he was grilling me with questions before an interview. But when the list of jobs came out all three of us created a shared spreadsheet with all of the jobs for that year we allowed each of us to exclude one school from the list meaning that I couldn't apply for the one job that Casey or Florian claimed as their own, but all of the other jobs on the list were fair game for all of us. None of us got the jobs that we picked. All three of us though applied to Emory & Henry. The first road interviews were held at what is unofficially called the American political science associations meat market, as an meat market because the set up approximates a butcher shop in which school representatives are selecting prime cuts of meat. In other words, this is not a set of rules that fosters cooperation. Most of the anxiety-ridden job candidates were staring intently at the floor or trying to peek a glimpse at their competitions. So, Jo Lane my old department head interviewed Casey, Florian and me nearly in a row. As he came out into the interview room to call each of our names, he saw each of us high-fiving each other as our names were called. Joe later told me that he thought it was unusual to see that kind of camaraderie, weird in a good way. By the time I gave my job talk at Emory & Henry I had given that presentation to my friends 15 times and at the end of the year, against all odds, all three of us have landed academic jobs. In the years since, I've continued to rely on Casey and Florian. Everything I've published since graduate school has been co-authored with one of them and when I was tasked with teaching statistics for social science my first semester here, Florian and I designed the course and created the materials together. My transitions course existed because Casey had read the book "Educated: and wanted to create a book or class around that book, so needless to say when playing the prisoner's dilemma game, I trust those to you to cooperate, but beyond trust we've also created some rules and norms. The decision- creating shared spreadsheet for job applications, tying your publishing page to another's productivity and committing to co-design a course requires the ability to see the benefits of cooperation in the long run and that's part of it makes the prisoner's dilemma a dilemma. Cooperation might be better for the collective in the long run but defection is often better for individuals in the short-term. We have to create institutions that foster cooperation whether we're talking about national politics, college-level politics or interpersonal relationships. We need to look for political institutions that incentivize and reward cooperation and disincentivize polarization. And goodness knows we need institutions that encourage cooperation and labs around the world working for backsies, yet very few of us are in a position to make these institutional rules. Given power differentials, historical context, these institutions are hard to change but we can work to make the rules at the micro- level. Building trust alongside institutions that encourage cooperation and collaboration benefits everyone in the long run even if we can't change the global rules. The world is smaller than we think. After hiring me at Emory & Henry, Joe Lane moved on to a different College only to hire Casey the very next year. So whether you're going to graduate school or sending out your resume, look at your fellow graduates as potential collaborators. Play the long game and choose cooperation over defection. Thank you so much Dr. Fisher for those inspiring words. We appreciate all of your time and thoughts and energy that you dedicate to our students. Now, we're going to begin with our awards and we'll start with the some collegiate recognitions. We'll begin with the Emily Williams Award. The Emily Williams English-speaking Union Awards was an award established by Mrs. Williams during her lifetime. They renamed honor her after her request provided some permanent funding. This award goes to a rising senior selected by the faculty to pursue summer study at a British University or College. This year the College is pleased to be able to provide funding for two students, two for this award. The two students are Madison Jackson and Liam Besneatte-Cullinane. For the next award, will be our award of Paul Adrian Powell Award and we were presented by Miss Emily Lockhart. Thank you, and I'm so excited to be able to present this award. This award has been established to recognize an exceptional supplemental instructor who has shown commitment and enthusiasm in their role. As is and I'm really excited to share that we have two recipients this year of this award. Our first recipient is Camille Gray. Camille has been the SI for a script analysis class which is a very difficult class, and Camille has consistently displayed professionalism and enthusiasm for this class and has shown a great deal of support to the other students in this class, so Camille congratulations! Our second recipient of this award is Emma Wampler. Emma is a senior and is our head SI and she was also the SI for the praxis preparation sessions. Emma has has displayed so much reliability in this role and I had the pleasure of working very closely with her. I could always rely on her to support the other SIs and the SIs look to her as a mentor. To Emma congratulations and thank you both for all of your hard work. Our next award will be our Global Citizen Award, will presented by Dr. Celeste Gaia. Thank you, I'm very happy to be here today. This award is going to be presented to MacKenzie Bellimam MacKenzie is an environmental studies major from Alexandria, Virginia and she served as a global ambassador for three years now including this past year as the executive global ambassador. Anyone on campus will know that MacKenzie is the face of international education and global awareness. She's been integral in the planning and success of the Global Street Party, Tthe annual Study Abroad Fair, multiple internationally-themed Lyceums and our inaugural International Night this past March. As a global ambassador MacKenzie has advised students about study abroad. She served as the primary liaison for international students. She's coordinated international outreach and education events, managed the International House residence hall and has been one of the most passionate and organized student workers with whom I've worked in the past 23 years. MacKenzie exemplifies the global citizenship values that are part of the Emory & Henry college mission. She is an informed open-minded and responsible citizen. She's a tenant to diversity. She understands how her actions affect both local and global communities and wholeheartedly addresses the world's most pressing and enduring issues, intellectually, collaboratively and equitably. I've been honored to work with MacKenzie and bringing the world to Emory & Henry students and also sending them out into the world. Her passion for global education and environmental sustainability led her to begin work with AmeriCorps Oakridge stormwater division in Knoxville next fall where I know she'll use her talents to make change in the world. Congratulations Mackenzie and thank you for all you've done for Emory 7 Henry and I'm really going to miss you. We'll now move on to our academic divisions and begin with in the humanities division with the Department of English. These awards be presented by Dr. Boltwood. All right, thank you very much. I just want to quickly say that I'm sure all the faculty as we'll miss our students and we look forward to seeing them sometime soon, very soon. I'm also aware that I have quite a few awards to get out so, and so please bear with me. Our first award is for the academic is is the department award for academic excellence and that goes to Claire Hogg, who is a graduating senior, of course and I'll have more to say about Claire in a moment. So, I'll move on to the second award which is the department award for Outstanding Senior and that goes to Amy Jaramillo, and also have something to say about her when I give another who I give awards in just a moment, so I'll I'll move on we've been giving out since 1987 the Marius Blesi Reading Awards, and that is given to freshmen or sophomores who have demonstrated a love for reading and engagement and and just are just wonderful people in the class and since there are so few awards for underground underclassmen we always look forward to giving these awards. We are giving for this year the first goes to Cody Hubbard, the second to Cloey Edwards the third to Olivia Strouth and the fourth to Cobain Edwards, and these are all these are all first-year's this year and they've all stood out either in their writing classes or in their major British writing or major American writing classes, all their 100 or 200- level courses. Our Marius Blesi Senior Award will go to Claire Hogg and Claire is as you know she won the academic award, and just to say a few things about Claire we've all been impressed for multiple years by Claire, both with her passionate engagement with literature, her ability to draw upon her interest in theory and political science and to bring that also into the reading of literature. She looks at literature intelligently with an engaged manner. She does so much to contribute to a positive role in the classroom and Claire is also the president of Sigma Tau Delta. The English Department, the National English Major Award Society our Charles Collins Award is the college's oldest award and that was established in 1872 and it's intended to recognize people for their writing, especially creative writing or expository writing and this year the award goes to our graduating senior Toni- Jo Ziegler. Toni-Jo just won the Dan Leidig Writing Award for her her poetry and Toni-Jo is both a very good student in our scholarship and also an incredibly gifted writer who's respected by everyone in the English department. The William A. Stuart prize in English is the department's most prestigious award and that this year goes to Cass Dumas, and Cass is a rising senior. She also has really shown an emerging passion for theory and she combines that with an ongoing really love of literature. She's also a really wonderful creative writer and we look forward to having her here next year as well. The Lucille Webb Award is being awarded to Amy Jaramillo and Amy is a creative writer who was also the co-editor of "Ampersand," the literary journal this past year, and Amy came to us only in her junior and senior year. She transferred from the west coast and she has really established herself as one of the hearts of the department, someone that so many students look up to and and we're going to miss Amy a lot, but she's such a gifted writer and we look forward to seeing more of her work in the future. And finally the Turner N. Clinard Award goes to a rising senior for exceptional ability in scholarship and writing and that goes to Rachel Hatcher, and I have Rachel in senior seminar this year. She's taking it early and she has demonstrated a great ability to read literature and to combine that with well-crafted writing, very intelligent arguments and someone who has a great passion for literature and we look forward to having Rachel in our department next year as well. Well, thank you very much and I look forward to seeing you all next year. Next, we'll move to foreign languages which will be presented by Dr. Zhang. Hello students, parents, families and friends. As a member of the Foreign Languages Department, I'm very happy to represent all my colleagues in presenting here three awards on this very special day. The first one is the academic excellence award and this one goes to Taylor Simmons Felicidades, Taylor! The second one is the outstanding senior in French Award and this one goes to Samuel Mungai Félicitations Sam! And the last one is the Outstanding Senior Award in Spanish. The recipient of this award is Nathaniel Massey Tager. Felicidades Massey! Let me just say a few words to the three of you. It has been a great pleasure and honor for us to teach you over the last four years and certainly it is with mixed feelings that we say goodbye to you. But, you will take final exams of course. We have missed you already since spring break. But we are very proud of your success and a very excited for you about your next steps. Taylor and Sam, we know that you will succeed in your graduate studies. Massey, your professors have no doubt that you will be fully loaded with new knowledge in both Spanish language and culture when you come back after teaching English in Spain. We wish all of you the best for everything in the future. Thank you very much. Next, we'll move on to our philosophy and religion departments which will be presented by Dr. Adam Wells. Thank you. I'm delighted to be here today to represent the Department of Philosophy and Religion and I have three awards to give. The first award is our departmental Award for Outstanding Senior in philosophy and that goes to Colton Van Deest. Congratulations Colton! Our second award is Outstanding Senior in Religion and that goes to Landie Maness. Congratulations Landie! And finally our Award for Academic Excellence which is awarded to the student with the highest GPA in philosophy or religion goes also to Landie Maness. Congratulations to both of you. It's been our pleasure to teach you for the last four years and we look forward to seeing what's next for you. Please do stay in touch. We're gonna miss you, but we're excited for you. Thank you. Next we will move on into the visual performing arts division. Presenting awards for Art, please welcome professor Dan Van Tassell. Hello everybody, so I'm Dan Van Tassell. I'm the chair of the art department and it's my great pleasure today to introduce our two awards for the day. So our first award is in Academic Excellence in art and it goes to Ellen Hicks. And Ellen, it's been a great pleasure working with Ellen especially over this last semester you know with all the changes and things in our classes. She really has never missed a beat and that really epitomizes the academic excellence that she's carried with her with her curiosity, her intelligence, her poise and her leadership in the classroom in the creation of her works of art, but as well as the work that she does outside of the classroom. I know that she has done quite a bit in Student Life as well as her internship at the William King Art Museum. She really epitomizes an Emory & Henry excellent academic student and I couldn't be more proud of her and the things that she's done in her time here at Emory & Henry. And we're certainly going to miss her. The second award that I have to present for today is the Outstanding Senior in Art Award and that goes to Hannah Muller. And, so it's been my great pleasure in my time, since I started here at Emory & Henry five years ago, over the last four years I've had the pleasure to work with Hannah, both in my previous role as curator and now also in the classroom as department chair and an instructor. And, so, she really has from the very beginning, I've watched her blossom, but she really has adopted strong leadership skills, just overall skill both in the museum setting in the gallery with her work there. We worked very closely together there. She quickly became one of my most trusted and hardest-working gallery team members. Her willingness to take things the extra step both in the studio and in the gallery and overall her artistic excellence in the studio. She really truly epitomizes the idea that, she's probably heard me say many times, she epitomizes the idea of taking her work from good to better and now, finally, to best. and I couldn't be more proud of our time together. I'm truly going to miss her leadership in the department as well as Ellen's leadership in the department. You two have really stood as some of our best and brightest and I can't wait to see what comes in the next step for for both of you. I'm so proud of you both. Congratulations and take care. I have the privilege of presenting the awards for the Music Department this year. The first award is for the academic excellence or a highest GPA within music and this year we are proud to award that to Taylor Campbell. Taylor has been an exemplary student always bringing a curiosity and a high-level of discipline to everything that she does in the classroom and in the performance venues. So, we are very proud of Taylor for this and seeing her grow and mature into a very, very capable scholar. Our next award where there are a split award between two outstanding seniors and music. This year we're pleased to present the awards on the instrumental side to Mr. Parker Kitts and on the choral side Mr. Jonathan Griffith. Now, both students have been exemplary and show outstanding leadership in all their ensembles, in the classroom and across campus whether it's being in residence life and in the music department. And both are well poised for outstanding careers and music education. Thank you and congratulations to both! Next I would like to invite Dr. Kelly Bremner to represent the theater department. Hello everyone. Thank you so much for being here today for us all to honor you and your accomplishments. Here in the theater department this year, we have a record-setting year. We have twelve extraordinary students graduating from our department more than half of which will be graduating with Latin honors. They're amazing artists, they're amazing scholars and they're all going to make us so proud. It was also really really hard to choose students to honor today for that reason. I'm privileged to begin by talking about the student who will win the highest GPA award in the theater. The student that I'm going honor today has distinguished herself in so many ways. This student is in many ways a non-traditional student. She was a commuter student to Emory & Henry, she was a transfer to Emory & Henry. She also is an extraordinary scholar of English working for the Writing Center in addition to her work in the theater. This particular student carried about the heaviest schedule I've ever seen a student carry and yet was always the first to volunteer to support her faculty and her colleagues in any project that they might be cooking up. Her lighting designs in Rachel Black's studio recitals are one of my favorite things about her time at Emory & Henry. But also was her leading performance as Horatio and Rachel Hubble's senior project. This student is generous of soul, downright brilliant and also happens to have the highest GPA in the theatre department this year and that student is Abby Bell. The next award that I'm able to talk to you about today is the outstanding senior in theater award. This award this year is an award we decided to split because we had so many deserving students and I'm going to ask my colleagues Rachel Black and Rachel Schwartz to present this award. I'll ask Rachel Black first to come on up and present that award. The first outstanding senior in theatre award goes to someone who is truly outstanding. Not only does she exude talent but she also shows such maturity and professionalism. I always say that, yes, I care that my students are good singers but it is more important that they are good people and she is that to her core. She can act, she can dance, she can sing, she can sew, she has been my personal assistant for two years and I honestly don't know what I will do without her. Whoa. It is my honor and privilege to present to the outstanding senior in theater Award - get it together - to Hannah Rose Rivette.  My good friend and colleague Rachel Swartz will present the other outstanding senior in theater. Since this student's transition to BFA acting, their growth and hunger for work has been remarkable. I've seen the student blossom in the works of Henrik Ibsen and roles including Antigone and Hecuba and Trojan women and Margaret and Henry VI parts two and three in my studio classes. In classical theatre this student has been like a fish that finally found open ocean. Her work is culminating in her senior project portrayal of Brutus and "Julius Caesar", livestreaming in mere hours, as well as her honors thesis titled "Six women and Will: a theatrical exploration of the value of strength and power in William Shakespeare's female characters". She and I have shared many office discussions for our disdain for folks calling Shakespeare's women weak. Her thesis initially centred on Margaret of Anjou the character whom Shakespeare granted more lines to than any other character and a woman who leads literal armies into battle. However, this week when we started to work on "The Winter's Tale", we discussed the importance of strength and women beyond the sword and recognizing the strength of wit, the strength of mind, and the strength of the heart and it is my honor to honor this young woman and this pillar of strength, Madison Rudolph. Thank you. At this time we'll move on to our natural science division. Representing biology, Dr. George Argyros. Good afternoon. I'll be presenting three awards today in biology: one for academic excellence, kind of a shared Award for outstanding senior, and a shared award for the Buchanan Memorial Award in biology. The academic excellence award goes to Chelsey Sneed. She is a double major in biology and art and, I promise I'll be brief - there'd normally be laughter here because I'm never brief - but I remember Chelsea most not not so much for the biology side but also for her more for her art side. From scientific illustration where she drew a lot of really really great images of specimens that we have in the organismal lab, but also some of the art exhibitions that she's done as part of that major. So thank you for being our department Chelsea and I'll see you at the senior party after awards day. The outstanding senior award in biology we had a rough time deciding so we decided to split the award and share it between Madison Mackenzie and Liberty Shepherd. Both of whom are my advisees, my research students, and I've had them both in in a number of classes. The Buchanan Memorial Endowment Award for biology is also being split between Madison Mackenzie and Liberty Sheppard. Again, this was a difficult decision for the department to make. Both of these students regarding the memorial award, The Buchanan Award, this award was created by Bob Buchanan from the class of 1958 and his wife Melinda S Buchanan and the awards honor Matthew Hay and Elisabeth Good-Buchanan, Benjamin Keys Buchanan and Rachel Good-Buchanan. These were all early settlers of Washington County, Virginia, and their subsequent descendants. The Buchanan's were brothers and the Good's were three sisters and this is kind of the interesting point with this award for us I kind of see both Madison and liberty as Emory & Henry sisters - sisters in biology. They've both done so much relative to working with underclassmen in the Department of Biology, mentoring through Beta Beta Beta and the stem cohort, and also working with new students in my research lab to kind of get them up to speed and kind of help them deal with me as their adviser and mentor because I can be a little hard on my students from time to time. But we're all very proud of you and both Madison and Liberty are going on to graduate school in the fall. Madison's going to William and Mary to study the evolution of antibiotic resistance in bacteria, and Liberty is going to Ohio State to focus on public health and epidemiology which is time - both are going into fields that are appropriate at this time. But thank you again for being with us these past four years and like I've said many times I really don't like this time of year because I hate saying goodbye and it's pretty bad this time around because I can't physically say goodbye in person but I'll see you all at the at the part of this afternoon. Thank you. Thank you. Please welcome Dr. Michael Lane to present the awards in chemistry. Hello everybody. I have the good pleasure to present three awards um Can you hear me Matt? Okay, sorry. The academic excellence award will be the first one and this is presented to Corey Davis. Corey is the epitome of a liberal arts student. He is an excellent chemistry student but it's also an excellent English student where he is getting a minor. Corey is synonymous with the chemistry department. He has worked as a lab assistant his entire time at Emory & Henry and he's also served as a supplemental instructor and is in general just a wonderful person to be around. Anytime you get a chance to talk to him he's always got interesting questions. And Corey will be pursuing graduate studies in analytical chemistry at UNC Chapel Hill which is a top-ranked analytical program. And so, Corey, we're very proud of you and very happy to give you the academic excellence award. Our second award is for the outstanding senior in chemistry award and this goes to Connor Selecman. Connor is graduating in three years which was a goal that he stated he wanted to do when he first arrived and he has somehow managed to do that despite being a student-athlete this entire time, an inaugural member of the stem cohort where he's been an excellent mentor for future stem cohort students, and - to put it in popular terms of the day - like the Dwayne Johnson The Rock says Connor is often the hardest worker in the room and probably the nicest too. And so he is truly the epitome of outstanding and Connor has a choice to make because he is heading off to optometry school to either Pikeville or the University of Memphis which is also one of the top optometry schools in the country. The final award that the chemistry department will give today is the Buchanan Memorial Endowed Award for chemistry and we're very happy to present this to Ian Graham who's a junior. Ian is kind of our go-to guy so when we need somebody to SI for general, we call in Ian. When we need somebody to be a supplemental instructor for organic, we call on Ian and he's pull double duty now for three semesters running for both of those. He is a person that takes advantage of every opportunity he's had. He spent last summer working on campus starting his senior thesis award right after his sophomore year and this summer he would have been in New York City at NYU at an REU but the situation has led to that being canceled. In his off time, which there doesn't seem like there's much for, he has been the president of our very active American Chemical Society chapter on Emory & Henry. And so the chemistry department is very pleased to offer this award to Ian Graham. To present the awards in environmental studies please welcome Dr. Ed Davis. I'm very honored to present three Awards today. I'll start with Henry Dolby. Henry Dolby wrote for us for a group of faculty one of the best honors thesis I have ever seen. He worked with Sarah Fisher and Dr. Beltz over in athletic training. And he wrote it about rock climbing work, which seems a little bit unusual, but he was writing actually about the people who do the route setting and the injuries they faced. And he did really an excellent study that I think is going to have an impact. I think it'll be published and I think he'll be a great success out there. Henry came to us from Belmont Massachusetts and has always been very active in the outdoor program but he's also been a remarkable student. He's very hard-working, always been kind of an independent sort, and we're gonna really see great things out of Henry. So, congratulations Henry on the academic excellence award and environmental study. The second award goes to Blake Logan. Blake Logan is winning the outstanding senior award and did really hard work here in between bear hunting. You know, Logan had a nickname as "the bear". He's really a great, warm individual and I wish I could give him a bear hug right now. Blake came to us out of Bristol and is graduated in December and is out there. He'll be a star for Emory & Henry in the long run. we're very proud of Blake.  Just be careful out there hunting. The third award in environmental studies is the Nature Conservancy award. This is an award created for the student who we expect to have a great contribution to conservation in the world. The Nature Conservancy office in Abingdon established at award. This year it goes to Chloe Yates. Chloe Yates has been the president of the Emory Climate Collaborative and has been maybe the best leader that organization has had in in many, many years. And Chloe was a solid student but also just a devoted, devoted kind of mentor to many and a supporter of many students on this campus. She's just a great, great and kind person. So, congratulations Chloe on the Nature Conservancy Award! Please welcome Dr.  Xiaoxue Li to present the awards in mathematics. It's truly my honor to present three awards from the Mathematics Department. The first one is Academic Excellence and highest GPA and mathematics and this award goes to Staymon Johnson. Staymon has been a wonderful major and a wonderful tutor to many of our athletes students on campus. I want to thank you, Staymon, for all your services to the college. I know you will be a loving math teacher and coach in the many years to come. Congratulations! The second award is Outstanding Senior in Mathematics and this goes to Caleb Wallace. Caleb is another wonderful math major in your department and he has been accepted to a Ph.D program in UNC Charlotte. I think it's for economics. Congratulations Caleb! And both Caleb and Staymon, we are very proud of you and we will miss you. The third award is Outstanding First Year Mathematics Award this one goes to Diego Zamarripa. I haven't had a chance to have you but your calculus professor, Dr. Brubaker, has told me many great things about you. I know you're not a math major but we hope that you will try some advanced math scores in the future and you will do great things. I hope to see you in the fall. Next to present the awards in psychology, please welcome Dr. Celeste Gaia. Hi. On behalf of Dr. Baronowsky and Dr. Qualls, I'm pleased to present the awards for the Department of Psychology. And this year we have four awards for presenting. The first one is the Psychology Award for Excellence in Research. This is being presented to Nicholas Abel. Nick's a senior psychology major from Bel Air, Maryland and he has an extensive record of research in completing two independent research projects while at Emory & Henry. He was awarded an ampersand grant conduct his research for a senior thesis which examines how family dynamics and parenting styles might play a role and college students attitudes toward and also use of drugs and alcohol. He's a member of the Psi Chi International Honor Society. And, in addition to his scholarly pursuits, Nick is a talented musician and skilled guitarist and a member of Emory & Henry's own rosewater band that's played many different events over the years. Nick plans to eventually obtain a doctoral degree in psychology but he's going to work for it for a while to gain some experience in the field and congratulations, Nick! I will miss our weekly meetings. The second award is the Award for Academic Excellence or the Highest GPA. This award is being presented to Cassandra Oliver who is a senior psychology major from Venice, Florida by way of Vermont. Her parents just moved to Florida. She's demonstrated academic excellence while serving the college in a variety of roles. Her talent and skill contributed to the ongoing success of the Emory & Henry college Intermont Equestrian team for the last four years. she's also conducted research on equine therapy, media and body image, and parenting and relationships. During the fall semester of 2018, Cassie studied at the University of Exeter in the United Kingdom. And she's also a member of the Psi Chi International Honor Society in psychology as well as Delta Omicron Pi sorority. She gained professional experience as an intern in the Washington County Public Schools and recently accepted a position in the School Psychology Master's Program at the University of Oregon. Congratulations, Cassie! Our third award is the Citation for Departmental Service and this award is being presented to Martha Nemo. And Dr. Baronowsky had a lot to say about Martha. She's a psychology major from Richlands, Virginia and Dr. B says that Martha has come a long way in her years at Emory & Henry. She began her education as a biology major working for dentistry school but, through self-reflection, she realized her talents lie elsewhere. What hasn't changed is her desire to serve by helping others and, luckily for us, Martha decided to be a psychology major and work toward a degree in clinical social work. She became an SI and a lab assistant for psychology 101 and sincerely wanted to help students and that was obvious in her dedication to the position in helping the psychology department. She was diligent in holding study sessions but she went above and beyond: creating games and worksheets, and providing food and snacks for her students. In addition she was quick to do whatever Dr. B asked and needed, and often volunteered before she could be asked. She'll be an excellent social worker an outstanding community leader. Congratulations Martha! Our final award is the Mary B Cox Outstanding Senior in Psychology Award and I'm pleased to announce that this award is being given to Austin Crabtree. He was a full graduate from Damascus, Virginia. Austin majored in psychology with a minor in biology. And Dr. Qualls wants you to know that Austin was a top performer in our psychology classes and a co-investigator in two research projects. He completed internships at the Woodrow Wilson Rehabilitation Center in Fishersville, Virginia and also at Blue Mountain Therapy in Abingdon, where they were so impressed with his work that they hired him following the internship. He's a member of three national and international honor societies: Beta Beta Beta, Phi Beta Sigma and Psi Chi. And outside the classroom, he was a four-year dedicated member of the football team. He was accepted into several different graduate programs in occupational therapy, but were delighted that he's decided to stay close to home to be a member of Emory & Henry's Doctor of Occupational Therapy program in the fall. Congratulations to Austin Crabtree, and congratulations to all of our seniors! We're very proud of you and we'll miss you, but we know you'll do great things in the future. Thank you. Please welcome back Dr. Michael Lane to present the awards for the Friends of the Sciences. The Friends of the Sciences is in its 26th year of offering research awards. The Friends of the Scientists is a group of alumni who have established these awards to send outstanding Emory & Henry students to research institutions across the country, and indeed across the world, to participate in an 8 to 10 week program doing research of their choosing. And this year I have the honor of presenting, on behalf of the Friends of the Sciences, two fellowships. The first is to Emily Hill who is a double major in chemistry and biology. She's a junior. Emily has been very active in research. She spent her first summer after her first year doing astronomy research at Virginia Tech. After her sophomore year, she participated in a research program for which she received a fellowship at Massachusetts General Hospital. And this year she applied to the Friends of the Sciences to go back to Mass General and she's been awarded that although the plans right now are a little bit in flux depending on how things develop in Boston. Emily plans to pursue medicine after graduating from Emory & Henry. The second fellowship that the committee awarded this year was to Makayla Titsworth. She is a junior psychology and sociology double major. She served as an SI and the committee was particularly impressed by her reflection on her internship at Smith Youth and Family Services, which go along with her goal to receive her doctorate degree in clinical psychology depending again on the situation as they develop. Makayla will be spending her summer at Vanderbilt working in Dr. Jim Boothe's lab. We'll now move on to the Education Division where we welcome Dr. Sandra Frederick to present the awards for education. Good afternoon. It's my pleasure to be able to award these individuals for their outstanding work within the Education Department. Our first award is for Academic Excellence or the Highest GPA of those graduating this year from the Education Department. The recipient of that award is Miss Taylor Campbell. Taylor was not only very disciplined in her music studies within the music department, but also in her pedagogical studies within the Education Department. And we feel that she marrying these two areas for which she has true passion will serve her well and the students that she teaches in the k-12 classroom. So congratulations Taylor! Our Outstanding Senior in Education Award goes to Staymon Johnson. Again, not only was he very dedicated in his studies in the mathematics department but also within the education department. He'll graduate this spring with his degree in secondary education and mathematics. If I were to use the word to describe Staymon, it would be enthusiastic and I don't think that truly describes just how enthusiastic he is. But Staymon not only has been a leader within our department and the mathematics department, but a leader across campus in athletics and other organizations. So congratulations to Staymon! Our award for Excellence in Graduate Educational Research goes to Connor Stevenson. Connor Stevenson will graduate this spring with his undergraduate in human health and performance. He will also be receiving his endorsement and special education. Connor has a very inquisitive mind that challenges his peers and his professors to think in new ways. He also has been very dedicated to reaching out beyond Emory & Henry and sharing his knowledge. He and two other classmates present last fall at the Virginia Middle School Conference to teachers across Virginia on how to teach like a pirate. And we have three awards for students and excellence in their student teaching experience. Our first award is the Edgar H. Thompson Memorial Award for Exceptional Student Teaching at the P through 12 level and this award goes to Aria Asbury. Aria came to us from a another undergraduate institution after she had heard the calling to teach so she entered our fast track program to become an art education teacher and just really, really fit in with the department and and her love for teaching of art. She graduated in December and is currently teaching in Bristol Virginia City Schools. Our second award is the Edgar H. Thompson Memorial Award for Exceptional Student Teaching at the Elementary Level and this goes to Holly Britt. Holly will graduated in December in education and social studies elementary track and also received her endorsement in special education. She has an incredible natural teaching ability that we feel will serve her well teaching students in the k-12 setting. And lastly The Edgar H. Thompson Memorial Award for Exceptional Student Teaching at the Secondary Level goes to Jacob Hess. Jacob graduated a few years ago with a biology degree from Emory & Henry and then went out into the field to put his degree to work but again heard the calling to be a teacher and returned to us to the fast-track program. He has done an excellent job in the classroom and he will be teaching next year in Washington County Schools in a biology classroom. The last award that I would like to present is the Delta Kappa Gamma Virginia Scholars Award. The purpose of this award- it was included in a mandate for Delta Kappa Gamma to honor women who have either given or have evidence of potential for distinctive in the field of education. And this year they would like to award that to Morgan Doss. Morgan Doss will be graduating this May with her Elementary endorsement and she is just embodies the kindness that we all know teachers to have in the classroom. She does an excellent job in her coursework but also balancing many out-of-school activities as well. So congratulations to all of these recipients from the Education Department and then I'll turn it over to Professor Mark Hainsworth for one more. Good afternoon. The W. Thomas Graybeal Mathematics Award was established in 1986 by Dr. Graybeal's family and friends. This award is given to a rising senior in mathematics who's planning a career in teaching. Dr. Graybeal taught mathematics at Emory & Henry from 1948 to 1983. His wife, Ruby, who worked at the college later was secretary of Emory & Henry United Methodist Church was a longtime community member. Their children attended E&H; Susan class of '79 and Nathan class of '82. It's my absolute pleasure to award this to a student who is an exceptional academic in both mathematics and education. It does my heart good to think that this individual is so accomplished in her content area and pedagogical approaches will be serving our future educational community and positively impacting the lives of many children. On top of that, she's just a wonderful person and a great, great student to work with in class. The 2020 W. Thomas Graybeal Mathematics Award goes to Kerry Walker. Congratulations Kerry! We look forward to seeing you then next fall. Take Care. To present the awards for Health and Human Performance Department, please welcome professor Beverly Sheddan. Good afternoon. it's my honor to present these three awards from the Health and Human Performance Department. The first one is the Academic Excellence Award and it goes to Mitchell Walters. Mitchell is a double major in sport management and business management. His contributions in class have always been insightful and thoughtful and engaging. I have no doubt that he will be successful in all his future endeavors. So congratulations Mitchell! The second award is to the Outstanding Senior and this award goes to Milan Brewer. Whether he is in class, in the weight room, or announcing athletic events for WEHA, you can always count on Milan to bring a burst of positivity and genuine love of life. He's always willing to go above and beyond his professors and his classmates. And while the Wasps are number one in his heart, the Vols are probably a close second and so we get some bonus points for that. So congratulations Milan! The last award is the Outstanding Student Teacher and that goes to Chris Roberts. Chris was a December graduate and ever since Chris arrived on campus, he has been at the top of his game. His commitment to instilling a love of physical activity and health in children is evident and it's truly a pleasure to observe him during his student teaching. So congratulations Chris! And congratulations to all three of you! certainly gonna miss you all. Thank you! Please welcome Dr. DC Cobler to present the awards in athletic training. Thank you, Matt. The Athletic Training Department has two awards to give out. The Academic Excellent/Highest GPA in Athletic Training and the Outstanding Senior. But before I give out the two awards, I do want to say this is kind of a bittersweet time for the athletic training Emory & Henry not only because of the state of the world the virus has caused but because this is our last undergrad to a class that will be graduating. So I wanted to take the opportunity to thank and recognize the late Dr. Margaret Hudson for starting the program many, many decades ago and I didn't want to miss that opportunity. But for our two awards it's pretty simple. It goes to the same person. Miss Katherine Martin is both Award winners. We don't lose Katherine she plans and has been accepted to attend a physical therapy program at our Marion campus so she still will be around but she has both of our awards for this year. So congratulations Katherine! We'd like to move on to our Social Sciences Division at this time and please welcome professor Kyle Macione on to present the awards for Business Administration. Thank you, Matt. It's my privilege to announce two awards on behalf of the Department of Business Administration and I'll start out with the award for Academic Excellence/Highest GPA for a graduating senior in accounting. The recipient of that award this year is Cameron Lilly. Cameron is from Bristol, Virginia. He is an excellent student and it's truly been a pleasure to get to know Cameron during his time here at Emory & Henry. Along with accounting, he has a love of U.S. history and United States Constitution and we've had many interesting discussions pertaining to those. Cameron has, as many of our students do, he's worked the entire time he's been a student- jobs in Bristol. And, notwithstanding that, he earned the highest GPA in accounting. After graduating he plans to work as an accountant before pursuing his master's in accountancy and ultimately passing the CPA exam. So congratulations Cameron! I wish you all the best as you pursue your accounting career and pass the CPA exam. The second award is for the award for Academic Excellence/Highest GPA among graduating seniors in business management. The recipient of the award this year is Mitchell Walters. Beverley Shedden is already described Mitchell. Mitchell is an excellent student, just wonderful to have in class. He's from Christiansburg, Virginia, four-year all-academic as a member of the varsity football team. He's worked in the athletic department here at Emory & Henry and well has at Virginia Tech during the summers. He plans to pursue a master's in sports management and a graduate assistantship as a football coach. So congratulations Mitchell and I wish you all the best in grad school and as you pursue coaching career. To present the awards and Civic innovation please welcome Dr. Tall Stanley. The interdisciplinary program in civic innovation is proud to recognize Kara Stewart as the recipient of the Academic Excellence/Highest GPA in civic innovation award. The Outstanding Senior in civic innovation award goes to Caroline Mosteller. And then the third award, civic innovation Excellence in Writing and Reflection goes to a December graduate Tatiana Boelen. Thank you. Please welcome Dr. Deborah Spencer to present the awards for economics. Thank you. It's my privilege today to recognize two of our graduating seniors both of whom also happen to be double majors in mathematics, so economics and mathematics majors. Our first award is for Academic Excellence/Highest GPA and that goes to Corbin Hockensmith. Corbin graduated in December and is will probably be zooming in from Huntsville, North Carolina, where he is currently working for data-driven safety as a quality assurance specialist. Corbin left his his mark in the department during his independent study when he he added some an important content to a manual that the department has been enhancing over the last few years in the software. And so I hand it out now to my Senior Seminar students who want to do modeling for their final project so rest assured, Corbin, that your legacy lives on in the department. Our second award today goes to - well, it's for Outstanding Senior in Economics and it goes to Caleb Wallace, who, if you recall, Dr. Lee also mentioned as an outstanding senior in mathematics. So congratulations Caleb for truly an outstanding academic career here at the Emory & Henry. Caleb is heading to graduate school in economics at UNC Charlotte where he wants to model - continue his modeling skills of the macro economy and and maybe at a little bit more to the world of finance. Caleb is one of those students that I will remember for our many long conversations and in the hallway and in the office and sometimes there were arguments over policy and I think, Caleb, if the one thing that we really have shared the last couple of years is a respect for each other. And I just want you to know how grateful I am that you questioned everything I said and that you hung in with me it is those very quisitive mind pushes us out to a better place and so I want to thank you for that and congratulate both of you again as well as all the seniors today for a job well done. Thank you. Please welcome back Dr. Ed Davis to present the awards for geography. I'm very excited to give these awards to two great seniors. The first one comes from Walker, Texas and is going to leave here with a very impressive fellowship to attend a doctoral program in geography at the University of Illinois. This student studied race, place and identity in Norway through a black metal movement. And this is a very, very unique kind of honors thesis that so impressed a professor at the University of Illinois that he said you can come work with me and it's a fully financially supported program. He's gonna be- he's gonna have a great graduate career and probably I will try to recruit him back here to be on our faculty that is. I'd like to give that the academic- to announce the academic excellence award goes to Colt Pierce. Congratulations Colt on a very impressive career here at Emory & Henry. The second award in geography is for Outstanding Senior. I don't know what the geography Honor Society could have done without this young man from Meadowview, Virginia. We took trips that he did such a good job of helping me on as a navigator, as an organizer. Our trips to various places around the South were made very special by this guy. Meanwhile he was a triple major. We don't get a lot of triple majors at Emory & Henry, but political science or politics, and sociology, and geography all got to have this young man who also helped out in our building as the work-study. This guy did a great paper on the geopolitics of Tibet and had that research project just was really fun to develop with him and watch him do. So the Outstanding Senior Award goes to Evan Rasnake. I hope you'll keep playing trombone after he graduates so congratulations! Please welcome Dr. Jack Wells to present the awards for history. The history department would like to honor three of our best seniors for their accomplishments. The first, the Department Award for Academic Excellence goes to Amy Jaramillo. You may remember she won a similar award in the English department. Amy is one of our hardest-working, most serious, and brightest students and it was a pleasure of mine to have her in several classes. The Department's Award for Outstanding Achievement goes to Layne Hubbel. Layne studied abroad in Greece, was an Emily Williams Award winner, and spent part of a summer in England, and is a well known aficionado of the history of the British monarchy. And our third award the Eugene L. Rasor Award in Global Studies goes to Lauren Ray. Among Lauren's other accomplishments, she impressed particularly Dr. Charles Signor, a former president of the college when he last saw his holocaust class. Thank you. To present the awards for international studies, please welcome Dr. Krystin Krause. I am very pleased to present this Outstanding Senior Award in International Studies to Kira Boerst. We overhauled the entire International Studies program a few years ago and she is the first to tackle the international studies in business major, which is a monster, and I'm very proud that as she has finished and is an outstanding senior in our department. Thank you. Please welcome Dr. Mark Finney to present the awards for mass communications. Thank you all for the opportunity to present these two awards. Our Academic Excellence Award this year goes to Ellen Hicks. Ellen is a conscientious student who pours her heart into every project she takes on. she is a talented designer with strong visual communication skills. I sometimes worry that Ellen gets herself a little too worked up about her work and she definitely takes on more responsibility than just about any other student I know but on the other hand her approach has clearly paid off for her. Ellen takes her work very seriously. When she puts herself into something, we can be sure that the result will be excellent. Congratulations Ellen! Well done. Our Outstanding Senior Award goes to Allison Hamilton. Allison is the quintessential professional in all that she does for everyone she represents. Allison showcases a maturity and professionalism in every project. Her skill level with video was one of the best that we have seen at the college. The best compliment that we can give her is that her skills do not seem to plateau when she completes a class, she only increases in skill. She continues to challenge herself to get better and to take more risks in her professional growth. If you haven't seen it yet, find a copy of her documentary about our Emory Abroad trip to Cuba entitled "Cuba: A New Perspective". It is really wonderful. Congratulations Aillison. Please welcome back Dr. Sara Fisher to present the awards for political science. We had a really wonderful group of seniors in our Senior Seminar this year for political science and I'm certainly going to miss all of them. One of my favorite parts of our Senior Seminar this year was hearing from our wonderful alums. So each week, I had alums visit in person or via Zoom to talk about their life and career post Emory & Henry. And these two students have truly excelled and I have absolutely no doubt that I will be hearing wonderful things from these two people in the coming years. So, I look forward to having you visit the Senior Seminar again soon. The Political Science Department is proud to give the Outstanding Senior Awards to Claire Hogg and Landie Manass. Please welcome Dr. Shelley Koch to present the awards in sociology. Thank you. It is really my honor to present two awards on behalf of the Sociology Department. The first is for Academic Excellence and this award goes to a previous award winner from geography, Evan Rasnake. As you heard Dr. Davis say, he is a triple major in sociology, geography, and political science which is no small feat given that he's also in a marching band and works in our MS and was an SI for my theory class. So congratulations, Evan! That's a it's an excellent award. The second award I'd like to give is the Outstanding Senior in Sociology and, of course as many of us do have many students that would fit this description, our Outstanding Senior this year is Sydney Breiner, who is a sociology and political science double major. Sydney showed leadership both in and out of the classroom. She was a mentor for sociology majors, she was a tutor for the research methods course, and she was also a facilitator for the sustained dialogue program on campus to promote social justice on campus which is fantastic. And congratulations, Sydney. And we're really proud that she has accepted a position in the Geography Department interestingly at UMass Amherst to study the intersections of human rights and immigration. So we're really proud of both of our students in sociology. Please welcome back Reverend Mary K. Briggs to present the Honaker Achievement Award. Thanks Matt. The Honaker Achievement Award recognizes that Residence Life plays a key role in providing for the college community. It takes a great deal of dedication and determination. The Honaker Achievement Award recognizes woman student who is outstanding in scholarship, citizenship, and churchmanship, and a contribution to residence hall living. The recipient of the Honaker Award today has been an outstanding creative member of our campus community in many areas. You've already heard her name a couple of times this afternoon, but for the purposes of this award I'll share some that relate directly to it. The recipient has served as a residence life - in the residence life area without standing leadership as a resident advisor, a student resident director, and a community advisor. And all these roles she has done not only her job but she has inspired and cared for numerous students in joyful situations as well as challenging ones, and she's made our residence halls a more fun and more meaningful place to live. In the area of spiritual life, she has served as our worship artist for the encounter worship service for our students as well as for the defining moments and engaged programs that have been for our students as well as young adults and young clergy persons across Holston Conference. In all these contexts she's used her gifts to create beautiful and meaningful worship settings that were pleasing to the eye and pleasing to the heart. Today The Honaker Achievement Award is presented to Ellen Hicks. Congratulations Ellen! We'll miss you and I know that you will continue to share your artistic gifts in relationships and also to deepen people's experience of God who loves lavishly and unconditionally. To present our first awards- our first student body awards, please welcome Ms. Jolie Lewis. It's an honor to present this award on behalf of the students in the Blue Key Honor Society today. The Blue Key Fred Selfe Award is given by The Blue Key Honor Society to a member of the faculty or staff or an alumni who models the Blue Key attributes of intellectual curiosity, leadership, service, and integrity. In choosing this year's recipient, Blue Key's president Maggie Crutchfield said "He not only knows each student by name but knows something about their life and interests. I have never walked by his office during the week when his door was not open. And no matter how busy he was with his own work, he always makes time for students whether that means going over the same problem ten times or just being a listening ear for a student having a bad day". The recipient of the 2020 Blue Key Fred Selfe Award is Dr. Michael Lane. Please welcome associate provost and Dean of Students Ryan Bowyer to present the rest of the student body awards. Hi everyone. We'll start with the Excellence in Teaching Award. The Excellence in Teaching Award is given annually by the student body to a professor that they believe has done an exceptional job during the academic year. Nominations are solicited from the student body and voted on by the Student Government Association senates. This year's Excellence in Teaching recipient is Dr. Krystin Krause. Outstanding Seniors. To be named an outstanding senior at Emory & Henry College is a wonderful honor. Nominations are taken from the student body with the selection criteria of someone who has displayed outstanding service to the college, has outstanding character, and shows outstanding commitment to scholarship. The Student Government Association senate narrows those nominations to four candidates. Our esteemed faculty then selects two of those final four candidates to represent the student body as this year's Outstanding Seniors. This year's Outstanding Senior recipients are Landie Maness and Layne Hubbell. The Senior Service Award. The student body was invited to nominate the graduating senior who has contributed significantly to their community, both on and off campus, through service projects and advocacy. This individual should also exhibit the college's motto of "increase in excellence". The faculty received these nominations and voted on a single recipient. This year's Senior Service Award recipient is Chloe Yates. The Student Government Organization Award is voted on by the student body and Student Government Association senate. The organization should be a group that shows outstanding service to the college and exhibits commitment to its outstanding mission. This year's Student Government Organization Award recipient is the Caliopian Society. Dr. Jack Roper Senator of the Year Award. The Dr. Jack Roper Senator of the Year recipient should exhibit outstanding work to the Senate through legislation, outstanding commitment to the student body, outstanding service to the Senate, and outstanding decorum while in office. This year's Jack Roper Senator of the Year Award recipient is Morgan Kinder. The 2020 Senior Orator. The Senior Orator gives an address. Each made commencement to their fellow graduating class. This is an incredible honor where the senior orator gets to recap their experience, share memorable moments, and get parting words of wisdom to their fellow graduates. This year's Senior Orator is Sydney Breiner. Finally, the 2020 - 2021 Student Government Association president and vice president announcements. We traditionally announced the results of the SGA election at awards day and officially swear in our new student body president and vice president. While we will do an official ceremony in the fall, it is my pleasure to announce that David Eldridge and Olivia Jessie will be the 2020 - 2021 Student Government Association president and vice president. As we close the spring 2020 Academic Awards Day Convocation, I want to offer some final thoughts as we depart our virtual space together. To our students, parents, families, friends, and to our faculty and staff, thank you for joining us wherever you may be. I hope that each of you are safe, healthy and well. This is absolutely one of my favorite days of the academic year. Traditionally seeing the joy for being recognized for amazing scholastic achievement in turn gives me so much joy. I hope that each of our Award winners and recipients was a similar amount of joy and such a wonderful occasion such as today. The amount of work that goes into being selected as a recipient of these awards is immeasurable. As I think about what goes in to being selected as a recipient from one of these awards, I'm often reminded of some of the stories of the great late athlete Kobe Bryant's and use examples and stories from his Hall of Fame career as a way to scaffold these remarks. Kobe made an incredible 26 game-winning shots during his career, won five NBA championships, an MVP award and, was selected to represent Team USA in international play among so many other career accolades. As fans we would get to see his excitement, tenacity and celebrate those game-winning shots, MVPs, and championships with him. Their celebration and moments were so inspirational for so many kids all over the world, myself included, that would practice their own game-winning shots and their back yards to win a championship. What may be assumed but is rarely talked about with Kobe, however, was his incredibly intense work ethic those moments off camera and off the court that no one sees and the fans weren't there to witness. Kobe showing up to the gym at 5:00 a.m. when practice was at 9:00 a.m. to shoot thousands of shots, challenging teammates to one-on-one games to 100, and increments of a single baskets, coming in to Team USA breakfasts when other best athletes in the world were just waking up and Kobe was three hours in an intense workout into his day. When I consider how that applies to each of you or student award winning recipients, I see direct parallels. We didn't see the late-night study sessions, we didn't see the repetition after repetition of the notecards for the test the next week,or perhaps just as likely the next day. We didn't see the hours practicing the speech, the choral or band routine. We didn't see the hours learning and memorizing the theater production scripts. Largely, we didn't see the moment struggling over that complicated math, chemistry, or physics equation. We didn't see the moments in which you were intellectually challenged over the reading that would ultimately impact your worldview. We didn't see the preparation that went in to each in every class period. In 2010 at this very award ceremony I was awarded the highest GPA in both of my own majors at Emory & Henry: Middle Eastern Islamic studies and history. I didn't win the odette championship in cross country after running thousands of miles and putting so many hours in. For me, this moment at this awards ceremony was my championship, it was my MVP award, and it was my game-winning shot. And so here we are today. We are celebrating albeit virtually with each of you and the excitement and joy your achievements have brought. We are publicly celebrating those difficult moments that no one else saw. We are celebrating the academic training each of you have so diligently experienced in order to be the recipients of these awards. In this moment, we are celebrating your championship, your MVP award, and your own game-winning shot. What is so absolutely impressive is that this academic excellence continued in the middle of a life-changing, generation defining, global pandemic. The resiliency, adaptability, and emotional intelligence each of you have exhibited not only during this time but over the course of your own academic careers at Emory & Henry College is simply put as awe-inspiring and inspirational as any of Kobe's 26 game-winning shots during his incredible career. And so as we close the spring 2020 Academic Awards Day Convocation, I want to again say congratulations! I am so inspired by each of you and on behalf of our incredible award faculty here at Emory Henry College please know that you will always have a home at exit 26 in Emory, Virginia. You have lifelong intellectual and professional colleagues, supporters, and advocates in our faculty. Stay well, stay safe and, as always, increase in excellence. I will turn the platform back to Dr. Matt Frederick. Thank you. Thank You Dean Bowyer. Thank you all very much for attending our Awards Day 2020 and congratulations to all of our recipients! !e wish you well and thank you again for watching! 