 - Okay. - It's recording, it's okay? Ah, great. - Yes. Okay, I'm gonna share my screen. Ben and Sarah, like in advance, if I jump back and forth between English and Hebrew. Okay, do you see the slides that say graph database? - Yeah. - Okay, oh and also, I didn't mention. Did I mention the nodes, 2020 thing? - Not yet. - I don't know. Okay, so we are doing a conference in October. So, next month. This intro is part of it, kind of. It's, I'm gonna put it in the chat here. So it's a conference all about graphs and how people use them and all the different great things you can do. (speaking in foreign language) - Yeah, of course. (speaking in foreign language) I actually don't have the access to the chatroom for some reason. I don't know why. - I'll do that, I'll do it, go ahead. - Okay. Okay, so hi Kulam. Like 15 minutes later. (speaking in foreign language) And this is Gal. And we're gonna talk to you a little bit about Neo4j the graph databases. So we'll start off with just kind of. (speaking in foreign language) Like what we'll cover. So first. (speaking in foreign language) And what it is, is a graph company. Graph theory. (speaking in foreign language) The data modeling. (speaking in foreign language) The Cypher query language. (speaking in foreign language) It's a game changer. - It is. (speaking in foreign language) - I think it's okay for you. You know, you can interrupt if you have a question or something. Okay, so you see my screen, right? The, okay. - Yeah, we can see you now. - Um, cool. Okay, so I'm Karin and what I do for Neo4j is I manage our community. (speaking in foreign language) Is that how you say it? (speaking in foreign language) Like software developers. (speaking in foreign language) And my job, like support. (speaking in foreign language) Basically, so yeah. (speaking in foreign language) Basically. (speaking in foreign language) It impacts something else, you know. With graph databases you can actually see that. Which I think is very cool. (speaking in foreign language) - Yeah, we don't see the slide. Maybe a delay or something. (speaking in Hebrew) - Awesome, thank you. Okay. We're gonna do a very, very short video. It's like a minute long. We're gonna play it. (speaking in foreign language) Important. - You're on mute, maybe? - Oh. I might have to change my head, my sound right? - Yeah, you need to. I think it's. No. - Where is it? - No, it's not here. It's in the video itself. But it's gonna take a while I think to configure. So you can just. I can go with the video as long as we see that. - Oops, what's happening here? - Go back a few slides. - There we go. - Yeah, I'll just do that. - That's okay, we can skip over it. We can talk about it as we go, I think. - Go ahead skip it. - Okay, so just kidding, no video. You'll just have to deal with us just telling you about it. (speaking in foreign language) - Yeah, the biggest thing for the connected data. (speaking in foreign language) The connected, connected data. (speaking in foreign language) I think we should go into it. I think it'll explain it a little bit more. Okay. (speaking in foreign language) Yeah, the. (speaking in foreign language) It makes a lot of sense once you kind of understand the background. Okay, so we're just gonna go into some background. So Neo4j it's a graph database. And there's a lot, we have a lot of users. We have, I think, I don't know. There's a lot of numbers about community. Somewhere between 30,000 and 150,000 community people. (speaking in foreign language) I think like close to 1,500 startups and 400 enterprise companies. (speaking in foreign language) From the top 50, fortune 50 companies. (speaking in foreign language) For something. Do you wanna add to this slide, to say something about this slide? - Uh no. (speaking in foreign language) - Yes. Okay. This answers the question from before. What do you use Neo4j for? (speaking in foreign language) Not just transaction data. (speaking in foreign language) Relationships, like graphs. This is a graph model. (speaking in foreign language) The relationships between them. (speaking in foreign language) You know, like a bank. Like a, what did you say? - Social networks, for example. - Social network is a good one because. (speaking in foreign language) Connections in depth, you know. (speaking in foreign language) You know, if it makes them, if it brings cancer. (speaking in foreign language) And I have to consider those things. (speaking in foreign language) Family tree, you know. (speaking in foreign language) Yeah, yeah. (speaking in foreign language) Okay as Neo4j is a native graph database. As much as, actually Gal, I might let you take this one because my Hebrew is gonna end up being in English. - Your Hebrew is? - My Hebrew's gonna end up being in English here. (speaking in foreign language) - Acidity, the ACID transactions. The acidity. Um, the ACID transactions. (speaking in foreign language) When you store your data. (speaking in foreign language) It's very bad if you. (speaking in foreign language) Your, you know. (speaking in foreign language) Like, something is missing. It's just not a complete thing and they can cause a lot of problems. The ACID transaction. (speaking in foreign language) Like good, clean, strong, complete data. Okay. Yeah, I think we're good, yeah. Okay, this is a little bit more on the use cases. (speaking in foreign language) There's some really, really cool use cases. These are the most standard. (speaking in foreign language) They use it for one of these. So fraud detection, for example. Which I think might be. (speaking in foreign language) So fraud detection. (speaking in foreign language) Then you know it's fraud. (speaking in foreign language) For real time recommendations. (speaking in foreign language) You know, it's one thing to build recommendations. (speaking in foreign language) I mean, actually, Gal you can probably talk about that one. Because of the Ebay stuff and also knowledge graph. (speaking in foreign language) Yeah, not all people who love crime love all crime. I like crime. (speaking in foreign language) Okay, graph theory. (speaking in foreign language) Graphs, nodes, the relationships. (speaking in foreign language) The concept of graph theory, like the invention of graph theory. So. (speaking in foreign language) I don't know if this is, did we talk about the? Yeah, okay. So. (speaking in foreign language) Mathematician, a Swiss mathematician in the 1700s. (speaking in foreign language) Leonhard Euler. (speaking in foreign language) Land, the rivers and bridges, right? (speaking in foreign language) Like to actually, is it possible to start on one piece of land. There was like two floating lands and one big land around it. And bridges between everything. (speaking in foreign language) So what a graph, so this was the invention of graph theory. There's a, they call it the Eulerian circuit. (speaking in foreign language) Each bridge once, or each line once. (speaking in foreign language) As it fits into the Eulerian circuit. And there's a formula behind it. This is the idea of a graph. So what a graph technically is, is you have nodes, these are the circles, right? Or they're edges and vertices in the graph theory. (speaking in foreign language) Anything, it's a person, a place, a thing, an idea. (speaking in foreign language) Could be in between them like the edges. I'm sorry the vertices. Where, how are these things connected to each other. That's the idea of a graph shape. Well, that's the relationships in Neo4j. Do you wanna add something? - Oh no, it relates to the, what a friend here said about the graph theory from, usually it's, you know, in universities and they study that, so. - Yeah. Yeah, so this is why. (speaking in foreign language) There's a really good show on Netflix called "Connected" by the way. You should watch it. It's a new one. (speaking in foreign language) Like, you know when you look at this you're like, everything's connected to one another. (speaking in foreign language) Once you see a graph then you see graphs everywhere. (speaking in foreign language) Query, without context of all the things. But yeah, a lot of things are connected. Everything in our world is a graph. Okay, so Gal do you wanna take this one? - Yeah. (speaking in foreign language) - Like a use case that's like an example. (speaking in foreign language) You know, I don't know, mattress or something. (speaking in foreign language) It's a mattress, right? It's like, you have to consider is the other one living with them? Who else lives there? Did they also buy it? (speaking in foreign language) Mattresses, right? You need one. So, that's like kind of a way to look at it where the connections are important. Okay, so this is kind of the history. Right, go ahead. (speaking in foreign language) - Manages real time connected insights. (speaking in foreign language) Karin, maybe we will take questions now. Like two or three questions? Or we can. - Okay. - We can finish that slide and then do that. - Yeah. - You do, you do that. - Well you kind of, no, you covered this one. I think you kind of talked about it. (speaking in foreign language) - Yeah. - Do you wanna raise some questions? (speaking in foreign language) Relationship lives in the same city. (speaking in foreign language) - There's a graph. - It is a graph of a-- - A pie graph. So it's a good connection that you made in your mind to think that Facebook's using it. (speaking in foreign language) - Okay, we move on, I think, Karin for now. - Yup. So, graph data modeling. (speaking in foreign language) When you start using graph databases. (speaking in foreign language) You're asking your database. (speaking in foreign language) In graph database. (speaking in foreign language) The relational database. Like, you could do something. You're looking for a jump that's like 10 hops, like. (speaking in foreign language) 10 joins, because it's about the relational database. (speaking in foreign language) For the questions. So, part of it is. (speaking in foreign language) Actually Gal, you can talk about this one. Why don't you handle this since you do this stuff. - Sure thing. (speaking in foreign language) - Yeah, um. - Go ahead. - No, there was something I was thinking about. (speaking in foreign language) It's very intuitive. (speaking in foreign language) If you go to like a board, or you know any place like a white board, you draw your data model. You say, okay, I have customers, you can draw a circle and you could make a face in it, a happy face. Like, these are my customers. And then you have an arrow, they make a purchase. You know, like you can draw the model. And the same way you think about it is the way it is actually modeled for the most part. But then you have to consider which things you make nodes. There's also properties, things like that. We're gonna touch into it. (speaking in foreign language) Like, holistically. Intuitive, like the way you see it is usually the way it is laid out. But there's a lot of things to consider. Okay, I'm gonna skip this one. I don't think we, right? - We can go ahead. I think we can skip the graph data modeling. I think it's a little bit on the side and we can go ahead for the demonstration if that's okay with. - Well, I wanted to show some of the. - Okay, maybe one example. - Well, I wanted to show, yeah. We can skip some of this stuff. Okay, but I do wanna show like the basic data model. Do we have that in here? - I think yeah. This one is a good example. - Okay, so basic data model in Neo4j is you have a node, right? That's like a person, place, thing, idea. Anything that is a noun, a thing. And then you have directional relationships. (speaking in foreign language) And there's things actually in the modeling. I think this stuff is actually kind of good. But, so see. You have directional relationships. This is saying not to do it both ways, but. Didn't we have the node one here? Oh, that's the Cypher thing, right? - Yeah, I think we can skip. - Okay, so. - I think it's better, yeah. - Are we meant to be seeing any slides now? - Do you not see slides? - I'm seeing, but she skips them pretty quickly. But Karin, I think I'll go. I'll skip the graph part and move on because we are at the top of the hour and we wanna see the-- - Okay. - And some Cypher. - Okay, is this, do you guys see the law enforcement one at least? - Yeah, we do. - Okay, I just wanna show the basic Cypher query language stuff. - Okay. - Okay, so this is also important. (speaking in foreign language) It's very different from relational databases and graph. So one is the query language, okay. (speaking in foreign language) For querying data. (speaking in foreign language) Connected data queries. So, there's a language. (speaking in foreign language) It's an open language, it's called Cypher. With Cypher, SQL for connected data. (speaking in foreign language) Like, give me this. With Cypher. (speaking in foreign language) Like, shortest path. (speaking in foreign language) You know, the shortest path. (speaking in foreign language) Cypher is a declarative language. (speaking in foreign language) Keywords, like the match, where, and create clause which I think are pretty straight forward. (speaking in foreign language) Let me see if there's a. Ah, okay. So, does this have a query in here? So, first you have nodes. These are the nouns, again. And then you have the relationships to these nouns. They can have labels. So like, what kind of node? For example, if you have database (Hebrew word) okay. You have actors. Directors, or like producers of movies. (speaking in foreign language) The producers. (speaking in foreign language) Right, so like. There are different types of nodes. (speaking in foreign language) Like to have there. And then relationships, like I said, directions. (speaking in foreign language) Types of relationships, right? So. (speaking in foreign language) Like, with Netflix for example. (speaking in foreign language) Or rates a movie, like five stars. (speaking in foreign language) Like relationships to the different type of relationships. (speaking in foreign language) Weights, like values. Date and time. Like geospatial information like location. And then other properties, so. (speaking in foreign language) You know, like rates a movie five stars. (speaking in foreign language) Relationship, instead of just somewhere else. So, if you're looking for the highest rated you can actually do the calculations based on value and things like that. Do you wanna add to that, Gal? - No, I think. (speaking in foreign language) - Yeah, this is the last one I wanted to show of like, the query. (speaking in foreign language) - I just wanna show this one. Because this one I think is important. As a Cypher, like how it looks as a query language. So your nodes are in parentheses. Like, see the A and the B here. And then the relationships are actually arrows and brackets. So that's what the Cypher query language looks like. So that's like a basic high level of how you see it. So, it's very intuitive. (speaking in foreign language) Okay, A likes B. A likes C, right? And I think it's good. I think we can talk, if you wanna do the. Do you wanna do the demo? (speaking in foreign language) - You know what, Karin. Before I do the demo, which also has queries, maybe. No, no, go back like. No. No. Yeah, I think this is good. Oh, stop. - Which one, this one? Returning property values or this one? - This is okay, yeah. This is also okay. Whatever. - Which one do you want? - This one is good. (speaking in foreign language) Free your mind. (speaking in foreign language) Another slide, Karin? Other one. Okay. (speaking in foreign language) Which slides do we have left with and then maybe I'll start the demo. - This is from the sandbox, right? - Yeah, you can move it. Yeah, demo. - It's demo! - Perfect, maybe. - Stop sharing? - Yeah, I'll do the sharing. You need to allow me. Now? - Do you have the ability to do it? - I have the ability to do that. Maybe time for questions. (speaking in foreign language) - Good question. - [Gal] Very good one. - Very good question. - You wanna take this or I'll take this? - You can take it, go ahead. - Okay. (speaking in foreign language) Karin it's okay to do the demonstration? - Yup, yup, totally. (speaking in foreign language) - Karin, please remind me to show full text search problem. (speaking in foreign language) - Yeah. - Yeah, okay. (speaking in foreign language) Does Neo4j support sharing data reputation? Yes, it does. (speaking in foreign language) Introduction to Neo4j webinar. (speaking in foreign language) Creating a new graph. (speaking in foreign language) No one? (speaking in foreign language) - Woo-hoo! (speaking in foreign language) Karin, you know what it is? - Nope. (speaking in foreign language) This is what happens when you do live demos, the demo demon. - [Gal] Exactly. - I usually do just the Neo4j sandbox, it's when I'm like, eh. (speaking in foreign language) - Anyhow, and what you see now. (speaking in foreign language) "Jerry Maguire," "As Good as it Gets," "Stand by Me," "The Matrix Revolution," "Cloud Atlas," "V for Vendetta." (speaking in foreign language) "What Dreams May Come" Werner Herzog who directed. (speaking in foreign language) "As Good as it Gets." (speaking in foreign language) "The Da Vinci Code," "Castaway," "Apollo." (speaking in foreign language) Karin, this would be a good time to finish. I will do this, stop sharing. We'll take questions, I'm assuming. (speaking in foreign language) Karin? Are you with us? (speaking in foreign language) - Yes, I'm here. (speaking in foreign language) Yes, nodes, virtual conference is very technical content all on graph things. It's going to be October 20th. I'm gonna put a link in here. I'm gonna put two links. We should put, the sandbox link is one. That's the Neo4j sandbox link. And then that's if you wanna play around with Neo4j without downloading anything or having your own data. And that's the conference, the nodes 2020. So the conference is all day. (speaking in foreign language) Six tracks. There's talks on use cases. There's talks on graph data science and knowledge graphs and deep dives. It's gonna be really, really good. So, some of the speakers are already listed. (dog barking) That's it, I think. - Maybe we'll just present the last slide of the recommendation, Karin. I will go through it very quickly. - Okay, do you? I think I closed the slide text, but. - Oh, no worries. No need. - Why? The recommendation one is a good one. Hold on, let me see if I can pull it up real quick. - Okay. (speaking in foreign language) Okay, the recommendation slide, this one. - This one? - No, the one below demo. (speaking in foreign language) It was the one before the end, Karin. The recommendation one. No, after demo, after demo. No, below. - After demo is this. - Yeah, this is the import. This is the thing what we had, no? - Oh, I thought you said recommendation. - No, we don't have that. We removed that. So, lets go ahead. (speaking in foreign language) Thank you, Karin for setting this up. - I didn't set it up, you set it up. You kind of. - Thank you Valaria. (speaking in foreign language) 