 Ever wonder what people add on to their searches? Well, semantic search is a great way to find out. And I'm going to show you that today. So today, we're going to talk about semantics, right? That sounds really interesting. Let's make this just a little more interesting. It's also the searches related to. When you go in and search for a word, use those dropdowns. Let's talk about what you're seeing there. So, let's say that I'm a taco truck owner. And I want to start blogging. I don't know what concepts I'm going to talk about but I'm gonna guess at my first one which is going to be taco recipe. Okay, now what do I write? I could make up a bunch of stuff about tacos and almond the authenticity of those tacos and that's all good. But that's not necessarily findable. So, we're thinking about what are the things that are in a taco recipe. And we're just gonna guess right now? So, I'm going to say meat sour cream, salsa and tortilla. Now, I would be probably pretty right. If I'm going to write a blog post on taco recipe and yeah, probably be a good idea for me to talk about those things. But I don't really know if anyone cares about them. Like what way do they care about these? And so as business owners oftentimes, we live inside our little bubble. And we're like, "Okay, I'm going to talk about these things. And I'm going to buy a taco tastic dot cam and I'm going to have my taco tastic book and I'll have my taco tastic key note, okay? Now, I made up taco tastic and then I have to go out there and work it. I got to get it on Billboard's. I got to get it out there. And unfortunately that's expensive and time-consuming. As a business owner, we don't have either of those things. So, we have to be more strategic than guessing. So, I want you to write this down. "Guessing is expensive." And the less we have to guess, the quicker our marketing is going to take traction. Let me show you. Okay, so I'm going to sit down in Google and I'm ready to write my taco recipe. Now, I want to check in with who cares. Who cares? What and how do they care? So, I'm going to come in here I'm going to type in taco recipe. Oh, look! And as I write, you'll see that we've got these recommendations. We see taco recipe beef, steak, chicken easy, turkey, ground beef, tasty pork ideas and fish. Those are good guesses. But if I'm going to do it right, I'm not gonna guess. All right, let's try this again. What am I going to talk about that is connected? Remember, we want to connect. We want to put our ear to the ground and we want to listen. We want to listen. You may need to be a chief listening officer. I've got to put your ear to the ground and listen to what people are telling us based on what you see in Google here. Okay, now I'm going to scroll all the way to the bottom. Oh! Look at these. Even better. These are the questions that people are asking of Google around taco recipes. So, if I'm going to stop guessing, then I'm also going to answer some of these questions. And the questions are "How do you make perfect tacos? What makes a taco a taco? What ground beef is best for tacos? And how do you make brown taco meat?" Interesting. Anyway, sometimes you see some pretty random stuff in here too. So, pick a couple of these and answer them in your content. When you're writing a blog or a page on a website or a post, think about all the things that you as a taco recipe expert. Experts know experts. Experts keep their ear to the ground and they know what people are saying. So, as opposed to guessing about all this, now I'm going to create a blog post that's going to talk about pork variants. Less than in 5 minutes, here's 3 or 4 ways to repurpose that pork meat. And I'm also going to answer your most frequently asked questions. That's what how I'm going to write my blog post. Not based on what I'm guessing. Not based on phrases that are inside my bubble but phrases that I call street language, right? Street language. What people are currently searching for? And the great thing about looking at Google search results is that they give you a treasure trove of ideas. If we don't tap into that, then that's on us. So, you want to make sure that when you're writing, you're grabbing those questions, keep going all the way down... Ooh! Look at this one. I have a authentic. I'm good. That's a good one. Authentic. Okay, now we're going to go for soft crispy. Ooh! I like that. Crispy. What else? Of course, Mexican. And of course Cervesa and margaritas. Might be over right here. My nice little margarita with the salt on the rim. Okay? So, now I am prepared to sit down and write a piece of content that is connected. I know all the topics based on semantic search or searches related to at the bottom of the page. I'm going to grab those questions. I'm going to answer those questions I said earlier. Now, when I go to write any piece of copy, I have done my homework. Because remember I'm not going to guess anymore. I'm going to put it into Google. I'm going to look for the questions and I'm going to look for the recommendations. I am connected with what is the current language around that keyword. The more I connect with this language, that faster this is going to rank under the word taco recipe. That's the good stuff. If you love this YouTube video, don't forget. i'm on other social media sites. You can follow me on instagram at findability_ university, at Heather Lutze on Twitter and we're also on Facebook. So, wherever you're hanging out, we want you to join us. Hopefully you've been enjoying all these tips about how to be the most findable business online. You can do it and I'm going to show you all along the way. 