 Hi, my name is Antonio, and in the next few minutes, I will talk about our paper on mining association rules from ontology-based semantic trajectories. To begin with, I’d like to briefly talk about my own trajectory as an example to contextualize this paper. And by trajectory, I mean the different places I used to visit while developing this research paper. Well, most of my working days started with me arriving to this bus stop, and then going to the Computing Department. Then I’d go lunch at the University Restaurant. And go back to the lab. I’d go once more to the restaurant at dinner time. And then to a second bus stop to take the bus and go home. I think some or most of you may identify with this routine. The interesting part is that due to multiple technologies and social behaviors we can actually know trajectory data from people. The same applies to animals, vehicles, and even natural phenomenas such as hurricanes. In a very informal way, the objective of this project is to identify patterns in my grad student routine. Being more formal, we want to explore an approach to find associations between visits to real-world places by mining a graph-like data representation. Let me talk about the two pillars of this project: Semantic Trajectories and Knowledge Base Refinement. Consider this sequence of points, each of them associated with a timestamp. This is called a raw trajectory, which indicates that it contains raw spatio-temporal data about the movement of some object. Raw trajectories have been broadly researched in the literature. More importantly, researchers realized that raw trajectories were not enough to capture the full context of a moving object. Semantic trajectories were then proposed as raw trajectories enriched with multiple semantic aspects. These semantics may come from multiple sources, including raw trajectory processing, social media, and personal sensors. There are many issues and opportunities when dealing with this kind of data. Acquisition, pre-processing, storing, querying, and mining semantic trajectories serve multiple applications, from marketing to urban planning. One of the decisions involved in processing semantic trajectory data is how it will be represented. Besides relational databases, ontologies are a very commonly used representation. They can capture important concepts and relations, help the interlinking of multiple data sources, and allow the distribution of data in a Semantic Web-compatible way. Now we switch to the second pillar of this paper: Knowledge Base Refinement. Knowledge Bases, or KBs, are used to provide information about people, countries, universities, movies, and so on. They are commonly built in an automatic or semi-automatic approach from unstructured data sources such as Wikipedia. Excluding manually curated KBs, they tend to be incomplete and noisy. Knowledge Base Refinement explores approaches to use the data already present in a KB to improve its coverage and correctness. One approach is to mine logical rules, such as Horn clauses. These rules can express data regularities with an associated coverage and confidence score. Based on what we have seen, we have semantic trajectories being represented as ontologies, and strategies to mine rules from Knowledge Bases. To close the motivation of this project, it is enough to say that Ontologies and Knowledge Bases can be seen as the same concept. The main difference is that the term Ontology is usually used when the focus is on the representation schema, while the term Knowledge Base is used when the focus is on the data stored. Therefore, this paper objective is to mine semantic trajectory data using an KB rule mining algorithm. To limit our scope, we define the data, data representation, and mining algorithm which we will explore in this paper. The data comes from check-ins in the Foursquare social network. This dataset is very used in the semantic trajectory community, since it is based in real data and contains rich semantics To represent the data, we choose the STEP ontology, which is publicly available. It contains concepts to represent the moving object, the trajectory, and many types of associated raw and semantic data. To mine data, we use AMIE 3, a state-of-the-art KB rule mining algorithm. AMIE is a multi-threaded, heavily memory-indexed algorithm to mine Horn rules from an RDF triples dataset. It iteratively builds rules by efficiently adding logical atoms to previously mined rules. We propose a five-step pipeline, from semantic trajectories to rule grouping. We start with our tabular semantic trajectory. We then represent data in the STEP ontology. Here, we represent a small subset to illustrate the final result. Note the gray nodes. In STEP, they are entities used to connect concepts. They either contain no semantic information or represent a relationship between concepts. This makes it difficult to mine rules from STEP, since our mining strategy relies in mining relations and not entities. Therefore, we propose a representation transformation which encodes some of STEP concepts as dynamically generated relations. This offers a compacted representation where semantic relationships are actually represented as relations. We then proceed to mine rules such as these ones. The first one says that if a trajectory contains a check-in at a venue with the category College, then the trajectory belongs to User 1. Mining these rules represent an automatic step to discover relationships between users and visited venues categories. Note though that the two rules shown express similar relationships, with changes only in the constants. We, therefore, finish our pipeline by grouping these similar rules using the concept of metarules. We apply our pipeline to the Foursquare New York City dataset. After some pre-processing, we have data from 158 different users to be mined. Given some configuration described in the paper, AMIE 3 mines almost 460 thousand rules. We qualitatively analyze our mined rules and metarules in five different categories. The rules capture different data regularities and user’s patterns. They combine multiple semantic aspects and take advantage of relations that we added, such as connecting check-ins which occur within a distance radius of other check-ins. We also note that many rules are uninteresting and a domain-specific algorithm should be designed in order to better generate rules. As contributions, we have proposed an approach to mine patterns directly from ontology-based trajectories, which hadn’t been investigated in the literature before. We also propose a pipeline that transforms the STEP ontology in an application-specific representation, and a post-processing step which groups similar rules using the concept of metarules. Finally, we present many discussions about our approach and our results. We highlight the dependency between data representation and mining algorithm, as well as the importance in developing a domain-tailored algorithm. Using schema information, mining numeric rules, and defining new metrics are interesting research topics. And finally, we consider that our approach of using KB mining algorithms can be applied to other domains which represent data as ontologies. We would like to acknowledge the entities FAPESP, CNPq, and CAPES for partially funding this paper. 