 Mehmet: All right. So are we ready to go? All right, so thank... Thanks everyone for tuning in for this last session of the STEM village virtual symposium. This is session eight and we have wonderful talks lined up for you. My name is Mehmet Kurt I'll be co-chairing this session with Matthew Sinton who is the founder of The STEM Village, pronouns he/him, and our first talk/ dialogue will be between Dr Lisa Graumlich - I hope I am not butchering your last name and Melissa Watkinson and it will be on an international, intergenerational, intersectional uh dialogue. So I'm very much looking forward to this and it's a pleasure to have you both here and take it away when you're ready. Lisa: Thank you so much and thank you to the organizers, it's... it's amazing to be here with all of you, I just wish I could see all of you, but I can't. My name is Lisa Graumlich. I go... I have she/her pronouns.  I am the Dean of the college of the environment at the University of Washington. and I am a paleoclimatologist. I've been somebody that has been asking the question Is climate changing because of human activity? For about the last 40 years and it's a pleasure to be with my colleague Melissa Watkinson. Melisa: Hi Lisa. Thanks so much, it's nice to see you. Thanks also to the organizers for letting me participate in this discussion today. My name is Melissa Watkinson, I use she/her pronouns. I'm a citizen of the Chickasaw nation of Oklahoma, which is a native american tribe, that was forcibly removed from our original territories in what is now called Alabama and Mississippi. I'm joining the symposium today from Bremerton, Washington, which is the traditional homelands of the Suqwamish and Duwamish peoples. It has become a growing practice in the United States to acknowledge the first stewards of the lands and waters of the place where we are standing and calling in from. I'm a social scientist and Diversity Equity and Inclusion lead at Washington Sea Grant which is an organisation whose mission is to help people and marine life thrive by supplying research, technical expertise and educational activities, that support the responsible use and conservation of ocean and coastal ecosystems. Washington Sea Grant is located in the College of Environment at University of Washington, which is where I've had the pleasure Dean Lisa Graumlich. So thanks again for inviting me to participate with you. Lisa: So I thought I'd lead it off by just saying a little bit about one of the themes that Melissa and I hope to bring forward, both in our remarks and potentially in some really interesting Q&A -type dialogue and one of those themes is to me what I call "the gifts of being gay". So imagine if you will, like I'm the Dean. I'm like this senior person in the college and the college has 200-some faculty and it actually has like 800 research professionals like Melissa and 2000 students and you know, like yeah, I get to know you if you have a big problem, you know, but do I get to know people just to get to know people? Not very much. So I was at a some kind of meeting about marine conservation and there was Melissa and she was saying really smart things, and she kind of looked interesting and this was like... Does your generation use the word 'gaydar?' Melissa: Yes (she laughs) Lisa: Of course! Okay. So like, I'm like hmm she looks interesting and then I like get on social media and not in like an obnoxious stalky way, but she's like hmm, and sure enough she has this like lovely partner and this and so I became more bold and said... I think I said "Melissa like I want to do coffee", and so Melissa and I started like taking walks and drinking coffee and sharing stories about our lives and as Dean I do not get to do this, and so the gift of my friendship with Melissa is that I have learned a lot about what an early career person with sort of some lovely and wonderful and complex intersecting identities, working in this incredibly important area of marine conservation; what her work and her life are like and to be honest I wouldn't have... I wouldn't have asked her out for coffee if it was not for this mutual recognition that we shared something in our personal life that went above and beyond science. So Melissa thank you for your friendship yeah and... and I hope as we're sort of gathering today that we sort of think about despite some of the trials and tribulations we have as queer people in STEM, there's these moments of recognition and they can be super rich. So that's how we got here with Melissa and I talking to you.  Melissa: Yeah as you're talking it's just making me reflect on kind of this idea of representation and how important it is and I know particularly for my generation and because I think it's more possible, that there is representation of different identities within STEM fields and other fields right, that it's always something that we kind of talk about and is important. so I... so having seen you, yeah... you know and some others within our college being out and gay and that representation was important for my own growth and identity within my career and just hearing you speak though it sounds like that same that... same representation is important acro-  you know... from your generation to mine as well, which is something I hadn't really considered before. Just in terms of being able to continue to connect with those identities that you share with... so I appreciate you sharing that. Lisa Yeah, absolutely. So Melissa to start this dialogue, although I actually know some of the answer to this, but how and when did you come out? Melissa: Yeah, so my… my journey is as everyone's journey is...is unique. I... I would say... I came out... I started coming out to my very close friends and very close cousins. I'm starting around the age of 18, and I was coming out as bisexual at that time and I think at that point that was really all the extent of what I felt had felt confident in and... and believed in for myself.  I grew up in... in a family that was... attended a evangelical church, that would often make me oppress and suppress my own... myself... in terms of my own identity as a queer person and that, you know, led me to getting married at a very young age, to a man and... you know, having this kind of idea of what I... I thought society expected of me in my life. I... you know... was not on a path of ... of science. I was not on a path of academia, really I was on a track that would kind of fulfil what I thought... you know a 'good woman' was supposed to do in our society... which was... you know... communicated through me... to me, by the church and likely through media and other formats and I... I somehow... I think just through the different networks I was building and community I was building in Seattle my ... my lens opened up a little bit more and so I'm grateful for that... the opportunity to open up a little bit to myself to myself and then more to others as well and so I actually finally came out to my family about three years ago actually, so fairly recently came out to my family... you know, out... and out as gay, which was a big milestone for myself, for anybody right who's coming out... out of... out of the closet, because it's a- It takes a lot of courage, you know to... to be that person and so around that same time was when I started in my current position and I think it was you know acknowledging that there are others in our... in our STEM field and in the areas with... where we work that can help me to gain some confidence that it's... you know... you can be successful, you can be... show up as to work as who you are and be true yourself at the same time so, yeah. Lisa how about you? I know that... I know that your... your journey came a little bit before mine (!) and...(Lisa laughs) a little bit different so how about you?  What... what was... what was your journey for coming out? Lisa: Well... you know certainly some parallels with respect to various versions... of feeling like it wasn't okay and I think those messages were... actually not that it wasn't okay, that it just wasn't talked about and so I knew I had these sort of really deep longings and they weren't... you know... I don't even think i knew what the word lesbian was and.. and so looked to... my mother was an english teacher so I would like, look to literature and yes you can find like these tragic lesbian stories and everybody always dies at the end and you know, wasn't like oh this doesn't look so great... and I go to college and I was really excited because i saw on a bulletin board a flyer and it was a lesbian support group and there was sort of notion... like support like... you know, like we needed help. I thought oh my god, you know, that's me, and I was at a relatively large university and I went to the meeting and there were three people there you know, this is the 70's, where... what can I say... sort of drugs and alcohol you know it was all sort of cool and it was the first time I saw people that I really think these people are probably like indulging too much. So there were two people there, that were really just kind of getting drunk and the other person was trying to figure out how to go straight and I thought oh dear, this is kind of like the stories I was reading in the books and so kind of went away from there and like you Melissa I got married I was like okay... I can just like... and I got married to this... he's actually a wonderful man, but he was like really heterosexual like... like... like... this guy like he's like heterosexual so that means I'm heterosexual and we moved to Madison, Wisconsin and on the very first 24 hours of me being the newlywed I'm like in Madison and it's filled with these gorgeous gay women like publicly displaying affection and I'm like oh no... oh no oh no... I just like got married and it was the wrong choice, so I found a way to exit out of that, but it took... it took years to come out to my parents and it's just... you know... it's sort of (she sighs)... you know... there's... it's... it's a process  that we all do so... So part of one of the things we've had conversations about Melissa, are sort of messages that friends and family and mentors and colleagues give you about sort of your career like here you are queer and what's gonna happen... you know... like how are you gonna navigate that identity and... and you know... the incredibly important work you're doing as a social scientist in marine conservation how's that going? Melissa: Well I think.. I... you know... in term... in terms of the identity of queer... you know, I.. I... I guess I've always been queer and I've always been... indigenous, you know, a term that just kind of reflects my native heritage and the journey of kind of owning those different identities has been a little bit... a little bit different but... I but... I think you know... acknowledge... acknowledge my own and known about my own indigenous heritage prior to knowing about my queerness, so... so... I've always just kind of... and that's that's just inherent in who I am and so I think..I ...you know... a lot of... a lot of those kinds of challenging questions actually first came up around that part of my identity and my background being a native person, because a lot of my work is working with tribes in Washington state and on conservation-related topics that are important to me only because some of the... my native family and... and the way that I grew up culturally was related to the health and well-being of our marine ecosystems and so of those kinds of questions and... and conversations with those who are close to me in terms of my career were... were more related to, you know, how because it... it's... it's not just an academic lens right it's a... it's an emotional... a mental ...state, that also... that I also... but also requires someone who is you know... has these kinds of different relationships with the marine environment to be doing that kind of conservation work, in a place where most of the people in the organization don't actually share those identities with you, and so that came about this similarly as being gay right and so ...or being queer you know in the in the broader sense just... just that your… your own identities are are different than others ... and so i think you know in terms of the career journey it's most... it's the biggest outcome I think has led to building my awareness around what kinds of... gaps there are in terms of equity and inclusion of different people and community members and voices within the work that we're doing and I know Lisa that's some of the conversations that we've also... we've also shared... especially now as... the environmental movement and environmental field is growing and conversations of diversity, equity and inclusion. I think that's really been… what's has centered those conversations in the career and among my my colleagues... and I think that you know... that kind of... that... that's also a journey, you know. I… before I came out and I was starting... my first... my first job in this field, I wasn't out, but the organization... you know was at those - the pride parades and being very visible and present in those areas, and then when it came to like conversations that I was a part of around pride or LGBT, my voice was often kind of silenced ...because I wasn't out and ...and I think for me that was a... you know... a waking... a wake-up moment for me now, reflecting on that moment. That there are probably others with... that we're working with who... might not be out, right and how do we make a voice for them in these places too? Going from that to where I am now and having Lisa as a friend and mentor and other... other super... you know... supervisors and mentors within our college who are out and... and provide that strong representation ... that's been a good progress in my own career journey Lisa: You know I'm sure everyone in this Zoom live stream/ YouTube space all has that memory of those moments where you're quiet and your voice isn't there and just... how... frustrating and... really sort of devastating that is and it reminds me of a story that interestingly it's a story that goes way back to the 1980s and that I was reluctant to share until just a few years ago it's about that sort of voice so it's about my first years in the 1980s as an assistant professor at the University of Arizona ...and I was very excited that I was in a... I was the first woman hired in a unit and you know was kind of digging in my assistant professorship and was really... excited when a senior mentor like a Vice Provost who was a woman and a scientist kind of took me under her wing and she wanted to mentor me and it was Arizona so we would go hiking and we would talk and she was very accomplished and I felt very trusting of her and on one of these hikes she like gets really serious and she says to me Lisa, it's okay to be gay, just don't tell anyone and I was like okay... I think that was kind of positive like it was okay to be gay I'm not supposed to tell anybody and okay and she's like a Vice Provost so I need to take her seriously and so for a couple years I like... I did that thing of like okay... I'm just not gonna tell anybody and I'm going to like say these like... really stupid things like... what'd you do over the weekend oh my friend and I... you know did whatever you know like you're just kind of like putting up all these barriers and then kind of never really being present, because you're scared you're gonna say things. So the story gets better, so this fancy Vice Provost woman nominates me for a super prestigious fellowship it was 50 people from the entire country over all aspects of science would get this sort of opportunity for a three-year leadership college. It's really complicated, you know, you write an essay and then you make it to the next level and you get to write more essays and you make it to the next level and it all kind of culminates in there's a hundred of us that will be interviewed for 50 positions and they fly us into a fancy internat- actually I think it was Houston and we're staying in a super fancy hotel and we're gonna have an hour with the selection committee and I get like a really beautiful suit and I have my talking points and I'm all ready to talk about my vision you know it's about climate change and the future... of the future I'm all ready and it's going really well and they're like scribbling down notes and they're nodding at me and I'm like oh man this is going to be great and I met the last question and they say to me "what is the hardest thing you've ever done?" and you know when I'm in a groove and I immediately know the hardest thing I've ever done is to come out and all I can hear is that vice provost woman saying like don't tell anybody, don't tell anybody, and I just completely froze and I'm sure I looked like I was gonna throw up. I felt like I was gonna throw up.  I felt like like the deer in the headlights and I just like... I'm just silent and I'm... like I'm gonna say it... no I'm not gonna say it I'm gonna say it... I'm gonna say it and I didn't say it I... said like this really stupid thing like oh like getting atmospheric scientists to talk to biologists... I mean like... it was like the stupidest thing and I also like clearly looked terrified and I walked out of the room remember it's this fancy hotel you know the hotel elevators where there's mirrors on three sides. I get in to the hotel elevator by myself and all I see is me... like oh my God, and there I am and I've just like lost it you know I just like lost this chance, because I would not come out and I literally like looked myself in the eye and I said you are never doing that again and I didn't and what was crazy was in particular the next couple of years... yeah I didn't get the fellowship, but the next couple years, just kind of unleashed this creative, bold leadership that... you know... kind of got me to be the Dean I am today and it was because and I... I really wish I could have eye contact with all of you out there. it was because I had my whole self in my science I wasn't always putting these barriers up and so for those of you that are hesitant and... and have gotten these messages from powerful people like don't come out... don't listen to them... listen to Melissa and me because it really is that bringing your whole self to your work... all of our identities from Melissa her incredibly important understanding of knowledge of what it means to be indigenous in a time in which that traditional knowledge has always been but even more so is critical all of that needs to be there so that's my story. But you know what's... what's even crazy is you know those... those... that lingering homophobia, I did not tell that story for decades. I was too scared to tell that story so yeah... Melissa: Thank you so much for sharing that's a real... it's really powerful to hear and to reflect on how culture and society and even our the work that we're doing has evolved over these generations in this time and... I'm reflecting, you know, I feel like... you know we're speaking to a global audience right now and we are... we're both living you know... living around the Seattle area, which is known to be kind of a progressive city... in a state that's... that's... probably you know passed same-sex marriage before most of the rest of the country...and well I guess even like... less than two months ago I was in a... on another call with my Sea Grant colleagues across the United States and talking about this concept of kind of being able to show up as your full self to work... and then one person anonymously chat... put in the chat box or the Q&A box saying you know but I'm a lesbian and I actually can't be out... within my Sea Grant program because of the state where my Sea Grant program is... I can legally... still be fired... for coming out... for being who I am and I think within two weeks actually the Supreme Court made a decision that overruled that, so now you can't legally be fired from your position in the United States for being out... but that doesn't... that... you know... that... that was just a symbol for me to recognize too that... that's just kind of what was happening and maybe in our bubble... that... that I wasn't aware of in other parts of the United States and let alone to this global community that we're talking to. So there are certain... are these factors that...you know that are the differences of Lisa and my experience might transcend to those kinds of experiences across different... different nations around the world where... where it may still not be safe for people to be out or visibly queer in public... and so those are privileges that I often recognize and reflect on... and you know and I... and I'm and I do want to you know participate in these activities i suppose in terms of wanting to... change that for folks you know...I... I... feel so fortunate to not have to be in that situation... and to feel welcomed and so I hope that... you know more of these kinds of conversations can encourage the continued progression of that acceptance in our… in the world... one of the things that you and I... you know have been talking about are kind of the... the ways that queerness intersect with different parts of who we are and our different identities and in some ways you know... you talked about you know... we have these different superpowers... as being queer and some of these other ways, that they... these superpowers are strengthened and how in other ways that we show up in the world... do you have some... some superpowers that... you kind of are able to pull out... (Lisa laughs) and... and... what kinds of other identities ...strengthen those superpowers for you? Lisa: It's funny... well I'm going to start with once again, sort of going way back... so besides when I was in graduate school besides... being a graduate research assistant, I would also be a bartender at a lesbian bar and... and... it's so funny because you guys can't even... I'm kind of tall... I'm actually not that athletic but because I was tall, I was the one that was in charge of escorting cranky men out of the bar when they came to sort of cause trouble and... and so first of all i think that we end up ...in our lives in the gay community... in the queer community... we... we cope with situations you know we... we learn to listen... we learn to be sensitive to social situations and assessing is there danger, is there not danger and how do we diffuse danger etc. etc. and so there's this whole social awareness and at times needing to step in and intervene ... that I think of as you know one of sort of the powers that... that we get and I just... I just laugh, because you know what early on as an assistant professor they'd be like these classroom management questions that like my peers had and it's like... like, this is nothing. You know these are well-behaved 19 year olds, you know, you have not been trying to escort drunk, angry men out of a gay bar before... so anyway... so... so there's... I think there's ways... the richness of... sort of the lives that we live but more seriously... I... we... we've had some talks about this Melissa... I feel like there's always this insider/outsider... identity that we have so you know as... as a privileged white person you know i like participate in science as a woman there's... there's issues but then you know being queer there's always a little bit of like ooh am I part of the gang or I'm not part of the gang and there's been ways in which the kind of social part of how we do science together as I had been shut out of it and... so I just kind of started doing more and more deeply interdisciplinary work and this kind of... you know... particularly to you Melissa this is going to kind of seem dull, like why would you do this, but to try to get physical scientists, biological scientists and social scientists to work to understand climate change on vulnerable communities that was like a radical idea yeah and... and I think my comfort about it had to do with bridging identities and and talking across in this case academic cultures and... and so it really... the kind of leadership that I was able to bring to my work really had to do with a lot of skills I had that were just from kind of navigating multiple identities does any of that resonate with you actually? Melissa: So Lisa and I kind of talked a little bit briefly ahead of time what… what kinds of topics to go over and I ...literally my notes are reflective of what you were just saying ...in preparation and... and... you know we've used the word code switching before and... and that can come in multiple different ways and this... in this kind of professional setting I can definitely... you know... I've heard some people call it bridge spanning and... and I do think that that's one of the bigger strengths that... that I have and I think that's very true as a result of... building you know having that inward... inside and outside ...identity outside you know... presence ...you're spent... you're... you're spanning these boundaries bringing in... you know... building... helping to support collaborations... connecting people across different sides together... and you know I am a social scientist working on transbound or transdiscipline projects right when these larger collaborations ...and I think that you know that's likely a skill set that comes straight from...having to identify how that happens in our... in our... in our lives that we've built over time ...and yeah I guess I definitely have resonated... with that experience for sure. I had it... I had this... this thought but it just escaped me so (she laughs) maybe end it there but... yeah that's definitely... definitely huge I would say... I would say in addition to... to that... that superpower one of the other things that i think has propelled me to be able to do that... is you know I... I said I had always been you know up until recent up until I came out to my family I I came out as bisexual to many folks ...to those that were closest to me... I also have... I'm biracial and... and so there's always this kind of sense I mean this... this is just assuming... you know... assuming that these things are on a binary...as we know that they're... as we know they're not but...this kind of like being in the middle like do I belong on this side or that side you know... having to kind of essentially be like who am I? I'm also a middle child so you know where... where do I belong...and so... you know... once I kind of had found that and my... the career that the trajectory i'm in... it made me really want to utilize that... that own... finding in myself to be able to help to bridge the... those things that were kind of... you know... on those binary sides previously and helped to bridge those together and so i think that's a part of it ...that has shaped that perspective for me as well. Lisa: Melissa like our usual conversations we could like go deep on all of these things but you know I think it... I think it helps break down those binaries which we know... you know in science aren't certainly in science and in a lot of the work that we're both engaging with which is trying to translate and the... the work that we do into knowledge intersecting the lives and livelihoods of people you know the binaries aren't for most of the problems we work on they don't fall into binaries. So I'm watching my my clock in my little corner... and I that one of the questions... I think let's... let me say this is my last question to you so that we have time to have anyone who wants to share their superpowers; but Melissa I used to see you all the time on campus and now I haven't seen you for like six months, and how are you taking care of yourself in the midst of the pandemic and all of the yeah rage that we're feeling right now about what's going on in this country in terms of police brutality that just is not ending. So how are you... are you taking care of yourself? Melissa: I'm doing okay. I'm... I'm leaning on those who ...bring me comfort and I... and then... you know... and thinking about this kind of conversation around a queer village I think that ...my partner and I are fortunate we moved and we bought a house and moved... just outside the city about a year ago and we're fortunate to kind of quickly identify some other queer couples that live nearby and brought them into our kind of quarantined bubble so we've been able to have you know backyard barbecues and share cocktails and laughs and talk about what's going on in the world ... and really like leaning on that... on that queer village that we have in... in our... in our little neighbourhood here has been really helpful...that and adopting a new dog has been providing a lot of emotional support and cuddles that you know we... we don't get to find otherwise so yeah it's... it's been... it's been hard and... and also she helps to show what I'm grateful... you know what... what we can be grateful for. How about you? How are you and your family doing Lisa? Lisa: Well we're doing okay. We're... we're you know we're all... physically healthy but we're... we're stressed. I have a 17-year-old daughter going into senior year in high school and this is not what she anticipated and she's black and she's... we are so deep into thinking about what Black Lives Matter and what it means for an ...an interracial family you know... so we're... so a lot of that, but I am really grateful and the reason I'm in this sort of funny hotel is [her partner] and I took her off to the mountains to... just to get away for 24 hours and smell pine trees and walk through sage and so... and eat a lot of really good food That's... that's our love language it's food and more food. Melissa: so... so there might be some berries out there Lisa: thank you. oh yeah. we got to get up to the berries thank you we will do that and... and think of you. So we have... when... listen I talked about this we had this fantasy that... oh my gosh there's something in the chat... Matthew and our... our wonderful behind the scenes people keeping us organized. Do we have some comments or questions or superpowers being shared? Can you help us? Mehmet: I... I don't see questions as of now but I have a question actually if you don't mind. So... I'm in academia too, so I'm an assistant professor in an engineering department. So there's something in academia right that is the power structure and the hierarchy that makes it hard for LGBTQ people to be visible really it is like you and melissa said right it is mostly self-suppression in a way because of... I believe because of the power structure in the hierarchy and I think that's even harder for graduate students or international graduate students who depend on the funding to stay in the United States right, and for assistant professors it is the tenure structure. There's always a power structure that kind of suppresses the visibility right? So what is our advice for graduate students or international graduate students who are struggling with those problems? Lisa: Melissa did you want to go first? Melissa: yeah, maybe we... Lisa and I like will likely have a very different perspective on this where we... where we're from so I graduated... I went and finished graduate school in 2015... and... I I... so my... so in my experiences... I think following that...are are applicable to this question and that you know ... ...the one thing that really got me through... so much of my experiences was... was finding one... one to two people who shared in similar identities to me whether it was a student... another fellow... a colleague who could... who i could take regular coffee breaks with and have those working lunches right, where you're kind of kind of...maybe... maybe all you... maybe all you do give each other a hug and and listen to each other kind of vent for 20 minutes each. Just because you need that space to vocalize some of those hardships and i think that's one way to really kind of take care of yourself and your community and and i think coming from my perspective that that's where a lot of that that self power that self control can really kind of... be maintained and sustained... I know Lisa probably has a perspective in terms of like how those systems in place ...within our... within academia can shift a little bit to... be more open to allow visibility of queer folks. Lisa: yeah... first of all I want to just say Mehmet, what you brought up is so real and particularly the vulnerability of our international students has always been high and it's just you know with the pandemic and sort of rules about visas and and sort of in the united states the sort of political climate about you know what it means to be you know not from the US is just so painful right now so all of that is real. I completely agree with Melissa is finding your network of people that even like across the room like you can just like your eyes can meet and you like know like okay this is someone who's a fellow traveler or ally and and just nurturing and changing holding on to those people but then the other piece is trying to figure out where there are allied movements for dismantling power and privilege within your institutions whether they're academic or not and so right now United States of course the Black Lives Matter movement is so important and of course it's important for the lives, welfare of our black, indigenous, people of colour students, staff and faculty. But every time policies are made more same it benefits queer people and it benefits people with different abilities and its benefits people with on the spectrum it benefits... it benefits everyone and so you know the degree to which we show up for supporting the struggles of of others i think is a this way we're kind of paying it forward and creating the alliances that will help us make lasting change Melissa: yeah that's powerful. Lisa: I... I believe... Sorry, I'm looking at the chat (she laughs) We need more... Mehmet: I know... I know... and I think Matthew has a question right? Matthew: hi actually it's my husband that has a question so i'm... Mehmet: okay awesome. Matthew: I'll let him ask it Juan: Hi I've been listening in the background and it's just amazing... and I think one word that you just said resonated with me and it's the power of invisibility ...and this sort of role play that we have to all kind of play when it comes down to you know hiding what we are in order to achieve a position or something in academia and i'm getting to that stage where i feel like we need to have more active roles in taking up space and so i'm curious to see from you guys what's your ...approach to… to taking up that space when... when when you're openly gay ...in... in where it's ...otherwise very rigid... Very academic... yeah just... I'm curious about that Lisa: you know it's easier... what can I say... I'm senior... I work my butt off... I played by the rules of the game. I have this fancy position so like... and actually in the University of Washington actually for those of you looking for graduate programs, University of Washington has a latina queer president. so most of them do live in this bubble. Melissa how do you... how do you see that? Melissa: okay so I... i think this is a really really important and interesting question and the what comes to mind for me is so... I...I pass is white in a lot of spaces and so with that comes the white privilege right and and i think in terms of what i was talking about before that bridge that bridge spanner that boundary spanner is using that privilege that i have to step into those spaces and so you know i'm i am queer i am indigenous so i i do benefit from a lot of light privilege and which means that i have a voice that is heard more than maybe my black and brown um and black and brown lgbt you know community members and the way that i acknowledge and use that is by you know opening up that space to share um so that those voices can also be heard so you know i feel i feel in my space and where we are in this kind of bubble that we're that lisa and i were talking about a little bit um that you know i i take up as much space as i can already um and i do that for the benefit hopefully of others who who have even less of that space than i typically would um because if you know if unfortunately we're in systems now that that kind of allyship is necessary in order to have that kind of equity in terms of whose voices are heard in that process so hopefully that that helps you know to think of it of that kind of a question in a little bit of a different way yeah thank you yes we have a comment in the chat box if you can actually perhaps comment on that it says as an engineering graduate student my parents who are both engineers have actually been the ones who have encouraged me to hide my identity of non-binary in order to be taken more seriously professionally i'm still not quite sure what to say to them about that oh you know that's so hard they love you you know they want to take care of you they want to protect you i think um i wanna i think i wanna say it's gonna be a journey for you and the degree to which you can hasten the ability to work into your full beautiful non-binary identity in the workplace is going to make a difference in not just your own mental health but the quality of the engineering you do find find your community of mentors and just keep taking the baby steps and take them along with you it's it's gonna be it's gonna be hard they're doing it out of love they're scared but don't keep going keep going because you're beautiful you gotta do it well with that thank you so much lisa and melissa for this extremely touching and amazing dialogue i mean if we had time i could do this until the morning i'm quite honest with you but uh thank you so much uh this was so touching and so inspiring and um yeah i hope you enjoyed the rest of the conference and i look forward to personally get in touch with you because i was still touched by your dialogue so thank you thank you so much for your time thank you so much for inviting us and lisa it was really really great to have this discussion with you thanks melissa thank you for this and for all those conversations we had in the past in the future and to the community out there this international community take care of yourselves support each other you know your science needs okay thank you hi everybody thank you so much lisa and melissa hi thank you thank you all right with that we are going to move on switch gears and our next speaker is serena lautrec from michigan state university and i think serena is here right yes hi awesome hey how are you all right take it away all right um wow i lisa melissa that was incredible i feel the most you know whole and grounded that i think i really have since the beginning of quarantine so um thank you again for that uh let me just share my screen here all right can i get a confirmation that you guys can see both my presentation and the closed captioning yes excellent all right so um my name is serena lotrick and i she her pronouns um and i'm a graduate student at michigan state university i'm in the plant biology and computational mathematics science and engineering departments um and today i'm going to talk to you about domain specific knowledge graphs in plant biology so uh just a quick overview of my talk to keep you grounded in in kind of what's going on here the first section i'm going to talk to you about why plants so i plant biology in the second section i'm going to talk to you about a computational technique called knowledge graphs and in the third section i'm going to kind of put it all together and there'll be little boxes in the upper right corner of the slides to kind of keep you on track with this overview so the first question right why plant biology the simple answer is that by training i am a plant biologist i think plants are just the most fascinating um diverse and interesting biological system that's out there totally my personal bias but also right plant biology is the cornerstone of our modern agricultural system and and as i'm sure we're all aware right climate change uh threatens this agricultural system of production through things like drought and elevated co2 and increased temperatures but also one of the lesser talked about ways that climate change will impact our food is actually through pest management so in the current day and age we lose about 40 of our global crop yield to pests every year um and this is with pest management techniques such as pesticides and engineered resistance of plants um however both of these techniques are going to be affected by climate change the toxicity of pesticides is projected to decrease while the resistance of pests to these pesticides and also engineered resistance mechanisms will increase and so for this project i've chosen kind of a small sub-discipline of plant biology to focus my first efforts on and i've chosen the growth defense trade-off of plants and so this is the idea that defending oneself from insect herbivores is an energy-intensive process and it directs energy away from other important functions such as growth but in order to have high fitness you need to both grow and defend in order to have enough biomass to produce seeds to make your next generation and just to clarify in this diagram the acronyms that you see inside the arrows those are actually plant hormones and systems that regulate this trade-off through crosstalk so these hormones are involved in pathways that control one another in order to balance this trade-off all right so switching topics a little bit i'm going to tell you about knowledge graphs now and to motivate this technique i'm going to first tell you that there are 50 million scientific articles and counting in publication in the world today and that is way too many for any human being to read in their lifetime and i know you're looking at me and you're saying serena those don't all have to do with you right some of those are about engineering or about human biology or what have you however it doesn't really get much better um if we look at specific disciplines so pubmed is a search engine for uh biological literature um and if i put in the search term plant biology i get 150 000 results again too many for me to read in one lifetime narrowing down even farther flowering time is a well studied subdiscipline of plant biology looking at when and why plants flower during the growing season and if we search flowering time we get 16 000 results and if i look at plant defense and growth which is a little bit of a younger field than flowering time i still get 10 000 results and now there's so much information that is buried in this ginormous pile of literature and the only way we have right now to get at that information is to read individual papers and it's very difficult for us to read large numbers of papers to retain the information that we've read and make connections between papers so we might ask right can computers help us read the literature right computers tend to be faster at everything than we are so first i'm going to give you a few definitions uh the first is machine learning so algorithms that learn from the data and when you present a machine learning algorithm with a set of data it looks at the patterns in the data and learns to make predictions based on those patterns and then natural language processing or nlp is the field of computer science that deals with extracting meaning from human language texts and this field relies heavily on machine learning so with both of these definitions under our belts now can computers help us read the literature and the answer is both yes and no so imagine that we have our little happy-go-lucky machine learning algorithm here right we present the algorithm with a text and in that text is a sentence like when the hammer fell on the glass table the table shattered great good hammer breaks the table right we understand exactly what's happening however if we change the sentence to when the hammer fell on the glass table it shattered what is it and to you and i right it's extremely obvious that well of course it was the glass table right because if your hammer breaks upon contact with a glass table i think you have some other you know parallel universe kind of problems but our algorithm is kind of confused it doesn't know how to contextualize the information encoded in it in this sentence um and so it has a hard time parsing the meaning of this sentence so the conclusion here is that while it is difficult for algorithms to understand the nuances of human language there has actually been a lot of progress in the field of nlp and algorithms can most certainly help us out and so one of the ways in which algorithms can help us out are knowledge graphs and so a knowledge graph is simply an information representation of facts um and it's just a set of uh entities which are represented in this image by ovals and relationships which are presented by represented by arrows right so you can see that this is um previous united states presidential administrations right and for example we can see the relation first lady connects the clinton administration with hillary clinton but if we look at the obama administration and michelle obama there is no relation in the graph for first lady and this is most likely because either there's noise in the data and that information got lost or it's not explicitly mentioned in the text that was used to build this graph but the beauty of this technique is that you can actually infer these relationships and i'll talk about that in a little bit so there are two major steps in building a knowledge graph and the first is information extraction which is composed of several smaller steps so the first one is named entity recognition this is where we go in and we look for all the names that are in those ovals in the graph so for example in the sentence hillary clinton is the first lady of the clinton administration hillary clinton and clinton administration are both named entities the next step is entity resolution so we want to be able to to determine that hillary clinton hillary and ms clinton all refer to the same underlying real life object which in this case is hillary clinton and finally we have religion extraction this is where we get the relationships between the entities so for example in this sentence first lady is the relationship between hillary clinton and the clinton administration so once we've done all of that we get a set of triples which are of the form head relation tail and in our example here the triple is hillary clinton first lady clinton administration now while a knowledge graph is essentially just a collection of these triples there's one more step and that is knowledge graph completion and this is performed to both clean up the graph remove any incorrect information and also to infer relationships that may be true and we do this by a process called knowledge graph embedding um so to illustrate this imagine that we have a set of axes now what we're going to do is we're going to represent the head and the tail as vectors on these axes so in this case down here i have obama administration and clinton administration and up here i have michelle obama and hillary clinton now the amazing thing about this technique is that words and entities tend to cluster together by meaning when you represent them as vectors i still find this to be extremely magical um but it's extremely useful so now we can represent our relation as a vector translation between the two sets of entities and so since we have explicitly present clinton administration transposed onto hillary clinton by the relationship first lady we can infer even if that link is not there in the text that sense the obama administration is transposed onto michelle obama by the same relation first lady we can infer that the relationship first lady holds between the obama administration and michelle obama so once we've performed this process we end up with our completed knowledge graph which has our inferred relationships present and today i'm just going to talk to you about my work repurposing named entity recognition tools for plant biology so named any recognition tools there are many of them and that are available the nlp community is absolutely prolific in creating these robust um and very accessible tools um to do entity recognition so this is just a snapshot of the beginning of the wikipedia page for obama um and each entity is outlined with a box and the color of the entity and the bold text next to the entity just refer to the type every model named then it be recognition model has several types which it places the entities into categories and so you can see that this works exceedingly well on this type of text right we identify obama and we identify both spellings of his name we identify illinois and the united states in both the abbreviated and the full spelling and we also successfully identify the democratic party as an organization however if you're to apply this to scientific texts especially plant biology text we start to run into some problems um so this is an excerpt from an abstract of a paper um and as you can see we've got some weird stuff going on right so we've identified gibberellic acid which is a plant hormone and brachiopodium de sachin which is a plant as being people we've identified these acronyms that stand for hormone names as being organizations this one is my absolute favorite we've identified the chemical methyl jasmonic acid as being a work of art for those who may not be familiar this is what methyl jasmonic acid looks like and we've also failed to find the entities ethylene and salicylic acid which are quite important entities in plant biology now there are entity recognizers that have been trained on biomedical text which is about the closest we can hope to get with a pre-trained tool and while these tend to perform better than the general models um they still don't quite do what we want them to do so as you can see right we've identified ethylene and salicylic acid but also some funny stuff is happening right wheat genome is identified as two entities when clearly the wheat genome is one so uh future directions for this project in the short term are to retrain these existing tools not just for named entity recognition but also for entity resolution relation extraction and knowledge graph embedding in order to obtain high performance on plant biology literature and i'm starting in the molecular discipline in order to get a good footing in retraining these tools repurposing them so that for my more ambitious long-term goals i can create graphs that link biological information on disparate scales so what does that mean right um if you consider kind of the different fields that we have in plant biology or in any biological discipline right they include things like ecology population genetics molecular genetics and biochemistry right now these fields look at different aspects of systems right they're oftentimes studying the same thing for example the growth defense trade-off actually was an ecological topic before it was taken up by molecular geneticists and biochemists however if we could create graphs that link information across these scales we can synthesize understandings of systems as systems rather than as individual aspects of these systems and this is what i'm the most excited about um with this project and then another long-term goal that i'm also so super stoked about is um evaluating misinformation president present in published literature now we treat published literature as fact um however there is a lot of conflicting information in the literature and that doesn't necessarily mean that there's misinformation present in certain cases it could be the way that something is phrased or the way that a study was done um but knowledge graph embedding and knowledge graph construction can be used to kind of evaluate what information may be true what information is conflicting um and hopefully we can kind of delve into what's happening there in order to to create a body of literature that is more robust um and hopefully in the end more true so with that i would like to give a huge shout out to my lab for being super supportive especially my advisor who with whom i've been working very closely on this project and also to my funding source for this year which is an nsf training grant for plant and computational sciences and with that i will take any questions awesome thank you so much serena for that wonderful talk um do we have any questions from the audience or the panelists i think uh vinod has a question but i have to take away his um oh okay perhaps we know we can just we can unmute them and okay vinod i've taken away your co-host privilege if you do want to unless i misunderstood i might have misunderstood let's see i i don't see a question there yet but oh here we go okay um have you used the global agricultural concept schema in any of your work no i have not and i'm definitely gonna have to look into that because we do we are looking for um kind of frameworks to to decide right like what things are entities what things are relations and i think that this sounds like uh from what i understand as a concept schema that it will be very useful so thank you for that awesome um let's see if we have any more questions and what is the immediate short term kind of step for your project right now yeah so right now what we're trying to do is to build kind of a little prototype graph um and even on a smaller scale than just the growth defense trade-off so um if i actually go back uh it will take me a very long time to go back to the beginning of my slides but if you remember the figure about the growth defense trade-off in those hormones there are actually two hormones jasmonic acid and gibberellic acid which regulate one regulates defense and one regulates growth um and they have kind of documented crosstalk between them and so we're hoping to make a graph that centers on those two entities and the kind of immediate connections between them um just to get a sense of right how well does this technique work you know where are the holes in our pipeline how do we retrain all of these tools and we actually have some collaborators that work in this discipline and so we're going to kind of work with them to evaluate the graph when it comes out you know is there information present in the small graph that they you know off the top of their head haven't seen before um or you know stuff like that so that's kind of what we're excited about we're hoping to to publish on that soon awesome all right so thank you so much serena for this wonderful talk and uh if there are any more questions actually i see one more question but we will send it to you uh after the symposium uh all the unanswered questions thank you so much all right thank you moving on our next speaker is david lydon from university of pennsylvania um is david here uh sure am can you hear me okay yeah we can hear it all right take it away perfect um so let me share a stream and um i'll also be talking about networks so serena thanks for your talk for um teaming me up um so i'm gonna be talking about knowledge network building and its association with deprivation curiosity um so just to give you a bit of background um first i just want to acknowledge my co-authors and the funding associated with the project um and also um the stem village for putting on such an amazing event today um and so i'm interested in curiosity which we're going to define here as a propensity to seek out novel complex and challenging interactions with the world people who are high in curiosity tend to also be high on life satisfaction and well-being and this association between curiosity and well-being is often often interpreted by um findings that states of curiosity produce novel and broad-ranging thoughts and actions that build into resources that um uh lead into our well-being so if you're someone who tends to be curious you're doing novel and challenging things learning new skills that help you when you encounter challenges in the future but we have we know very little about what curious practice actually looks like so what does it look like when you're being curious and practicing curiosity and what exactly are the types of resources that are collected when you're practicing um curiosity so trying to open the the black box of this idea of resources that are being collected and the reason that we don't know that much about this is because the information seeking that we do when we're curious is very open-ended and it's very idiosyncratic um so the goal here is to create a method to open the black box of curiosity um so to do this we take a curiosity as knowledge network building approach in this perspective we think of knowledge as a network where the nodes or the individual units of a network are discrete concepts and then edges or lines are shown between nodes if they are similar if they're concepts that have similarity between them and so i want you to focus on the two different networks that you see here um and i want you to imagine that a person is acting on their curiosity they've gone out and they've gone on an information seeking expedition and both these people have created knowledge networks they both have the same number of nodes in their networks so they both encountered the same amount of novel uh concepts but they look very different in terms of the amount of connections that are between the concepts so for the person on the left their network is um has sampled very diverse concepts so it has a loose kind of organization with very few edges between the concepts whereas a person on the right has sampled closely connected concepts so they've created a very tight network and we call these busybodies and hunters that's because of work by dr perry zern he's an assistant professor of philosophy at american university um and he's identified these um two different styles that link onto this idea of tightness and looseness by looking at how curiosity was used throughout you know a ton of literature um but for now these are just useful labels um you can think of them as ranging from a dimension of tight to loose knowledge networks so this is all very abstract so we want to see if we can operationalize this idea in a specific instance of knowledge network building to do that we recruited 167 participants um here are the age gender and race ethnicity breakdowns they came into the laboratory and they completed a baseline survey where we got demographic information but also information about curiosity using standard personality surveys and then for every day for 21 days they completed 15 minutes of a knowledge network building task and the reason we did this for 15 minutes every day for 21 days is that we could get lots of data on each person so we have over five hours of knowledge network building for each individual um to give you some more information about what that task was we essentially asked people to go onto wikipedia every day for 21 days for 15 minutes each time the task was open-ended they were simply asked to read about whatever they felt like reading so we were trying to get at this intrinsically motivated information seeking that often is embodies curiosity so they could read through pages they could use a search bar to get new concepts they could open up new tabs they could click on links as long as they stayed on wikipedia for the 15 minutes that's all that we asked them to do so uh we also recorded um the pages they visited and the order in which they visited them so that's the data we're working with what is the page you visited and what order did you did you visit it in and so we have these the sample visited over 18 000 unique wikipedia pages so it's a lot a vast amount of data and so now we need to find a way to take um to take this from uh just wikipedia pages um to a knowledge network that's going to give us insight into um the type of curious practice that people are doing so to take wikipedia and make it into a network the nodes of the network can uh are represented as the individual pages so each page is its own uh standalone concept so here you're just looking at the wikipedia page for dog and the wikipedia page for philadelphia so those are two units that will make up a network but now we have to quantify the edges or the similarity between these two pages and the way that we did it was by quantifying the similarity between the text across all of the 18 000 plus pages more similar the text that was within each node the stronger the link between the two pages was but the idea being that if the text is similar then they're probably exploring similar concepts and so now for each person if you just look on the right this is just an example of what an order someone might have gone through wikipedia and they would have started with mary marikiri pierre kiri china and then beijing so we have the pages and the order in which they were visited but now we also have um the strength of this association between these um different um concepts so the link between mario kiri and pierre curie is strong it's very similar but it's not that strong between pierre curie and china so one thing we can do is we can simply take the average of these jumps so how big or small the jumpsuit they're taking to get an average edge weight for each person in our sample we can then represent that as an average edge weight distribution and so people on the lower end of this average edge weight they are practicing curiosity in the style of the busy body they're making big conceptual leaps as they move from page to page whereas people on the right tend to look more like the hunter they're making small conceptual leaps as they move from page to page but is this actually working as we think it is so one way we can do that is just look at examples from the left hand side so an individual who should be making big conceptual leaps as they move from page to page so here's just a couple of pages from one individual who would be classed as a busybody they started out physical chemistry they then went to the v2 movement they then went to the partridge family then uh to a page about a primary school in england for some reason uh and then to hip 79431 which it turns out is the star um and then to a page about a race car driver so you have this kind of diverse seemingly random list of concepts which tracks with what we were expecting to find at that lower end of the distribution in contrast we can look at someone who should be making smaller conceptual leaps as they move from page to page and look at someone with a relatively higher average edge weight and this is just one example of a couple of pages um from an individual at that end of the distribution and this person looked at the history of jews in germany and they then went and read about the hip-hop riots so um an event in jewish history um they read about zionism and then some other jewish thinkers and so you can see that it has much much more closely connected concepts on this side of the average edgeway and then you might be wondering about this person all the way over here um so they're a clear outlier with the highest edge weight of all the networks that were created out of our 160 people and this was like a beautiful proof of concept because this person should be visiting very similar pages as they move through wikipedia and that's what we find so this person we're calling a super hunter because why not um and every page they visited had something to do with the british royal family so they read about elizabeth second george sixth uh edward eighth george fifth and the only page they visited um that wasn't about a member of the royal family was about a ship that was named queen elizabeth ii so this was a really nice proof of concept that we were able to take this kind of vast amount of information about really open-ended and complex idiosyncratic information-seeking behavior and quantified in a meaningful way another way we can see if this is working is we can ask um does average edge weight show associations with existing measures of curiosity so how we typically measure curiosity and so here we're using um a curiosity scale that captured between person differences in curious curiosity at the baseline survey um in particular we looked at how peop how much people endorsed whether they were high or low in deprivation sensitivity so people who are high in deprivation sensitivity they seek information to escape the tension of not knowing something so they hate not having the whole picture and so um when people are have this experience this deprivation sensitivity they have this determination to continue information seeking until a knowledge gap is filled so this results in a persistent and effortful form of exploration about a specific topic um and so as you would expect people who are higher in deprivation curiosity are higher in the average edge weight so they look more like the hunters that was a really nice um validity check that we are capturing something about curiosity as we think about it um so we can operation wise curious practice as a knowledge uh now as a knowledge network network building practice um and doing this we can characterize different types of network structure um using graph theory to get individual differences in curious practice here i just talked about average edge weight um but we can also use things like clustering and path length and these all show meaningful associations with deprivation sensitivity and so by doing this we're opening the black box of what the resources that are being collected during uh curious practice are which is going to help us detail the link between curious practice and well-being in future work so that was just a taste of the project um you can find more information with our preprint on sciarchive which actually just got accepted yesterday which i'm really excited about and you can also check out my new lab that i just set up in the annenberg school for communication at the university of pennsylvania and thanks thank you so much david for this amazing talk um do we have any questions from the audience or the panelists i have a question but maybe i can just go first while the audience is thinking about that so this might be irrelevant so if it is please feel free to call me out but um is there something about what you're working on in terms of like the depreciation curiosity and the like being a hunter and so on and so forth and the online radicalization that we see now right on youtube for instance right if you follow like right-wing videos or alt-right videos you kind of enter a path of like just self-radicalization right have you looked into that or do you have plans to look into that and how that's associated with the type of behavior that you're studying yeah that's a really interesting question and it's something we're hoping to look at next so we use wikipedia which is actually very different to anything else on the internet right now it's not it's an open encyclopedia it's not for profit it doesn't necessarily lead you down certain avenues of exploration but there are other websites out there that kind of put you on this pathway um and encourage you to kind of keep delving down into a topic until you end up in an information silo like the type you're you're suggesting and so um the next step is to look at how different platforms so not just looking at people on wikipedia but looking at people across different platforms to see if different platforms would encourage more or less hunter busy body like behavior yeah great question yeah absolutely i think that would be really interesting actually i realized that just with my own habits right like on youtube like it just keeps me kind of like within the same kind of i guess like equi-chamber a little bit like i mean i i find comfort in it but i'm just curious to see how you can study that and i would be super interested in seeing the results for that yeah he does but just before that would be that sort of that typical white man with i've got a comment not a question but it's literally just to say i think it's so amazing that you can that you can study curiosity in a quantitative way my mind is just blown by that i think it's so cool but anyway fine with that question i was just wondering if well two questions actually um the first one was to see if if it's possible for someone who has more of a busy body behavior to them become a hunter and vice versa and the second question is um is it possible to identify potential patterns within the busy body behavior that we are not at first looking at and then may explain that sort of seemingly random um you know kind of curiosity pattern yeah great questions so um here we're kind of thinking about we're i'm talking about them as if they're two binary things that's of course not the case some people who um it's kind of a long continuum of creating uh type versus loose networks right um and what we found which i didn't present today is if you just break down the 21 days into uh three week periods and you create a network for each person for each week there is fluctuation in the extent which a person is would be considered like a hunter or a busy body so there is fluctuations in the extent to which a person is going to express um going after like tightly related concepts versus loosely related concepts and um we also collected daily diary data alongside this task so one of the questions was asking about people's sensation seeking so the amount uh the extent which during the day they're going after new and exciting and novel experiences and so on on during weeks where they were going out into the world and experiencing new things on those weeks they tended to have more of the busybody uh like um structures which suggest that um kind of in line with your second question it's like maybe these are just really different thing that things that they've experienced during the day that week for example that would explain how they're making links between these concepts that aren't in the investigator's mind or in the mind of the algorithm that's saying this page is similar this one is not um yeah and i guess also asking we didn't ask the participants here so with reference to your second question they may see a train of thought driving this disparate search um that we're not getting at by relying on a computer to tell us what's similar or not so that that's a really interesting um way to think about it one way we're exploring that is um we're interviewing an artist who tends to integrate um uh very different ideas at least on face value but in talking with her about her process she tends to um jump back and forth um uh jump back and forth but there's meaning behind why she's making those jumps and so that's rebecca came in just for anyone who's interested in the art side of things cool thank you awesome all right if there are no more questions let's thank david once more thank you so much for the amazing talk and if there are any more questions we will make sure to follow up with you all right awesome there thank you our next speaker is javier garcia from university of california davis uh is javier here all right yes here we go here all right take it away search all right can everybody hear me yep okay perfect uh hi everyone so my name is javier garcia and i'm going to be talking to you about the work that i've been doing as a graduate student at university of california davis i'm a entering my fifth year in the phd program where we study fungal pathogenesis particularly fungal pathogenesis of the central nervous system so um which i'll get into in a little bit so fungi are the major we study the major pathogens that cause fungal meningitis and so fungi are often underappreciated for what they do um especially in mycosis and so it's more than just a foot fungus so the disease pathologies range from mild skin irritation to disseminated disease which i'll talk to you about in a little bit um there's about 1.5 million deaths resulting from fungal infections but only 300 out of the 1.3 million species of fungi are pathogens um and there's limited treatments to these fungi or i'm sorry there's limited treatments to these diseases these fungal diseases um limited diagnostics as well as the basic mechanisms of disease and only until recently the fungal field is getting a little bit more traction but the molecular mechanisms of how it causes disease are still very lacking and so one of the pathogens that i study is called the disease is called valley fever and so what valley fever is it's a fatal potentially fatal fungal infection caused by the coccidioides spore and it's really important because it's actually found essentially in my backyard and so um it's caused by the inhalation of the spores that i mentioned um it's predominantly found in the southwestern part of the u.s and in california's central valley which is a major agricultural hub so people who work in agriculture construction are extremely susceptible to acquiring this disease and so when the soil is excavated and the uh the spores are exposed people breathing these spores um and primarily it establishes that as a lung infection so people breathe in these spores and the fungi goes through a morphological change and so um the chain the spores change into what's called an endospore these endospores grow into essentially a sack of more endospores called spherules those spherules break open and the cycle continues and it disseminates uh into the other parts of the body and so some of those parts oops some of those parts that um are affected are so it's a primarily it's a primarily it's a lung infection um and so once it establishes infection in the lung it can spread to other parts of the body such as the skin and muscles the bone and joints um the lungs like i mentioned and one of the most devastating parts of the disease is infection of the central nervous system and so it's classified into three the manifestation is classified into three major parts the first part is asymptomatic where people have a positive serology meaning that they have antigen in their body but they have no symptoms of having cocci or i'm sorry valley fever and so 60 of the population that acquires this disease have no symptoms and so we've we've seen asymptomatic a lot in the news regarding covet and so this is a similar manifestation and so uh people who do get pulmonary toxicity mycosis um you'll find in x-ray findings these calcif these uh tumor-like uh projections in ct scans with a positive serology and about 50 to 75 percent of people have this manifestation and like i mentioned the disseminate disease is when it spreads to other parts of the body um what about one to five percent of people acquire disseminated disease and once it is uh disseminated it's very hard to treat and if it's not treated it's 100 fatal and so one of the approaches we want to study uh that we're using to study uh the coccidioides is to study the proteins that mediate host invasion migration migration adhesion and so on and so today not much is known about the various virulence factors that excuse me that comprise this organism and like i mentioned before there's no there's actually no pathways involved or there's no pathways identified involved in disease and so one of the approaches like i mentioned is we want to study the proteins associated with disease and the proteins that are associated with disease are usually found on the outside of the cell and so these are extremely important because they can be used as biomarkers vaccine targets more recently anti-virulence therapeutics where we can target just the disease-causing aspect of the of the organism without causing evolution or drug resistance and so um we want to uh characterize the surface topology of coccyx uads and one of the major focuses that we want to focus in on when we're looking at these large proteomic sets is looking primarily at host invasion and cell damage um and dissemination because like i mentioned these are the first proteins that are going to be mediating the interface between the host and the fungi and so to start what we are using is we're using a a particular strain of cocciduity's that has been maintained in the parasitic life cycle so like i mentioned before it's usually found as a mold in the soil and when the mold breaks free and the arthritis or spores are breathed in they undergo this morphological change in the lungs and so we have a strain that remains in this morphological state this sphero endospore phase which i'll call the se phase um and it's been maintained since the 60s and so it's really important because we've demonstrated that it's still virulent despite being cultured for over 50 years um it's we're able to compare the proteome of this laboratory strain with the parent strain that it came from and it facilitates our studies because it's also a bio safety level 2 pathogen so there's no arthrocanadia stage where a person could breathe it and so it's easy to grow there's no need for bsl3 equipment and finally it's this sc stage is the disease state that's found in the host and so it's really important that we have this strain to study and begin our surface proteome studies so essentially one of the techniques that we're employing is a them a method called trypsin shaving and so trips and shaving um essentially you treat your cells with trypsin and the trips and cleaves at specific residues on proteins and so we're able to collect the cleaved proteins concentrate them and we can run them on a gel and so what why we want to run it on a gel is because we want to see different differential banding patterns with two different treatments so pbs is just a normal buffer we don't expect to see any cleavage or proteins and with trypsin we're expecting to see proteins that are are cleaved off the surface we can then take those proteins and sequence them using mass spectrometry and we can analyze what those proteins are and so when i did that we were testing different conditions and we were able to see that in the trypsin treatment we saw a differential band that's about 40 kilodaltons in size and so um this band represents something that is being cleaved off of the treatment and so we cut that band out and we send it off for mass effect sequencing but um you may if if you're familiar with cell culture techniques um trypsin is used to uh cleave or separate cells from the surface so it's a very harsh treatment and so um we want to make sure that the trypsin treatment isn't breaking open the cells and releasing proteins from the inside because we're only interested on the proteins on the outside and so um this just shows that after before treatment and after treatment these cells um remain mostly they remain intact they remain the spherical shape and so um so that confirms that we don't have any mass cleavage of cells with resulting in mass leakage of those intracellular and so when we did that we found in that banding pattern in that band we found 12 proteins of interest and so these four that are highlighted in yellow are have been previously identified in the literature as immunoreactive and so that means the proteins are likely located on the surface on the outside they're being secreted and they have an immune effect on the host and so um going back to my hypothesis which is these surface exposed proteins um are virulence factors um that mediate cell damage so they're an aspartal protease has been known to cause cell damage and other fungi um adhesion um this carbohydrate binding domain could be potentially involved in carb adhesion or immune evasion so there was this superoxide dismutase which is a protein that's also a virulence factor in other fungi and then interestingly these other proteins that i didn't hide and highlight in yellow have cytosolic functions and so in the literature it's been noted that there are some proteins that have dual roles and they're called moonlighting proteins and they can perform functions at the surface that are not i guess what they're intended to do and so they can have roles in virulence and drug resistance and so on but we're primarily interested in the immune reactive proteins that have been previously been identified but this is only a really small subset of proteins it's not representative of the whole proteome of proteins that are found on the cell so to do that we i've essentially used a more shotgun approach where instead of running it on the gel looking for a differential banding pattern um i had i submitted my entire contents of cleaved protein to the mass the the proteomic cord to analyze and so we we can essentially uh compare that with our control which is the pbs control and sort of subtract the proteins that we see in both and analyze the specific proteins found in one sample over the other and so when we did that um we used a uh a program to analyze the proteins to find a signal sequence so a lot of proteins have a signal sequence which is destined a secretion signal to be excreted outside the cell and so um in our pbs control there was about three proteins that did have a extracellular signal which comprise about not about 1.1 percent or i'm sorry about one percent of actual cellular predictions but in the trips and treatment um it had the highest percentage of extracellular prediction and so that further validated that approach uh with analyzing these proteins it's a it's a valid approach to study these the surface topology and so using these proteome mixed sets so you get these long protein listen so what do you do and so one of the ways to kind of almost going back to the network talks we can put these into a program and analyze what proteins are interacting with each other and we can get a general idea of what pathways what general functions these gene sets are doing and so with this genotology analysis we found that the in the trypsin treatment most of the proteins that we found had uh catalytic activity peptidase activity hydrolase activity meaning that these proteins are you know chewing up something and that's very characteristic of fungi they secrete proteins outside their um outside their cell to cause damage to to survive and digest on the outside and absorb the nutrients and so this again further validated that the proteins that we're analyzing are have some sort of catalytic activity and so um and so in studying the virulence factors we decided to look at one particular virulence factor or predicted virulence factor in this case um that's also secreted and so we're taking lessons from another fungal pathogen which is called uh cryptococcus neoformans and so that's the leading uh organism that causes fungal meningitis and so it has the ability to cross the blood barrier and infect the central nervous system and so and there's a lot of research regarding cryptococcus and its ability to cross the central nervous system but again there's zero studies on um on constituents and how it can cross the central nervous system and so one of the previous papers from my our lab they've identified a protein that's able to cross the learning barrier and so one of the experiments that they did before i joined the lab was they actually cloned in or they put in this gene this protein i'm sorry this yeah they said they put this gene in uh saccharomyces cerevisiae so yeast and so yeast doesn't have the capability of crossing the blood-brain barrier but in this graph when saccharomyces is expressing this protein it gains the ability to cross the blood-brain barrier and so we're using this in static model of the human blood-brain barrier where we have our fungi of interest we co-culture it with a cell line that represents the blood-brain barrier and then we can monitor crossing based on how many cells grow and cross um and so with cryptococcus this protein was clearly involved in uh crossing the blurb barrier and so we were able to do that with a similar protein in coxy duties and so we have the hypothesis that the similar proteins homologue is going to be able to cross the blood of impair however when we expressed this protein in saccharomyces we found that there was no significant difference in crossing compared to cryptococcus saccharomyces without any sacrifices with that's not expressing the protein compared to saccharomyces expressing the protein and this is a cryptococcus that has the ability to cross um and so what we conclude is that and this is a similar graph to this one where i extended the the time the incubation time to see if we could see a larger effect however every time we did these experiments we had a non-significant result suggesting that this metalloprotease this protein does not gain the ability to cross the vibrant barrier so but that's just one protein so um to conclude we established that trypsin shaving is a suitable method to study the surface proteome and that gene ontology can reveal the major pathways associated with the catalytic proteins and so for future work we want to assess the virulence of other potential hits especially hits that we keep seeing time open time and time again with these gain of function assays and it's particularly important to use these gain of function assays because it's a pretty dangerous pathogen to work with so we can essentially just take interrogate one part of the organism and see assess its function um and with that um i'd like to thank the funding for this uh for this work all the people who uh have helped me throughout this process and especially for the stem village this has been a great opportunity to talk to other lgbtq plus scientists and i'm very excited to to know a lot of what you are doing around the world and so with that i'll take any questions that you may have thank you so much javier for this amazing talk uh we have questions so i'll just start highlighting those all right so interesting that most ms identified peptides are enzymes is there a chance that post translationally extracellular proteins could not be identified by trypsin treatment since acetylation could often acts act as a signal to interact with host proteins so that's a great question and so um there's not much known about the post-translational modifications in coccydoids and so one of the but one of the things that we do see at least in these protein sets is we do see a lot of glycosylation enzymes and so we know that the surface of the cell has a lot of like oscillated proteins but what their function is we really don't don't know and so that's this at least opens up some of the research or opens up some of the more work for us to understand what is what is going on at the surface does that answer the question awesome uh i think uh cameron has a question cameron go ahead hi um yeah that was really interesting um i never mastered on parasites and the fact that it was a moonlight and so i thought were really cool my question is however you showed a map of the distribution um it's really similar to west nile virus i'm just wondering is the effects of climate change causing a greater spread of um cochlears and therefore an increased incidence of infection yes so that's a great point um so in california we have been experiencing a lot of drought and the cases have actually been increasing over the years which is something that we don't want to see and so we there's a lot of um there's a lot of i guess looking a lot of people have looked into how climate change has affected um the rates of infection and so i would say that climate change does play a big role in the number of infections especially when it's found in an arid climate the more arid it is the more um the more uh fungi are able to grow in the soil i guess does that answer the your question uh yeah thank you yes yeah okay all right last question uh i'll be interested to hear if you think unknown violence mechanisms similar to these might also be found in spore forming bacteria so the mechanisms of actually i don't know much about the other virulence factors in sport forming bacteria especially when it relates to dissemination but um in our lab we also studied receptors on the host side and so these receptors are actually found are used by a variety of different pathogens and this is in regards to crossing the blood-brain barrier and so a lot of so the fungi um parasites like um malaria i can't think plasmodium falciparum um several other bacteria are able to use the same receptor and so that kind of suggests that there's a similar mechanism being used by bacteria as well awesome thank you so much javier for this amazing talk so yeah i think yeah we just let's move on to the next talk thing so our next speaker maybe the final speaker uh is arthur sinoko from university of puerto rico um is arthur here oh awesome all right arthur take it away hey thank you you hear me yes we can hear it all right thank you well thank you for this tremendous opportunity to um to present here for the same village symposium so i'm going to share my screen can you see my presentation yep all right okay so today i'm going to talk about work that i've been doing in my laboratory over the last few years funded by an nih sc1 grant the title of my talk is synergizing titanium and iron chelators to decrease the bioavailability of iron and cancer cells so in my laboratory we focus on iron because we are interested in looking at a method to a broad drug design where we can target an agent that is responsible for the proliferation and potential angiogenesis of cancer cells and so one of the things that we have really been keen on is trying to explore ways in which we can attenuate the bioavailability of iron within cancer cells and that is because cancer cells have a greater demand for iron than normal cells so we just want to give you an overview of how iron enters into the cells and this idea of a homeostatic balance of the iron that goes within the cell and is exported so there's an important protein called transferrin that exists in our blood it's present at about 30 micromolar it binds two ions of iron iii and then it gets recognized by the transfer receptor and that triggers a process known as endocytosis um a combination of acidification and also a reduction event results in the iron being released as iron two plus being shuttled out of the endosome via the divalent metal transporter and so then that forms into a sort of a uh this uh dynamic equilibrium of a labile iron pool part of that pool gets distributed to the protein ferritin which will store the iron a significant amount of that iron gets utilized um for instance a protein called ribonucleotide reductase is responsible for the building blocks that leads to dna synthesis but they're also a certain amount of that iron that gets exported out of the fair important protein and so what we have is this balance between the amount of iron that's going in the cell that's iron three and the amount of iron that gets released what we see in cancer cells is there's a loss of this balance and so we have a number of cancer hallmarks that are due to this dependency on iron this higher requirement for iron we have an overexpression of the transfer receptor because there is a need for more iron to be brought in there's less export of the iron there's less storage far more utility so we also see an over expression of iron dependent proteins like ribonucleotide reductase so there has been great interest in the use of iron key layers for anti-cancer therapy a number of iron 2 and iron iii killers that have been designed for other applications for instance iron overload diseases are being repurposed as potential anti-cancer drug agents so they operate via a number of proposed mechanisms some can prevent iron uptake in cancer cells so this is an activity that is extracellular some can deplete iron from cancer cells others remove iron from sites that regulate cell function and there are those that inhibit iron dependent pathways without necessarily removing iron from the cells collectively these mechanisms contribute to decreasing the bioavailability of functional iron so um in our talk we're going to look at to an extent at an effort that has been done to deplete an iron dependent pathway so i mentioned ribonucleotide reductase this is an enzyme that is iron dependent and it catalyzes the conversion of dioxide diphosphates to deoxynucleotide diphosphates essentially the building blocks for dna replication and repair so the structurally the enzyme is a dimer of dimer so we have this alpha 2 dimer constitutes the r1 unit so it's the bigger component of the um this enzyme it contains the catalytic site and you have this other component the beta2dimer which is referred to as the r2 unit and this has a very important dye iron cofactor site which is responsible for the generation of an important tyrosine radical because the chemistry that's involved here is a radical induced process so the radical is initiated in this um in this beta 2 site and it gets shuttled to the r1 site when a substrate enters into the into the actual catalytic site all right so i just want to highlight here um the dye iron cofactor site and so when the iron binds into the site um the iron actually goes in oxidation events so we transition from iron to plus in the reducing environment of the cell now it gets transformed to iron three plus and in that process it actually affects a nearby tyrosine and it converts it into a tyrosine radical and the very interesting thing is that we can actually monitor this particular radical using a technique called electron paramagnetic resonance this particular radical is epr active and so we can actually detect this there are a number of specific r2 inhibitors and within this family of inhibitors of this particular enzyme there are a number of iron chelators that have been explored for this potential capacity so in my work what we tried to do is fuse iron chelation using some of these strategies that have already been explored but coupled that was titanium so there's another metal that we're going to talk about in a moment the idea is that we want to inhibit the um the bioavailability of iron for an anti-cancer application so why do we incorporate titanium into our drug design well interestingly titanium 4 shares many similar chemical properties iron iii and as a result titanium can bind to many of the same biological ligands it has been observed that titanium in blood when it's actually released in blood um it's bound by serum transferrin and this protein as i mentioned previously is the protein responsible for the cellular uptake of iron three plus and is believed to potentially play a role in the transport and biodistribution of titanium in the human body so via that interaction titanium is not believed to be toxic however depending on the coordination chemistry now that can then fine-tune the activity of the titanium where titanium can then become highly potent anti-proliferative or cytotoxic species and in this vein it's believed to be able to exhibit these properties by potentially inhibiting dna synthesis inhibiting certain key intracellular proteins and has been shown to cause apoptosis at any phase of cell division so we seek to exploit this property of titanium something that is not necessarily um you know in our bodies necessarily toxic but exploiting the coordination chemistry to take advantage of that potential and coupling that with iron chelation and so what we've been interested in doing is looking at how serum transparent coordinates iron and titanium to give a structural insight into potential ligands that can help us to design titanium compounds that then within the cellular environment can release the titanium and essentially become weaponized and so we've actually have solved the crystal structure for titanium um being bound by the transferrin protein and uh there are similarities with with with how the iron is bound but it's also some key differences which i'm going to highlight here so this is what was referred to as the canonical form of how metals are believed to be bound to this protein where iron is coordinated to just four amino acid residues two tyrosines an aspartate a histidine and there is a synergistic anion carbonate which helps to satisfy the coronation the metal and helps to stabilize that metal the binding of the iron actually induces a a major confirmation change that stabilizes proteins actually helps to be recognized by the transfer receptor well the titanium there is an important difference and that is that it's believed that a small molecule present in our blood citrate can help to shuttle the titanium to the protein but also serve as an additional synergistic anion that can help to stabilize the metal balance protein the presence of this citrate essentially blocks binding of the aspartate and the histidine and it results in some important differences in terms of the coordination to this protein and the changes that are associated with this protein nonetheless believe that the protein is able to to transport this metal into us into our cells but what we're actually interested in is focusing on the key coordination features and exploiting this difference in ligand affinity for a potential therapeutic effect and so we've been focusing on small molecules that are chemical transferamimetic so here we're highlighting again the coordination of iron to this the metal binding sites of serum transferrin and we've identified a number of small molecules that can mimic the coordination of the protein to this metal so for instance uh to the right here we have this ligand um abbreviated as hbed is a hexadentate ligand which that means it can coordinate iron at six different sites and it shows very similar coordination um modality as transferrin and then to the left we have uh another small molecule the ferrocerus it is a tri-dentate ligand this particular molecule is used for um commercially as a something that can treat iron excess and so when it coordinates to iron you require two of this molecules to satisfy the coordination of the metal both of these form iron complexes that are a very high binding constants but what we would like to establish is we would like to use these ligands to prepare titanium compounds these titanium compounds being bound in a manner that's very similar to the way the iron is bound but the idea is that we want that these compounds be inert in the outside of the cellular environment but once entering into the cellular environment then a process known as that we refer to as trans metallation is induced due to the interaction between the titanium chemical transferamimetic compounds and the label iron pool that's present within the cellular environment so here's just a cartoon representation of this process so the the label iron pool consists of dominantly of iron two plus but also a good amount of iron three so a number of questions that we've tried to uh explore in these recent years is can the trans chemical transfer of metallic ligands transmetallate titanium for iron in the intracellular environment and if so do these complexes inhibit the activity of the iron dependent protein ribonucleotide reductase so one of the things that we wanted to establish in on the bench top was to just explore this idea of the feasibility of transmetalation so here we just have a representation of the titanium complex of the ferrous and what we did was to explore his interaction with the label source of iron so we use iron citrate which is a good representative of some of a slow molecular weight label iron iii source and we probe the potential trans metallation reaction via a number of spectroscopic techniques uh one of the really helpful approaches that we did was use electrospray ionization qtof mass spectrometry to really probe um mechanistically what is going on and so what we were able to see so we mounted to this over the time frame of hours was that soon after mixing the titanium complexes with the label iron3 source we have the formation of these ternary intermediates and then those ternary intermediates dissociate and they result in the expected um sort of thermodynamic products where you have the transmediation event where the chemical transfer magnetic ligand releases titanium and it binds the iron so what's very interesting to us is that this is something that as soon as we mix the titanium complexes with the iron source we have immediate reaction but it does take several hours until we reach what we would consider the expected product but it's very interesting that we have these intermediates that do form and so we've explored um this process for um for differences but also for the hvac ligand and other of our chemical transfer medic compounds just to get a general sense of the feasibility of these of the trans metallation event so this helped us to to realize that yes this type of chemistry is possible but can it actually occur within cells so um we had previously characterized the anti-proliferative properties of our compounds and one type of cell lines that these compounds are quite effective against are leukemia cells so we decided to focus on the eurocat leukemia cells as a case study to really explore the impact of our compounds on the iron within the cells so here i have uh just a brief representation of the ic50 values of these compounds so we see that the titanium complexes have a greater potency in terms of affecting the proliferation of this particular um cancer cell line we've also done a cytotoxicity acids to show that these compounds are cytotoxic so we do see the this combination of anti-proliferative and the cytotoxic effect a very interesting um observation that we made was that when we supplement the uh cell lines so the leukemia cell lines but also other cells that we have worked with with some amount of label iron what we have seen is that the cells are now more resistant towards our complexes the the pollen see of the complexes decreases so what we wanted to explore was if introducing our compounds to the cells we have an effect on the iron that is available to activate the vibronucleotide reductase enzyme so the idea is that here is the the dye iron cofactor site requires the binding of two iron two ions and the presence of molecular oxygen in order to form the very important tyrosine radical the idea is that in the presence of our titanium complexes that should in essence make the iron unavailable or less available and by making it functionally inert and so we should and then be able to observe this by using electron paramagnetic resonance what we should observe is a decrease in the g2 signal that is associated with the presence of the tyrosine radical so in order to probe this possibility we use whole cell electron paramagnetic resonance study of probing the your cat cells in the presence of absence of our compounds and so here we're literally probing the signal the g2 signal that's associated with the tyrosine radical so what we observe here is a subset of our data this was collected after three hours of treatment of the cell lines is the signal that is due to the untreated cells and then in the presence of our titanium complexes we see that the signal is attenuated it does not go away completely but we see a significant increase i believe it's about a 75 decrease for the two titanium compounds and we see a comparable decrease for just the uh metal-free ligands as well so this is work that was done in collaboration with professor lisa thomas at the university of arizona another interesting thing that we wanted to explore was the impact of our compounds on the iron that's present within cells and so here we were probing a specific population of the intracellular iron pool which is the high spin iron 3 pool and so what we observe is a very distinct behavior between the h-bed compounds and the difference versus compounds so this signal here is due to the um high spin iron iii in the untreated cells in the presence of the titanium interferoxis or the metal free differences we actually see no change in that signal however for the titanium h-bed or the metal free hvac signal we actually see an increase in this in this pool so it's clear that these complexes affect the iron in ways that are distinct but nonetheless that impact on the iron appears to still be significant in terms of of inhibiting the activation of the ribonucleotide reductase enzyme another experiment that we wanted to explore was so we already had previously established that these compounds are apoptotic but we wanted to understand is their ability to potentially affect the cell cycle so we use a flow cytometry as a as a gauge of understanding the effect that we can have in the cell cycle and we did a time dependent study here so what we have um the top panel is the effect of the defrosters and the titanium differences compound over time and compared to just cells that have not been treated with anything and the bottom set of panels we have the effect of the h-bed and titanium h-bed complexes over time and so what we observed was that um at 10 hours we start to see that there is a cell cycle arrest at the s phase um and then at 24 hours that becomes pronounced for both the metal free diphtheroxis ligand and also the titanium deforox compound we observe for the hvac complexes that at the 10 hour time point we also see this arrest of the s phase but that arrest seems to decrease by the time we reach 24 hours so there's this time dependent behavior that we observe but what's very interesting to us is that this this data is consistent with what we've been observing in terms of the ability to inhibit the activity of the ribonucleotide reductase because by arresting at this s phase we're essentially um is indicative of an inhibition of dna replication all right so to conclude we were able to show that the combination of titanium cytotoxicity and appropriate iron chelators in in this case the chemical transferamimetic ligands can effectively alter the label iron pool and attenuate the ribonucleotide reductive activity it appears that the iron chelation by these chemical transfer ligands can lead to different changes to the intracellular iron pool in our current studies what we're trying to do is really elucidate the full details of the molecular mechanisms involved of um corresponding to the titanium chemical transferamimetic and lithium and cytotoxic behavior what we're actually trying to look at is what is that titanium doing and we have some clues um but we really wanted to focus here on on the effect on the iron itself within the solid environment so i would like to to thank the many students that contributed to this project so a number of graduate students that were very influential in terms of the structural studies and also the fundamental cellular work those that have graduated now are colleagues of the lab former undergraduate students that have now moved on to graduate school the sources of funding so the one of the major sources was the nih sc1 grant now more recently we've been rewarded with the nhr 21 grant to support this work and also very importantly would like to thank the puerto rico science technology and research trust grant and then here i would like to acknowledge the uh the different members of my laboratory thank you very much any questions thank you so much arthur for the amazing talk so we do have one question in the chat box that i can read does the cell cycle arrest correspond with epigenetic changes that may be influenced by iron dependent enzymes so we really need to look at this what impact we have in the genome also what impact would potentially having in the program we have uh we have not yet explored those on that particular aspect of the the medical mechanism involved, it could be but we... we need to do those experiments. We're actually very interested in looking at are we actually in addition to you know potentially affecting the label or are we actually directly affecting the ribonucleotide reductase and that's something that we're also interested in exploring. So we're now expressing this protein to do direct studies with that enzyme and see how is it that we're truly inhibiting this enzyme so yeah... so there's work to be done there. Mehmet: Awesome, let me see if we have more questions. I think that's it, and I encourage our audience to reach out to Arthur if they have any more questions and with that, we're wrapping up this session in the symposium, so I think Matthew would like to give some closing remarks? Matthew: Yeah, thanks Mehmet and thank you Arthur and thank you to all of the other people speaking in the session and throughout the entire day. I just want to say how amazing the day has been, how wonderful it's been to see not just the Scottish community, which was the initial aim of of this event, but, you know, the global LGBTQ+ STEM community coming together and, you know, hearing things that were so interesting and hearing things that were heartwarming, things that were difficult, things that you know areas where we still need to work. It was just it was a really wonderful event and I just want to thank everybody so much for participating so wholeheartedly and to all of the organizers who worked to bring this together and to make it happen. So thank you very very much and I hope we can do something again in the not too distant future, maybe not quite this long - something a bit shorter - but I hope we can do future events and all come together again. And yet with that, I would just like to say stay safe, stay well. I hope you have a great weekend and thank you very much. Mehmet: I'd like to... I'd just like to echo Matthew's remarks and thank you to Matthew and all the organization community for leading this effort and it's been so amazing to connect with the global LGBTQ+ community and yeah I hope to see you all soon in the very near future again, in another format. I don't know if anybody else wants to defend that remark but... Matthew: Well if nobody else wants to say anything, then I guess we can bring this to a close, and everybody can can get some rest we can binge on some Netflix I'm gonna go eat some ice cream and watch Canada's Drag Race Serena: Thanks so much for putting this together it was absolutely incredible i'm so glad we got to participate. Matthew: It's our pleasure and and thank you so much for participating you know we couldn't have done it with... if you know... if people turned around and said we don't... we're not interested in talking or participating then there wouldn't have been an event so Thank you. 