 Krista Zanetti: Today’s webinar from Dr. Eoin Fahy will focus on the National Metabolomics Repository, an international resource for sharing metabolomics data, metadata, tools, and more. Before introducing our speaker, I will quickly review a few logistics. Should you experience technical difficulties, you can contact us through the questions box in the expanded control panel or by phone or email. If you need to view live closed captioning, please click on the link that will appear in the chat box. At the end of Dr. Fahy’s presentation, we will allow ample time for questions. If, at any time during the presentation, you have a question, please type it into the question box, and I will ask it on your behalf during the Q & A session. So, at any time you have something pop up, feel free to type it in there, and we’ll get it in the queue. So, it’s my pleasure to introduce Dr. Eoin Fahy. Dr. Fahy has a bachelor of science and biochemistry from the University College of Galway and a PhD in chemistry from the University of British Columbia, specializing in the structure elucidation of marine natural products. He completed a post-doctoral appointment at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in the University of California San Diego. He has over fifteen years’ experience in the biotechnology industry in the areas of organic chemistry, drug target discovery, molecular biology, proteomics, genomics, and informatics. He has been involved with the LIPID MAPS Consortium since 2003, where he served as a project coordinator for the bioinformatics effort. His work in this area includes development of a lipid classification system as a member of the International Lipid Classification and Nomenclature Committee, design and development of database infrastructures for lipidomics, development of mass spectrometry software for lipid research, design of novel lipid structure drawing tools, and development of integrated pathway tools and resources. Since 2012, he served as the bioinformatics project coordinator for the National Institutes of Health Metabolomics Common Fund Program and the National Metabolomics Data Repository at UCSD. He oversees the Metabolomics Workbench website, which acts as a national/international repository for metabolomics data and metadata and provides analysis tools and access to metabolite standards protocols, tutorials, training, and more. So, we welcome Dr. Fahy to today’s webinar, and I’m going to turn it over to him. Eoin Fahy: [Conversation about loading the presentation until 9:40] I want to give you an overview on the work we’ve done with the National Metabolomics Data Repository—NMDR I’ll call it from now on—which has been in existence about since 2012, so, almost eight years. It’s housed at the University of California, San Diego, in conjunction with the San Diego Supercomputer Center, and this is our main portal, the Metabolomics Workbench. So, this is really the Grand Central station for all data repository data and other applications. So, as you can see, right now we have well over a thousand publicly available studies. And a number of these will be available when the days come around. So, on the right-hand side, you can see the main groups associated with the whole project. There’s a coordinating center in the University of Florida—M3C, as we call it—our group at UC San Diego; the Metabolomics Workbench, where the actual [inaudible] is housed; and then two other major core groups; the compound identification course; the number of universities involved in that effort; and also the data and tools course, which do a lot of our software development in the area of metabolomics. So, this is an overview of the growth of the NMDR. We actually started getting submissions back in January ’13, so, seven years ago, and this graph shows the profile of the increase in studies. We went to an online deposition system at 2015, and it spiked up there. We went to a more automated system, 2017, so the current rate of depositions is probably about 20 new studies per month. So, we’re holding steady with that. This is an overview of the major taxonomic categories. No surprise that a human or mouse are by far the largest piece of the pie in terms of species. But we have many other mammals as well, rat, fungi. We have a pretty large section for bacterial studies as well as a number of [inaudible]. So, it’s pretty well represented. Many of the studies are related to some kind of disease outcome, and cancer, again, is probably the largest disease category by diabetes, obesity, and many others. So, on the other categories, you have many rare diseases in both animals and plants in some cases as well. In terms of sample source, we track that. Blood is the largest contributor of cultured cells, and many other human and mammalian organisms dominate this section. This slide shows an overview of the inputs and outputs into NMDR. So, we gather online data submission. So, the [inaudible] will fill out various online forms and upload the data. We also get the raw data. {Inaudible]. And then, on the bottom side, we have all the outputs. Obviously, the website has a major browsing searching tool. We have statistical analysis tools, which I’ll go into. We have workflows, both for targeted data and untargeted data for MassTEC/NMDR. [Inaudible]. Then the targeted and untargeted measurements. One can download the raw data or the analysis, and there are also other options such as the mWTab file—which I’ll talk more in detail—and also a rest service, which is very powerful in terms of automating the NMDR data into other [inaudible]. This is an overview of what happens to the experimental data in terms of where it goes and what we do with it. So, on the left-hand side, we have studies with named metabolites. Usually targeted data where all of the metadata and the results go into relational database. Then, on the top right we have the situation for untargeted data set. So, these would typically be large LCMS data sets where we use a large file format instead of a relation database, and we curate that data and store it in a file-based system. But the bottom line is that we have the same analysis tools available, both a relational database workflow, and, you know, the big data file base. So, in terms of the user experience there, it’s very, very similar. So, this is the online submission overview. People submit a study. Usually they have to fill out a number of forms to enter all the metadata. So, what is actually going on is a special file format called an mWTab file that must be created, stepwise, as the submitter enters the data, and that then is curated by the NMDR group, and once it's ready for release, and once the NMDR dates are passed, it becomes available on the workbench. That mWTab file can be read many different formats by our web infrastructure to do all kinds of things in terms of doing, searching, and statistical analysis. So, this is the mWTab format. So, what we view it is, as a common currency for metadata and data sharing. They’re familiar with the [inaudible] file format or [inaudible] somewhat similar, and it has tags on the left-hand side, which describes the text. So, it’s human-readable, but it’s also very computer friendly in terms of being able to be parsed out. We have all of these metadata sections and also the names data, the results as well. So, it’s basically a single file format that will encapsulate all of the data with the exception of raw data. So, in online data submission, this is our page for submitting data. The user has to register with the Workbench, and once that’s done, he or she can start submitting a study. So, the workflow for submitting a study goes to different sections where the information about the study, the overviews, what the subjects are, the study design, which is crucial. So, by study design I mean, what are the experimental parameters in these various blood samples or disease samples? A control—is it a treatment study? Is it a timed course study? So, that’s obviously very important to delineate that in terms of the analysis [Inaudible]. So, various decisions have to be made to the workflow—is that the aspect studies and an NMDR study methods are used, how many aspect methods, and so on and so forth. And once that’s completed, then the data can be curated. So, this is just one example of a submission form. So, all the items in pink over here are mandatory, and many of these are filled out once you register, like name, address, and all that stuff. So, there are a number of control vocabularies in terms of pull-down menus and choose a new one. So, once all that is complete, and once the study is ready to be put on the workbench, then it’s available to the general community. And, you know, if you’re following along online, you can see this main page for browsing and searching studies. So, one of the first things you might want to do is look at all of the summaries of the studies. So, this is a big long list right now; it’s about 1,100 rows long, so on the right-hand side, you can actually download the raw data. On the left-hand side, you can click on it to view a study of interest. So, you know, this is one study event. Chris, the first one, Study 1, has a number of links here where you can look at samples and a metabolized download that metabolites, download all this end of a task that I talked about earlier, either in text or [inaudible]. And importantly, you can perform statistical analysis on that particular study. So, one thing we’ve tackled right up front is the issue of the metabolites. So, why do we need this reference standardized reference next? Well, there’s a huge amount of diversity in working name species. So, pretty much every lab has their own way of naming the [inaudible], and this is a huge problem in terms of data sharing and comparing and contrasting studies. So, we have to tackle this up front. So, while we’ve done with all these studies on the Workbench, basically, this is still out of the 220,000 named metabolites. So, we’ve seen so far you come up with the chemistry-centric database. So, by that I mean we want to have a list of metabolized names and standardized format that one typically detects by MassTEC or NMDR as opposed to pulling them in from some database. So, we put a lot of work into this. So, every study that comes in the door, we map the user-submitted names to the rest of match standard reference. So, there are basically four types of [inaudible] cases from targeted studies where the structures actually know. [Inaudible]. And there’s the second group of metabolites, where you have known regiochemistry, but not stereochemistry and bond. So, an example would be 12 [inaudible] and the third group or partial structure. So, for example, if you do MassTEC on a phospholipid and NSMS and you can determine [inaudible]. You don’t know what the SN regiochemistry is, you don’t know where the double bonds are, but you have some information, like in this example here. Then the fourth group is where you have just some composition data. So, this would be from MS, one high resolution study—so, for example, [inaudible]. Well, you know, the bulk of some composition in terms of carbons and double bonds and [inaudible]. So, basically, we have to deal with these four different groups because that’s what comes in the door in terms of study analysis. So, this is an example of what we’re dealing with in terms of the heterogeneity. It’s actually a lot worse than this because [inaudible]. So, what we’re doing is basically just scaling all of these different, diverse names into one comment. So, we have a database, RefMet, available online and downloadable and companion metabolite database from here on the right-hand side. So, for Group 1 and Group 2, these are actual structures that you can grow. So, those structures are actually stored in a metabolite database. For Group 3 and 4, those are just annotations. Those are cannot be defined as a structure. So, those don’t have any entry in the metabolite database. So, this is a page for RefMet. You can browse, search, download RefMet, and convert the [inaudible]. This is a view of the search tool. You can search by name, mass, formula. You can do a substructure search if you want, and you can download the whole thing, too. This is an example of a detailed page for RefMet. [Inaudible] exact structure, cholic acid. By the number of boxes here, in terms of searching by phone, searching by other [inaudible], diastereomers, using the first four key characters is quite useful. So, that’s quite useful. It can be viewed on any type of browser, iPhone, iPad, or whatever. We recently merged metabolite data with the [inaudible] reaction data for human pathways. So, for a metabolite of interest, that is a member of a human pathway, and you can drill in deeper in terms of that particular reaction or that particular pathway through the K-infrastructure. We also make sure that all the metabolites were applicable to a database of mass spectra called MONA, the MassBank of North America. So, then this is a very useful resource for accessing public domain mass spectra. So, I think there’s about 100,000 entries that are relevant to RefMet in MONA. So, that’s the usual results. So, this is typically MSNS. We also have a tool for doing your own harmonization. Like I said, we—for every study that comes in, we do this mapping to from the metabolite user supply to the metabolite to RefMet. You can also do it online yourself. So, this is an example. You just copy and paste your list of metabolites—let’s say 200, and run it, and it’ll match as well as it can to the resume database. Obviously, if you have some very obscure metabolite name, is that going to find a perfect match? This is an example of why we’re up with, let’s say one searches for LPC 16:0. It’s very easy to do that having this metabolized [inaudible]. But the right-hand side, you see what people actually submitted. So, if we did not have this here, there’ll be quite a laborious procedure to pick out all the studies that have LPC 16:0; there are so many different [inaudible]. We also map all of the metabolites to metabolize classifications system. The lipids, we use a LIPID MAPS classification, which has been available for many, many years. And for the non-lipids, we use the ClassyFire classification developed by the WishArt group in the University of Florida. It can handle any organic molecules. So, we curate that and merge the two together. The bottom line is, we have a hierarchy of classification system for all of the resume metabolites. So, you can do something like look at a pie chart by a superclass or main class or subclass. So, basically the RefMet commands a central role on the Metabolomics Workbench. Very importantly, we can compare and contrast metabolite detection in many different studies because we’re speaking the same language, so to speak. We can classify the metabolites, and for example, migrate those to the LIPID MAPS portal. So, we have collaboration with LIPID MAPS where you go to the LIPID MAPS website and have a portal into the workbench for all studies containing lipids. I think there are several hundred workbench studies which contain lipids, and you can migrate through the classification system there to find the lipids of interest. We can also link to metabolite structures, as I mentioned previously. That’s a very powerful thing within substructure searches, and link to other databases. We can link to other ontologies, for example, the LION/web ontology, University of Utrecht. Let’s talk a little bit about that later as a way to map other metabolite ontologies, like number of carbons, double bonds, membrane permeability substrate localization, et cetera, et cetera. So, using the RefMet system, we can link into that. We can also link to metabolite pathways. We have links to the SMPD/HMDB—that’s the human metabolomics database—and associated pathways. Also the KEGG system in Japan, and also the REACTOME system in the UK. By linking through the metabolite names to the corresponding substrates and products in these pathways. So, the bottom line is, we can map an incoming study, take the metabolites, and map the pathways. You also have what we call our collaboration subset. So, for example, we’re working with MoTrPAC, which studies the importance of metabolism and exercise in adult humans and rodents. So, the [inaudible] group is doing a MassTEC analysis that are taking a subset of RefMet and their uses in terms of their human and rat studies to exercise. Okay, so, the positive outcomes we have a unifying nomenclature, ability to perform comparative analysis across studies, linking to other structured databases, comprehensive classification system, integration with biochemical pathway tools. So, getting back to the analysis of data. So, [inaudible] predictor study. I showed you a link three slides back to a statistics tool box. So, one can do many different types of analysis on the study of interest. And these are organized into groups in terms of pie charts from the top-line classes, normalization, averaging things like [inaudible] analysis, [inaudible] analysis, clustering, PCA, LDA, and random forest and mapping to biochemical pathways. So, there are many options, depending on whether it’s a MassTEC study or an NMDR study to do your own analysis or study of interest. So, this is an example of one study of interest. It’s a study on effective glucocorticoids and long term and short term. So, if you go to this particular study, 11:40, and do about volcano plot analysis, that first thing you want to do is, you know, set it up in terms of what are you going to compare. So, for example, before and after creating this particular drop, many of these studies have several different analyses. So, this one has one analysis for phospholipids [inaudible]. We have another one for a [inaudible], another one for fatty acids and so on, and then you run the volcano plot and get all of these different use of the data. So, for example, this is a class enrichment analysis, because, like I say, all the RefMet names and map to classification—you can do plot analysis and point and click on the different sub groups, and so on and so forth. Similar views for the other tools. One other way of looking at the data is through the public access, so this is one of the first level items. People want to know, okay, who has done studies on rats. And for example, I want to know what metabolites we can detect in liver or urine, kidney, and so on. You might be interested in one particular disease. So—and people might want to see all the studies related to a tuberculosis or whatever, or I may be interested in the particular metabolite class. So, it’s just an easy way to access the studies for particular areas of interest. So, once you click on any of these, but once you get a list of studies pertinent to that selection, we have the metabolite database—80,000 microstructures that I alluded to earlier are fully searchable by multiple different ways, by substructure, by ID, and cross-reference to many other publicly available databases. So, this is just an example of one particular metabolite of all of these external database links and if that metabolite is found in any of the human pathways of interest. So, this is an example of exploration of pathways of interest. I think this is a REACTOME example for [inaudible]. We have a companion gene/protein database, human protein database. This data was pulled from [inaudible] or genes that had some relevance to metabolism to go annotation or some other summary. Annotation. So, one can browse this through the databases menu on the homepage and get access to many different features of the genes and proteins the actual [inaudible], the protein sequences, and so on and so forth, and link to the relevant metabolites for a particular pathway of interest. We also have a roll, your own tool search. So, if you want to actually, this is a mass spectra. So, if you want to do mass spec analysis on a database, you have a number of different options. You can search the RefMet database. That's about 95,000 annotations. You can search a virtual database of lipid classes, and you can also search the metabolite database that I just talked about using a number of different ways. There also other options, like searching all our own targeted data by your attention time. So, running the RefMet search Shiny App. So, this is an example of the user interface for searching RefMet, and you can enter your list of [inaudible] limits the search by class, select whatever of interest. So, you’re either looking at positive ions or negative ions, one or the other, and then running the search. You can also search the uncharted data. So, we’re sitting on a very large amount of LCFS data. We’re looking at over probably 2 million and m/z features today from well over 400 studies and 800 MS analyses. So, most of these data have not been assigned a particular metabolite. So, typically we might get, you know, 10 or 20,000 features in terms of m/z, potential type values from a single study, so it’s a lot of data. So, for example, if somebody had an interesting ion that they wanted to see if somebody else had any. And also found it, or was there any other association with it? You could search this [inaudible]. So, this is just a search on that particular ion [inaudible]. So, you can see down in the bottom here. We’ve merged cases where people have actually identified that ion data. So, that might be a clue as to what that unknown ion would be, and obviously you have to match what the chromatography conditions are—was it the same system, same solvents, et cetera, et cetera, same ion type? So, I think it’s going to be a very powerful resource because of the size of the database, and as we continue getting more named annotations, it’s going to give more information. This is an example of drawing down into the metadata for particular analysis, where you can get all the details about the [inaudible] that particular ion. Probably, the one of the most useful tools on the workbench in terms of finding stuff is that—we call it a quick search tool on the top right-hand corner. So, if you’re on the home page of the workbench, see that on the top-right corner. So, what this does, it does the interim metabolite name. It’ll try to do an exact match on RefMet and do a partial search on RefMet. If it’s a molecular formula to detect that and do a performance search, it’s an InChI Key, it’ll search that. You can search with a neutral mass; give it a number. It also does a number of other searches in the metabolite structure database. It will search that metabolite name and all the NMDR studies that’s found in any study; it’ll show you a list of those studies of interest. It starts in my test vacation hierarchy and in the resources on the website. So, this is an example of a search on the ALANINE, so I’ll get to one exact match on ALANINE. It’ll get any other matches on the metabolite database—gets 400 hits on the studies. That’s how many is found in so many studies, and so on and so forth. Here’s an example of glycerol. This is why exact match is so important. Try searching metabolite database with a substrate or glycerol that words found in so many metabolites. [Inaudible]. We have a tool where you can load and analyze your own data set. Let’s say you have a data set on, you know, spreadsheet, or on a text table. You can do all this statistical analysis without having to submit it to the workbench of the proper study. So, you can kind of load your own data file and do your own analysis, and there are tools for that on page 2, so it involves portable toolboxes I’m using or statistics on the backend PHP and JavaScript. So, we’ve migrated it to a number of other online resources, too. We also have a cloud computing collaboration with the San Diego Supercomputer Center, where we’re putting these statistics tools in docker containers, running them on Jupyter notebooks, and they’ve just become available using the MyBinder, a free service for running Jupyter notebooks. So, no, you might want to check out the analyze menu item on the home page for this information. This is just a quick overview of the tools—an example of Python module. This is the Jupyter notebooks page that I was talking about, so it’s online now. So, you have options to download these tools from Github, or run them. We’re collaborating with the M3C Center in Florida. I read a lot of our data and the data on their website, and they have a portal to be able to find the study information as well. We don’t have the actual results. You get a lot of information there, too. We have a collaboration with CHEAR group, which studies children's health and exposure analysis. So, we have a specialized portal for work with the CHEAR folks in terms of the study they submit. But we also have a MoTrPAC collaboration—that I talked about before—to study the effect of physical activity on metabolomics. That’s going quite well. They’re using the RefMet system now. That’s a view into the MoTrPAC Data Dictionary, which is basically a subset of RefMet. It’s about 2,000 metabolites. We have a collaboration with LIPID MAPS in Cardiff University, where we have a portal, and to all the Metabolomics Workbench studies that contain lipids, and many manage liquids are involved. Actually, 65 percent of all identified. And metabolized species are different. So, it’s a huge piece of the pie. And this is the portal from the LIPID MAPS website to the studies on the Workbench where the numbers of lipids, phospholipids are. And then you drill down and go to the workbench for that study of interest. Again, we have tools for summary statistics where we can answer questions, like summarize all of the data on the workbench by disease, by species, by samples. So, if somebody’s interested in what metabolites are available from mouse and blood, for example, what metabolites have been detected in studies related to diabetes, and so on. So, basically, we have a rundown here where one can decide, set-up menus for disease, sample source, species, analysis type, and so on and so forth. These pulling down menus give the numbers of studies on the Workbench related to that particular item. Whether it's just the samples or so on and so forth. So, it’s basically a query builder. And this is the output. You can, for example, or that tuberculosis journey so you can drill down and get all the data for that particular metabolite for those particular studies. What pathways are related to what the actual structures are. Are they a real structure? What the studies are, and so on and so forth. And, for example, compare and contrast the example for tyrosine, all the studies for tyrosine and the two studies up on top here, all the studies that have tyrosine related to diabetes. So, you can kind of compare and contrast studies usually. So, this is an example for those two particular studies, study 348 and 349. So, we have all the metabolites found in one, but not the other, vice versa. We have a REST service to draw information from the workbench. It covers many different aspects, compounds, studies, samples, metadata. It’s a very fast way to pull data from the workbench. We have an interaction like I mentioned with the LION/web, or we can use the rest service to pump data to this website, where in turn that data is analyzed in an ontological manner in terms of what the different features of the metabolites are, for example, carbons, double bonds, whether membrane fluidity, so on so forth. So that’s just a good example of how we can merge and migrate data from one website to another. This is another example of a REST service where we’re working with scripts. Research is cheap in La Jolla in San Diego. Are there interest in mapping MS data to pathway analysis by this [inaudible]? And so again, they use the REST service to pull data from the Workbench and use that as an input for their pathway analysis tools. We share data with our European colleagues. MetabolomeXchange is a European-funded project where they’re taking metabolite studies from all over the world, Workbench from EBI in Europe, and other resources and putting them and making it a searchable website for meta data, and also link to Workbench from there. And another example is the EBI Omics Discovery Index. And again it’s a integrated platform for merging data sets from around the world. And as soon as a Workbench study is made available, it also becomes available on this Omics Discovery index. I’m almost finished. Now, Metabolite Workbench is FAIR. It’s findable in terms of assigning a DOI to every single study, and that’s the item that’s usually published. And that’s a persistent identifier for that particular study. Accessibility. We have the workbench. We have the REST service. Interoperability is really important that we have the mwTAB common currency format for metadata and data. Obviously, the RefMet standardized [inaudible] deliverable, too. Reusability is very important. We download or we process vulnerable data. We’re going to migrate all of these data to the cloud platform, and we’ve already started that with Jupyter notebooks. And so, we’re going to wrap that up quite a bit. So, in terms of the ongoing efforts, on the summary, we have currently 1,260 studies; we anticipate this will [inaudible] considerably as our efforts with other large data generating organizations such as MoTrPAC, CHEAR, [Inaudible]. We have the resume database that we are continually curating and adding to. We’ve got the REST service, a very important interface in NMDR data. Collaborations are ongoing and going all the time. We’re making outreach efforts to other metabolite [inaudible] such as LIPID MAPS and other groups that are interested in one particular group of metabolites. And I think we can do a lot with them. And that is about it. I just want to give an acknowledgment to my colleagues here. This group is led by Shankar Subramaniam, who is a professor at the bioengineering department at UC San Diego. We have Kenan and Manish Sud who were the main curators of data. So now, is our webmaster person. Srini is working with human data now because we want to ramp up our efforts in terms of curating a human data with our efforts [inaudible] with our other colleagues. And Kevin and Christine at San Diego Supercomputer Center are leading the effort in terms of making our resources available. So, thank you for listening, and I’d be glad to take any questions. Krista Zanetti: Thank you so much. We did receive questions, and I think we have time to answer them. So, I’m just going to start reading them, and you can feel free to answer them. The first one is: What is the largest population submitted to your data repository? Eoin Fahy: A number in terms of numbers of samples? Krista Zanetti: It says “the largest population,” so I’m assuming, but that’s all the context that I have. Eoin Fahy: Off the top of my head, I wouldn’t know, but we have several studies—whether are maybe 2 or 300 samples from human subjects. So, I think those with the largest—we’re not talking about thousands. Definitely not, you know, the typical range will be anywhere from 2 to 300. Thank you. Krista Zanetti: The next question is, can you use the workbench to standardize metabolite names without submitting your data to the repository? In other words, can you use the tools on the workbench without submitting data? Eoin Fahy: Yes, yes, you can. So, if you wanted to standardize on metabolite names without submitting, you absolutely can do that. Go to the RefMet link, and there'll be a link to map metabolite names to the rep, that domain. And you can just save that as a text file. Yeah. Krista Zanetti: Great. Next question: Does the software perform peak finding and picking from the raw data? Eoin Fahy: No, we don’t deal with raw data. We deal with process data. So, keep picking and pick finding you’d have to use XCMS or some other tool like that. So, we don’t actually do that, although we’re working with other groups in the data course who are doing that, but as it stands right now, no. We take in raw data, but we don’t want to manipulate it. Krista Zanetti: Thank you. Next question: Are RefMet ID and HMDB ID the same? Eoin Fahy: No, no. So, the RefMet name is actually the ID. HMDB is something totally different. So, RefMet is an [inaudible] chemistry-centric database. Like I said, it deals with more than just exact structure. It deals with partial structures and full compositions as well of four different groups. So, no, RefMet is a totally separate entity, but what the metabolites, the actual structures are linked to HMDB, so it’s a mapping [inaudible]. Krista Zanetti: Next question in that same regard. It says: “Other than the species, how is this advantageous over HMDB? Is there a list of metabolites by species and organs that can be downloaded in Excel? Eoin Fahy: So, if you’re interested in one particular species or one particular organ, either you can go to the bubble of plot analysis. That’s one easy way. You can go to that MassTEC analysis that I showed near the end of this presentation for their pulldown menus or both species, sample source, and disease association. Then you’ll get a link, a list of studies pertinent to that set of selection criteria. Then you can download all of that data for those studies one by one. So, yes, you can download all the names, the top lines for all the studies of interest once you have made selection. Krista Zanetti: Next question: Can you use the tools on the website to examine pathways without submitting data? Eoin Fahy: You can use the tools to—see, do they mean their own data? Yeah, let’s see. I don’t think we have a way to map them on to pathways. There’s a two box where one can upload their own data. Do statistical analysis, off the top of my head, I don’t remember whether they whether we’ve implemented the pathway mapping for that. You can definitely look at any study of interest and map that data to pathways, but I’d have to check on that one. I don’t think that’s been implemented yet. Krista Zanetti: Okay. I think we have time for one last question, and we received one. Are healthy subjects included in the study submitted, and can they be gathered in one pool? Eoin Fahy: Almost all well-designed studies would have, you know, healthy subjects as controls. So, I don’t know what they mean, exactly, by one defined pool. Would that be across studies? Definitely. Within a study, typically— Krista Zanetti: I think they want to—my guess is that they want to pull all the healthy subjects across the data that you have together to use. That’s my guess. Eoin Fahy: There isn’t no one magic button that you can push to pull in all the healthy subjects. No. But you can definitely do it one by one by identifying the studies of interest depending on what disease you’re interested in and downloading the data for the healthy subjects. Krista Zanetti: Great, and they did confirm that was the question they were asking, so we answered the right question, but time is running short. So, I do want to wrap things up, and I want to thank you all for your attention and your active participation in today’s NIH Metabolomics Interest Group. We would also like to take this opportunity to thank our presenter, Dr. Eoin Fahy, for his excellent presentation. Thank you so much, Eoin, for spending some time with us today and explaining a little bit more about the Metabolomics Workbench. I think we all have appreciated it greatly, and then we welcome all of you to provide feedback to inform our future webinars. So, thank you all. And everybody, have a great day. 