 Hello comrades. Maybe it’s not so obvious, but It was a huge gap from the last video and this one. It’s seems we haven’t made videos for ages. And we accumulated a lot of footage. Half of the winter and half of the spring we were doing the same things. To be exact, we were constructing prototype of active exoskeleton. Something was made good, something - not. Firstly, we hadn’t much time. And secondly, we cannot disclose details because of secrecy. Unfortunately, we cannot tell (or show) you something about this model - Mark-7. I hope the situation will change after a while. So, now we will talk about fourth model in line, the initial concept, implementation and future plans. The main idea was to minimize the weight of the skeleton. Also, we wanted it had analogue system, was easy-dismantlable and adapted to impact loads. An electronic point could become a weak point for the whole system which would be ‘afraid’ of transportation. As always, opinions were divided. Equipment for aluminum welding was purchased, as well as a 3D printer for printing various elements. The task was to create the maximum number of degrees of freedom for operator’s legs. Partially implemented modularity. The back is removable. As I said, we hadn’t enough time, so we haven’t tested control system of Mark-4 yet. In general, Mark-4 analogue control system is suitable only for me, since I created it according to my feelings during walking and running, according to individual biomechanics Although, I think, and it’s most likely, that it’s all about the technology, and it’s possible to customize everything you’d like. The system while not being computer-based and was mad as load compensator, but it works. With this system the empty frame had been standing during 24 hours without losing balance or pressure. Then we’ve got a proposal to participate in exo-fight. And we got an idea to make universal transforming platform. Mark-4 is becoming a tough enough, mobile and lightweight prototype for further experiments. The next step is the design of arms and active drive system for them. Implementation This is how the printing process goes. Everything seems to be working now. Of course, I had an awful lot to bear the print bed. A lot of people gave pieces of advice, I watched a lot of videos and read a lot of comments. Finally we had to install the glass from old Soviet cupboard. It’s quite smooth and everything sticks to it. The standard print bed was really awful. What didn’t I try: masking tape, hair spray, glue, and even wine - nothing helped. It turned out that Tarantula has a bent table, and when you heat it, it deforms even more. I had to straighten it and firmly glue it to the glass. Initially, the table didn’t work at all. I had to repair the heater and changed the transistor in the board. This is the percentage of defect. This is a finished product - cable channel. Of course, the process takes a lot of time. Here is the glue with which I tried to spread the table. PLA-plastic sticks, but falls off after a while anyway. Particularly large parts. This is a thing. The control panel I hung inhere. And reinforced the frame with steel corners. In general, I had to remake it all, because it didn’t work at all. This is stuck on tape. I haven’t found original fastening. We haven’t got time and the deadline is nearby, so we print in these conditions. Test sample for printing, cover. See - this is called formwork. Although many people have different names for it. Without it, you couldn’t print in midair. And the bed is being prepared in such way. I use window cleaner and ordinary dishwashing sponge. Wipe. Smear. Nothing works except this way. With SBS-plastic especially - it’s soft, you can’t put it on glue, it sticks tightly and the model breaks when you tear it off. After warming up the bed will need to be wiped with a sheet paper. Neither hair spray nor glue work. Even PLA-plastic falls off. So far, SBS-plastic and glass are ideal options. Here, it seems that the first layer is stacked as it should. Finally. I switched on motor fan to cool the extruder so that the filament doesn’t get stuck. Now, something has already been printed. This is how the process looks like. It’s new to me because I have never done this before. Everything had to be done manually. I noticed that when you need something, you won’t find it We should look at coincidence of axes now It seems more or less. Well, yes, it’s good. Well, now we need to do the fasteners for the joints. Everything is made by sight. About Mark-3 As you can see, we haven’t given it up. We’re constructing it. The main thing to achieve was mobility. Because before now I couldn’t even run in it, I just walked. Now I was able to jog. We won’t refuse the system of active drives. The active system is most likely to consist of an internal combustion engine from the chainsaw, and a homemade compressor. Why does it look like this? Because the task was to bring him closer to military realities. Why are there such shields on the shoulders? Firstly, because they close the weak spot in the armor where the hands go through, secondly, they cover the head from the sides. In addition, We’re thinking about armored collar with a helmet. I think it’s easy to notice that there are also some changes in Mark-4. We are finalizing the design step by step. We’re finalizing low part, the femoral drives will be installed. Earlier there weren’t such drives. You saw only knees and shins drives. The back will be active. Using the Mark-4 frame as an example, we are going to experiment a bit. And we want to start a new section. We want to make videos about cars. Write in comments if you’re interested in it. You think why cars. Plenty of us are road-users and it’s our basic occupation. We won’t drop exoskeletons. Yes, lately we hadn’t enough time to make videos due to work by contract. And now there is a completely new concept that we want to try to implement. And now I say goodbye to you. You’ll see a lot of interesting. 