 Who the hell cuts thread on socket heads? Who’s the idiot? Of course, me. It already seems to be moving easily. That’s all? Is it cut? It must go to an end. It seems to me that I'm in the wrong line of work We don’t have to use technologies of the 19th century for development of promising technologies, do we? Uh-huh, underunpromising technologies of 19th century. Has it been screwed up? Yes, done. It’s a bucket of bolts, not a car. Well, yes. Hello comrades. This was a short introduction up to the live broadcast, at the request of the subscriber Predator. Not quite direct and not quite a broadcast, since there’s no time to do them at all. However, you can see some sort of parody. So, to the point. The editing of the 6th episode of Stalker is still delaying. There is a lot of work with it. And besides, we are waiting for Terl Cabot (an analogue of a Nostalgia Critic) for the voice acting of his character, which is one of the key in this episode. In our regions it’s like Stalker 2 of Half-Life 3 - you must believe in it and wait. On his channel you can find a bunch of reviews on different films. Famous and not really famous. And I’m getting to the point. Finally, we reached the active part of the exoskeleton. We’ve made the drive for the right leg with a control mechanism. It works. Now we are waiting for the ordered parts for the left leg. Our Mark 4 will allow the operator to walk and run, overcome obstacles and jump. Today's video is a testing of leg. Yes, we’re showing pneumatics, and in the future we’ll show hydraulics. How many? About 3 atm, 3 already! Come on, go! Back! Most likely that this system will be implemented in power armor. Look. The pressure was not raised, we held it from 3 to 4 atm. How many? Wait a sec. 3 atm.Yes, it’s holding. I’m looking, how much do you need? 4 atm. Now it’s 4 atm. 2 atm. 3 atm. How many now? Pressure holds on the level of 3 atm. Now reaching 4 atm, you’re standing still. The driver was a little scared, but it doesn’t matter. I try to keep you on camera. Here you see the functioning of active system with the compressor turned off and the receiver pumped up. 3.5 atm. On this moment I say goodbye to you, if anyone wants to support the project - the links are in the description. There are a lot of interesting things ahead. See you. 