 We'll look at some kind of different sized monarchs right now. So instar is just kind of a term for different stages and one instar is kind of the stage between a molt. So they hatch and they're first instars and then they molt and then they're second instars. And then molt third, molt fourth. And because insects have an exoskeleton, they can't grow like we do. They they have to actually, because their skeleton is basically on the outside, they actually have to shed it off and then in order to grow at all. So that's why insects molt and we don't. We're able to actually elongate our bones so. There's five different instars and it's hard to tell them apart. It's kind of easiest to look at how wide their head capsule is. Here we have tiny little first and second instars. The caterpillar hatches from the egg, it eats its egg and then it's a first instar at that point. At this point when you move them you're definitely going to want to just use like a paintbrush or something like that. I never try to handle them when they're small. If you can see the little caterpillars or a couple of little caterpillars here on the leaf. Now we see we have this this caterpillar here sitting on the side. If you see that that could mean that they're molting. So these guys are kind of middle aged for caterpillars and so they're going to molt multiple times. And oftentimes they'll just sit along the edge or on the top in order to do that. They have to stop. They kind of digest their skin a little and then fluff out that old skin. So, just leave them alone during that time. You can put the leaf material back in there or leave them with something so. Try to avoid handling them, let them do what they want and just give them fresh leaf tissue. Here on our big container I've got monarchs getting ready to make their chrysalis. I know they are because I gave them fresh leaves this morning and they didn't eat it at all and they climbed right back up to the surface. So, just let your caterpillars do what they want to do. I mean you might think, "Oh you need to eat," but they know what they're doing so just let them do what they do. And they're going to sit up there probably for a day or two before they finally weave a silken pad and make that chrysalis. So that's kind of our biggest ones. So when the caterpillar is fully grown and ready to make its chrysalis it will climb up to the top of whatever container that it's in and it will just pretty much sit quietly on the top for a few days. It will eventually kind of, it weaves a little pad and it'll attach itself to the top and make a "J" shape and it will hang there as a "J" shape, as a caterpillar. At that point it will kind of turn funny colored because the green chrysalis underneath is forming. So when they look funny colored in that stage as long as the caterpillar is still a "J" it'll be OK and then it will molt then and you'll see that chrysalis. When it first molts, the chrysalis is really soft so you definitely want to avoid taking the lid on or off as the caterpillars are getting ready to make their chrysalis and certainly once the chrysalis is new. Once the chrysalises have hardened a little bit you can definitely look at them and touch them you're not gonna hurt them too much. But we have a couple of large caterpillars here that are probably getting ready to make their chrysalises and then we have a couple of older ones that I haven't cleaned off. So the whole life cycle will take roughly two weeks, so not very long just to go from egg to adult. Usually it'll be a chrysalis for maybe about a week. Towards the end it will get really dark colored and you'll be able to see the wings through the chrysalis. Also, you know decontaminate with the 20 percent bleach. So you just want to clean it really well and then use 20 percent bleach as a decontamination. I use 20 percent bleach just to decontaminate between kind of every generation. 