 The great thing about transhumanism, it's what we call transhumanitarianism. We're really trying to help people. We're really trying to solve suffering, solve medical issues. And exoskeleton technology is one of the most important. About a third of everybody on Earth has some type of mobility issue. So, exoskeleton technology is leading the way in terms of getting people to be able to be mobile again and do things. What's interesting is that you think you can't climb Mount Everest, but there's a chance in the future you may be able to, just because you have exoskeleton technology. There's also the idea that you might be able to run a marathon, as I wrote for the NY Times. You get the exoskeleton technology working well enough, you'll be able to run on water. This stuff is incredible, so imagine running a marathon on water. This is what people want to do with exoskeleton technology. The biggest thing about transhumanism: where a lot of people go for getting into investors is when you talk about disabilities. A huge amount of people around the world have disabilities. We already have this, the Argus II which allows a blind person to see, navigate streets, go into rooms, and things like that. So I think overcoming disability is a huge part of what we're doing. That goes as far as cochlear implants with deafness. We don't really have deafness anymore on Earth. People that are born… that can't hear end up having a cochlear implant put in if they're allowed. There are some cultural differences too. But deafness as a disability has been mostly wiped out due to radical transhumanist technologies. Of course, one of these things is putting implants in your body, in your brain, in your arms, as I have in my hand, and so on. We call this biohacking where you put all sorts of stuff in yourself to monitor what's going on and help you do things you can't do, like hear or see. So, the idea of brainplants is really complex. I was doing an interview earlier about the future of work. Where I'm from, Silicon Valley in Los Angeles, California area, there's a couple of different companies like Neuralink with Elon Musk working on basically brain implants in order to allow your brain to interface directly with machine intelligence. Now why is this important? Well, machine intelligence is important because... in Wall Street, say, mid-level traders are being wiped off the floors. And this is because they can't compete with algorithms. So, what a lot of entrepreneurs want to do is, in order to have humans keep up, they want to merge our brains with machines so we can think in real time. The thing in your pocket - cellphone, smartphone - can be put into your head through an implant or a headset. Already in Florida, they're racing drones around a track and so on, just using brainwave technology. And already, you can have conversations in your mind with people through headsets and brainwave implants and things like that. Elon Musk says there'll be a commercial device in 5 years. I don't know if that's the case, but definitely within 10 years, there's a good chance there'll be a commercial device on the market that'll let you talk to your friend or give a speech in real time as I'm doing where people would hear it and listen and answer back and you would hear it in your head. So, will we get brain implants? It's almost 100% yes. 