 Apple is accused of turning a Russian gay, Zenfone 6 disappointing on DxOMark, Galaxy Fold more fragile than many would like, one more fatal accident involving a cellphone, and a brain-controlled exoskeleton that helps quadriplegic move All of this and more, in details, in this edition of TC News. Apple is a brand that has always shown public support for the LGBT cause including commemorative watch bands for its smartwatch and wallpapers for its systems Among other things. But one Russian eventually took it to a new level - in a lawsuit claiming compensation of 1 million rubles, D.E. Razumilov accuses Apple of causing moral distress and mental health damage for making him gay. It all started when Razumilov installed a cryptocurrency transaction app on his iPhone before long, some unknown men deposited 69 GayCoins in their account with a message that read: "don't judge without trying" - and, well, he tried and liked it. Now Razumilov is even in a serious relationship with another man but he says he is unhappy that he doesn't know how to explain the situation to his parents. You can't know how this process will end, especially with Russia and its strict policy against homosexuals. But the truth is, Apple doesn't even have a direct stake in history. so the chances of the company disbursing some amount are very slim. The Zenfone 6 was launched by ASUS there in May, with announcement in the Brazilian market. for next October 21st. Despite the five months of waiting, this may not be the biggest concern for fans of the brand, since we finally had their camera review published in the famous DxOMark ranking. After scoring a good 98 points with the selfie camera the Zenofne 6 has now reached 104 points for the rear camera. Remembering that the model has a mind-blowing mechanism that uses both cameras both to record landscapes as self portraits. The score is good, in fact, the highest ever achieved by the brand but is below virtually all major 2019 flagships including the Galaxy S10 Plus, Note 10 Plus, P30 Pro, OnePlus 7 Pro, Mi 9 and more. In addition, we even have some 2018 models above the ASUS flagship, such as the iPhone XS Max, Mate 20 Pro and P20 Pro. The highlight of the Zenfone 6 was video recording, with a good level of detail. fast and accurate focus and good stabilization. As for the cons we have problems with the exposure, something already recurring of the brand, and white balance in some situations. Our review of the Zenfone 6 is coming soon, and let's take a look to see how it works against some models. even more recent as the iPhone 11 Pro Max which has not yet been reviewed by the DxOMark. The Galaxy Fold was relaunched a few weeks ago after all the fragility issues in its first release. thus officially being the first widely marketed folding smartphone after FlexPai pulled the queue. Apparently, though, fans of the brand who decide to shell out Samsung's small fortune they need to be aware that the device remains considerably more fragile than a, say, conventional smartphone. It all started a few days after the relaunch, with a test published by a famous YouTuber that dismantles devices. where we see how easily the screen is scratched or dusted in the spaces between the hinge and the panel. Then a TechCrunch journalist complained that his Galaxy Fold had problems with just one day of use. Several tests after that only reinforced what everyone already suspected with Galaxy Fold being quite fragile, especially falling or folding in sequence. At least Samsung has included a special warranty with its expensive folding model being able to change the screen once during a twelve month period for only $ 150. Remember that all Samsung doesn't need right now is another recall of its most iconic 2019 model. especially in China, where the company has not been able to face competition and saw its market share drop to just 1% - this meant closing its last factory there but at least local employees got a Galaxy S10 Plus in thanks for the service they provided. Watching TV capturing satellite signal is still very present in Brazil, especially in rural areas. If you are included in this group and watch the Globo network programming you will need to get used to some changes starting next October 14th The station will turn off the SAT-HD national digital signal, which will cause states to receive local programming. instead of the sign of Globo Rio, as it happens today. Since not all states have an affiliate, we will have some situations that may seem confusing with a spectator from Espírito Santo receiving signal from Globo Minas or from Tocantins receiving signal from Goiás, for example. If you want to check out more details about this little mess just take a look at the full text agenda in the description. Unfortunately we have another tragic case involving the use of smartphone plugged in this time the victim was a young Thai named Sastra Mo-In who died after falling asleep holding the smartphone that was being charged. Interestingly, the device, according to family members, was being used only to listen to music while a portable video game was used for gaming. The device was plugged into a power strip with many cables attached which may have caused the short that cost its life. The smartphone brand or model has not been disclosed. At least we also have happy news - a quadriplegic who lost his movements after a nightclub accident four years ago could move again thanks to a major technological advance. The project, run by a French university, includes an exoskeleton controlled by pulses emitted by the brain. This allows the driver to make movements without necessarily having to move any muscles. being all controlled by two implants made on the surface of your brain. Obviously everything is still tested inside a lab. Movement is limited and the robot is secured by a cable to the ceiling to reduce the risk of falling. but so far, its hit rate has been over 70% in attempts to touch specific objects which gives hope for people with motor limitations. Now we have to wait to see what technology refinements will bring in the near future, mainly as regards costs, as all the equipment involved is considerably more expensive than much of the world's population can afford. And here we close another TC News - remembering that more details of this and other news you check by clicking on the link in the description. Take a moment to comment below which news most caught your attention Was it the exoskeleton, the cell phone deaths, or the Russian that “turned gay" because of iPhones? We are curious to hear from you until we see each other in the next videos. A big hug and see you soon! 