 Hello comrades. We have a progress. We’ve constructed two-point knee joints, though the inside part of them still hasn’t got a frame. We’ve also made feet with mounts. So it’ll be possible to insert feet in shoes in these mounts. Moreover we’ve made a spine which bends in one point. The back is supporting, but it was divided on two parts. It was made because we want it to be flexible but also has opportunity to distribute weight. As for weight distribution, the back has to distribute weight of engine which will be mounted on the center of gravity. The center of gravity is located near pelvis and it is the place of the planned installation of ICE. It’s bottom joint of spine. The top joint will bend providing mobility. The receiver will be attached to the bottom. Gas lifts on the bottom of back will transfer the load from the hips and smoothly distribute it on the lower back. Why do we need double knee joints and ankles? They will be connected by frame in one solid construction because the whole load always goes on legs and feet. We’ll put active drives on legs so this part of frame must be reinforced. It’ll remove the load from the whole exoskeleton and absorb external influence. Since we don’t knew how the system will work we’ve installed protective arcs on knees not to injure our own knees in case of accident. Most likely we will supplement the design with shields on the legs. In previous models, the chest was implemented differently. The exoskeleton was fastened with straps and just hung on the operator. At this stage, we decided to use the basis from the spatial frame from the Mark-3 project and make something like a power armor cabin. It is an opening frame that will be reinforced. The result was an anatomical version of the frame with protective functions. Also, a movable two-section back is also made taking into account the movements of a person. We haven’t put anything below, we’ll probably do it later. Mobility test. That's better? Yes. At least it demonstrates freedom of movement. Will you try to do the splits? Try. Do not try to repeat this. You have already seen the door. What was the armor in the video? High amplitude? How was it? What else? Raise leg back? It will be possible to sit in it, and the limiters in the joints will take the whole load on. Not right now, because there are no mounts and it is tied to me with electrical tape. The sole is suitable for different sizes. Bilateral knee joint. Supporting thigh. Load balancers The back is supporting, but bending. With a sole it knocks much less while walking. I think the speed will increase twice when the active system is installed. Come on again. Again? There are no chest fasteners yet. Happy New Year and Merry Christmas on behalf of the Contrafact Studio. Subscribe to our channel, like, it will help us a lot. Thanks in advance. There are a lot of interesting things ahead. See you 