 If Mr. Gerber now said, for example: “Mr. Reichert, I don’t like this couch. Remove it immediately!” I could do it. But afterwards I’d probably have back pain, a hernia, a slipped disc, or something. It would be great if I just had a bit more strength. But was still myself. Could still think, feel, still be Kilian Reichert. But with more strength. And how that’s possible, and the fact that it is possible, that it’s already happening now in very many areas, will now be explained to us by this man, Armin G. Schmidt, who’s going to show us an exoskeleton. A living one, by the way. Hello, we’re very happy to be here. First, a few words about me and about us. I’m the CEO of German Bionic. We are an exoskeleton manufacturer with headquarters in Augsburg and offices in Tokyo and Berlin. What do we do? We support people, not by replacing them with robots, but by making them stronger with an exoskeleton. Now a few words about what exoskeleton areas are: so when you look at the body, there are exoskeletons for the legs, for the back, for the rear of the body, and for the arms. We have focused particularly on the back, because we’ve seen that the back is the main problem area when it comes to moving goods. And when you look at exoskeletons, there are what’s known as active and passive systems. Passive systems work with springs, which means you have to expend energy to regain it. The other type, which is what we make, is active exoskeletons, which means batteries, a machine, an engine in a device which basically supports employees. We’ve brought one with us. My colleague is standing out there, he’s going to come in now and show us what he can do with the device. But first I just want to give you an idea of where the market is heading. Last year, in 2018, around 1,000 devices were sold worldwide, from all manufacturers. The prognosis for 2022 is that in this segment around 300,000 devices will be sold. The aim, above all, is to increase productivity, to prevent accidents and injuries among employees of course, and thirdly, to motivate employees to do this job, which is quite difficult in times of full employment. But I think the most important thing is for you to see the device in action. So I’m going to ask my colleague to come in now. So, the main thing here is not the Beck’s, but the exoskeleton and my colleague. As you can see, this is the active exoskeleton, named “Cray X." We have been selling it since the beginning of last year, primarily in the logistics area, general material handling, production, etc. What’s special about it is that every time my colleague lifts, for example, this crate of Beck’s, he receives load support of up to 20 kilos. This means that, at the moment he lifts this object, or device, or crate of beer, his lower back is not placed under strain. That’s what’s special about it. The back is also, generally speaking, the body’s pre-determined breaking point in this regard. The arms are not usually the problem. I have more muscles there. The problem is usually the back. Would you like to add something? You want me to say something? Okay, the party can begin. No, I mean, I don’t know what my boss has already told you, but what I find particularly pleasant as the wearer of this exoskeleton is that it’s a bit like you’re carrying a backpack, a hiking backpack, the entire weight is focused here at the hips, so you can really feel the relief it provides. I myself have had recurring back problems, and wearing the exoskeleton frequently at work has really made things a lot more pleasant. I can already envisage the positive effect it has. Yes, and as for the customers themselves, who as I said are mainly from the logistics sector, carrying objects from A to B, pallets, etc. Obviously, the employees need to be on board. Very few people like the idea of carrying an additional device around with them at work. But, generally speaking, when employees use the device, after half a day they no longer want to work without it. That is the main message we received from customers in the last year. Anyway, I assume, or we assume, that you will see numerous competitors of ours offering similar devices in the future. We are proud to have been the first manufacturer in Germany that offers this kind of active exoskeleton. There’s also Ottobock, for example, which offers passive exoskeletons that support the arms. And as mentioned, feedback from customers and the market is increasing all the time. A final, interesting point to note: Japan is furthest along in this area. That is certainly also because the robotics market in Japan is far more developed than here in Germany. Here in Germany, Augsburg is of course the absolute center of robotics production. That is also why we are based there. Our engineers primarily come from Kuka’s robotics division. It took around 6 to 7 years to develop the device. And 2018 was basically the first year it entered the market. Anyway, you’re welcome to play around with it a bit outside later on. And my colleague will be there as well. Thank you very much! 