 Alright mm-hmm. Okay so the last power loader video didn't do all that well, so we've decided that it's a sunk cost. We're just going to scrap it. We'll just have to disassemble it and send it off to the scrapyard. I don't know if they, do they even except like accept power loader arms? Just kidding, but you're gonna watch this video so you know what's going on with a power loader for 2020. Let's do a quick rewind. So ever since I started this YouTube channel, I've been interested in exoskeletons and using technology to augment human abilities. Ever since the beginning I've wanted to try building a real-life version of the P- 5000 Powerloader from aliens. After my business and channel grew enough, and we gathered enough equipment including a CNC plasma cutter. It was finally time to start the project. During the Christmas of 2018, Bogdan and I started work. Using our CNC plasma cutter we cut out all the pieces using a tab design for easy welding and fabrication. Within just a matter of days, we had the basic arm welded together. That was the easy part. When we finalize design we'll get custom length hydraulic hoses. Do a test fit and potentially test the hydraulics. Pressing this button turns the pump on. I'm not gonna crash into this stuff right? It's more than a car weighs so with both arms we should actually be able to lift or flip a car Hey guys it's time for our third monthly update video on our Aliens power loader build! Perfect! We'll actually be able to lift almost 7,500 pounds! Now whatever you do do not drop the camera! Witness the power, such a  ballerina! In this episode we're gonna be making the power loader's grippers or as I like to call them, the jaws of life. Let's design the fingers! When these hydraulics open and close our gripper can move! It's opening, it's opening, it's opening! But now we need to make it better. It works! No flex. Only took four hours to assemble... To start we're gonna crush Deadpool. I saw light! Danger exposed! Now we're going to destroy an apple... and that is how to fold a Macbook. Lipo battery. We'll be trying to release one video per month on the series, while still making a regular Make it Real content! Alright so we may have missed a few months, though to be fair I did say try not we will... but seriously though what happened? Well shortly after we stopped posting the power loader updates, something amazing happened. We found a new property to move our shop into. 13,000 square feet or ten times the size of our old garage! Make sure you check out our vlog channel to see update videos on this new facility! Also, Bogdan was away all summer competing at WorldSkills in Russia! It just wouldn't be fair to continue his project without him... Anyway we got possession of this new facility on August 1st 2019 and ever since then, we've been working around the clock cleaning, renovating and setting it up. Top row is all you buddy. Come on Ian. Alright,  so we've got a 40-yard container which we have completely filled. We had the whole place painted white. All right so the painters have arrived... they're painting the ceiling and the walls white. We've brought in racking, shelving, all of our equipment... So many boxes! and of course hanging up our awesome Hacksmith sign! In fact, why don't I give you a quick tour? Pretty cool right? This new facility is gonna allow us to work on bigger projects, like the power loader, our cyber truck and even bigger things we haven't even thought of yet! And since it's no longer in my backyard, it also means we can actually have events for you guys! We're hoping to have a grand opening party for our Patreon supporters and YouTube members in February. But there's still a lot to do around here before that happens. We'll be posting more info about that soon to our Patreon page and our YouTube community tab for members. So if you want to see this new place in person there's still time to help support the channel by becoming a patron on Patreon... a patron on Patreon? or a member on YouTube to get an invite to our grand opening! But don't worry, we're bringing the power loader back for 2020! And in fact, we actually got a bunch of stuff done before the move which we're gonna show you in today's video including getting the wrist joint spinning and starting the second arm! Enjoy! Okay so Ben just finished writing its code. We're gonna test it.Theoretically what should happen is Ben should enter a number on the computer for the designated angle that we want the arm to go to, and then the arm will actually move to the angle and hold that position. Let's test it! So I'm gonna press this button to turn on the pump. What angle we're gonna go to? 90 degrees. Try 90. The angle between that and that should now be 90 degrees! Let's try something a little smaller, try 80 degrees. Right, that's up a little bit... What about 120? That should be about parallel. That works really well! All right let's integrate a potentiometer on that so we can actually set the position to real time. So I just finished hooking up the rotator, as well as the gripper and the wrist, so this is gonna be the first test of the entire hand. Do some spinny-arounds... Well I think it works. Look at that physics! We did it! Nobody died! So as you guys know, there's a lot of welding to do on these arms and my good buddy, Mike here is gonna help us out and get this welded up. I've actually mentioned Mike quite a few times because he's the reason I even got started on YouTube because he gave me those pneumatic cylinders for the Elysium exoskeleton up there... I've got an new exciting project. You see my coworker gave me these pneumatic cylinders. Which basically started the channel. So like.. we've got to thank Mike!! All right get these in the back of your Jeep. They're all primed nicely! Well, where do we go from here? Well the next steps are repainting both arms and then reassembling them, the second one for the very first time...then we're gonna have to start designing the torso of the power loader. It's a good thing we moved into this new facility because I don't think we would have actually been able to build the power loader in that garage. We wouldn't have even been able to fit both of the arms on the body.Depending on how well the torso design goes, we may make a giant test stand to help support both arms so we can continue developing the hydraulic power systems. In either case the next video will come out on February 13th. I promise, I pinky promise. I, pinky promise! If the power loader is your favorite project, we want to thank you, as well as apologize for the lack of updates. But in the meantime we have been posting a bunch of awesome new exciting videos on both this channel and our second vlog channel that you can enjoy while we work on bringing the APL back.If you want to support us even further, consider becoming a Patreon or YouTube member. It would help us out a lot since this is such an extensive project and quite possibly the biggest project to date. Or you can buy our latest t-shirt design Hacksmith evolution.Thanks for the patience and the support guys! Let's finish the power loader this year in 2020. 