 Hey everybody, Adam Savage here in my cave with another show and tel, this one from a lovely bit of kit I spotted on social media. This is a creation made by Gary Fay of Gary Fay Creations. We will include a link down below. It was really neat and I was super taken with what he's building. It's a 3D printed human augmentation, let's say, and I'm about to open it up and see one for real for the first time, so this is a genuine unboxing. So those of you who don't like knives being plunged into packages and worry about them splitting things open, you might want to avert your gaze. That's how I open packages. All right, let's see here. That's one dull Exacto blade I've got in here. It looks like there's no assembly required. I love the way you put that together. That is freaking fabulous. So let's see. Here goes. Yeah I think this is ... Yep. Yeah. Yep. So you can see that it is five fingers but there is a cool thing going on here and it's this ... oh dude dude dude this oh my god oh oh look at that Gary oh okay this is really really lovely and it fits me like a glove. You knew that joke was gonna happen. I'm sure that Gary gets this in his email every time he sends one of these out but truth be told it should fit like a glove because I sent Gary measurements of my hands in order that this was fit to me and to be honest it works magnificently these kind of finger extension rigs are not new Rick Baker's built them for years and every other effects shop has done things like this augmented gearing to add digital bending past the normal fingers but I don't think I've ever seen something as Extreme as this and frankly if I ever got around to doing a babadook costume I'm gonna freak your shit out okay so the way it works is there's a collar that goes around the base of my finger and that's the stationary part then the part that I'm actually moving with my finger which is that fleshy bit at the end of my index finger that activates this lever off the base that's connected to a gear at the first knuckle and then there's a parallelogram between the first knuckle and the second knuckle and that adds that secondary bending it's really lovely and to be honest with mechanical work like this when you have a secondary joint oftentimes you can feel the mechanism binding in places and you know that's like where you're going to end up into trouble not so here I feel no binding on this it's very lightweight I can feel that this will tie up my thumb's faster than the other fingers and that may require just a little bit of like some custom fitting on that thumb just to make it a little tighter but really good bit of mechanics here boom pretties oh my goodness kill the children obviously anything with fingers this long it eats children I think we're all pretty clear on that oh my god Gary this is so much fun and look I've got like fleshy bits and robot bits I mean I may change the paint job simply because well you know how am I like to personalize oh oh well he reaches all the way around my neck oh well I guess I could do this for another 25 minutes narrator he did to it for another 25 minutes but I think it's reasonable for me to end this video here Gary Fae of Gary Frey creations this is a lovely lovely piece of work and I am delighted to have this in my costume collection and I am totally going to use it on something because it's freaking awesome and freaking scary you 