 That is a sport mech from Furrion Exo-Bionics and i'm going to learn how to pilot it! We have lift off! Hey guys! I'm here at an undisclosed training test site with Jonathan Tibbett the co-founder and chief test pilot of the Prosthesis Racing Mech. These guys have been developing this mech for over a decade, and are the only ones who have achieved a fully pilot controlled walking mech at this massive scale. In fact it might be the only mech this size to have any kind of real functional legs. As you know we've been working on our aliens power loader build and we've actually been chatting with Furrion for the past year. They've given us advice on our build and we thought what better way to learn more about hydraulic mechs than a pilot a fully built one. Ever since that conversation I've been sitting in anticipation to try their one-of-a-kind neck piloting experience. This is Prosthesis the anti-robot it is the world's first purpose-built sports mech and it's our flagship prototype in our quest to create a global mech racing league. I'm going to learn how to pilot it. Yes sir you're one of our pioneer mech pilot trainees. You are the first person who is not a world level elite athlete to strap in and take the full three-day crash course. So no pressure? No pressure. Alright! So it's a little intimidating where do we start? Okay we've actually broken down the process of mech pilot training into seven easy lessons. Alright so seven lessons then I can walk? Aha, Lesson one you gotta get in the mech. This is where you learn how to climb onto the machine properly, slither your way in and connect to the interface. Lesson two push-ups. I'm pretty good at those. Yeah it's basically like being in the gym except in the nine thousand pound mech suit. Lesson number three, standing up. This is when you combine your front leg pushups and your back leg push-ups to actually raise the whole machine. This is when liftoff happens. Lesson four, falling over. That's inevitably what comes after learning how to stand up. I can't flip it? We have never flipped the machine. We'll be making a point of keeping the pumps at a low enough power level that it would be virtually impossible for you to flip the machine. Lesson number five, we call tripoding. That's when you learn to stand on three legs and lift one leg. Lesson number six is stepping. It's a combination of tripoding and falling without actually falling over. Then lesson number seven, you tie it all together... walking. Where you start tying step after step. Easy! Yeah. You are now the heart of the machine. I feel like it. The machine is completely motionless without the pilot inside. Pilot closes the control loop of the whole machine. Equally you can't move until the machine is powered on so you are locked in there. So your arms control the outside legs of the machine and your legs control the inside legs of the machine. Well now that you're in the mech. You're ready for lesson two, which is push-ups and in order to do a front push-up you're going to just straighten your knees and that will extend these front legs here and push you over backwards. Power it up! Just the knees James, just the knees. Good Feel a little tippy. All the way! Full extension! I'm not gonna fall over? Nope. Now nice and easy back down. Now as you get more comfortable you can go a little quicker. You've totally got that under your belt so now we're going to move you to doing back leg push-ups. Smooth! That was fantastic! Smooth, stable, in control that was great. Standing, lesson number three. Is just a combination of front leg push-ups and back leg push-ups. We have liftoff! The man is standing in the mech! That was great! Lets do that again! That was great! Standing like you were born to. As you know i'm a busy guy when i'm not making projects videos or managing my business or driving giant hydraulic mechs. I like to keep my brain active and learn new things. Who has time to read a whole book these days? This video has been sponsored by Blinkist and I've been using it for the past year. It condenses over 3000 non-fiction books into just 15 minute insights that you can read or listen to podcast style. Plus if you like what you read you can also get full-length audiobooks at 65% off retail as a Blinkist premium member. I've been reading a lot of self-help books lately because i always want to be better to do better. Simon Sinek start with why offers amazing insight into why you should be in business and spoiler is never about the money. The first 100 people to check out Blinkist.com/thehacksmith are going to get unlimited access for one week to try it out. Completely free! You'll also get 25% off if you want the full membership. The next step is falling over. Now the way we induce falling over is through a balancing exercise called chassis rolls. So you'll stand up, roll the machine forward. I'm keeping my legs and arms straight. Yeah, But I'm moving my hips and shoulders? Exactly. Alright I am in the air! That's it. That's it! I feel like an elephant. Like that's how I train all the way up to balancing on two legs you just bring your legs closer, closer, closer and closer, and you start to make the machine more and more dynamic. I did it! You did it! Nice! It's totally different when you flip the legs eh? Yeah! It's interesting, fighting the instability. Yeah. Yeah you're doing better than most. Here we go you're on to lesson five! All in day one which is spectacular. So you'll start by just standing up and then shift your weight around using your new found skills until you feel the weight unloading from this one and you'll feel it in the exo-frame it'll start to feel like lighter and eventually you'll be able to lift it up and then you'll be tripoding. Alright the mech is yours James! Thousand pounds. So bend your, you gotta bend your knee to lift that foot. There you go. Perfect! What we've learned is that you have to pull the pilot out before they wear out. Let's like quit while we're ahead let that knowledge sink in overnight and come back and continue tomorrow. Awesome. Alright so today we're moving on to lesson five James. This is tripoding you sort of started getting that way when you were working on falling yesterday in lesson four. You've been a pretty quick study so far. So we're going to move you straight from tripoding to dynamic tripoding. Which is when you have two legs splayed in one direction on one side and then the other direction on the other side so you're in like this running man pose. Find out which way the machine wants to lean and then and lean into it and then try and lift the one leg that's unweighted. I might be getting ahead of myself. I think so Once you get that teeter-tottering effect the step is naturally comes out of it. I'm supposed to be tripoding but i just started stepping. We might need a bigger space for you. Do we have a bigger space? We got the whole ranch! Okay so you basically just blazed right through lesson five. Tripoding into dynamic tripoding and now you're stepping. Lesson six is supposed to be stepping. Yeah. It just felt natural. I just wanted to keep going. I mean you're basically in the middle of transitioning from step six to step seven which is walking. So rock and roll. That was a fall? That was a good old fall. Nice! Dude that was awesome! You had a full four point float! That's two legit steps. So which left leg should I bring forwards? I think you want to bring your outside outside leg forward. You're looking a little imposing at the moment. What did you say? Nothing sir nothing! That was freaking awesome. I took some steps! You didn't tell me to but it just felt right and I just. You just blasted right through tripoding Took a step and now you're sort of on your way to linking steps together like you've totally picked up on the fact that the leg that's farthest behind you is the next one to go. This is part of our quest to figure out what makes a mech pilot and i think the Hacksmith makes an mech pilot. Let's get walking. Yeah man, you got another day and a half. We'll have your gorilla stepping. Ooou. Alright James this is it. This is the culmination of everything that you have been training up to so far. This is the holy grail. This is step seven, walking. This is what you came here for. Arm arm leg leg. Arm arm leg leg. It's not so much you need instruction you just need practice like you're moving from from sort of padawan trainee into like mech athlete. Yeah! Oh! Ah this isn't bad at all. I get my balance back. Woooo Alright I think i'm gonna walk this back to Ontario. Okay we'll see you there. Maybe not. I'll still need some practice I think. You're still making progress! Alright that was freaking awesome. This thing looks amazing on video but actually in person it is just it's so massive it's so powerful and when you're inside it's it's ridiculous because you got the the inner exoskeleton that's translating your movements into the machine's movements and you're moving around an 8500 pound piece of this amazing engineering. It's it's freaking phenomenal. I'm curious to know how does uh your how do your expectations for what you had coming into this experience compared to what you have coming out of it, and how does how do the skills that you thought would be helpful compared to the skills that actually were helpful? Alright. Coming in I thought it was going to be difficult. I was a little concerned about being able to get a full walk in. I managed to do it with only a few few face plants. So i'm pretty happy about that. Having background as an engineer and being around hydraulic excavators and forklifts and bobcats definitely helped boost my confidence a little bit with operating such a big piece of equipment. Yeah. Then I think the other big key for me was I'm an ex-gymnast, rock climber, I work out quite a bit and to be honest like it's it's not a walk in the park in there like you actually are you gotta move your body to move the machine. I think having having a bit of strength really helped being able to push through some of those um awkward positions where you're like really fighting the center of gravity of the mech as you're trying to get back into a position where you can continue walking from. There's nothing like it on earth man. I'm so glad we got you out here to give it a give it a go. I can i can basically walk now. I still i still stumble a little bit but I think a little more practice and i'll be uh off to the racing league. Absolutely the Hacksmith team will be the first team in the league. I mean you made better progress than pretty much anyone we've strapped into it. Although you did have the accelerated program over four days so you had a bit of an advantage. It's only gonna get better now that you're training more and more pilots. Well exactly and we're actually launching a crowdfunding campaign in August to let people join the alpha pilot program and become one of the pioneers who shapes the sport and learns what it's like to pilot a mech as one of our first batch of pilots. Awesome you guys heard it here first make sure you check out the link in the description below to figure out how you can pilot this mech. Oh I almost forgot. What? Your official mech pilot license! No way! That is the first ever officially issued alpha class mech pilot's license. James you are now a part of history. That's freaking awesome. So you are the only other person on the planet to have one of these James Alright so this was probably one of my best experiences of my life which is saying something I've done a lot of cool S&^% If you guys want a chance to become a mech pilot yourself and learn how to pilot this thing. Make sure you check out that crowdfunding campaign. There are links in the description below. We're going to make this into a racing league. 