 So Mr. Preuit, he came to us from a short-term acute care hospital a little over a year ago, I believe, October 2018. He was diagnosed with ALS -- shortly after the diagnosis he was also diagnosed with throat cancer, which had to be taken care of immediately, so he had a lot of things going on once he got to the hospital. They decided that they needed to do a trach placement for him and to put him on the ventilator just to make sure that he's breathing properly. After he's been on the ventilator he had some complications, and after having those complications it was, you know, best for Mr. Preuit to come to Kindred to let us help rectify everything and really help him get on the road to recovery. Following the CDC guidelines and working with corporate and making the decision with our senior leadership team and  CCO the decisions were all agreed upon -- that the safety for the patients and the staff was to stop visitation, and it was very difficult because we had made such a commitment. She would bring items and you know, look through the window but she could not visit as Craig started working with us here in therapy. With physical and occupational therapy, you know he had good mobility, he was just very fatigued, very quickly. We asked Mr. Preuit what he thought about trying out the EKSO and at first he was very, he was hesitant, you know, just not know much about it. So we tried to explain what it was gonna do for him. We know what we were gonna be able to do with it and how it's more just, you know, just that extra little boost that he's gonna need to be able to do stuff. And so he agreed and that first day, I believe, we took ten steps. That was really, really touching because he'd been in bed for so long. I think it's a really, really good option for people that need that help. As we used the EKSO we progressed it further and further with him walking in it not only are we trying to progress him, you know, physically with his overall functional ability, but we're trying to progress him to where he can wean off the vent, and I strongly believe that gaining that confidence with the EKSO and showing these things that he can do we've reached the next level to where I believe he has that confidence to start weaning off the vent and try to really, you know, regain what he lost. with that vent. Getting to see Craig, you know, walk in the hallway and get him to see his wife for the first time, you know, walking and just the the confidence that he was expressing -- that happiness when his wife Marie and their other family members, they came and they saw him they had to look through the window, and the second that Marie saw Craig walking out, it was just a very emotional experience for everybody. It was, I think, seeing him as happy as he was and as lively as he was and you could just see with, you know, with him looking at his wife and they looked at each other like they were just, you know, just that pure joy and just, you know, all the craziness the pandemic and not being able to see each other every day, it all kind of went away for a few minutes I believe that we gave such a gift of hope to this family and to the staff, in the middle of all of the anxiety and anguish and learning what we're going through with COVID this family was given an absolute miracle. It was an amazing gift for the staff that day -- it's a moment that I won't ever forget. It's a moment that will really help me, you know, to strive with our next patient to try to get that.  