 I was at a point where I felt I was just existing, occupying space in the world when I saw this thing. It was divine intervention and technology meeting at a path. I was like, you know, I just looked up. My pain levels went down because when you used the ReWalk, you're engaging your core and the stronger the core, whatever you have left in my level, the more supportive your spine is. That's the way the doctor's explaining to me. it kind of freed me and broke the change from the painkillers, as I started using the ReWalk, I'm noticing less and less pain. I didn't like taking these painkillers. I don't like taking pills, period. Tapering down 20 milligrams at a time to where I got to the point where one day he asked me about refill on my prescription and I told him, I don't think I'm going to needed this. I want to give it a shot. I can get a night's sleep without an opioid. And this this is all because the exercise I was getting from the ReWalk. You know, engage your muscles and parts of my body. You just can't do in a chair, it is no way to do it. So I think it's a big improvement on how you look. It's a big improvement in quality of life. Before we just succumbing to my disability, now I call the shots. It's changed my whole attitude as I started using my what ifs were disappearing and I realized that is not a disability, it's a different ability because of the ReWalk. So I opened a whole new world for me and I started trying everything that came my way, everything I thought about. I wanted to try it, but I knew there was a way to do it a different way. But I can do it! First with the basketball from basketball, skydiving, paintball and scuba diving, softball. After the ReWalk, I just had this ambition to go for things and my doctor encouraged me to keep doing it. And on to this day, when I go to see him, he's always asking me about the adventure of the ReWalk i feel like a superhero sometimes. My doctor literally spoke about it, so I asked her if I could have one and and he said, yeah, he put it in the script and I have my own. So I think the same holds true for any veteran that meets the criteria. I know that ReWalk. If you have any issues, they'll help you out. But to my knowledge, you just simply pursuing at the VA actually a doctor you can have one. We are interested in a ReWalk interest in getting back on your feet, pursue this! It is going to change your life totally. 