 Hi welcome to Digital: Beyond Your Website, I hope to make your next few minutes worthwhile by walking you through a journey, of cultivating a Holistic Digital Ecosystem. My name is Nikhil Deshpande, I'm the Director for Georgia Interactive. Georgia Gov Interactive is a Digital Services ARM for the State of Georgia within the Georgia Technology Authority. The concept of digital services focuses on how we can serve our citizens best, with all the existing communication and interaction channels, how can we design interaction that creates the least friction. Let me start with a personal example, all of us probably at some point call our tech support; we have something here called Service Desk and if you're a state agency within Georgia you probably know what I'm talking about. We each have a different problem that we call in for and each of us probably have a different experience for how we are helped but for me I have a unique experience and I'm pretty sure somebody who shares a name like mine which is not an easy name for someone to understand, they share this experience with me. So the way I just introduce myself is never going to work when I call my service desk because it's just not enough for me to say I'm Nikhil Deshpande. For me it takes me to rely on a native phonetic alphabet chart to tell them exactly what my name is and then including my last name, it takes me 14 words for them to document my name. Then we move to the real problem. Now obviously, this is a problem for me and had my name been John Smith, I wouldn't have that problem right! So that's exactly what digital experiences are and the mapping of a journey, should help out with identifying these friction points. So how do I mitigate this? I changed my name! Not my real name, but when I call the service desk, I just give them the most recent ticket that's been resolved and they can just take the information from that literally saving me five minuets out of the day. It really gives me a lot of time collectively, to do anything positive then to keep spelling my name and using 15 words. The concept of service delivery is exactly this right! Towards the end of this presentation, I really want you to rethink how your organization or agency manages your citizen experience through your digital presence. For that I'll be going through these 4 sections: What digital presence means. How to gauge citizen experience. How do we cultivate a digital ecosystem and then what's next! So let's talk about what digital presence means and how does that tie in to your ecosystem. Ecosystem by definition from Oxford, is a biological community of interacting organisms and their physical environment. If you closely look at this definition you can see 3 main components; community, interactions and environment and that's exactly what an ecosystem comprises of. So when we think about an ecosystem we think about something like this, the holistic existence of something that we just enjoy as a whole. They're holistic approaches but there are interactions and there are several organisms existing within an ecosystem. There are several kinds of ecosystems for sure but they're all economists and they're pieced together by all these elements that interact and depend on each other right! Normally we identify an ecosystem as a sum of the parts but truly if you want to understand how something works, we have to closely look at all the elements. Every element has a goal, a voice, it has needs and some dependencies. And as we understand the dynamic between these elements and the causes of friction, we start to understand the ecosystem a lot better. Now as a natural ecosystem, we probably might have very little influence or how we can change an ecosystem in itself but when it comes to a digital ecosystem within our organization, we actually have every possible benefit of our influence on changing how our interactions with customers and how that ecosystem can be better. Just take a look at the last few decades of how state agencies have been delivering services to citizens right, because the evolution has been tremendous. For a long long time constituents only dependent on physical locations, through physical mail and then after a certain time just you know calling in or faxing! Fax itself was quite quite a big achievement from technology right because like wow you just send a paper and then just hope and pray that it lands in the right hands on the other side but everything changed when the web came along. When the web emerged the one-on-one interaction between service representatives and citizens, which was a huge part of the relationship by the way everything moved online, that personalization aspect kind of went away. As much as we can do anything on the web, the citizens truly are seeking that experience right! Because really nothing changes that concept of being served on a personal basis. So even though the independence from an in-person citizen service is what most of the organization's are striving because of maybe you know just cost reduction or just efficiencies we, want to make sure that these new channels still give the customer the same feeling of being able to talk to someone or being able to serve the way they were served in a one-on-one interaction. As the channels keep growing it only gets challenging because the experience that we were hoping to give them on a web now certainly they expect it to be in the pan or palm of their hands right through mobile channels, apps and then the interaction also not is contained within the web or on the website. It also moved to a social platform where now other people are able to help them, other people are able to have a conversation and if we are not part of that conversation we lose over chance, we lose that opportunity to either set the record straight or to inform our citizens of any upcoming changes. Our interaction then starts becoming very passive and unresponsive rather than proactive but as this landscape keeps growing with chat BOTS and automated tools trying to serve our constituents, really the challenge is how do we manage everything? Because when we look at the existing channel landscape and these are just showing few them, we realized that citizens engage with organizations across so many different channels and depending on which channel they are comfortable with, they will cling on to it and expect the same level of experience that they would otherwise get from other channels. Organizations with multi channel ecosystem should aim that independent channel interactions really have to coordinate right across other channels to create that one instance of consistent citizen experience. Because in most organizations what happens if each of these channels are managed in a silo and when that happens while that one particular department can control how that channel delivers, it is really hard for the citizen to get the overall experience if they have to shift across channels. This is where, if every department has their own message that is pushed to channel granted if that message is loosely aligned with the overall organizational message it still creates a lot of variations and then becomes a lot of confusions for our citizens and then they start depending on other channels to kind of just verify to make sure that the message they are getting is indeed true. We can do that because that just raises our costs on our side so how about we work towards an ecosystem that really centralizes that message. The channel just becomes a way of delivery and this is where exactly we need to know what what is it that we need to say that our citizens, our constituents, can leverage any channel for that. We need to understand our citizen better and that is where we need to talk about how do we gauge that citizen experience. As we just kind of say, who is our end user? As a state agency, we can say pretty much like anyone who wants our service right and in George! But I'm really what we need to do is take a step back and before embarking on like any digital project, we need to make sure that we nail this down. Who is it that you are doing this for, who is that's going to be using it? Only then our applications, our websites or whatever that project we are working on, is going to be successful. It is then possible to identify the features and the functionality that we hope to roll, you know that would define the success of that application. Also the content and the design that can support citizens and essentially their goals and also you know the skill levels right because everyone has a different spectrum of technical or cognitive ability. There are many ways to identify these needs of citizens you know such as all kinds of testing the usability testing, interviews discussions, you know business stakeholders, their knowledge of what their citizens might be needing or just conducting surveys. However like the key aspect of documenting all of these, is personas. Personas is the development of an optical user to direct that vision and design of a solution. It's the best way to model, summarize and communicate, that people who have been observed in research are represented on you know one piece of paper that informs business stakeholders and development teams to focus on that particular user group not just a generic mass of people. So this is what typically a persona looks like, it's a piece of paper that documents all of these things. The personas, while they aid in visual design and creative decision making, they're also very helpful in grounding decisions. Because they are based out of quantitative and qualitative data and if you are aware through your analytics and your other data sources, you can create a better persona. But while a persona is usually presented as a one-pager document, it is more than just a fictitious set of data. It is, it is a way to communicate and summarize your research and pattern to also other stakeholders within your organization who might be able to be as to what your end user looks like. So this fundamental understanding of your citizen is what is truly important as step one, before you can embark on any of your next projects. But we shouldn't be stopping just at the personas because while there is an essential part of what constitutes the goal-directed process, they are not really effective in isolation. They are very effective when they are implemented with other concepts and methods like scenarios and goal identification, so understanding a scenario of then where and how the person interacts with your organization makes us understand the sequence of events. Viewing from inside out organizations have the view of sediment interactions in bits and pieces, in silos like we saw earlier, where they're occurring and you know they can manage their own silo. But what truly need to understand is that journey that goes from point A to point B, because that's what actually puts everything in context. What this actually does, is it actually changes the view of organizations from the inside out, to outside in! It puts the entire interaction in context and fragmented understanding is really chronic for any organization, where performance indicators are the internal goals, are assigned for individual development, a department or group. Right, because many organizations rarely be peace all of these together from an entire experience perspective from a citizen standpoint. This shared vision is a critical you know aim of any journey mapping, so how do we do that? For that we need to map over citizen journey. A citizen journey really combines 2 powerful elements, storytelling and visualization. Because it's the process that a citizen goes through in order to accomplish their goal and while they accomplish their goal, it reflects on where and how they interact with our organization. So a citizen journey map typically looks something like this, there is no standardized template but this is what we use within the state of Georgia. It's a holistic view of a citizen's experience and as we look through each of these components of this view, we can tell exactly where is it that the citizen is struggling. Alright, so the first thing that we really need to kinda understand is the process of how does the citizen go through interacting with our department, if they're using a certain program or a certain application, so all the agencies who have applications that cater to our citizens, they can actually have each of these journeys dedicated towards that application. The first thing is the process right, so for using any application a citizen has to first say, discover that there is this program that I could be using, then they educate themselves on that program than they apply to be part of the program, they then they adapt it and they are a repeat user and then you know us as an organization, has to work towards retaining them to be able to use that program. So this journey kind of maps that and every stage is broken into steps, that actually reflects what steps are taken by the citizen to be interacting with that program or with our organization. Once that's done, then we focus on exactly what the touch points are that the citizens use to interact with our organization. A touch point typically represents the specific interaction between a citizen and your organization which includes probably devices or multiple channels as we saw earlier. Essentially, every interaction is a specific task that has been completed and the citizen journey is made by these series of touch points and once we document all of those touch points are, then they can move to kind of mapping what is their experience. The experience really reflects on, okay this is a touch point where that experience dipped as far as in as you can see there is a smiley face and a frowny face. If a certain touch point with a certain step dips, that experience turns to a frowny face then we know that you know this is where they're having a problem but then who owns it and this is where our departments come in. We can map our department to that particular interaction so based on where the interaction skews up or down you know we can see if there is a problem or if there is something that is actually working out for our citizen. So essentially a journey mapping sheds light on the real human experiences that often organizations know very little about. Once this is all filled out and populated, typically it should look like this right. There is a mapping done, their departments been identified, their touch point in identified and then this gives the organization a unified citizen experience. This visualization can actually engage otherwise disinterested stakeholders from your organization across, maybe different groups and spur a collaborative conversation. Trust me, when your department is up on the chart and the experience shows that it's dropped, than you will get that department's attention. So let me just give you a quick example: Department of Revenue in Georgia typically has been sending out a lot of snail mail or you know physical letters to citizens for informing them for several you know whatever the reason they need to be in phone about. One of the things the citizens lately have been doing and all of us can relate to that, is we need to know if this is legit! What is the way to find out well I need to call them right? So when people start calling the Department about all these letters that are getting from the Department of Revenue, what happens that it drives their call a volume up. They saw that they were having to really you know, bump their call centers to just to be able to kind of have all these calls accommodated. So one of the things that they did was they put this one pager on their website, did you get a letter? If you did what kind it is, you click on it and their citizens get the next steps based out of this information. Not only they just put this page up there and just hope that you know people will find out about it, then mention this page on the letter. Now the citizen know immediately when they read the letter that that they have the next step, not to call but to go on their website and check where their next steps lie for them. Essentially what Department Revenue did was they devoted that traffic from their call centers to their website, which not only saved them from a cost perspective; citizens didn't have to wait on the phone for like a long time to get their one little question answer that is this legit and what's my next step, right! So a citizen journey mapping, even though journeys can be really integrated long or really short journeys, can really highlight these problem and that's why we need to map those journeys. It shifts the perspective of an organization from inside out to outside in, it's more citizen focused, it is also you know really helpful in creating a shared organization wide vision. Because it really breaks down these silos and shows the big picture. It makes internal owners aware of like we own these channels and if an experience is dipping across our channels, it's our job to kind of you know make it better. We pretty much can identify where the gaps, where we can actually have some opportunities makes things better and then of course you have to be responsible for doing that. So it's really important we kind of set that baseline. So once we have that baseline of our experience, then we can start working on cultivating our digital ecosystem right. So having a baseline is good, the next step is not just jumping into the digital solutions part of it but we need to revisit our goals. Why is it that we are doing this and goals really need to be aligned with our citizen goals right, because it's truly the end goal is for us to serve the citizens. We need to check individual goals based on the organization or departments or individuals have to align with our citizens goals and at any point, we can say that if our goals are essentially pointing to our citizens we always end up becoming success, successful. So just to revisit you know this is Business School 101, any business priorities as you can say, is to increase revenue, increase in your business, expand existing business, expand or increase stakeholder value and drive down costs. But hey this is business, we are...you know government; how does it apply to us? It absolutely does! So for example, if you're an agency Commissioner or a CIO, what would be your priorities when it comes to a digital presence? !t will be the same thing right, for example most of the agencies get federal funding to have programs that citizens use, so for that; citizen participation is key. Because increasing the revenue is you know, really map to like our participation increase because the more people participate the more valuable that program is going to be to reaching outdoor citizens. For that, we need to focus on new signups right, so in so the increased reach part of it is translated into new signups. Also for new signups, we also want to make sure that they can leverage existing services. We can expand the reach to existing constituents for people you know who don't know about some other services. How does that translate to our stakeholder value? It absolutely helps our legislators to get a glimpse of how programs are doing and how you know they could keep funding those programs. But having a citizen focused view and having everything mapped on a journey, really going to helps us drive those costs down like you know the Dept of Revenue did with just a web page and driving all that traffic away from their call center onto you know, something that is just out there and you know a hit on a web page costs almost nothing compared to a call for you know, per citizen to a call center. So really the value of this mapping is to also enhance you know what your vision is for your future goals are, for your department goals are and will shine a light on where those goals need to be updated or new goals that need to be created. The next step after we have our goals in place is to audit your channels, you know we talked about the channel being the medium of interaction between a citizen and your organization. So there may be various channels, various types of channels in your current state. And at this point, we can safely say that there are 2 kinds of channels; 1 is a uni-directional channel and the other is a bi-directional channel. Uni-directional typically are the ones where you know citizens immediately don't have an interaction! There's just being you know consumers, of information be it their experience on the website, or a printed material, or just maybe like a voice mail that's left from organization. But bi-directional channels are more interactive, they include you know website, or even traditional in-person conversation, or on the phone conversation but that's a bi-directional channel. So while we have all of these channels present up here, lately what I've seen across organizations is, we have started confusing channels with devices! Channels are not devices they are, devices can enable channels but we need to avoid this confusion of focusing on devices at the expense of channels because when we focus on devices there is nobody who can claim responsibility for that particular channel. So when we look at what are our channels we see a spectrum of how channels are supporting an organization. This is exactly all of the things that a citizen would use to interact with your organization. Then each channels experience can sometime or you know sure differ, depending on the device that the accessing, so I'm not discounting the role of devices but first we need to be channel focused. Some channels are going to be device specific and this is where we move into, after we understand what the channels are, then we start looking at what the devices are! For example a mobile phone is the most you know flexible device that can support maximum channels but it's still a device. We still have to focus on who owns each of those channels regardless of where those channels are actually consumed from. As you can see there are certain channels like email that could flow across the mobile phone, a tablet, a laptop, or even a SmartWatch. Like then, how do you manage that experience across these devices? So if someone is just focused on a device you know, the whole channel mindset gets destroyed and that actually causes a lot of friction with our citizen experience. The way to do that is we first need to gauge how do they interact with us and while the customer journey, the citizen journey, can map it for us; we really kind of have to study over data of how that interaction happens. So having existing channels at this point, your organization definitely is collecting data, the usage patterns. If you look at that data that you're already collecting through your maybe your web analytics or your call centers or any other form of your data collection, you can tell what the citizens are looking for on your site. How do they interact with you or even why do they call you? And this is where again going back, it can actually show us that this is where the dip is happening. We need to zero down on that particular data point and then see okay, this is the delivery, this is the department that is responsible for it. And then going back to the data piece of it, start looking at okay this is where the start, this is where to go... from where they go, and this is the flow and this is the dip. Data is a fascinating story teller, so based on the user's pattern analytics, it will tell you exactly where citizens are having friction and choosing to drop off. Instead you know, they'll just jump on a call or even worse man they'll just walk in and you know, spend half of the day just to get that answer you know for what they're looking for; it really doesn't help with our customer experience! Data helps, so having this data obviously you know we can we can all agree that data is huge and the way we mind it, the way we make sense out of that, it's just a fragment of the overall existence of data. But you know we know that we don't have infinite resources to do that, so how about this, open your data! Have the constituents interact with your data, maybe you know we can visualize it, maybe constituents can actually you know, make some apps to make sense of the usage patterns and everything else that happens with your data and do enable this within the state of Georgia. We have a data repository, it's called Data.Georgia.gov and this is where agencies can upload their data and this particular repository normalizes that. So once the data is available, then the agencies can visualize them however they want and serve them on their website though stories and making sure that the data has that context around why they are actually showing these numbers. Also by doing this one thing that we are doing in the state or as government is, we are establishing trust! For us in government, we know we can you know chomp on to any opportunity to establish trust with our citizens. So having that trust that really helps, because a lot of times like citizens you know kinda just don't trust what information they are getting because they know a lot of times like governments are not up to the par of you know being on that data or content delivery side. Just to give you one example, Department of Motor Vehicles across the country is known as DMV but in Georgia it is know as Department of Drivers Services. So for someone who has just moved to Georgia, if they just put a DMV in the Google search, this is what they get. So they don't know exactly where this data is coming from and actually it is not coming from our official Driver Services website. I'm not say this data is wrong or is misleading on purpose but this is where they don't know because the site says .org and even as we drive down, trickle in into the details of the data; it was all coming from a website that is not owned by a government agency. It's privately owned as claimed on that website and I would add blindness you know kind of makes us not look at that but this is there anyone with maybe malicious intent, can actually mislead our constituents, our citizens. So it is our job to make sure that our presence should be good enough, well enough for search engines and something you know that is algorithmic based in nonhumans can actually collect. So this is where we really need to kind of make sure our content is really well structured and it's in place. What's next? What's next is content! We need to prioritize our content. As any state agency, or as any organization, we need to start thinking about content strategically. It is a mindset! When I say content, I don't mean just content for your website, I mean content across your channels. When we talked about that one single source of message, that's exactly what I mean when I say structured content. Because strategically created content, always is easy to flow across channels. One that when that happens you know, the citizen experience is very consistent and can really elevate that friction that causes when messages change depending on which channel they call into. Structured content really, structured information, is content that is separated in independent parts. Because it makes its behavior more predictable, because its independent parts are labeled and they have context wrapped around it and when we leverage content management systems, it makes it a lot easier for these parts to just trickle across these channels. The most easiest way to understand structured content is this, right! We all have experienced forms, paper forms or printed forms, like however it is in our life. Well we take certain content and we put a structure around it. While as a consumer, we didn't understand why that structure needs or what does that 12-B or 12-C means? We later found out when you know the technology revolution through mobile devices happen to apps, where companies started using simple things like a form but like you know hey, if your form is just, if your tax return is just upfront; all you're gonna do is just you know use our app and we'll do the rest. Ad: Turbo Tax This year make your taxes of snap with a snap tax app from TurboTax. Just snap a photo of your W-2 and it automatically imports all your info and fills in all the right places. Just answer some easy questions and Snap Tax guides use your maximum refund so you can be confident your taxes are done right. You can check out a preview of your complete return and with snap tax your info is encrypted so you can file securely. You can even set up direct deposit and then e-file right from your phone so you can get your refund fast-End Ad. This was from back in 2014 so in today's date, in 2017, this is not a novel concept; we know this happens. But the nuts and the bolts of the why this happens, is structured content. Having structured content where anything can identify that content by its placement, by its place on you know a certain schema, it really helps again you know going through the future processing of what happens with that content. Structured content really makes the flow easy across channels and it doesn't really mean that content only gets sucked in and you know it means to be structured in a paper form, it can also work in reverse, it can go both ways. Because structure, structure is what makes that content fluid and relevant. Your content for an organization could actually sit in a common repository, in one place and can be distributed across channels right. We just talked about that earlier and we have been doing that. So if you are a state agency hosting on the GeorgiaGov platform and your content is sitting on that platform, your content is already structured. If you're using content types that are provided to you, your content is already structured. Recently, the state of Massachusetts actually have a really helpful video to explain how structured content works and how structured content can be distributed across channels without having to duplicate content. Video playing: End Video. So as you saw, it can be literally just sent across channels as long as it sits in one place and it is structured. It's really time for us to stop thinking about or content in form of just webpages or your website. Start thinking about like how different channels could actually use the same piece of content that you are creating. So for that, we truly need to kind of start moving from a web page based idea to more of an Application Programming Interface also known as API's right, because we just need to unleash our content and unleash our data and let other people use it. Let other people actually kind of...we'll be surprised with where they can actually purpose our content. We still control over content right, so there is no way for them to do anything with it other than just indicate it and use their own devices because your device is like getting more and more you know varied across market. Like we already are at a place where we know exactly what smartphones can deliver but then we have watches and now lately we have conversational interfaces. Conversational interfaces are really unique because that just takes the screen aspect of it all the way from the interaction right, because it's all based on speech recognition and synthesized speech. It's an intelligent interface that really is you know, breaking new ground specifically for government. This is the interface of the future! Honestly made you know, even more necessary as computing propagates beyond like the existing laptops and the tablets and the smartphones right, like the whole intelligence aspect of it is the beauty because it combines these voice technologies with natural language understanding and the intention behind the spoken words. It's not just about you know voice of cognition and just giving you the needed answer. This is really futuristic to communication where you know even though if you're a disabled user you don't have to rely on a screen and something a technology on top of that to read that screen to you. You can just have a conversation like you haven't in your real life. The State of Georgia is you know really kind of at the front of this and we are working on a pilot project with our development partner Acquia to work on a conversation on an interface to make content on the state of Georgia conversational. We are trying to kind of make sure that people regardless of their abilities and disabilities, can just talk to Amazon Alexa and get the needed answer that they're looking for! Ad: Alexa; start GeorgiaGov! Welcome to GeorgiaGov, feel free to ask the question! How do I renew my driver's license? Does this sound helpful "getting and renew your drivers license"? Yes! "The Department of Driver Services help you earn, renew or replace learner's permits and licenses. To carry a full license for everyday non-commercial vehicles you must be at least 16 years old" End Ad. This is a brand-new effort basically where you don't have to duplicate content but at the same time, just having that single repository from Georgia.gov website, we can syndicate that content to chat interfaces. So to recap, the last you know 35 or so minutes that we have spent; we need to think beyond the screen. We really need to kind of start thinking about the whole organizational presence from a citizen facing perspective. You know, we need to be that omni-channel mindset and you know having technology agnostic mindset of solutions. Because if we start getting bogged down in devices or certain technology, we're not really doing this service to other citizens. We also need to make content strategy a priority. I cannot begin to tell you how many agencies have content as just as an afterthought. We need people, we need content people! There are specialists out there who can actually take responsibility of your website and then really come up with a content strategy for how your organization is presented to the citizens. This takes a lot of work, it's not just enough to just send someone an email or send someone you know a PDF and say upload this on the website. Your website has to be that you know Oracle of content repository but also trickling out through several channels and someone with a content trained skill set, is able to do that. We really need to as an organization, have to be ready for a cultural shift because I mean culture literally eats strategy for breakfast right. So in this case it's true, just like any other case if our organizational culture doesn't really kind of help with implementing some of these futuristic solutions, then it's not going to help at all. I hope this presentation was helpful for you all, if you have any questions feel free to reach out to me using this email: nikhil.deshpande@gta.ga.gov I'm also active on Twitter so if you have a question by all means tweet to me or I'll be very happy to you know hop on a call and talk to you or anyone within your agency, to make them understand the whole Digital Holistic Digital Strategy aspect. Some of the resources that really saw like personas and content mapping and the citizen journey, they're all located at this resource on this bitly link so feel free to use that for your agency to create a change within your organization. If you have any question beyond that, we'll be happy to answer the any suggestion for that, we'll be happy to see what you have to say to make those better. So any questions? From the Audience (see video screen)  ADA, now that's a great question. The question was, how do we make sure that you have ADA compliance across all these channels? Honestly, one of the things that we do is we always think about the accessibility aspect of it, while we are planning, our interaction. That really kinda needs to go through any of the any of the project that you are working on. That's also one of our, we have talked about accessibility in the past and its truly a very key element of how we function. Its one of the key elements of how we want to make sure that we deliver services, we really make that a requirement. If something is not accessible what can we do to make it accessible, Right! From a content perspective, like the example of the DOR aspect of it, it's truly a content specific situation. People aren't going to understand what those documents are but you know when we go back and fix it, it's going to happen. The good thing about these channels they can only cater to a certain audience. From an organization perspective you want to make sure that you're not hinging upon these one channels to deliver one kind of information that is not accessible to any other channel. So this is again, kinda where the strategy comes in to make sure that there's a way to make Alexa accessible to someone who has a speech impediment or you know a hearing loss but for them, we have other channel but the key is, the information should not be locked into a channel that is...accessible and hostile because someone cannot be using that one channel. Any other questions? Well if not, feel free to find anyone for other questions and I really hope you come back for Kendra's and then Jasymne's sessions because Kendra's focusing on the content specifics and Jasymne focused on the user aspect of like how do we really kinda of nail down the understanding aspect of the users, and she'll be showing some of the cool stuff we did with the Dept. of Child Support Services including usability testing. Thank you all! Thank you again for sitting through this presentation I hope this helped you and again very happy to help you in the future. 