 In a way I've been really thinking a lot in Microsoft, and how to design a conversational AI system. Cortana is just one of them. Another why I want to bring your attention to, is actually Chatbots. So we actually shipped as a first Chatbot in China, about three and a half years ago. It is called Xiaoice in China. Now actually, she has about 100 million users in China and they're talking to her, on average, 23 turns. And she's actually very, very talented in China and then she's even hosting a TV program, morning news program in Shanghai with over 800 million viewership. And she recently actually demonstrated her ability to write poems. She actually published a poetry book amazingly, helped the Chinese users to write over 2 million poems. And just so you understand that the scale, the number of poems. That's more than all the poems ever published in the history of China. So that's only in China. In Japan, a year later, we actually launched in Japan called Rinna, the chatbot Rinna. And it's even more popular in Japan, 25% of Japanese population have already talked to Rinna in Japan. And she's also now powering a chatbot for Nintendo's Pokemon, so. And then of course right here in the United States as some of you might remember exactly a year ago we celebrated the arrival of Zo, our own chatbot here in the US. In just a year I'm happy to tell you that she actually has over a million users. Just like Xiaoice and Rinna, and Zo actually has developed several AI driven senses like voice recognition, image recognition, and the social commenting, and the natural language understanding. People can now rhyme with Zo in a rap battle, and it's really amazing, or challenge her for a game of Exploding Kittens. Or even interact with her newest friend, Poppy, a popular YouTuber. It's just amazing the things that you can do with the chatbots. But then you might wonder, so why did you pay so much attention to chatbots? Let me just say that chit chat Is characteristic of human beings, just go home and think about this. So most of the intelligent agents today like Siri or Cortana focus on passive completion or IQ. Get things done within the skill chaining like what you just saw from Christina's demo, is fabulous. It's really helping get things done. But it is the emotional intelligence, or the EQ, that enables sustained conversations or dialogues, which will be critical to truly understand the human users. So by engaging with the people on a much more social and personal level, and our chatbots are developing their EQ's. So learning how to react, respond, and then based on the data that from those human interaction. So then, we can take those learnings and apply them to many other products. So if course you know, in Microsoft, not only we do those conversational AI products, we also make sure that our AI investment will be infused into all Microsoft products and services, that it drive deeper and more personal experiences. The first place we start of course would be Windows. You know, Windows is already using machine learning and computer vision, for example, to help you to personalize your photos and videos. It's really amazing to think about the explosion of digital photos. On average, for a Windows user, In every year, the user would take 52,000 photos. There's no way you can keep track of so many photos and to do something with those photos until now, with the help of AI. Let's roll the video and show you what we have been doing with Windows photo in the video.  Today, we capture more photos and videos than ever before in history. And we are building a suite of AI driven tools within Microsoft Photos to transform the way of the next generation of Windows users' dreams, captures, and expresses themselves. This month we shipped a brand new search system that uses machine learning to let you find people, places and things in your photos. To give you a starting point for creating videos we've created systems that automatically generate movies from your media. Special effects are some of the most coveted feature by our Gen Z audience. So we are using computer vision and AI to track objects in your videos. Just ink a doodle, anchor it, and watch it follow something in the video. We are excited to be bringing differentiated experiences based on AI and machine learning to over 250 million devices every month.  Everything is going to become more intelligent as you think about that. Managing of files, creating, and all those things. 