 Hi guys, I'm Jon Rhodes, one of the co-founders of Paper we are a user research and design studio and we design things like websites and apps and software and we've had a go at doing a chatbot it's worth saying that as Paper, we're pretty new but we've been doing this work for a while we set up Paper about eight months ago and when we set up we just wanted to do things a little bit differently one of the things that we do is we we kept about 20 cent of our time to spend on non-client work, stuff that doesn't pay the bills and part of that twenty percent of time we thought we'll public our R&D projects and what talking about today is our first one of them. Today talking about can you design a chatbot quickly, does it meet user needs, I'll come on to them a bit more detail later, and why context of important and all this through the story of car park. This building is called globe works and it's where we've got studio it's just on the outskirts of Sheffield and it's and old cutlery factory, might be one of the first the world and it's a grade-two star listed building. And that is one of carparks. On the floor you can see some cobbles and because of the restrictions of grade 2 star listedness it means you can't touch those cobbles. You can't put lines on you can't mark out parking spaces or anything like that. And that causes a problem. And that's the problem. So the first picture I took at seven o'clock one morning I got into work early so that picture one lunchtime last week and and that's how the car park looks every single day it's really easy to explain the problem but what is their way in and out of car park it's a little narrow archway So, as an example, if you're that car to get out you've got ask those four vehicles to move. And we'd been globe works for about a couple weeks we've been seeing this crap from our window day in day out, so we set ourselves a bit of challenge that challenge can we do something to help globe works out. As we do with everything and our day jobs will start things by talking to people and this was no different. So we put these flyers in all the pigeonholes of the business of the globe works and it affected says can you spare is a few minutes to have a chat and we spoke to five businesses. A bit of theme came back which is comments like this someone saying "I get blocked in I don't know what to do' someone else saying "If I get blocked in after a reception closes I literally have no idea what to do". And part of what we do that job is translating what people say and they are often vastly different we translate this into "Parking is shit'. And from there we have a user need. A user need is something that we live and breathe at Paper, but understand some may not. They are the need of a user the need of someone is going to be try to design. It's not a woolly requirement it's not a senior stakeholders shouting and saying I want that. It's something that something needs we write them in form a the user story so for this we have As a tenant of globe works I need to know the phone number of the person blocking me So that I can get a phone number give them a call. And we were off we had started our first product we were that happy that we wrote it on a post-it note took a picture put it on Instagram we were off. And that product is a chatbot that manages the car park at globe works, and the idea is that you can put in the registration details the car that's blocking you in and get the phone number out pretty quickly. That's what we were aiming to do. And its job is to stop this this is angry Jon blocked in and the car parks swearing at his phone because his blocked in and wants to get out. Or the serious side is you could be stuck trying to get to meeting or you could be trying to pick the kids up from school Or get to an appointment. These are a couple of pictures from our early design work just some very quick for a simple storyboarding. Things about how a chatbot might interact with someone Dead simple stuff, we found a free online tool you can do comic book style stuff and you just have a play around them and we called the chatbot Kev for two reasons; one it's a great name and two, is we want it to appear human like you're talking to someone and I wouldn't want to give it a robot a name or a number anything like that we just wanted to give it name of someone you made a pub called it Kev. And this is the first prototype of Kev it's just done in a Google document basic stuff but it's the start of the script of Kev and it's just detailing interactions of how Kev could talk to you if you're trying to find the details of the car to get out. Very simple stuff but it works that's a first prototype. The actual chatbot is built using something called Botkit that holds the chatbot that you access it via something called Slack which if you've not heard of it it's like an instant message system loads people usually it's very clever and that's what we used to deliver this. 2 days later had Kev working. We spent about one day speaking to the businesses getting together all the registration details and then we spent about one day actually building, and this was the time that we're set up Paper, so they weren't full days either and were trying to grow our business and start our business and stuff like that but yeah two days. And this is Kev working on slack you kick it off by saying hey you're hello or something like that it's got northern dialects in there so if you say 'oreyt' or 'nah then' it works. It asks you a few questions you put in your registration plate and it tells you the phone number, the name of the comapny and the perosn best blocking you in. Basic stuff the but that's Kev working, caveated in that it works long as the registration numbers in database. But that's Kev. Does it work? Yeah it does. So if you're logged on to Slack it takes less than a minute to get phone number out and we didn't set any acceptance criteria or anything like that but we were happy with him in it less than a minute. Put your stuff in, get your phone number out Part of what we what we do the Paper it is test things with people so we do usability testing and Kev was no different. Hopefully the audio on a few clips is all right family and it feels like actually talking to a human OK, from memory, she's saying that it's not like not talking to a robot like talking to a person we're happy with that. This person , for me, personally I love it s it helps me with the car park issue. They use it every day and it helps out ne end. And this next one about language and 'Iit's nice and friendly and it feels like you're actually speaking to a person, better than the cold lanugague of a robot. So, successful? no we made a pretty big mistake and that misake is that we jumped really fast into the delivery mechanism platform in which to get Kev. And that thing that said a minute ago that's real good thing if you logged in the Slack it takes less than a minute to get phone number out. The thing about that is Slack, we put a huge, huge barrier in front of Kev and so to get onto Slack like you need to be invited or you need to request access you need to create an account, sign in the whole idea about this is that you using it on the phone and a car park that really should be downloading the app as well therefore you got to sign in and take a bit of time to get used to it. But that's a big ask yeah we didn't really consider that. So in the first week 35 people signed up for Slack and we were really chuffed with that. That's a lot of people in globe works. Now six people and three of them work at Paper. We did some more testing with Kev This guy because I know it's a bot I don't really want to be chatting with it Is saying, he's used it before, he knows it's a bot he doesn't give a shit about that, he just wants to put in a registration number and we saw on before you have to kick it in by saying hello or oreyt or something like that and that's frustrating. Exactly the same point on this one. Saying exactly the same thing, sometimes if you use it more than once, I don't wanna chat I just want to get cracking with it it. This last one but language and the ends with high five and he says I've no idea what to reply to a robot that's just said high five. Stuff we've learn. we jumped way too fast into using Slack and I'll come onto something else in a minute bit yeah way too fast for that. And the aim of all this has to be something the user needs and that's because user needs rule everything. So if we think back to that user need that we had before, which is as a tenant globe works I need to know the phone number of person blocking me in so I can get a phone number and give them a call. If we think of that user need then maybe something as simple as a business card on the dashboard of a car does it. It's got my name, it's got a phone numner, my company the zero barrier to all this, you don't need an app, you don't need to download anything you can just get out of your phone and give someone a call. Kev isn't dead, he's working absolutely fine. He's in my pockets working absolutely fine and just needs a bit more thought really. And this was just a brain dump of everything, it's not meant to be legible I spent about two minutes thinking about what Kev could be used for in the sense of globe works and there's tons you could get it so reports maintenance issues, you could get it so that if you've got a visitor notified something like that. You could have it so contracts are automatically told when your contracts expiring and there's a lot of businesses in globe works and we should know what each other's doing we've don't, because if we did you be able to pass across work we should be able to find vacances just to so much stuff and this is all that Kev could do. So whilst we went too fast with kev and slack because it's built using the Botkit thing for he chatbot thing it can easily be swapped to work by a SMS of text missing or facebook or skype or other things and and can be easily done So the stuff to take away yeah it can be really quick test a chatbot. It took us two days in between growing a business and that first prototype is just google document so you can do it on a Google document or kind or pen and paper doesn't need to be all singing and all dancing clickable stuff and testing we collared five people and you go to a coffee shop and and do testing like that, it's dead simple. context is huge so you need to be thinking about where users are based and what devices are using all stuff like and if they're already accessing different system so some of the businesses in Globe both use skype which is similar to Slack so straight away why would they sign up to another instant messaging system. You need to think about whether people are tech-savvy the context is huge it just needs a lot of thought and then the language thing. If the video is working the copy and the content in those videos is basically two things, some people are saying they like the chattiness of the chatbot, they like that it's human and then the flip side is people just want the bot side of it, they don't want to talk to something just won't get information out I think there's a thin line and Kev just needs a bit of work is halfway there but just needs a little bit of tweaking and then this last thing is the whole idea is that we spent two days on this we didn't spend a lot time hardly any money whatsoever it's okay to try it out if it works great if not change it and that's kind of the message for this really 