 Hello and welcome back to Growth Insights #9. A lot of tools this week, and not so much reading. Before we get started… did you know that Youtube allows you to move around the subtitles on this video? Pretty cool huh? Alright so let’s kick off with some tools. We’re actually gonna focus on Facebook for the first half of this video and then just before you get an overdose, we’ll move on to greener pastures Now some channels decay over time as these channels become increasingly saturated users and consumers defend themselves with what we mention in episode 2: “Attentional Filter” This is also called banner blindness or as Andrew Chen calls it “The law of shitty clickthrough rates” Now, one effective way to get past this filter is to get creative with assets and formats. Thankfully Facebook is a place where formats possibilities change regularly (images, videos, carrousels and now GIFS) So Paolo heard about 3D gifs and just jumped on it. He has been playing around with a small focus trick on the camera that allows you to create this depth effect. Brace yourself James Cameron. Here are the ones Paolo has made. This is attempt number 1, this is attempt number 2… You can tell that is getting a lot better. If you’re interested check out this tutorial on how to build them… And if you need some inspiration on what you can do search for “3d splitdepth” on Giphy Now… If you don’t have the lens or the patience to make these 3d videos, normal videos are still a good option for for social networks. We shared lumen5 in episode #4 to make a video in seconds, here’s a new similar tool that has more options You’ll be making Kubrick style videos in seconds Now speaking of videos, Facebook and laziness… now that Facebook allows you to have a video as your Facebook page cover, I figured this free set of videos suited for that would be great for you. No creativity required and you can have a video up and running in seconds Still on the subject of Facebook, thanks to Jim for sharing this use case where we find out that Facebook is testing with 0% reach in countries like Slovakia. If this continues, it means that Facebook likes are going to become absolutely worthless So that means that you’ll have to keep paying to get reach on everyone’s favourite social network Facebook… speaking of which This is one of the best tools Quentin has found on Facebook lately, I also completely fall in love with it. So first of all Bigbigads has a directory of 14 M Facebook ads which you can get inspiration from. It also has this amazing Chrome extension where if you see an ad come up on your Facebook feed you can see all other ads from the same company. Ok, so…last Facebook related tool I promise. Thanks to Stefan for sharing Getshopbot which allows you to retarget customers who viewed a certain page on your site and then retarget them through Messenger. So users see a product, then you can send them a message on messenger to remind them about the product. It’s a new type of retargeting. Ok but enough about Facebook anyway… Why? Because is dangerous for you health. Teja shared this article with even more evidence that the more you use Facebook the worse you feel... Instead of spending your days on Facebook you should spend your days honing on your skills. The T-shaped player is someone who specialises in being a generalist but who also has some areas of expertise. Typically two or three. We’ve just published the new version of the T-shaped player where we’ve included some new skills like Experiment Design, APIs and Machine Learning. So at Growth Tribe we almost exclusively only hire T-shaped players because they combine different skills to run experiments independently. A great example of this is a new channel called “Tools Based Marketing”. Tools Based Marketing is creating free tools that deliver value in exchange for usually emails. One example we love is “How much to make an app” which is a great lead generation tool. If you’d like to make a similar one but aren’t feeling creative or technical, Jim shared outgrow.co which will allow you to to create converting calculators and viral quizzes instantly. The nice thing is that there are quite some templates available so it’s a lot faster to build a quiz or a small tool. Now let’s get a little bit more technical. Let’s imagine you know how to work with APIs and sort of understand Machine Learning. Then you can also leverage new cutting edge tools like Microsoft Azure’s cognitive services. Part of this package is Microsoft’s auto-content moderator. With it you can automate content moderation on facebook pages. In the tutorial that we are sharing you’ll see how to automatically moderate content on a Facebook page that gets a lot of messages. No more needs for human content moderation! Automate it all Speaking of automation, and this one is a little bit more simpler, thanks to Quentin for sharing Wildfire.ai This allows you to record all the clicks and inputs you do on your browser. Then you can play it again as a workflow and an automated workflow. We’ve only get a little bit nervous when we’ve saw how much we have to share with the tool. Some people in the team have uninstall it completely. Now still on the topic of removing human interactions to free up your time… Our best friend motion.ai, which we used to use to build conversational interfaces (aka chatbots), was bought by Hubspot recently But there are plenty of botmakers in the sea so Jim met a new friend called Flow.ai They gave us demo last week and it’s a really powerful tool to build chatbots which we are gonna be using. You know that marketing technology landscape that’s a little bit overwhelming and that you see in everybody’s Keynote presentations? By the way, thanks to Guillaume Cabane for pointing out that that guy should have ask for royalties (he’d be a millionaire)… We’ll there’s actually a new kid in town Called “The First-Ever Blockchain Marketing Technology Landscape” We expect to see this one grow over the years as distributed ledgers and decentralised systems take over… or you can start filling up the gaps and build a new blockchain business model yourselves. Ok let’s a little bit more reading where we are gonna talk a little bit about data and a little bit about dating. We read this article about a woman who requested and received a report of all the personal data Tinder had about her… Two things interesting based on this: Number one If you’d like to request your data we’ve prepared a template letter than you can send to Tinder directly. If you like, please send over a pic of your report after you receive it, we’ve love to see how many people actually took those steps. The second reason why this is interesting is that we started studying how much Tinder actually has on you. Our data team is planning to play with this new tool which allows you to collect publicly available information on Tinder users in order to draw insights that may serve the public…or your marketing campaign. This includes stuff like birth date, jobs, spotify songs and of course your photos.. Now let’s talk about sales and outreach a little bit... In Episode #6 we talked about our passion for Clearbit’s API which allows us to enrich our data. Clearbit has released a new API for free. With the company name to domain name API you can now take a company’s name and infer or guess their domain name based on the company name We used to have to do this by scraping the first results of Bing ads…and now its a lot easier thanks to this free API. Now if you’re into this type of scraping and data collection tool Thanks to Thomas for sharing phantombuster.com APIs store, which is a nice library of scraping and automation workflows. The steps are super simple to follow For example this one scrapes Linkedin profiles as well as the comment and names of all commenters. And this one, my personal favourite, automatically accepts all Linkedin invites you receive at once. Really easy to set these up, have a try. Now of course the end goal of getting domain names and scraping contacts is usually to do cold outreach for B2B campaigns. If you're too lazy to do that, I came across yet another list of email addresses of journalists and press. So if you want to do PR this one seems to be more up to date than most of the ones roaming the internet. Download it in the link below. Now if you want to be a little bit more ethical about how you get yours emails… Quentin shared another lead magnet tool. It’s called privy.com and is a super customizable lead generation tool. You can create beautiful pop ups to get email addresses in minutes. And once you’ve warmed up those prospects and want to send out beautiful emails. Here’s yet another resource that offers free responsive email templates…lots of really pretty ones in here check it out. And now for something completely different. Some SEO and Competitive Monitoring Are you running out of content ideas for what articles to write or what videos to shoot? This is a free sentence search tool, based on what people are searching for. Which I’ve found very useful to generate ideas for content. So here we’re looking for content ideas around artificial intelligence for business. As you can see its giving me a lot of inspirations. Lots of good content ideas. It takes a few seconds, check it out. We’ve also shared a lot of competitive analysis tools in the past. And here’s a new one from Ferdinand. It’s called Competeshark and it will compare you and your competitors website and social activity. I’m especially happy about the website speed comparison tool, since we focus so much on making our website faster. Ok. And before we’re finished here is two more tools we are excited about… This one has been shared by Paolo. It’s called Wakelet. This allows you to send one link that then opens multiple different links. It’s great if you want to have one CTA for multiple links that you want to share Finally thanks to Stefan for sharing texted.io, no. SMS is not dead, this allows you to manage SMS reply and manage SMS reply to all groups. 