 Digitisation is progressing and this of course also applies to agriculture. Today, many innovations are proposed, especially by start-ups such as Naïo Technologies or ecobotix. They are developing robots for agriculture, especially for vegetable production. In this video I will talk about our experiences with the various robots we have been able to test at Arvalis. The robots Dino and Ecorobotix - experiences of Digifermes Three years ago Arvalis started a project called "Digifermes". The idea behind it is to evaluate new technologies that come to market. We want to show what the new technologies are capable of in practice. Dino by Naïotech Here you see the robot Dino. He was developed by the company Naïo Technologies. This is a French start-up company that develops robots, especially for vegetable production. The robot drives autonomously thanks to GPS navigation. It is guided by a map created at the moment of sowing. It is also equipped with cameras that allow precise guidance of the hoeing equipment between the rows. The robot is 100% electrically powered. It runs for about four hours and the battery charging time is the same. It was actually developed for vegetable growing. At Arvalis we have tested its use in arable farming. We wanted to know whether this robot could also be used in arable crops such as cereals, especially summer wheat and barley. The idea was to make use of the possibility of frequent passes, i.e. one pass per week. We wanted to see if this robot, with its rather light weight compared to a tractor, could open up new ways of mechanical weed control. It has also been tested in crops with larger row distances, especially sunflowers. On shallow, rather stony soils. On such soils, the robot reaches its limits and lacks power. On soils like here, however, hoeing is relatively easy. Because of its low work performance, the robot is not suitable for large areas of arable land. But it remains a good candidate for work in vegetable cultivation. Ecorobotix is a robot with solar panels. It is completely energy autonomous. It has two robot arms which are directed directly to the weeds by cameras. This way they are supposed to apply a micro-dose of herbicide to each weed, but not to the crop. We tested the ecorobotix robot in 2017. Our goal was to evaluate the robot's efficiency in detecting weeds in sugar beets. We consider the technology that ecorobotix wants to develop for weed detection to be a really ambitious technology that still needs a lot of work. The biggest work is to create an image database with weeds in different stages. It's a matter of letting the machine learn precisely how to recognize crops and weeds at very different stages. In addition, the lighting conditions also vary. In my opinion, it will take a few more years before we have something reliable and therefore a completely autonomous machine. 