 [Katherine Isbister] What is a robot? That's a great question. [Leila Takayama] A robot is a thing that senses, plans and acts. [Sri Kurniawan] My definition of robot is a device that has been created to automate tasks that humans should not be asked to do. [Isbister] I would say a robot has the capacity to react to you physically as well as digitally. [Mircea Teodorescu] Robots used to be a clunky little metallic structure back in the 50s movies. [Takayama] There's a lot of fears about robots. And much of it probably does come from sci-fi. We tend to have the Terminator and Hal. [laughs] They always take over the world and kill all the humans. And that's sort of a trope. It's getting old, like it's time for us to have new stories. [Isbister] The robot we're building is what is called a socially assistive robot, and it's built using the idea that people fidget with different sorts of things to help themselves regulate how they feel. You can see this in everyday [things] like stress balls. Interestingly, there's not a ton of data about when and how these things help. So my group has been doing studies, working with collaboration partners to really get to the bottom of that. So, it's essentially a way for kids to practice soothing themselves by soothing this other little creature, this little socially assistive robot. And by going through that feedback loop, they end up practicing calming themselves. That's the premise of the project. [Teodorescu] I really believe that we are at the tipping point in which understanding how the brain works for example, and how robots are coming to be built in different ways than in the past. The goal is to create a very light suit, which is wearable, and can actually not even be noticed, eventually can be worn under the clothes and we can very mildly help or augment the movement of different parts of the body— —helping people with disabilities, or which recently had a stroke or other problems, to regain their motions. The inspiration for the suit  comes from nature itself. We are trying to recreate a motion that is very similar with the human body. However, our students being Santa Cruz students, at the end of the day, for now, we have a glorified wetsuit, which has bicycle components on it to make it move. [Kurniawan] My research is about developing computer systems and games with and for people with special needs. One game that we have is for physical rehabilitation for stroke survivors and people recovering from upper limb injuries. The game has motion capture. In the game, you are supposed to use your weak side to catch stars in a cosmic galaxy. And if you use your weak side to catch that star,  you are going to get points as well as a beautiful soundtrack. If you use your strong side to do the same task, you are going to get very little point and the soundtrack is not as nice. And the idea is to encourage people to use their weak side. [Takayama] I think the way that I think about ethics is really whose ethics are they. Many times it comes back to what brings them dignity and are you taking it away? Are you helping them in enabling them in some way? [Isbister] You can do great things with technology and you can do kind of scary things with technology. But, I think we have a lot of really interesting things happening in the field of robotics that I think are super for everyday life. 