 What's up, guys. I am Rob. Welcome to my channel. So, finally, finally today we are going to make the infinity gauntlet. But before I tell you whose, I have a small request. Look at this subscribe button. Please click on it and subscribe to my channel.. ..if you haven't done it as yet. And don't forget to click the notifications button.. ..so that you know every time my new video is released. What am I making today? Iron Man's infinity gauntlet. It is not any old type. It is one that moves. You can operate it. So, get ready. It's time for some DIY. Why? Because I love it. Alright, let's get started. As you can see I have made a sketch of Iron Man's gauntlet here. The form is pretty simple. I've kept the form a little edgy.. ..so it becomes easier to cut and make. You will notice that the fingers and the thumb are separate.. ..from the main form as I shall make them separately. ..and connect them to the main form later. I know this looks simpler than the gauntlet in the movie.. ..but the cool thing is that you can operate this with your fingers. That is to say, the gauntlet will move when you move your fingers. So, let's begin by making the fingers using cardboard. As you can see, I have three pieces of cardboard here. These pieces will be the three parts of our fingers. We shall join this to make a movable finger. The size of this piece is 3 inches by 4 inches wide. And this is how I have divided the four inches. This is 1.5 inches, this is 1 inch and this is 1.5 inches. These three sections will fold and become one part of the finger. Similarly I have made this portion slightly smaller.. ..and this piece is smaller than this piece. Here I have taken one more piece of cardboard.. ..which is slightly bigger than this piece. Again I have divided it into three sections. This piece will help us attach our finger to the base. This is our finger and this is our attachment. Here I have made one centimeter marking in all the pieces. Basically I will make holes in this area. That will help us attach or join these pieces. Firstly, we have to fold these pieces. I shall place a ruler along these lines in this manner. Then I shall fold the pieces, so I get a clean edge. Just like this. I shall do this side now. We must fold all the pieces in this manner. Like that. Now we have one part of the finger. Let's make the remaining pieces in this manner. I have folded all the pieces over here. Before I fold these pieces and attach them.. ..there is one more thing that needs to be done. I told you that the fingers on the gauntlet will move. So I need to make a mechanism here that will open up straight.. ..every time we fold our finger. For that I shall attach small pieces of a straw in this area.. ..and pass an elastic thread through it which will give us tension. Every time we pull the finger and bend it this way.. ..the tension will open the finger in this manner. So, let's do that. I am using a hot glue gun to stick it. I have stuck the pieces of straw. Now we shall make a hole in it and attach it. With the help of the one centimeter marking you see on both pieces.. ..I shall align them. I will hold both the pieces. Now we have to make a hole through both pieces.. ..so we get a pivot point where the finger will bend in this manner. I shall make a hole with a pin now. Now I shall pass a toothpick through this hole like this. Now we must make a hold on the other side as well. Same thing. We shall make a hole with a pin and pass the toothpick through it. As you can see now this piece is moving freely at this pivot point. Exactly like my finger joint would. Just like that. As you can see, our joint is ready. You can see that it moves easily over here. But we shall attach a string in this for movement. We will cause this finger to move by pulling the string. There is something we can do to make the action smoother. If you place this in a slightly angular position instead of straight.. ..then our pulling action becomes easier. To hold it at an angle I shall put two small stoppers inside. For that I shall use two small pieces of cardboard. We shall position this at an angle and glue the stopper in the corner. Let's open it a little. Like this. Let's set the angle. Then we'll stick it in place. Where? Here. Like this. We apply glue on it and stick it. Like that. Now we shall stick it on the other side as well. We have to do the same thing for all the pieces.. ..so that our movement becomes easier. Alright, let's continue. Okay. One finger is ready, as you can see.. ..and it moves well. It bends easily. And as I told you, we have stoppers in the corners. You can see that it is slightly at an angle instead of being straight. Like that. This makes it easier to bend it. Okay. So, let's continue. First we shall cut the extra ends of the toothpick with pliers. Here I have some elastic thread. We shall pass this through the straw. Alright. We have passed the elastic thread through this. Now we cut it here and make a knot, which we will stick. Now I'll show you how this elastic thread that we put here will work. We must pull it, so it has tension. Then we stick it to the base. Then every time the finger bends.. ..it will automatically open due to the tension. Look at that. Swift and fast. What will we do now? We already have tension. Now we must attach one more thread.. ..with which we may be able to pull it and this bends. So, let's make that mechanism. We have to do something similar for the pulling mechanism as well. I have cut these small pieces of cardboard here.. ..with which I shall completely cover the top portion. This piece is long so it covers the top as well as the side. This piece will cover this portion here This goes like this and this one will go here in this manner. I have kept gaps in between to make it easy to fold. I shall stick pieces of straw on these pieces as well.. ..and I shall pass an ordinary thread through it.. ..which will give movement to our finger when it is pulled. Let's first shape the edge of this so it looks more like a finger.. ..and we shall bend this a little so it sticks well. Alright. Let's do it. And we're done. One finger is ready. Let's see whether or not it moves. First we shall create tension with the elastic band. I shall stretch it and hold it down. As I told you, this portion will stick to the base. Now we shall pull it with this string. Look at that. You can operate it so easily. Perfect! This is working fine. Now we must make the remaining fingers in the same technique. So, let's do that. Right. We have our fingers here. And here's the thumb. I gave it an angular cut.. ..so that we may attach it to the hand in this manner. Okay. The fingers are made. Now we have to make the base of our hand, where the fingers will be attached. So, let's do that. Here is our base. You can see that the shape is like my hand. Like my fist. I have cut two such pieces. One will be the lower portion and the other will be the cover. This way when I put my hand inside it will be completely hidden. Even for the sides I shall cut out a wall with cardboard.. ..and make it like a box, so that I may hide my hand completely.. ..and it looks like a gauntlet. Then I shall show you how to operate it. Firstly let's stick the finger to the edge of this part. Okay. All our fingers are attached.. ..and now we shall fix the string and elastic band mechanism. Let's first begin with the elastic thread. I will simply stretch this and knot it on a skewer over here.. ..and the remaining threads as well, so it is locked in place here.. ..and it will have tension too. So, let's do that. Alright, done. Look at this. Nice and tight. Locked in place. And due to this our fingers automatically come into the original position. So, this is done. Let's clean this a little. We shall snip off the extra pieces.. ..and then move on to the pulling mechanism. So, let's do that. Now for the pulling mechanism I shall place my hand like this.. ..and measure this thread according to size.. ..then I shall snip and alter them.. ..so they are easily attached to my fingers.. ..so I can easily operate it by pulling with my fingers. But instead of tying it I shall attach a small loop over here. Something like this. I rolled and twisted a pipe cleaner and made a small loop of it. This will easily fit onto my finger. Like this. I shall attach this to the thread.. ..so that I may easily pull it with my fingers whilst wearing it. So let's do the measurement, cut it and attach the loops. Alright. Our rings are attached now. Let's wear it and check it out once. Check this. Nice. Perfect! Okay. This is working. Now we attach the sides and the top.. ..to shape it into a box. Alright. The sides have been glued. One more thing has to be done before sticking the last piece and closing it. I shall make a support here so that when I insert my hand in.. ..my hand will get a grip and the gauntlet does not slip off. For that I have cut this piece of cardboard. In fact, I cut two pieces and stuck them together.. ..to get some strength. We shall stick this over here. Like that. When I put my hand in, it will give support to my hand.. ..and I can move the gauntlet very easily. Let's check the position and stick it. Okay. This is done. Alright. Now we shall fix the final piece in place. And we shall close this. Just like that. By the way, I cut a window in this piece. When I wear these rings, I will need both my hands. So I shall insert my hand and put those rings on my fingers. This will make it easy for me. I did not think of it earlier, so, I cut this window now. Let's stick this in place. Okay. Looks like our gauntlet structure is ready. Look. I can wear it easily and I can move it. It's looking nice but it still looks a simple. So, I shall add some details on top of this. For that I shall use craft foam. The thickness of these two foam sheets is different. I shall cut pieces out of it and stick in on top of this. You can refer to the internet for Iron Man's gauntlet.. ..and design this accordingly. So let's design this one. Alright. As you can see I've cut all the pieces out of the craft foam. I have placed them and it looks pretty good. I bought these infinity stones from a regular store.. ..where buttons, thread and other such things are available. I fit them according to size and color. I think they're looking nice. So, we have all these pieces. Let's stick them now. Alright. There you go. You can see that I've stuck the craft foam. I even applied these long strips at the side. On the inner side too. So, it's looking nice. It has got more dimension because of this foam sheet. Looking impressive! Our next step is to color it. Iron Man's gauntlet is red colored, so, I shall color it red. But since the color of the cardboard is different. This is red. If I color it directly the red will be seen in different shades. Hence first I shall give it a white base coat with acrylic color. Then I shall color it red, so we get an even coat. So, let's do that. Alright. We are done. As you can see, this is ready. It is coated in a nice bright red color. Also, I have added some silver. When I checked the reference it had silver in many places.. ..so I used silver acrylic color here. I've done some more detailing over here. Also some with a black marker. Looks pretty nice. Look. Now I shall wear it to see if it works well. Let's do that. I really hope you guys enjoyed watching this video.. ..and found this tutorial helpful. Give it a big like if you enjoyed it.. ..and share it with your friends.. ..so that they too may subscribe to our channel.. ..because our channel is very cool. That's right. And these are our insta handles. You can follow me on this as well. You can connect with me. You can offer me your ideas and suggestions. Well, that is all for today. I shall see you next week. Till then, like I always say, do good and be good. Peace. How do I do peace? Anyways, peace. 