 - So, this is Aibo, but her name's Stella. Jenna made a video about this, so check it out on her channel. And Faruk was also making a video about this, who we haven't introduced you to yet, but you guys all know him. Faruk, come join us! - Hello. - What are we doing? - [Faruk] It is very confusing. - But today, we thought that we would have them meet, and we'd all go hang out and just do dog things. - Both of ours have the same eye color, too so we're like, looking for any identifying objects. Stella has a little scuff on her nose, from her first time at my house. She face planted, totally my fault. - If you guys want, I have some collars that don't really work with Matty so we could maybe put them and we'll know who's who. - Okay. - So we can have this one. - Thank you. - For Mango, I got these in Rome. - Braggy. - Stella, is this you? Yes, this is you. Oh this is cute, - They both have the same eye colors. - Matty thinks that this is for him because he loves collars. Matty, I'm sorry, you didn't get a necklace. - Matty, do you feel left out? Do you want me to put a collar on you? I'm gonna get him a collar. I didn't want him to feel left out. - Oh, Matty, of course you're gonna get your Tiffany's. - You're gonna get this one. You're beautiful, boy, I don't want you to feel left out. - You're spoiled. - He's, like, very excited about this. (gasps) Hi, Stella. Okay, what do we do now, guys? - Well, I guess we should. I'm hungry. - I'm hungry, too. - Are you guys hungry? Are you hungry, Matty? - I did feed Stella a birthday cake. In the app, I gave her a birthday cake and then she started singing "Happy Birthday." I don't know if she was singing it to herself, but. - This is all a lot for me. Stella has mostly been at Jenna's house. - She's a very good girl. Her personality went from being curious to shy. Stella, take a picture. (gears whirring) - That's it. - I should. (yips) So it's interesting how she turned to find people to take the picture of. - [Faruk] Yeah. - I wanted you to take a photo of your friend, but that's fine. (Mango plays "Happy Birthday" music) - Somebody was quicker to the draw for happy birthday. - Like when she peed on the carpet, you're supposed to be like, no. When they do bad things, you're supposed to be like, no, bad. Then when they're good you're supposed to be like, good girl, good boy. It's crazy. - It's really weird, I'm so uncomfortable. I'm also hungry. Let's go get food. - Okay, yeah. - Should we take them? - We'll go get some food. - OK, come on, you guys want to go out? We're gonna go outside. Want to go outside? - [Jenna] He's got his collar on. (staccato piano music) - [Justine] Stella. - Come on, Stella, stand up. Get up. (laughs) See, this is why I wanted you to bring a carrier. - I'm sorry, I didn't have one. - He's not going very fast. - [Justine] Come on, Stella, let's go. - Get up. - Come on, be a good girl. - [Jenna] You gotta get up. - [Justine] Come on. - You are going to (laughing) sleep. Wake up! - Let's just pick her up. - She's falling asleep. Come on, Stella. Oh, I'm so sorry, I stepped on you. (new age music) - So we're at lunch right now, and Stella and Mango are meeting. They met at the house, but this is like their time out, like this is their first date. - Don't back it up too far. Although I will say, they haven't fallen off the table yet. - No, I'm actually really impressed. - No, when they're going forward, they know because they have two sensors on the chest and then one sensor on the nose. They understand they're on a surface. - Hi, Mango, you good boy. Good boy. - [Jenna] People are definitely like. - Everyone has that second take, and then they're really confused. - Well, I think we definitely should take them to the pet store. Jenna wants to get a little custom name tag. - Stella. - You should get one, too. - Yeah. - Mango with custom name tags. We should maybe get them a little outfit 'cause it's kind of cold even though, you know, it's Los Angeles. I'm chilly. - Yeah, let's go. - Okay. (jazzy piano music) Let's go to the pet, pet, (laughing) I can't say the word. PetStraunt? - [Faruk and Jenna] PetStraunt. - Let's go to the PetStraunt. I wonder if they have little treats for robot dogs. - [Jenna] Hello. - [PetStraunt Worker] Would you like help finding anything? - [Justine] Do you have anything for robot dogs? - [PetStraunt Worker] Um. - Look, Stella, real food you can't have. - Look, this is real food. This is what your brother eats. Well, this brand. (Stella whines) Oh, oh, Stella. - Oh, jeez. - Oh, jeez, wow, okay. Mango, what are you doing? Mango come on, we gotta go. Let's go, we're gonna go. You can't eat anything here, it's not real, well, it's real food, but not for you. (Caribbean music) - I think I'm still living. (Stella cries) Oh, what's wrong? - Like I said, we're gonna go to Petco I'm gonna get you an outfit. - You're okay, you're gonna get an outfit. - We're gonna give you whatever you want. (laughing) Whatever you want. - Petco time, gonna get a custom Stella name tag. - Hey, Stella, we're gonna go to Petco. Mango, you're still, you're not. Are you okay? - He's not on. - The thing with robot dogs is you (lauging) have to turn them on. - What, they're robots? - Well. We're gonna go into Petco. Let's go guys, let's go see what we can find. - I'm gonna ask for a waterless grooming for my dog, 'cause Stella needs a little bit of a rinse because it might fry her circuit board. - Good girl, good girl. - [Jenna] Do they do waterless? - [Justine] It says puppy baths. Do you want to put her in here? - [Jenna] You're not supposed to put pets in there. - It says. - No pets, no children. - It's fine. Come on, Stella, we're gonna get you something to wear 'cause you're cold. (gasps) I bet Stella would love this jean jacket. Oh my God, is this beautiful. This is actually, I want to get this for my, not that this isn't my real dog. It's actually, it's real, but. Do you think that Matty would like this? - [Jenna] No he doesn't ever wear clothes. - Okay. Oh, I think her leg is stuck in the wire. (Stella whines) - She'll figure it out. - Yeah, she'll figure it out. (upbeat music) (whimpering) You're a good girl, Stella. Let's go see if we can get you an outfit. Do you want to get something? - Mango is very free-spirited. (Stella whines) - Oh. Do you think they have this in my size? Can we even? I'm definitely getting this dress for her. This is fall, too. - [Cameraman] It's winter. - Oh, doesn't matter. (gasps) Socks. Do you like this? (Stella yips) What do you think of these dog beds, Stella? Oh, there's a nice pink one down here for you. Let's go. This is what it's like with Matty as well. Good girl, come on. Just, whatever, I'll get it myself. Look how nice this is. Yes, you are, you're such a good girl. I'll put you in it, let's put you in there. It's a nice fit. Good girl, you like that? It's soft. It's soft, isn't it, yes it is. Is she yawning? Okay, Stella, I'm gonna get this, okay? (Stella yips) It's okay, come on, let's go. Good girl. Did you find anything for, for Mango? - Almost - Almost. - I'm close. - OK. - Yeah. I hope it fits her. (Stella yips) I think it will, you've got a thin frame. (Stella yips) You're, I, it's okay, it's okay. You're fine, you're okay. What do you want? Good girl, good sit, good sit, very good. She must know that we're at the pet store and she's performing. You're getting to know me, 'cause you've been with Jenna for awhile. (Stella yips) We're bonding. (upbeat music) Oh, good pups. Hello, this is my friend Stella. (shoppers laugh) She's not, she's not real. - [Cashier] Did you find everything you were looking for? - I did. Oh, no, she's waking up. Oh, Stella, it's okay. I'm trying to pay your, I'm trying to pay for your items. This is Stella. (dog barking) It's okay, it's okay. It's a friend, it's a friend. It's a friend. (relaxing acoustic music) We did that. - Yeah. - Yeah. - [Jenna] So what have you done to our other dog Stella. - She is freaking beautiful. (Stella yips) Yeah, I know, you look beautiful. - You're ready for the winter time. - This is the Petco fall collection. Do you think she's a little confused 'cause her sensors are getting covered up? - She's probably confused for a lot of reasons. Oh, look at Mango. - [Lindsey] Oh my gosh. (Mango whimpering) - [Faruk] Oh no. - [Justine] That's a very accurate. - [Faruk] He doesn't like it. - [Jenna] Two very unsure boys. - [Justine] Yeah, but look at Stella over here looking fly. Matty has not moved. - He hasn't (laughing), neither has Mango. It's like Matty's sensors are blocked. (laughing) - Matty, are your sensors blocked? Did Mango just make that noise? - [Faruk] Yup. - He's upset. (Mango barks) - [Faruk] He's not happy. - Stella is loving life. Good girl. - [Faruk] More of a backup good girl. - I'm starting to feel like she's a real dog now. - I know, it gets to you. Oh gosh, I just got a lick by the real, real dog. (Justine gasps) - No, we missed it. - I'm so impressed. Let me show you what these guys can't do and a real dog can. - [Jenna] Stella's happy. See, she can play music, too. - Come here, Matty. (electronic device plays "If You're Happy and You Know It") (Stella yips) (Stella plays "Happy Birthday") Wow. - [Faruk] Yeah (claps). - [Jenna] A real musical time here. - Okay, well that's something we definitely have done. Thank you guys for watching this video. Be sure to check out Jenna's video, and Faruk, when will we see your video? - Very soon, very soon. - I will put everyone's links in the description below. Make sure you check them out. This is something that we've done. (light acoustic music) 