 Hey everyone! Now I'm in Guangzhou. It's two hours away from Shenzhen and today I'm going to show you one of their automated robot restaurants. Let's go, let's take a look! You can see, this is the Kuka robotic arm. This is very expensive and you can see it kind of looks like my BarBot but they are mounted on the ceiling with different kind of cocktails. Alright what are those? Those are for beer. Hello, a table for two person please. This way, please. Sure, thanks. So this is a Cantonese restaurant. Their main cuisine is Cantonese, right. And hot clay pot, oh, sorry and Clay Pot Rice is one of our specialities in Guangzhou. You see all those pots? I don't know how they do it. I have to order one to see how it works. But all these stuff compared to the one I showed you in Shenzhen it really looks industrial, like a factory to me. I don't see a lot of workers over here. Maybe one or two, the cashier and the lady who told me to just scan the QR code to order food. Even though we are in a robotic restaurant we still follow our traditions. We have to wash our utensils by hand. Alright! So I have to order this burger in order to see how it works. So on this side we have robotic arm to make burgers. On the other side we have another robotic arm to make beverage. Ok, now I got it. Let me try this one first. So this is a burger robot. I have ordered a lot of Cantonese dishes inside, I thought the robots make them here. But they are actually cooking them separately. So they separate the robots. In the restaurant, it is for Cantonese food outside for burger and beverage. So only one burger. Alright, let's buy it. Alright, let's see! I have placed the order and that's the number v7126. So this is the burger wrapper.  The paper wrap is for wrapping the burger First the bun is coming out, going in and the burger patty is coming out also I saw the sauce over there. Are they putting the sauce on now? Is that pickle? Yeah, there is a conveyor belt. Oh, the bun is messed up. How come? oh my god one side The edge of the bun is folded. The bottom side looks mess up. It's not a big deal. Let's wait till it finishes and see if that's all mess up. Yeah. I don't think there are enough buns in stock because when I ordered it on the app it says only 8 burgers left. Maybe the last couple of the buns are compressed down there. If it's the bun's problem we can swap it, if not the taste will still be good. This is the patty. They put the beef patty on top of the bun. So they use the suction cup to suck the bun and then there is the mayonnaise coming out from   What is it called? The bottle? (dispenser) Yeah, and that's it. It's going to wrap it. It takes a second to wrap it. Strange. Does it use heat? Ah, no just a sticker. When you paid, it generates a QR code, scan that one and the food will come out of the window. Oh, okay. Now I'm scanning the QR code to retrieve my burger. Place the QR code a little further is better. Yes. The window is open, you can get it now. Wow Okay, let's open it. As you can see this part is messed up. If there was a human monitoring the process they will know that it's messed up and swap another one for you but because it's robot   it's... you know kind of stupid. It has arrived, my Cantonese food. Okay, this is the beef. So what is in there? I saw there is a sensor, infrared sensor. And it's going to close and back to the ceiling. There are more coming. So this is Hong Shao Niu Lei Tiao. It's barbecue beef, stir-fried beef ribs with some vegetables. You can see carrots,  potato and maybe this is some melon or something Yes, a kind of melon. Okay, it looks a little weird but let me try a bite. So so. I can make it better. I like the patty but the bun needs some work So this is the second dish I ordered. I have to press the button. Ah, I see. It asked me to press a button. This is the roasted chicken I ordered. Okay, so this is the delivering robot, it has three layers. And there is an emergency button on the side so that if there is a kid that put their hands in while it's closing you can push the emergency button, I like it. This is the roasted chicken. Let me try it. It looks good. The taste is right but the skin is not crispy at all. Alright, let's see what it is. Yes! This is the fried milk something fried milk dough? there is milk inside and this is the dessert, a Cantonese dessert. It's very good. I like it, this one is good. More food is coming? Ah! I ordered a pigeon. I forgot. Okay It stops for a minute, strange! How come? Alright You are getting into my way, stop it or I can't work properly. Your food is ready. Please press the button on the table to get it. So when I press the button on the table it opens . This is pigeon. It's very also a very famous dish, Cantonese dish. I hope this one is crispy. Please be careful, I am leaving now. Enjoy your meal! This one is crispy. The taste is totally right. So this is the clay pot rice I ordered. There are preserved sausage, traditional preserved Cantonese sausage and this is pork, preserved pork In the autumn, my grandmother used to do that they put it outside kind of like the one they have in Spain. What does it called? (Iberian ham) like the cold cut meat they also put it on the balcony to dry it. And this is just Cantonese vegetables, kale. At the bottom, here is the rice. It didn't burn at all. Usaully when human makes it, it will be a little burnt. But I don't see any burn. There's no burn it's only rice. Okay, let me try it. The rice is not as hard as the one that made by human. It's a little bit soggy, kind of like they steam it but the texture is okay, it's not bad.  So I ordered all this food just to show you guys how the robot works but now we have an ongoing campaign in China Don't waste food, no leftovers. So I'm going to bring all these food back to my hotel and eat them as breakfast. Hello, waitress! 