 Las Vegas is a place of complete freedom, the power of money and gambling. But for a week it turned into the center of the most advanced, newest and coolest digital products, where the Consumer Electronics Show 2019 was held. The coolest robots and technologies at CES 2019. The JAXJOX smart weight has become the main fitness gadget of the exhibition. The gadget sends the application data such as the number of approaches, training time and other indicators. All this should improve the effectiveness of training, or at least impress your instagram subscribers with a cool appearance :) HTC presented at the exhibition self-contained helmet Vive Cosmos and VR-helmet Vive Pro Eye, which tracks the user's eyes. Vive Cosmos does not depend on the base station, it is distinguished by its ease of use and configuration. 6 spatial orientation cameras, high-quality Real RGB screens and new hand controllers that are suitable for any type of VR materials. Vive Pro Eye includes a built-in tracking of the movements of the user's eyes. This allows you to manage virtual objects literally by the power of the eye. The package includes an audio system with high sound quality. Hyundai Mobis presented at the exhibition a new robotics car with a system of light communications with pedestrians. The concept is to overcome the fear of pedestrians in front of autonomous cars. Headlights can project information symbols onto the road, for example, a pedestrian crossing sign, indicating that a car sees a person and passes it. The robot will also show a timer with time before the start of the movement, and the LED indicators will indicate the direction of turn. The system will be supplemented by sound signals. KIA Motors has announced a platform R.E.A.D. for robots of the future. The concept of R.E.A.D. or Real-time Emotion Adaptive Driving involves optimizing the passenger compartment of the car to suit the mood of the passenger. Cameras recognize emotions by facial expression, sensors read heartbeats and other biosignals, and they draw conclusions. The interactive space in the cabin creates the right atmosphere, even the chair vibrates to the beat of the music, and the V-Touch gesture control system complements the picture of the ideal car of the future. The company Nissan told at CES 2019 about the advanced system I2V (Invisible-to-Visible) with Omni-Sensing technology, which will be able to combine the real and virtual worlds in the transport of the future. The system will link the data of the external and internal sensors of the car with the data from the cloud, allowing the driver to see the invisible - everything that is around the corner of the building, another car or a turn of the road. In addition, the I2V system connects drivers and passengers with other people in the virtual metaverse. Samsung presented at CES 3 robots, which, by the way, like as robots from last year LG presentation. This is Bot Care - a medical robot that measures the pulse, pressure, sleep, telling about the weather and reminding about medicines. IMHO the robot can be easily replaced by the fitness bracelet and voice assistant in the phone. Samsung Bot Air roams your home, detects air pollution and cleans it, switchs on the siren, if it detects smoke or gas. The same work can be done by a pair of sensors and a humidifier. The most promising in this top is Samsung Bot Retail - the robot for restaurants and shopping centers. It will take you to the needed place, show the new items, tell all the characteristics of the product, take the order and bring it, In terms of functionality, it is similar to Russian Promobot, which became either famous or disgraced at CES with the incident with a Tesla car that shot down a robot, Why was it standing on the side of the road. Most users of the Runet said that this was a PR action. The camera staned too well, which shot the accident, and it was too strange to see a lonely robot after the turn. In any case, PR had the success, as the video of the accident has got over a million views. Ubtech introduced the modified butler robot - Walker. In the demo, the robot walked around the apartment, hanged up the bag, taked a soda and a chips, played music, and even dances. Considering the technologies that the robot has, not everyone can buy such butler and the functionality of the robot in real conditions is still very limited. But it is rather a reserve for the future. UBTech also introduced its service robot Cruzr. The robot welcomes customers, collects information about the products in the store through the touch screen interface and tells about them to everyone. The robot is big and friendly, looks great and probably will soon appear in stores around the world. The robot Temi is a simplified version of a personal assistant, in fact, another tablet on wheels with the functions of a voice assistant that can come to you. However, for example, my Yandex Station is much cheaper and can do the same. Robot Misty II is a very cute little bot, stuffed with sensors. This robot is an affordable platform for any application. The creators said that it is possible to teach the robot simple skills in 30 minutes. On the basis of the robot there are already 2 interesting projects: the first is a virtual development kit on the Misty platform, allowing third-party programmers to create and test skills for the robot without having its physical unit, and the second is a virtual camera for Misty that allows testing new robot skills remotely in real time. A great idea for teaching future robotics professions! The most emotional robot that claim our affectionat CES was robot Lovot. The bot like the advanced Furby with wheels and flippers requiring care. BreadBot attracted much attention - a bread baker is baking ten loaves of bread every hour. Shops will probably like the autonomous system, and will get a chance for survival, unlike many of the concepts presented at the exhibition. Hyundai presented the concept of an SUV at the exhibition - the car with legs Elevate. The van-shaped cab is located on four robotic legs with wheels. Such a construction, according to the developers' meaning, allows Elevate to ride, walk and even climb rocky slopes. I don’t know if this car will become a reality, but today it is the most daring concept of the future transport. Bell Helicopter Company introduced Bell Nexus - the concept of a five-seater aerotaxi on six electric fan. Nexus test flights will begin in 2021 and will be taken by Uber. So far, the control is in the hands of the pilot, but in the future, aerotaxi may become completely autonomous. Mercedes-Benz Vision Urbanetic showed the concept of a modular autonomous car, which we told about in detail in the our video, you see the link in the tooltip. And I woulf like to finish our robot review from CES 2019 with a funny video from Continental. Although it didn’t create its own robots it showed a demo with its vision of the courier delivery of the future. The fact that the four-legged robots can deliver items to the addresses we have known for a long time Anybotics and Boston Dynamics offer their models for this purpose. Will this become a reality? Let's see. Like, subscribe to our channel and you will see all news from the world of robots! 