 The SEC is on the lookout for new software to help with the crypto space, and Binance has an interesting charity project, let’s start the Welcome back to crypto global news, please make sure you like share and subscribe the show. Enjoy today’s episode. The security exchange commission is taking some steps to give more clarity to blockchain companies, but it’s widely believed that the agency has not been properly engaged when it comes to providing regulation. Now the securities regulator is said to be interested in engaging an “enterprise-wide data subscription for blockchain ledger data.” According to the notice on FedBizOpps.gov: “The United States Securities and Exchange Commission…intends to procure a commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) enterprise-wide data subscription for blockchain ledger data to support its efforts to monitor risk, improve compliance, and inform Commission policy with respect to digital assets.” What does this all mean for the future of the relationship between the SEC and the world of blockchain? Latin America’s largest investment bank, Brazil’s Banco BTG Pactual S.A., has come out with plans to launch Security Token Offerings also known as STOs on the Tezos blockchain. Banco BTG Pactual is planning to work in collaboration with Dubai’s Dalma Capital “to host a deal pipeline of $1bn for existing and future prospective token issuances”. They plan to make use of the Tezos blockchain for the issuances, which will include a range of tokenized traditional and alternative investments. The Tim Draper backed project is a self-amending blockchain and smart contract platform. With another large project between the world of blockchain and a bank, how much more growth will be in this sector in 2019? Brewdog, The Bitcoin-friendly microbrewery is one of the fastest developing outfits in its industry in the United Kingdom, is currently soliciting crypto investments . Celebrating the grand occasion, they’ve created a new beer called Cryptonite, according to a video published on their website. As per the same video, the brewery has over 110,000 shareholders at present. You can legally buy shares in the company using cryptocurrency. Is the future for commerce for this company and many others like it? Binance.charity launched a new project this week with an initial goal of tackling what people call “period poverty.” The project is quite straigh forward, In some countries, feminine care products are expensive, and the people in the country are poor. Because of this, in poorer countries many women are held back by their natural bodily cycles. According to Binance’s paper on the subject, the project should be able to help about 1 million young women around the world. philanthropy through cryptocurrency is exciting for the whole world. American investor and a co-founder of Morgan Creek Digital Assets, Mr. Anthony Pompliano explained his investing strategy and skepticism towards fiat currency in a recent interview. When he asked if he considered that putting 50% of his wealth into bitcoin is a risky move, Pompliano said that risk is relative for every individual; however, he has a clear profile that he wants to undertake. Pompliano continued: “I would make the argument that having 100% exposure to fiat currencies is a really bad idea. Right? Because if one of those fiat currencies that you have 100% of your wealth in either hyperinflates or fails, you've got a lot of problems." Pompliano did make it clear that there is a need for more diversification, which leaves the question of how much one should divert from a fiat currency into a digital currency? Many thanks for tuning into today's episode, please make sure you like share and subscribe, For crypto global news I’m Edward, until next time you take it easy. 