 Hello. I would like to present you prototypes from Connecting Software which is aiming the security of documents stored in CRM and SharePoint. And to achieve this security we will use sealing using blockchain technology. For this purpose we have introduced  SharePoint add-in which will allow us to seal documents inside a document library. First let's have a look at the site contents here we can see that we have our blockchain sealing add-in installed and now we are going to upload a  document to the document library. It's actually a blank standard default document library where I've just added one column which is of type DateTime that will be indicating a DateTime of when a document has been last sealed using our add-in. Let's upload a new document which is PDF. Normally in SharePoint for document libraries there is the version history enabled so if you look at the version history it shows us that it's the first version of the document and it was created by me. If somebody else wants to change the contents of the document and he has access to his document it will automatically be visible as new  versions introduced to this document we might as well try this. We can upload a document with the same file name which is slightly different than the previous document. We can see that it has been modified a few seconds ago and we can check back at the version history which is now showing that this is already a second version. We can see on the first site that this document has been modified again by me but it can be whichever user has access to this document. In this scenario we would actually not need any sealing by blockchain to see that some new version or some changes have been introduced to the document but there is a way or there are ways for CRM and SharePoint to tamper or to cheat on this version history. We might have a look actually at the contents of the document so it's some kind of mock document which mocks some very important business document where date of the document is the most important part so it might show some validity. I have prepared also a version number two which has a modified date so the document is a PDF, looks perfectly the same as the previous version but the important date was changed. It's a kind of attack that we will perform on the document itself. We'll try to cheat the document and swap the existing document with one that contains an invalid or cheated DateTime. We will start the scenario again.  We will upload a new document version 1 which contains the correct data and now we will use my attack tool which is very simple client object model script. It replaces the file body without creating a new version so now it should be replaced. We can have a look that there is no new version in the version history but if we look inside the document the DateTime has been tampered so it's not a March DateTime but a January DateTime. How can we prevent such an attack on our document content? We would need to have some external authority that is able to validate the genuineness or the authenticity of a document. Such an independent and distributed authority is the blockchain technology and our SharePoint add-in is using this blockchain technology to seal and verify the authenticity of document contents. We could use it to prevent such cheating or such an attack. We will start again with the scenario.  We will delete this file and we will start again with the uploading a new version 1. We will use the blockchain sealing add-in to seal. What has happened behind the scenes? So the file content has been hashed and the hash has been written into a blockchain distributed database using our provider and the file hash can be at any time verified using this provider but not only the hash can be verified with anyone who has access to the distributed blockchain database. We can now try to verify our sealed document and it is showing that everything is perfectly valid. The document is authentic and it is the same body of the document as in the time point of sealing the document which is this time point. Now, we can use our attack tool again to replace the body of the document and we can try to verify the document again with the blockchain and now it should show us the file has been modified and it's not the same file as it was at the time point of sealing. So that's the simple usage of this simple SharePoint add-in. Thank you for listening and see you in the next video 