 Hello and welcome to the second duration of our  e-Estonia Digital Discussions. Today we have   a very exciting topic - it's At the Frontline  of Digital Health. My name is Florian Marcus,   I am a Digital Transformation Advisor at the  e-Estonia Briefing Centre and we have many   many exciting presentations and discussions  today. We will hear from our very own experts   at the e-Estonia Briefing Centre and we also have  some presentations from companies that deal with   e-Health around the world. At the very end, after  the presentations, we will have exciting breakout   sessions where you get to ask the experts some  more detailed questions as well. Before we delve   into all of these different exciting topics,  I want to talk a bit about our platform that   we use - it's called Worksup and there are many  options that you can choose from, and I encourage   you to use that platform as much as you can.  First of all you can fill out your own profile,   which we very much encourage, so you can find  other people that work in the same field,   so you can make contacts both in your own  country and in other countries around the world.   Second, if you click on "Tasks" you will find  some of the polls that we will raise over the next   few minutes and hours, so we will ask you, the  audience, some questions and you can answer   what do you think is the most appropriate point  for you. Under the "Q&A" section you can submit   your own questions to the person that is currently  doing the presentation, and after the presentation   I will ask those questions on your behalf. You  can also upvote the questions that other people   have raised if you really want to hear that  particular answer. Without any further ado   i would like to introduce to you the very first  poll of course - and the question that we have is:   "Which e-Health services are most needed in your  country?" There are a few options: e-prescription,   video consulting, e-booking or online medical  records. You can take the next few minutes   during the upcoming presentation as well to think  about your answer, but while you think about that,   I would also highly encourage you to of course  follow the presentation that will be done by no   no other person than my own boss - Anna Piperal,  who is the Managing Director of the e-Estonia   Briefing Centre and she will talk about Healthcare  During the Pandemic and Beyond. Let's take a look! Where is the best place for health innovation? In  Estonia. A land with a unique digital ecosystem,   where 100% of clinics are connected, all the data  is equally accessible for healthcare providers   and citizens. The e-Health system integrates all  healthcare providers and shares defined medical   documents of all patients. The system incorporates  electronic health records, digital image sharing,   digital prescriptions, and a variety of other  e-Health applications. Today more than 99%   of prescriptions are issued and transferred  digitally. It allows access to medical data   online in a secured and trusted way. No data leaks  or serious privacy violations have been reported   since its implementation. Ten years of real  e-Health experience has made Estonia a unique   platform for fast implementation of future  e-Health services. Our expertise is guaranteed   through the dedicated e-Health curriculum,  where future e-Health implementers are created,   the first of its kind in Europe. Come  and collaborate with our universities,   clinics industry and startups. Launch  your next big e-Health idea to Europe. Good morning! Many keep saying that the world will  enter a new and different reality after Covid,   but what does this new reality even mean for  the governments and healthcare systems around   the world? So, addressing the pandemic,  the whole world is focused on solving the   disruptions in public services provision and most  importantly, healthcare, that is under a great   overload today. Digital technology that we  use for healthcare services has helped Estonia   to solve and cope with the crisis better than  many, and digital technology has become key   to well-functioning and resilient e-state. So how  can the state guarantee minimum disruptions in the   public services provision in healthcare and keep  people safe at home or anywhere else? And how many   countries in the world overall can provide a full  range of public services securely and digitally?   My name is Anna, I'm an e-governance expert,  e-Estonia Briefing Centre Managing Director,   and a TED speaker, and today we're  talking about e-Health in Estonia. It is clear that the demand and cost of healthcare  services around the world is naturally and   exponentially growing, that due to factors of  aging population and the chronical diseases.   When we add to the part the uneven distribution  of these services and access to them,   and also the uneven quality of healthcare  services, this problem becomes bigger and bigger.   In the face of a pandemic crisis, all of those  issues combined present an ultimate stress test   and could result in a potential collapse of the  whole healthcare system. We believe in Estonia   that even though technology cannot solve all of  our problems, including the pandemic and the types   of crises are unlimited, but it definitely creates  way for increased efficiency, accessibility and   the quality of healthcare services, and also  gives more control to the patients themselves. But before we're going to dive in Estonian  health-tech, there are some things that we   have to set straight. First, it is important to  explain that Estonian healthcare system is based   on the solidarity principle, which means that  healthcare services are available to everyone,   and let's not forget the fact that the way we  design all these e-governance services - 24/7   anytime, everywhere - which mean a digital service  is our top priority. And thirdly, the transparency   and accountability of the system is essential and  critical, because in this case, if it's there,   everyone can trust the system they're using  and trust the data that they're relying their   decisions on. Another world-changing principle  is answering the question of "Who owns the data?"   For many countries this could be surprising  and unexpected or even unacceptable,   but in Estonia the patient's data  belongs to the patients themselves,   not the hospitals or healthcare institutions who  have collected and analyzed that. Giving patients   control and access to their own data makes a  whole big difference not only in their trust   and the way how people are using the system,  but also it has crucial impact on the quality of   services they're provided and the unprecedented  level of transparency and accountability. So how are we doing this in Estonia? To address  the issue we have to talk about three major   pillars - let's say generalizing the whole  concept. First of all, confidentiality which   is a key step to provide secure access to the most  valuable and sensitive data - our health data -   this is enabled thanks to the digital identity,  which in large in different options cover majority   of population in Estonia. So whether it's ID-card  or mobile-ID or smart-ID - these are the ways how   people are accessing the data, they can control  who is else is accessing the data, or they can   decide to restrict it. The same way healthcare  employees will be accessing the patient's data   and there is five different levels of access  to the data from the healthcare employees side.   Another aspect is availability on the data  exchange. So thanks to the data exchange layer   called the X-Road, different institutions can  access to the medical health record of a patient   collected from different sources, so they can rely  on an adequate data and they know that this is the   true one collected from different hospitals.  And of course third, not least of course,   is the integrity of the data and system which  is guard by a KSI Blockchain technology.   In a way this technology provides an ultimate  accountability and transparency and guarantees   that the integrity of the data itself, the  health data about patients, the log files   and all of these rules have not been manipulated.  So no one would be able to delete your blood type   or delete your allergies or fake records  without becoming known. And of course the log   files - after each visit the doctor is visiting  the information, the log file is saved and the   patient has a full transparency on who has seen  his personal information in healthcare system.   Can you imagine any of this being possible on  paper? I didn't think so. And of course in Estonia   we have not been preparing for all  of that just during the pandemic,   it wouldn't be possible. In fact, we have been  preparing for that for the last 20 years. First   we enrolled the X-road system that is allowing  the data exchange between different public and   private sector institutions back in 2001. 2002  digital identity and digital signature came   about and allowed secure access to the private  data into different governmental institutions.   e-Health system, the first version of it, came  about in 2008 and since then all the different   hospitals and health institutions started  to produce digital records to the system.   e-Prescriptions from 2010, in just two years the  use has skyrocketed up to 90%, so this is how easy   the service actually is. 2018 was a remarkable  year as countries, Estonia and Finland, were able   to exchange the data cross-border and this was  also valid for the e-prescription information,   so Estonian doctor could issue a prescription and  I could easily get it in Helsinki. And the future   of us of course lies in the personalized medicine  area, which I'll talk about a little bit later.   So now let's take a look at some of the  healthy facts about Estonian healthcare system.   There are close to 40 million digital documents  in our e-Health system, public and private sector   hospitals and other healthcare services providers  like labs and researchers add relevant data,   different x-ray or treatment results, diagnosis  and almost everyone in Estonia has a digital   health record available, almost 100% of people.  Just a quick fallback - this last spring my   one-year-old daughter had a weird rash and  I didn't know what to do in the beginning,   but thanks to the system - distancing, this  was the the peak of a quarantine in the first   pandemic crisis - well basically I could get an  opinion from two professional dermatologists,   just allowing them access to the blood test  done in another lab, about my daughter,   so I got a medication for her in a form of  digital prescription just two days after that,   when they've made the decision and I  got it in the pharmacy next to my home.   And this is really not fiction, this is  the boring reality of life in Estonia. So what did we have to do and change due  to the Covid? Of course Corona app HOIA,   it's present in many countries. Our app is unique  as it's anonymously tracking mobile devices and   informing people if they've been in contact with  someone who is Covid positive in order to protect   themselves and the rest of the nation. Corona map  platform was there from the beginning to track the   spread of diseases and just to inform people what  areas they possibly decide not to go to. And one   other aspect - when there were so many people who  got a Covid positive test and they needed a sick   leave, there was an opportunity in the patient's  portal for them to open automatically a sick leave   and the doctor would just have to validate  that by looking at the research results   done. So it was done much simpler to optimize  everyone's work, without visiting the doctor. But of course that's not all. As I've mentioned,  we have been preparing for the situation for years   and these solutions I'm going to  talk about have been serving us   beyond crisis and they will continue to do  so. So let me walk you through some of the key   solutions we have and use. First of all,  the Health and Welfare Information System   Center's responsible for development all the  e-services and solutions and maintaining them,   and the private sector, who you will meet today,  are the ones who actually develop the services.   So first of all, health data is sent  to the Health Information System,   this is where multiple parties not only input the  data but they can also access it simultaneously.   Patient's Portal would be the best place for a  patient to access all of the files from different   hospitals available about them, including the  research results diagnosis and the log file,   so it's used to see and control who has looked  at the data and maybe allow a family member to   also take a look and have access to the patient's  record. e-Consultation is a chance and a platform   to get a professional opinion on the same  problem, same treatment, so we could make   you know a healthier decision about our  health, when multiple doctors take a look.   And digital national Booking System - also a great  invention because in a single platform a patient   could book available doctor and available  specialist without calling in different   places or going from multiple websites, all  conveniently in one place in a multiple hospitals.   And of course e-Prescription - the most  used and one of the most user-friendly   solutions for people, that allows to just cut  costs not only for pharmacies and hospitals,   just calling the doctor the doctor will prolong  the medication if it's any recurring one,   and in a few minutes I could already go to the  closest pharmacy to pick up my medicine. So really   saves tremendous time and money. And from the  perspective of future, our priority is not only to   treat people like in the rest of the world,  but also to try to prevent diseases that will   eventually cut costs in the healthcare system. So  this will be done for a vision of Healthcare 4.0   and personalized medicine. So basically it means  that the genome-based analysis, and we do have 20%   of Estonian populations genome in our biobank  today, we will be able to analyze and not only   prognose the global trends and some diseases or  national trends, but given individual advice to a   person based on his inherited genome information,  so he could overlook and maybe oversee and change   some of his lifestyles or the environment he  is in, to stay healthy longer. In this case   everybody are a winner, the nation is more healthy  and the costs in the healthcare system decreases. So to finish off, really what can we learn from  the pandemic crisis and how can we take advantage   of it? Considering the large-scale trust crisis  around the world with this pandemic and people   are worried that whether the government has the  capabilities to actually fight it, and whether   the hospital systems will endure, considering the  demand the citizens already have for services and   their readiness to use digital tools, I personally  believe that the plans and discussions about   building digital services in healthcare  should rapidly transform into action plans.   Healthcare is now a top priority area and  is crying for innovations at the moment.   So let's seize this opportunity to build  healthier healthcare systems together.   Estonian renowned experts from the companies  who have built digital solutions that served us   for years, are going to be here today to share  their insights with you. Thank you very much. Well thank you so much Anna for your for  your presentation, very insightful stuff   for all of us I'm sure. We actually would like  to move to the very first poll already and I'm   very positively surprised we already have 92  answers for the first question. To remind you,   the question was: "Which e-Health services  are most needed in your country?" and we see   quite an even spread between all the different  answers, but the winner is definitely online   medical records. I personally think that's a  very good place to start, because obviously it   creates the foundation for better treatment  options from both general and special doctors   as well. What are your thoughts on on the polling  answers that you see on the screen? Of course,   definitely, online medical records is the first  step to start off and there are countries that,   basically, people have to collect piles of  papers and transfer them to different hospitals,   and like we can't imagine what is the work the  doctor has to do to just process all of that,   it's just not humanly possible. So online  digital health record is definitely number one   for me too. Very well, I couldn't agree more.  But we also have plenty of questions from you   the audience in the Q&A section, we only have nine  to ten minutes for this part, but we will try to   deal with as many questions as we can. The first  question would be: "What was the hardest plan in   implementing the e-Health solutions in Estonia?"  So as you know, building the technology is not   the most complicated part, you have to have the  legal framework. But for Estonia, I think, maybe   just you know humanely, the doctors who are  usually more mature people and they're not so   open to innovations, this could be one of the  most complicated parts. You know to educate   the employees in the hospital, to convince people  on how to use these digital tools and how they   would benefit them. So to avoid this kind of  resistance, because resistance, internally   organization to take ups and innovations is  usually one of the main blocking points for that.   I guess it is tough in a way to be a doctor  for for 20-30 years and then, all of a sudden,   there's a government that comes around and says:  "How about adding computers to every single thing   that you do!" and I think at the start there  were some people who thought that this would   take time away from patients, cost more money,  but then over the next few years, doctors figured   out that it actually does quite the opposite -  that you have more quality time with patients.   As well, one organizational question  that was being asked as well:   "Will we be able to gain access to the  presentations?" The answer is - yes,   so in a follow-up email after the Digital  Discussions event you will have both a recording   of the event itself and you will also get access  to the presentations if you registered in advance. Now here's another question, I'm  guessing this will be a common theme for   other presenters later today: "Are you consulting  other countries to implement similar systems?"   We definitely do, not particularly  our institution, but we know who to   connect you with. Estonian experts have been  consulting other countries obviously, because   our taylored suit is designed for us, but as major  IT-companies also have built the solutions, are   service companies, so they are the ones also to  professionally consult on how to build this thing   in your organization or in your country. And  the great thing is that we've got those those   companies in many countries, they don't have a lot  of experience because the government doesn't let   them try their services, whereas in Estonia we've  got e-Health solutions that have been working for   for more than a decade already, so certainly  worth taking a look at. Another good question:   "How did you teach and convince older/less  technically ready people to use e-services?"   Well it took some time definitely, there  is no red pill that we can give you,   there was different measures and campaigns focused  on teaching older people, and like free courses,   two-day courses on how to use email, how to use  computers, how to use the search engine and what   can you do with it. And also for e-services  there are large campaigns on the Tiger Leap   Foundation that were kind of teaching people  and organizing kind of a more engaging ways   on explaining them what they could learn and how  they could use the digital services. And of course   this means you have to design services that are  user-friendly and easy to use, so even an elderly   person could use, for example e-prescription would  be a great example of the easiest user-friendly   service, because all you have to do is call the  doctor and say what you need and then hand in your   digital identity card in the pharmacy. So this  is zero skills you need to gain additionally. I   think that's a very good point, it's not the most  glamorous answer in the world, but the truth is   that very often it comes down to education and  user-friendly services, exactly as Anna said.   If you have an id card and you just need to show  up, you don't need to press a single button you,   don't need to click anywhere, enter anything -  that makes life easier for all groups in society. Let's take another question: "Precision medicine  is a revolution in healthcare systems, including   diagnosis tracking and treatment. Do we see using  tracking apps like the one that we are using right   now in this pandemic even after, and how are we  going to deal with the privacy issue?" It's a   long question, but a good question. That's a good  question and we can see that the screws have been   you know kind of put in in many countries  who have these apps and there is a lot of   people who don't understand how potentially this  could be used. And it could be used as a weapon   for sure, when it comes to Estonian HOIA app  it is completely anonymous, tracking not people   but the mobile devices, and this is  like a bunch of codes that have been   near to each other so there is absolutely no link  to a person or his diagnosis directly. So we made   sure that in fact I think HOIA would be able to  use for any pandemic issues or iterations, if   we have them, but not particularly to kind of  continue using that for other purposes. I think   it's really important you know to keep the trust  of the citizens because all the e-governance is   actually based on the trust and transparency,  that in many countries is not present.   I think actually I fully agree, at the start i was  a bit upset that Estonia was not the first country   that came out with a Covid app or a contact  tracing app, but the truth is that some countries   started a bit too fast and didn't explain to  the population what were the the privacy and   the data safety and security frameworks that  were being used, so part of the population   wouldn't use it. So this is also very important  to bear in mind. I would have, we'll try one or   two more questions, one that I very much  like: "My country has only 250 000 people,   is the e-Health system too big for such a small  society? We only have one main hospital and a   number of private smaller ones." I like that  question because usually the question comes   from the other side - what if our country is  too big? - but maybe a good question - what if   our country is smaller than Estonia? Well, if your  country is smaller than Estonia, it means that you   have to invest much more in order to have a  functioning systems or government services,   so anyways digital solutions and services will  be for you a way to reduce the costs and on a   long term better the quality, and kind of you  know match the demand from the population side.   And in case anything happens to your small place  or location, when for example people have to move,   let's say if there is a chemical catastrophe  or any natural disaster - this might mean that   the whole nation will have to or half of the  nation will have to move out, so how will you   be able to service them therefore. Or let's say  if some other country would like to to help and   there are doctors internationally who also you  know provide services and consultation online,   they could take a look to the same data, so there  are many reasons why you should consider doing   that and there is no country too small, because it  just will be you know creating a long-term effect   rather than cost. We will take one last question  for now and maybe try with a with a nice short   answer: "What is the governance structure to  safeguard medical records so that the wrong doctor   can't look at the data and so on?" How do we do  that in Estonia? The key point to e-governance   and also healthcare system is confidentiality,  this data is one of the most critical,   crucial and the most sensitive also by Estonian  legislation. Which means that without the strong   identification elements, like an ID-card, so  cryptographically based two-factor authentication,   you actually need this in order to give access to  the private data for citizens and also to restrict   the access to the data by healthcare employees. So  every doctor and health professional will be using   the same strong digital identity, so there is  going to be a log file saved about every access,   and the patient who has the full transparency onto  the log file, is able to see that this doctor has   been looking at this piece of information and if  it was not authorized, let's say it was not your   curing doctor, you don't know this person, then  these cases already have happened in Estonia,   that you can take it to court and log file is  your proof, that can be enforced in court to   prove that someone has violated your privacy.  And this is not possible on paper, never. And   it's it's very important to point out also that  at the very start when the system was implemented,   some doctors lost their license for life over such  issues, so it's not like it's some sort of paper   rule that is not enforced, no we take it very  seriously in Estonia. Exactly, you don't study   ten years to lose your license over a few wrong  clicks, to just you know treat your curiosity.   Absolutely. Well, Anna, thank you so much for  being with us, and we are heading towards the   next presentation, but before we do that, we  need to talk about the second poll as well. The   question is: "What should blockchain primarily  be used for?" Is it buying cryptocurrency,   ensuring healthcare data security, monitoring  supply chains or building with legos. I know what   I'm going to vote for for sure. While you have a  think about that, I would like to introduce to you   our second speaker - it is Ain Aavikso, who  is the Chief Medical Officer at Guardtime   and he will talk about everything that Guardtime  does in the area of e-Health. Let's take a look!   Guardtime is a cryptographic engineering  company founded in 2007 in Estonia to solve   the data integrity challenges first faced by  the world's most advanced digital government.   Our purpose is to make the world's information  universally reliable and globally verifiable.   Guardtime's zero trust solutions today power  mission critical applications for global   companies and government bodies in Europe, the  U.S. and Asia. Guardtime's VaccineGuard is a GDPR   compliant end-to-end solution that can make  vaccination certificates digitally verifiable   everywhere in the world. A Government hospital  captures the unique vaccine serial number and   patient's identity into a certificate, that will  be sealed cryptographically using KSI Blockchain.   No personal data ever leaves the hospital,  only the unique hash pattern is needed   to return the authenticity seal. The only copy of  the certificate outside the hospital is delivered   to the patient on paper or digital, and only the  patient herself can present it to the verifier.   For example at the border to prove safe entry to  the country. The only external data exchanged by   the verifier is with the KSI Blockchain solution  to verify the validity of the cryptographic seal.   No central database is needed to keep the list of  vaccinations for verification purposes. The unique   feature of VaccineGuard is the anonymous aggregate  of reporting for public health authorities, based   on the unique combination of one vaccine dose and  one person. This enables near real-time monitoring   and coordination of vaccination campaigns,  which is critical for Covid's situation.   This is the opportunity to get  us together out of the crisis. Hello world, wherever you are. Good  morning, good afternoon, good evening!   Being positive, staying negative, I'm  happy to share with you a story from a   company which is the coolest on the planet  - at least I believe, which helps me to   practice some of the experience that I've gained  personally as a trained medical doctor, senior   civil servant, and also entrepreneur. So, for 25  years I've been bridging between healthcare and IT   and I love both of them, and I haven't been  able to decide which side I belong, so actually   I operate and work with both of them. So what is  it special about healthcare? When I think of it,   when I talk to the IT people, like my colleagues  at Guardtime, how to help the digital solutions to   become meaningful in the healthcare domain.  So healthcare is sometimes complained to be   fragmented. I have a news to you: it's going to  remain the same. Because even before the social   distancing era, people were already running around  with the mobile phones and the data will always   remain in different places ,where the people are,  where the doctors are, and increasingly so. So,   but then again how to make certain that  my mobile phone, my primary doctor,   my hospital and then a cool cloud service provider  have all the single version of truth about me,   at the time when that is needed. And also, if that  is to be the case that data and care is fragmented   or at least distributed, and then at the same time  those different individuals and organizations need   to have something that they can agree upon about  me - how can i be certain that this data that is   being processed by them is actually the one that  I have authorized or that I am comfortable with?   So Guardtime is a company which is probably  best fit to address these challenges because   it was born from the very same challenge in 2007,  when Estonia as a country was attacked in our   cyber domain. So that instead of trying to get  away from more digitalizing, we actually took it   as an opportunity, so that we now have a solution  which enables us to prove the time integrity and   provenance of any electronic data asse,t without  reliance of a trusted third body, a human. So   how we do that is that - imagine that you have  a medical record or MRI scan or, well, your AI   configuration file. So what you could do is that  you calculate one way cryptographic hash from that   and then store that in a blockchain and add a  timestamp to that and get back a fingerprint,   if you will, and all this happens in inside the  premises of your own organization. So wherever you   present that data, that electronic medical record  or that MRI scan, all that software configuration   the other side can independently verify that  the data asset that they will be presented,   is trustworthy. So in healthcare this is very  very important that the way you use blockchain   is that the data never leaves the premises,  but at the same time you are capable to prove   the integrity of the data about a certain  time and about individual organization who   actually created this. And with IT wizards very  often the question "How can I trust you that,   you know, what you what I'm telling to you is  actually meaningful and correct?" So in our case   we have been scrutinized and will kept to be  scrutinized every year because the services   are certified in different parts of the world. So  in my mobile phone at the family doctor's office,   so the data is as Anna already mentioned,  well protected in terms of manipulations,   it's also protected in terms of who accessed that  and processing in what way, and also that those   that information is stored and made available  to, for instance middleware software. So which   means that on a daily basis I cannot constantly be  worried about who and how is processing my data,   so again you can build automated computerized  systems that help us in this very digital world   while data is constantly moving. And say, for  instance, the clinical trials if you would   like to access to as many people as possible,  there are tens, if not hundreds of thousands   of people who are currently being invited to  participate in the Covid vaccine trials. Now   do you know that five million dollars is one day  of a clinical trial and if you lose that day,   next day you have to pay another five million  dollars. So accessing the people who are willing   to participate in the clinical trials is one of  the biggest challenges. Now you could do that in   such a way that you send out the request and don't  exchange any data with a patient at that moment,   but then when people consent to participate in the  clinical trial, only then additional information   will be collected and the usual workflow managed  by the principal investigator follows. Now what   the integrity of the process means that activities  prior the consent and activities after the consent   can be all seen as a one workflow and you have  again full oversight of how and when work with   that data. Now a cool thing that we came up with  a few years ago is the concept of data visibility.   So if there's a virtual care team obviously they  demand all the data about yourself and it makes   sense that the last day's results from the lab  or the medical record or x-ray from a year ago,   would be available to all of them. But what  if the pharma company and insurance would   like to agree that the payment to the  pharma company would only be released   to those patients on on those circumstances,  when that treatment actually delivered   value or the outcome was reached? So that outcome  reveals itself in a real-world data environment,   so doctor's office, hospitals, sometimes patients  record that data. So I don't think that we would   like that information to be available in a huge  data lake, when all the pharma companies and all   the insurances where we go fishing for the data.  So how you create that single version of truth?   So what we created is a concept whereby you ask  a question, agree, for instance - how many of the   hundred patients who started this treatment  in six months time are still on treatment,   they haven't developed any nasty side effects,  they have followed all the doctor's orders and   all the test results are according to the  treatment guidelines? And then you get a   result. And that result does not require anyone to  access the data, but you make it visible to them.   And if the underlying data has been sealed  and signed by the KSI Blockchain solution,   you can be certain that even without access to  the data, actually the answer to your question   is something that you can rely upon. That is  how we understand, make the data reliable.   Now I'd like to finish my story today about the  the product that we're working right now together   with colleagues and organizations around the world  and which is really really cool. So, in October   the Prime Minister of Estonia Jüri Ratas and  Director General of WHO Tedros Ghebreyesus   agree this memorandum, that this Estonian  experience should be made available to the   rest. And obviously even though this was prepared  for nine months by that time, it was it was clear   that addressing the area of Covid is probably  something that makes most sense. So smart   vaccination certificate and the way how you manage  and support the enrolment of vaccination campaigns   is something that we're working on right now. What  the solution does, so first - you have a proof   of your Covid status, currently this could  be the test but in the future, near future,   we heard a few days ago that the first vaccines  are coming out, it would be the certificate   about the vaccination. So if you go to another  country and you have been vaccinated in a place   that this other country wouldn't know, they need  to be certain that if they allow you to their,   you know, venue or to their country, that the  certificate they are presenting is something   that they can rely upon. But more importantly  i'm going to show you how we also help to solve   one of the biggest challenges ahead for all the  governments. The global Covid-19 vaccination   campaign will be the largest product launch in the  history of mankind - around 10 billion doses of   vaccines will be have to reach the people within  two years. Nobody has ever done this before,   there are five to ten different companies with  their vaccines, initially there will be not enough   vaccines, so it has to be made certain that if  the batch was meant to be a country in Africa it   doesn't surface in another more richer country,  because they just happen to have more money.   How you handle that without information and  intelligence about it? So here's one way to   do it: so first there is a hospital or healthcare  provider who has been authorized by their country   to provide the vaccination. In addition now we  would add them also authorization to issue a   certificate about the act that they are performing  anyhow. So what they do is they take photo ID,   unique information about the vaccine, you should  know that each vaccine vial has unique serial   number, and then additional information about  this vaccination context, and then you have a   certificate vaccinate it or today that would be  that you're tested. Now what we would add there   is this cryptographic seal that wherever you go  and present that document, the other side can   base their policies and activities on it because  this is reliable, this is trustworthy for them. So   if the government ensures that only the authorized  healthcare facilities issue those certificates,   if the authorized issuer verifies or guarantees  that they have looked in the eyes of the patient,   looked at their photo ID and inputted the  data correctly, then what we can add is the   guarantee that this cryptographic seal enables  you to trust this information when you see it.   So how does it work in the real world? So  the issuer gives the patient the certificate,   again remember in order to have this verification  seal, no personal data needs to enter anywhere or   you don't need to keep it in any database,  so that it's in the hand of the patient,   and only at the consent of the patient it will  be presented to the bodyguard or to anyone else.   And then they will verify - okay, what I see here  on this paper or on this mobile app actually is   something that I can trust. Again the trust comes  from the fact that it is sealed not from the fact   that I have cured some wonderful databases, even  though I like those cool databases in Estonia,   but I wouldn't like all the possible border  guards across the world to access those   databases. Because for this use case this  is not needed and the coolest thing, though,   is that imagine if this vaccine travels from a  manufacturer to the hospital and the hospital   gets a digital twin as we call together with  this package and then, as you already saw,   okay the certificate will be issued containing  the ID information about what disease was it,   the vaccine serial number and then the hospital  location, and then i will be given a certificate.   At the very moment additional what I would call  a statistical reporting artifact will be created,   notice that there is no personal information  contained in that and that information could   be used for near real-time monitoring of  public health authorities how the vaccination   program is going, do we have any problems in  certain areas, but also in the similar manner   manufacturers would get again privacy protected  information about the counterfeits, the diversions   or actually in the next stage is also what is  called pharmacovigilance or the quality monitoring   purposes, so that if the true dosage you start  your program with, well the reason one is Pfizer's   the first one, then another company might  also have a protocol where you need to have   two vaccinations, so you have to be certain  that those are not mixed between each other.   And also if anything unusual appears, again both  public health authorities and the pharmaceutical   companies can act quickly. So we are in the middle  of the crisis, the vaccines are out for the first   selected ones in two or three months for the rest  of the population maybe in six to nine months,   and hopefully in two or three years we get out  of this crisis with the help of this vaccination.   But digital solutions take time right? So  that is a reason why we agreed when we are   working now with the Estonian Government and WHO  that there shouldn't be no new database created   both for privacy purposes, but also in in terms  of getting it actually out as as expected. So   there shouldn't be no IT infrastructure needed,  so it's very light, it can work on top of the   solutions that you have already, it has to work  on paper and digital, so we can't imagine that   every person in the world has as the latest  smartphone available in order to present that if   they want to go or travel somewhere. At the same  time there has to be some minimal kind of common   security and privacy guaranteed for all of them  and, yes, it has to be implementable immediately   and globally. So that's how we think  VaccineGuard could help. In this very moment   we have started talking to several governments,  the first such certificates are being issued,   the bodyguards in different countries where we  presented them, they really enjoy that and in   the coming weeks we hope also the WHO to come  up with the request of features that exactly   these kind of solutions, either from Guardtime or  from others, could actually help us. So I think   this truly is the opportunity to get us together  out of the crisis now and globally. Thank you! Well thank you so much Ain for your presentation  and I think it's always, I mean blockchain is a is   a big topic around the world and it's always good  to get some more technical insight into how it   actually works, especially in the area of e-Health  today. Before we get to the questions from the   audience, we need to talk about the poll and again  many of you contributed the question was: What   should blockchain primarily be used for? Buying  cryptocurrency, ensuring data security, monitoring   supply chains or building with legos? What would  be your answer to this? This is interesting,   well it could be used for many things  so it's a little bit like a mobile   phone - is it good for calling? is it  good for playing? or is it good for,   I don't know, finding your date? So  I think that if you use it properly   and with other solutions, actually you could use  it for the things that you think you like or need.   Absolutely yeah, it's a very versatile solution  but at the same time, of course, blockchain itself   does not solve everything but if you use it in  the correct way, in the correct circumstances,   it's a very very powerful tool. Indeed. Let us  take a look at the questions from the audience,   though actually something that that struck me  immediately is the question: How do we get in   contact with the presenters? We need to have  one-on-one discussions on potential projects.   Greetings from South-Africa! So I guess the  recommendation here would be to hang out   with you in the breakout sessions afterwards.  Indeed. Where he will also tell you more about   the solutions and of course I'm sure he will also  give you his email address in addition to that.   The second question: What is the main difference  between VaccineGuard and other QR-code-based   Covid passes? Right, first, QR code is really just  means of communication, the QR code doesn't do   the miracle. The miracle part is that, first,  in order to have your vaccination certificate   certified and have the attestation on it, you  don't need to access to any central database. So   it is as privacy preserving as it can be. And  secondly, it really is within that QR code   you would have this KSI signature that gives  the assurance. But certainly it is compatible   and could be integrated with many other QR code  solutions. Absolutely. The second question: Are   all medical records on the KSI blockchain or is  it only the vaccination records? Well okay, that's   the question that I always get - the healthcare  records in Estonia are never on the blockchain,   don't keep health data on blockchain please,  that's a bad idea. Use blockchain in order to   secure the data but keep your data where it is  with me in my mobile phone like a vaccination   record or in the electronic medical record at  the hospital. So that this is the way how they   use the blockchain and this is how the vaccine  records. But also, all the other records are being   protected in Estonia. Very true, this is something  that I also need to make our delegations aware of   almost every single day, so it's very important  to drive that point home again and again. Another   question, and this is we're getting very deep into  policy actually as well: We are moving too fast in   new designs for the Covid vaccine and we need  a very good pharmacovigilance system to track   the side effects, can we talk about a unified  smart pharmacovigilance system in the future?   Yes I think so. That is one area that we are  working, as I alluded, the same VaccineGuard's   platform and infrastructure could be used for  that, there are many agreements in healthcare,   it is less challenging to come up with  a cool technology it is usually a domain   where several participants need to agree that the  governance mechanism of information and agreements   then the way how how the technology is being  used is understood and then supported by all the   others. So indeed I believe this is possible  and it doesn't take decades to get there,   I think this is doable within a year. We have a  similar question that goes in the same direction:   The solution needs an international  agreement from part of each state,   how to make sure that the solution would be  spread globally? Do you think there are already   some sort of initiatives or there is political  goodwill there? Yes well that's why we have taken   the tedious way of working with the WHO, I can  tell you I've never seen WHO to work so fast,   also the governments, I think every government  is held accountable by the citizens to finding   the right solutions for the epidemics, vaccination  is not the only one, so we are already executing   and practicing certain matters. So that I think  that the governments want to do it. Second,   if the solution doesn't require building new  IT infrastructure, so if the friction is low   it is possible. And then the first countries  what we call pathfinder countries are gradually   joining and the next would come, so the example  of the others would hopefully also bring everyone   on board or at least most of the countries on  board. It's about generating that critical mass,   so we can get other people to join for sure.  And now you did mention in your presentation   the importance of border guards and implementing  such solutions as well. Another question comes   with one upvote as well: Are airline carriers  involved in the possible solution? They may   consider to allow passengers only with a negative  Covid test to board the aircraft. So do you think   that could be another stakeholder in this? Yes,  by all means, so we are talking not only airline   carriers, we're also talking, Estonia has a border  with sea, so many of our neighbours actually can   be reached by ferries, so we're talking about with  the ferry companies. Indeed they are yet another   participant in this ecosystem that needs to  understand how and in which way uh this solution,   in addition to all the others, helps them to  get back to the business and back to normalcy.   Very well, we'll try to make it two more  questions but we'll see: How do you manage or   handle your applications data when the patient  is in isolation ward or in a remote location?   Okay, so first of all, the data first starts with  the healthcare provider so if they're hopefully   under good care of that healthcare provider in  isolation, so that is where this information is   first. Then when they go out of the hospital and  are in isolation on their own, then again either   the hospital would give them a paper with them  or if they have a digital tool to process that,   then it could be also on their computer or a  mobile phone. So again the data is first with   the healthcare provider and second copy is only  with the patient themselves. Absolutely. The final   question that I would mention right now, I hope  I understand this correctly: I believe that KSI   blockchain is not a public blockchain, is there a  good url website to learn about KSI blockchain to   use the e-Health care system? Yes indeed I do  believe that it is available on the e-estonia   website, it is also available on the website of of  Guardtime and if you have more specific questions,   please join the breakout session and I could give  you maybe some more details in addition to that.   Thank you very much for that very kind  plug to the estonia.com website as well,   where we have plenty of fact sheets and  Q&A's to all sorts of different topics,   yes e-Health but also many other things  ranging from e-Justice to online voting   and many other things. Ain, thank you so much  for joining me on stage, it was a pleasure to   talk to you and we are slowly moving towards  the next presentation, but again, you know the   drill - before we do we take a look at our next  polling question and the question is: What is most   important for a good healthcare system? Is it the  quality of treatment, accessibility of services,   reliability of information, data exchange between  hospitals or that an apple a day keeps a doctor   away? There are many good answers here, I know  which I want which oneIi would vote for so,   please vote and also, of course for the next  presentation, please add your questions in the Q&A   section and upvote other questions that you would  like to hear the answer to, as you have done so   actively over the last few presentations as well.  Without any further ado, let's take a look at our   next presentation - it's done by Kristi Pool who  is a partner at Helmes and she will talk about   what healthcare innovations Helmes brings  into the sector itself. Let's take a look! Meet three Estonian e-citizens: Lee, Martin and  their son Hugo. It's been a few weeks since Hugo   broke his arm, his family physician removes the  cast and discovers a strange rash underneath. She consults a dermatologist using -econsultation  - it's an efficient way for a family physician to   consult with a specialist and save everyone's  time. The dermatologist who can also access   the medical records about Hugo, gives  recommendations for further treatment.   This provides the best possible care  and Hugo is glad he's well again. Hello-hello! Thank you for the opportunity  to be here today and thank you all who   took time to participate in this online  event wherever you are - at your home office,   home or hospital. In the next 15 minutes I'm going  to share with you the story how Estonia's largest   hospital is serving 30 000 more patients  annually with the help of Helmes' software. What kind of company is Helmes? We are located,  our headquarters is in Thailand but our offices   are worldwide, from San Diego to Riga,  from Minsk to Mumbai and it's 900 of us.   We build mission-critical solutions and  healthcare is definitely one of them. The most   mission-critical in 2011 we launched first in the  world digital prescription. This e-prescription   is today really widely used, more than  90 percent of Estonian citizens are using   e-prescription today. We also got back  then an innovation award for this solution,   but much more important than any award is the  knowledge and the knowing and the fact that   the solution is up and running and you can rely  on it. We have built also hospital solutions,   general practitioners info system, patient  portal, coding center, many others, and also   e-School health solution. Did you know that  all Estonian students - their vaccination and   health data is stored in Helmes' built and  run solution? Its school health info system today's focus is on hospital solutions and my  next slides are about the solution we have built   for Estonian largest emergency-focused hospital -  Northern Estonia Medical Center. So what was the   problem we started to solve? Few years ago there  was not a very good booking solution available   and as side effects where that very  expensive medical devices such as   MRTdevices or computer tomographs were not used  efficiently enough. And also real available   doctors time was also not used efficiently enough  because doctors were waiting for the patients who   were late or waiting for the patients who  actually never arrived, because they just   forgot they had appointment. And in the same  time we had a long waiting list of patients.   So what did we do together with the hospital?  We analyzed the situation and we created   a solution - we found out that digital  booking system is exactly the solution what   we need to implement. Digital booking system  together with the self-service environment   I could actually login to the system and find any  doctor I would like to visit, to find the date and   time and book it - it's done, it's really  easy. We also implemented SMS notification   and the SMS notification is great because it's  impossible to forget when is your doctor's time   visit planned, you will get the SMS a day before  the visit and also on the same day in the morning.   What else did we do? We centralized all the  device bookings and we centralized also data of   doctors bookings available time. In some extent  doctors were able to have double bookings but this   was only for the doctors and we also reserved  10 percent of the time for critical patients.   So what was the outcome, what was the result?   As you can see the number of computer tomograph  studies grew rapidly from around 200 000 studies per year to around 450 000. Growth 67%  and when we look from the number of patients it   also grew rapidly, and this is actually most  important, because every number is a person.   So basically we can see here in this case  study that with the same number of doctors   and with the same number of medical devices it's  possible to serve 30 000 more people annually   and with just the help of clever solution  built by Helmes. But actually when we look   it's really not any kind of rocket  science solution, it's just an   online booking solution but these kind of small  solutions step by step when we go it's possible to   make hospitals also so much more efficient and to  help hospitals to realize their full potential. This what I just described was only one module,  however we have built many of modules from   resource management system to cancer treatment,  surgery planning and emergency solution.   For instance when the ambulance car is on  the way with the patient there is a constant   data exchange, it's all going online and the  hospital already knows what kind of situation   does the patient have and what is  the status or is the patient a red,   yellow or a green status, based on that  hospital is preparing all the needed   equipment at the hospital. And many other  solutions, we have built 20 plus modules, so   Smart Selection tools - this is also one  of the models we have built for hospital. Can you imagine that when you go to your doctor  and instead of start talking to you and asking   how are you, doctor is actually busy with  the gadget, just adding data or trying to   find the right information. This is definitely  not what we would like to experience,   none of us, and this is the reason why we  actually created together with the hospital,   smart selection of tools, which would allow  doctors to concentrate on a patient's concentrate   on us and our problem and how we get healthy  and well again, so smart selection of tools   has exactly this kind of information which is   relevant for the doctors and the good thing  is that each doctor can actually can actually   design and create exactly this view what they  would like to have. All the doctors and nurses and   all the medical personnel could have it the way  how it's most convenient and suitable for them.   Concept Concilium Solution - actually when we initially started to   create it it was of course not the pandemic  time and the most important thing was to have   effective online tool to take decisions  and to decide what to do with the patients   next. But now in pandemic era so to speak there is  also much more in these kind of solutions in these   collaboration tools, although it would be nicer  than ever now to have everybody around the table   and to discuss about the things, but now  these online tools are so much more important   and Cancer Concilium tool is one of them. So  basically the best fit for our hospital solutions   is for the hospitals who really  have like emergency focus   and for whom it is very important to  have systematic approach toward patients   and to require to have more efficient usage of  doctors time and also usage of medical devices,   and who is really considering to have  digital collective decision making tools.   We truly believe that each patient should have a  right treatment at the right time and in the right   place and that's the reason why we work together  with hospitals and help them to deliver it. So   as you can see even with the small steps when  you implement just one module in your hospital,   it's possible to help so many people and perhaps  also save some lives. I'm happy to tell you that   during the breakout session have my great  colleague Keiko Kell here with me and   he's going to guide you through the seven modules  we have developed for the hospitals, he's really   the professional, he's working with the hospitals  absolutely every day and there is no question   which is too technical for him. So thank you so  much and see you during the breakout session. Well Kristi, hank you so much for that  presentation and it's always good to see   how exactly the solutions work also for  the customer but also for the hospital   that is working on it. So before we turn to  the questions from the audience, we did have a   poll to the audience as well: What is most  important for a good health care system?   Quality of treatment, accessibility of  services, reliability of information, data   exchange between hospitals or that famous apple  that keeps the doctor away? That would be great   to answer myself also, I would take the apple  of course. If the apple could solve all the   healthcare questions around the world I'm  sure we would not talk about e-solutions,   but they are necessary whether we like  it or not, because the apple does not   do all of the work unfortunately. But we've  got plenty of questions from the audience   and again I'm so grateful that you're being very  proactive here. Some of them are more technical,   some of them not so much. The first  question that I would want to get to   is: Can you implement the e-prescription  without the X-road and an electronic ID?   That's a good question, actually I think there  should be possibility to implement digital   prescription without the X-road, but it really  depends because there is no other country exactly   like Estonia and like Estonian solutions and  this digital prescription could actually mean   country by country something different. So I  believe the answer is yes, but of course there   are so many details and we definitely need to  discuss. It's certainly on a country by country   or region-by-region basis, even in some countries  thanks to the federalized structure of it all,   but yes, good question. If a hospital  wanted to implement these solutions,   what kind of process should they expect? Is  it more of a plug-and-play solution or is it   a longer process that takes a bit more time?  Yeah it's a good question as well because   actually you could start small, you could just  actually take one of the modules for instance,   like this booking solution and start really  easily and start from the smaller module   and go step by step. And I think, of course,  yes it's possible to do it like a big bang,   although I think I would suggest rather to take it  step by step. I think what we've seen in Estonia   as well is that organic growth is usually more  helpful for the end users, both in the hospitals   and also for the citizens, because if you  present them with 100 new online services today,   they will not understand all of them at the  same time, so better start with something   and then build from there. And also the good  thing is that you could start with one hospital   as a pilot project and then scale that up for the  rest of the region or the rest of the country,   depending on how big your country is. Something  that goes more in the medical direction:   Do all the different hospitals in Estonia use  the same EMR, like all the different hospital   machines or are these provided by the government,  by the ministries or do they all have their own   systems and technologies in place? Yeah  unfortunately do not know the answer for   that question, but we can certainly find out,  but yeah I don't know. I'm sure that also for   the for the breakout session we will have some of  those answers ready, in case you want to go more   into detail. How does your application manage  or behave when there is no ICU room available,   whereas the critical patient in the ambulance is  on the way to the hospital? Would the solution   divert to another nearby hospital or hold?  That is another answer, another question what   we should bring to the breakout room and then  my colleague Kaiko could take it. Absolutely.   Not every citizen has a smartphone or PC, how do  people like that access healthcare in Estonia? How can they access, well and the question  was like if you don't have a computer,   if you don't have a smartphone - what do  you do? You call. I was about to say the   same thing - the good thing about... or you go  there, of course during the pandemic time that   would be a little bit difficult because they just  accept only pre-booking and agreement beforehand   you physically go somewhere. But you can just use  the ordinary phone and call because this so-called   analog option is still there, you can still kind  of take your phone and take a number and call and   it still works. I think this is something that we  need to talk about more, as well in the worst case   scenario, if you don't have a smartphone,  if you don't have an internet connection   the worst thing that can happen in Estonia is  that it works just like in every other country   in the world, that's the bottom line. It's only  up from there and of course there are still people   working in these different offices and buildings  and in the general practices and so on.   Another question: If implementing such a huge  system in a hospital is quite often a challenge,   what was the end user's feedback and how did the  implementation with the doctors and nurses go?   Of course every change of behavior every  new thing, it it takes time and it's   it's a challenge, and it's not easy if you think  if you need to do something in a different way and   you have a new habit and to start eating less  and exercising more, it's not easy right?   Theoretically it's very easy, but really of course  it takes some time, it takes some energy, but it's   all worth it because as for every doctor and every  nurse it is important to help more people and save   more lives and we can clearly see that IT  solutions help them in this hard work what they do   day by day. So they they do it and and I think we  all should be proud for the work. I think change   management is usually not about the technology,  the technology can be uploaded within 30 seconds,   the question is number one the legal frameworks  - is what you're trying to implement even   even possible in your country, for  data exchange and many other things,   and the second question is of course how do the  people react to this stuff and I think this is   again, this organic growth not just for for  the end users but also for the people in the   hospitals. If you've been a practicing doctor for  20 years and all of a sudden there is this new   online format, even if it is very user-friendly  and the people know how to use computers, it   will still take some time to get used to it. Yeah  you're you're right and of course there is always   transition periods when you can use paper and  also digital options, but very soon everybody   will go towards the digital option because then  all is in the system or is transparent, all is   there and actually it is less work. So that's  that's how it works. Wonderful, well thank you   so much for your insights Kristi. Before we head  to the next presentation, we have another polling   question for you people at home.Tthe question is:  How far is the nearest pharmacy from your home?   Is it a) I live next to it, which would be very  very useful in times of crisis; is it less than   100 meters; is it half a kilometer or more; or  do you have no idea where the next pharmacy is   located? I live quite close to one but I'm sure  that depending on how rural your home region is,   it might be a bit more tricky than  that, so please give us your answers   and in the meantime we will start with the  introduction video for the next presentation. We   will have Taavi Einasto on stage, he is a partner  at the company Nortal and he will talk about   building seamless healthcare.  Let's take a look at the video. Nortal is a global digital transformation  powerhouse of a thousand experts in the US, Europe   and the Middle East, known for being one of the  main architects behind Estonia's transformation   into a globally renowned digital society.  Nortal's vision is to create a seamless society   where all communications transactions  and services are effortless,   leaving time for things that truly  matter. We work with leading governments,   healthcare institutions and businesses around  the world, helping them simplify and optimize   complex processes to tackle the challenges  of today and build the future together. Good morning, good afternoon or good evening,  depending on where you are also from my side!   I'm extremely happy to be here, happy to see all  of you joining us. Well actually I cannot see you   but what the organizers are telling us that there  are so many people watching that we're really glad   about this. So we'll talk about building  seamless healthcare - what does that mean,   how have we done this before and how do we see  the relevance of the Estonian experience here.   Nortal is a global company and we've been building  digital healthcare solutions for over 20 years   across Europe and the Middle East  and moving into our subject today,   of course we are focused on the future, so what do  we think the future of healthcare will look like? I think we are all on the same page that the  healthcare in the future has to be patient or   user-centric, but what does that really mean? So  first of all, our previous presenters have also   outlined that we are living in an area where  the demand for healthcare is ever increasing,   so we have increasing population, we have  aging population, we have more people with   chronic disease. At the same time we also have a  situation where the expectations of the population   for healthcare are increasing. You know we live in  an era where we're able to get cars or or electric   bikes with a push of a button and and we see  pictures across the globe being uploaded and   shared with family and friends, and this all  plays into the expectation of the population   where we really expect the healthcare system  and governments provide better care. We see   technology advancing and we want to use it, so  this of course puts enormous pressure on the   healthcare system from many sites. On the other  sid,e also you know, supporting the user we have   an increasingly complex situation with regulation  and regulation very often is connected to data   and when we come back to the original thesis that  healthcare in the future should be or has to be   user-centric, then let's ask ourselves, you know,  who or what is a user today? Maybe 20, 30 years   ago the patient or user of healthcare, you know,  was the physical person with with their needs,   wishes, hopes, with their family, but increasingly  we have to define the patient or the user   also through the digital data that we have or  they have about their own healthcare. So think   about it, we also have the same situation outside  of healthcare, you know, I'm a person but then   i have this digital twin on Facebook or Instagram  and, you know, maybe in the future on tiktok, but   we have the same situation also in healthcare. So  when we say that the future of healthcare has to   be user-centric, we really have to understand that  this is not only about the physical person but   this is also about the data which is connected  to this patient. I will talk mostly about   digital prescription or e-prescription,  depending on how do you want to call it. Why   electronic prescription? So we had  a wonderful presentation also from   our colleagues previously, describing, you  know, how prescription was built in Estonia and   I really believe that when we are building digital  healthcare or a digital society at large, then   prescription is a wonderful way how to go  about it. So first of all, prescription,   it's a very very high frequency service. I think  we all know that most of us use prescriptions   pretty frequently - is it for ourselves  or for our children, for our parents,   but this is something we are all connected to.  Anna mentioned in her presentation that more   than 90 percent of the people in Estonia are  using electronic prescription - I think that's   a very very high number for a country where, you  know, a really high percentage of the population   is using a digital service. So this is why  I think it's a relevant topic to talk about.   There are a couple of other reasons why we think  prescription is a really good topic to cover   and then we'll later have time to go into more  details during the breakout session as well. So   if you're interested in that topic,  please join us there. But one of the   elements of one of the characteristics that makes  electronic prescription really special is that   it's it's relatively independent as a service.  So you can live in a country or in a region where   most of healthcare is on paper but it would still  be possible to implement electronic prescription   or digital prescription and why is this? Well  if we look at the setup of a prescription,   so this is something that's initiated by a  patient. So I have a problem, I have a need,   sometimes it's something that you know is coming  up today, but very often because of especially for   chronic patients, this is something that happens  regularly. So there is a specific need, a specific   process for me as a patient to go through. And in  order to do this, I have to connect to a medical   professional. So this is typically a doctor but in  some cases, let's say for re repeat prescriptions,   it can also be a nurse or a caretaker. And the  first thing that we are looking at is, you know,   how do I do this? Of course traditionally, I  go there, you know, I go to see a specialist.   Increasingly we have opportunities to do this  via telemedicine or you know simply calling,   and all of this is something that we can  digitalize, not digitizing the whole country.   So, you know, I'm at the specialist, I'm  talking to the specialist on the phone,   they want to give me a prescription, so what do  they have to do? So there are a couple of things   they need to know. So first of all, they need to  know what is my situation, you know, what's my   what's my concern? In an ideal world you know  they have access to all of my medical records,   but in case that's not possible, I mean in any  case they would give the prescription based on the   input from me as a patient. So this can be done  in a highly digital environment, can also be done   in a very paper-based environment. The doctor  would need to also figure out what kind of drugs   are available for prescription, you know,  traditionally they would write it on a paper,   in a digital environment there's a list somewhere  so they're able to you know, select what is the   best medicine from that list. Again - can  be done in a fully paper-based environment,   can be done in a very highly digitalized  environment. Next step, I go to the pharmacy.   Pharmacies would need to have some level  of internet connectivity as with the doctor   obviously, but most pharmacies  they already have some kind of   digital systems to keep track of their inventory  situation and billing and it's relatively easy   to add a simple functionality to those systems  to check for prescriptions. So what we have seen,   well first of all in Estonia but other  countries as well, that is possible to implement   electronic prescription both in a highly digital  environment but also in an environment which might   not be as digital. So this is why we think it's  a really good example when people are thinking   about building up digital healthcare. We also  see that electronic prescription, especially   in situations when we are maybe building it up in  a more paper-based society, it can be a wonderful   first service which can be expanded later  on. So if we think about an example where   electronic prescription is built up  in a mostly paper-based environment,   so what does this actually require? It means  that we have to set up at least basic registries   for medical professionals for drugs that  are allowed to be prescribed for pharmacies   and for medical practice locations, so these are  all excellent building blocks for the future. So   if you have those building blocks in place  you're able to move on to building medical   health records. And I saw in the beginning of  the transmission today, there was a poll about   you know which of the digital healthcare services  is the most important and the majority of you   voted for medical records. So I would kindly  disagree here - I think electronic prescription   is the most important one because I think this  is the quickest way for a society to deliver   a real impact to the people with the reasonable  investment. So this is my my take on here,   but basically if you look at the building  blocks that you need for a digital prescription,   you can see that based on those you're able to  move into telemedicine, you're able to move into   medical records, you're able to move into, you  know, digitalizing ambulance, you're able to   really make people want to use telemedicine. So  there's a lot of services that you're able to   build after you have done electronic prescription.  So I think if there's something that you take away   from this presentation this is one of the  topics. But okay, let's look at a couple   of case studies as well. So before I jump  into the cases that we've prepared here,   I would really like to highlight something  that the previous presenters have also   brought up really well in their  respective discussions. When   we are all very happy that you have joined us  to learn about digital healthcare in Estonia   and you know how Estonia has built this miraculous  infrastructure I would say, but I think it's also   increasingly important for everybody to understand  that we are not suggesting that everybody   should be like Estonia and I think at least us as  a company you know, we have learned this the hard   way. So you know we have been international for  more than 15 years and in the beginning of course   we were extremely enthusiastic about doing  the Estonian thing globally. Very quickly we   realized this is not going to work. So I'll show  you a couple of cases where we have succeeded,   so we have taken the Estonian experience, taking  it into a absolutely different context and made it   work. And i think this is really the inspiration  that I hope you take from this from this session,   that the Estonian success story can be implemented  in absolutely different circumstances as well.   So first, Germany. Clearly there are you  know similarities and big differences   between the countries, so generally speaking  our legislation is very similar with Germany   but there are important differences. So  first of all, you know, Germany obviously is   a larger country but it also has a very federal  structure, meaning that there's a separation of   decision making on the federal and state level.  Germany also has a different setup, especially   I would say in terms of the expectation of the  society to data privacy. So as an example, if we   look into the prescription system that we have set  up in the federal state of Essen with partners,   one of the elements when we jump back into being  user-centric, you know, if we want to use data to   provide better healthcare then of course this  data has to be available for the stakeholders,   meaning the doctors, you know, potentially  pharmacists. In the German context   there's a lot of care taken into you know, if  I'm a chronically ill patient and I might have   four or five different prescriptions active at the  same time, I also might be battling depression for   example. So if I go to my pharmacist and I want to  get the four prescriptions for my chronic disease   but I don't want the pharmacist to know that I'm  working on my depression as well at the same time,   because it might be the you know, only pharmacy in  the village and I don't want that person to know   that I have depression. So in the German context  the systems are designed in a way that the user   has to have maximum control over what type of data  are the stakeholders seeing. And of course with   digital tools this is relatively easy to do. What  we have to understand obviously is that there's a   there's a trade-off, so in a situation where  potentially I'm not showing all of the data to the   you know doctor or the pharmacist, they're also  not able to utilize this data to advise me. So   you know, this is a trade-off clearly and and to  really show the difference here, so another case,   this is in Abu Dhabi where we built the  prescription system recently with partners there.   So the business goal here was very different,  the business goal here for the regulator was to   really support the population in the situation  where the controlled medications might be harmful.   So you know people get very strong painkillers  and and there's a possibility as we know you   know globally that it's an epidemic that people  might get hooked. So you know how to make sure   that we are protecting people from this type of,  let's say you know, potentially we could call it   the failure of the system even. And here in order  to do this obviously when we are allowing the   prescribing of controlled medication, we need  to know or the system needs to know, you know,   when was the last prescription done and and  calculate, so that it doesn't become too frequent   for the person. So a very different view into this  paradigm of privacy versus using the data for the   benefit of the patient. But my message here is  that both can be done, so this is obviously a   matter of policy choice for the regulators. From  a technical perspective we are able to always   build it both ways or some other way. Before  we jump into the question and answer session,   I really liked what Ain was presenting  earlier about the cooperation with WHO,   so we're working in the same field and a little  bit different focus - we also work with the   PCR testing that is going on today and we  really think that if we want to return to   some kind of normalcy with travel, we really  need to have a solution where you know people   can be tested before they board the flight or  they join an event. And if you're interested in   this also more information available during  the breakout session. Thank you very much! Well thank you so much for for your insights, we  will move to the Q&A session in just a second.   Before we do that, we have to take a look at  the last poll for today. The question was:   How far is the nearest pharmacy from your home?  We got around 60 answers from the viewers,   only three people said I live next to  it, 16 said less than 100 meters away,   35 that's almost 60 of the people, said half a  kilometer, and there are five people who say I   have no idea where the closest pharmacy is. What's  the situation for you? I was just thinking about   this when you said it and i think it's about  40 or 45 meters, so it's really close for me.   That's pretty straightforward yeah, for me  it's around 500 meters but just about, so I   think that's also quite doable. We've got plenty  of questions also referring to your presentation,   the one that got the most upvotes is:  You implemented e-Health solutions   in Germany and the UAE, those are two  very fundamentally different countries   in different stages of digitalization, what were  your lessons learned from these two examples?   Well I think that I chose those examples exactly  because of this - so they're extremely different   because of multiple reasons. The political system  and the level of digitalization, so we can look at   you know Dubai and Abu Dhabi which have a lot of  very advanced systems and I think what we have   learned is that in both countries, regardless  of the political system, regardless of the   you know state of digital advancement, there are  always people who want to do things and there are   people who don't want to. And i think what's  really important is that you know, you try to   find more of the people who want to do things and  you know, you try to manage the ones who don't.   Yeah absolutely, coming from Germany myself I can  certainly agree that there are a handful of people   that are maybe not as excited about digitalization  as as people in Estonia and obviously also you the   dear audience. But if I may jump in I think  there's a fundamental shift that has happened   and I think if there's one thing one positive  thing that comes out of this Covid situation,   I think that also people in Germany which is also  my main workplace, they have really understood   that the lack of digital is a bigger risk than  having digital. You took away my next question!   The question was actually very much connected  to this: Have you seen an uptake in interest   in e-Health solutions since the start of the  pandemic? Maybe you can talk about regions as   well or some sort of insights there? Sure. Well  I think that you know if we talk about digital   then of course when Covid came, it's a huge shock  for everyone and it took you know several weeks   for both companies and governments to understand  what's going on, you know, organize themselves   in terms of working from home etc. So we saw a  huge drop in calls or emails about new projects,   you know, in March for example, but increasingly  after this both in the public and private sector   we see that there's a urgency of being more  digital. We see it in healthcare, we see it   in Germany, but we also see it in other regions.  We see it on the private side, we see, you know,   big American companies who maybe run theme parks,  you know, they're trying to figure out how to   survive this era, and of course we see it in  healthcare. I think that this is such a perfect   storm for healthcare, so you need more healthcare  but you cannot see the people, you don't want to   have a lot of sick people in the waiting rooms,  so everybody's trying to understand tele-health,   you know, how can we be more away but still help  people. Of course every single case of Covid-19   is a tragedy in itself, but i I couldn't agree  more that for this sector in particular it might   have been some sort of renaissance, that all of  a sudden people realize that digital is not no   longer a gimmick, it's rather a factor of hygiene  actually. Absolutely. We're usually being asked at   the Briefing Center - what if the online services  don't work anymore? Well now we get to ask the   reverse question - what if the physical services  don't work anymore? Absolutely, very good point!   There are two questions that are referring  more to the current situation in Estonia,   if you would allow me, the first one is as  follows: If I go to a doctor and he or she issues   a sickness certificate, does Nortal software  allowed to send this sickness certificate to the   National Insurance or the Social Security system  automatically, so I get my sickness benefit? What   kind of data format is it? Is it xml? Yeah it's  basically about the service provision automatic   money transfer and so on, how does it work in  Estonia? Well, the automatic transfer is possible,   so basically what is considered in the  process and and maybe I would enlarge this   answer a little bit outside of the very specific  use case. So the sEtonian government in general is   trying to find ways how to be more efficient  and and a big part of it is what we call   services that are, so we say it like  this that the best service is no service.   Because if you think about the same example  that the audience is asking for - so why   I go to the doctor? I have a problem, I'm  sick, so why should I spend energy you know   bringing some piece of paper or sending an email  to somewhere? So we want to eliminate all of this   and I think this is a principle that increasingly  is used across the board in public administration.   Yeah, we're talking about proactive government  services where we're talking about the use of   AI and voice assistance, there are many many  different things on the... some are on the   horizon and some are very much being rolled out  as we speak. Very true! The second question that   relates to the Estonian experience: Maybe it would  be useful for the audience to get some information   on the healthcare system in Estonia  insurance, big players, reimbursement   related to the digital solutions that are already  implemented? Can you give us a quick overview of   how it works if you're a patient in  Estonia? Okay, so I think that first of all,   we have a single pair system which arguably  makes some implementations easier. But for   for me as a patient, I'm able to interact with  most branches of medicine online or digitally.   Obviously, you know, in certain situations I  would have to go there, I want to go there.   The data between institutions always  moves digitally, so if i get an X-ray   in a private clinic for example and then I go to  my governmental hospital to have a knee surgery,   then there's never any papers or CDS with  X-rays, so data between institutions always moves   digitally. This is, you know, has been like this  for a long time. Something that I might not see,   which is kind of hidden from my side ,of course  the doctors and the hospitals, they have to get   paid for their services, so this data moves  digitally as well. What I think is really   cool about the Estonian system is that in case  the public insurance has paid for my health,   let's say a surgery or something else,  I am able to see how much that cost   and I think that it has several wonderful  side effects. So first of all the   National Insurance company has effectively  crowdsourced the auditing of healthcare bills   and we have, you know, certain cases where people  have noted some irregularities and they're able to   investigate. But I think on a philosophical  level, especially in a single-payer system,   there's a feeling that healthcare is for  free, which is, you know, of course it's not,   and it really helps to understand that me going  on a skiing trip, you know breaking my knee,   really actually cost the taxpayer a lot  of money in the end. So it very much puts   it into perspective how much you paid into the  system, what you've gotten out of it throughout   the years of breaking legs on ski trips and so on.  But yeah, if I just make a couple of other things   which I think are very important and useful  in Estonia: so I have two underage daughters   and I'm able to see their health records, I'm  able to get their prescriptions, if I would have   an older relative who would require assistance,  they would also be able to grant me, let's say,   limited or full access to the health record - I  think these are also things that really drive home   the user-centricity, because they really help  families. Absolutely. One last point that we can   probably, it's a bit of an open-ended question,  but that we can probably deal with quite quickly:   In telemedicine, what are the types of diseases  and conditions that could be effectively diagnosed   and treated? I mean obviously you can't cure the  broken leg via Skype but what do you think is   the the most useful field of application? Well I  think we're already seeing this also in Estonia,   for example skin diseases etc. I think also  that especially at a time of, let's say,   we can say Covid or regular flu, but if I have  a video call with my doctor and I'm sneezing,   coughing, you know, I have a temperature, you know  I think they can make the diagnosis with a high   degree of certainty about what what's happening  without needing to see me. And even if they're   wrong in a couple of cases which of course, you  know, is not good for the patient but overall   not getting those people into the doctor's  office really helps. I think that there's an   increasing number of diagnosis that can be done  effectively, but this also comes down to having   potentially, let's say, wearable or home devices  for simple measurements, so that will help. Yeah,   absolutely. Taavi Einasto, thank you so  much for joining us from the company Nortal   and to the dear audience at home, in the  hospital, at the office, wherever you are,   I will stop torturing you with more polls right  now and in my opinion we're getting to the...even   though the presentations were very interesting,  we're getting to the most exciting and engaging   part - namely, to the breakout sessions where  you can ask the experts from the three companies   that were present, all the questions that you  still want to have solved and you can also later   contact with them via email and other mediums. A  quick summary from from my side, just to wrap up   here - I think the the main realization, the main  takeaway that we can have from from today's event   is that you don't have to digitalize the entire  healthcare system today, that is, first of all,   it's physically impossible, it's humanly very  difficult because people would have to get   used to a hundred different services all  at once. For some countries it might be   financially impossible as well. Although we  should note that digitalization in the medium   to long term certainly saves more money than you  spent on it at the beginning, so be daring. If   you run a hospital, think about implementing a  pilot project in one of your wards, if you are   working for a regional government institution  you could think about piloting a project with   one of your districts. There are many ways that  we can advance digitalization together and also   work for for the health, for the well-being  of all citizens and residents in our countries   around the world. I highly recommend that you stay  in touch with us at the e-Estonia Briefing Centre,   you can always go to e-estonia.com and book a  presentation with the digital transformation   advisors. We also have lovely people there that  work on the business management side of things,   where we get you in touch with all the different  companies in Estonia that have already created   solutions that have been working for several  decades in some cases and you can get their   know-how and implement that stuff in your home  country as well. Without any further ado I would   like to recommend you to switch into one of the  breakout session rooms with Nortal, Helmes or   Guardtime. I wish you that you will stay healthy  in the Covid test sense, stay negative and always   keep a two meters distance at the very least.  Stay safe, stay healthy and have a wonderful time   with our three breakout session rooms. Thank  you very much from our and have a good day! 