 And I'd like to introduce now David Murphy. We've kind of started down the track we started out more about talking about blockchain, I have a feeling we're gonna start we're gonna have an additional talk about a digital currency because his talk is all about Dash, so I'm interested to hear if he's gonna evangelize a little bit about Dash and what his thoughts are. And if he has anything interesting he wants to share you know with us about himself I'd like to hear that too. Yeah you wonder if I'm going to  evangelize cuz I got the long hair. All right people! I'm here to tell you about Dash digital cash! All right. This is a magazine ad from 1972 and it's got the very clever tagline there, 'think of it as money'. And you know why they're telling you to think of it as money? Because nobody would think of it as money it's a piece of plastic! Now this is technology right, this is a technology ad from 1972 but this is the interesting fact about this; the credit card, in this case the bank Americard credit card from Bank of America which started in California it went across the states went across the globe and on to become Visa, the technology had already been around since 1958 when the BankAmericard hit the market. 14 years later the advertisers are still trying to get you to think of it as money because nobody was thinking of it like that how does plastic equal money? And that's the same with cryptocurrency right? But we're not even barely a decade in on this from when Satoshi Nakamoto whoever he, they, she is introduced Bitcoin. And it's had a very storied history so far I'll go through some of these funny articles this is I like this one the rise and fall of Bitcoin and this was published in 2011. That year bitcoin went from about $2 to somewhere north of $30 and it crashed back down to about $2 by the time this article was written; the rise and fall of Bitcoin. A couple years later it was the year of the Bitcoin. It's back. This was at the end of 2013; within just two months we'd have the most massive of all you know mount GOx debacles which just all that crypto was stolen somebody brought that up earlier. And then my favorite; I was wrong about Bitcoin here's why. This article that the author had been kind of poo-pooing Bitcoin Oh, what's Bitcoin I was wrong. It's an amazing thing the technology a peer-to-peer decentralized cash yeah this was December 2017. If you know anything about the market this was a bad time to read that article and decide to get on board because he would have gotten rekt. But what was Bitcoin supposed to be? Peer-to-peer digital cash. Cash is freedom in a sense. Yes sure you can do nefarious things, you know the dirtiest money of all of it is? It's the US dollar. That is the dirtiest currency. That's where the most money laundering drug-dealing bribery and stuff goes on it's not Bitcoin. Bitcoin the market cap on this is barely what, you know 200 billion? It's nothing. This is what you hear it now, this has been the the co-opting of Bitcoin by the market forces and by the media. Now it's not digital cash anymore it's not a peer-to-peer money it's gold 2.0 it's a store of value and that may very well be what it ends up functioning as and that would be fine, kind of makes me think of this meme that's sort of a perfect descriptor of it. Did you ever see that movie you know he's like Anakin's on the lake of fire you were supposed to destroy the Sith not join them! And that's kind of what bitcoin is doing right now. But I'm not here to talk about Bitcoin, I'm here to talk about Dash and the best way to do that is to make a direct comparison with Dash against Bitcoin because they're both cryptocurrencies. I'll begin with the limited supply; so with Bitcoin you have a limit of 21 million bitcoin that can ever be created. That's "around" 21 million because some Bitcoin will have been lost on somebody's hard drive and dumped in the landfill or you know they sent the the money to a wrong address and it got burned or whatever so but the idea is you can never have more than 21 million. Dash is similar, Dash has a limited supply of around 18 and a half million for similar reasons but also because the Treasury function we'll talk about that in a little bit but it's a little different. And so this idea of, first of all I want to just touch on the price people see Bitcoin, Bitcoin today what is it like eighty two hundred and they think can I afford a Bitcoin I don't have $8,200? Well then buy a hundredth of a Bitcoin and pay eighty-two. Buy a thousandth and pay eight twenty eight dollars and twenty cents. We're so used to the dollar the dollar is divisible down to the penny right, the 1/100th. You can divide Bitcoin and Dash both down to the one 100 millionth. You can buy very, you can make micro payments and that's what's interesting about these and that's why they're scalable too, and this whole issue about having a limited supply is key because this is the central bank that we're used to it's been around for 106 years, it issues all of our currency and there is no limit. There is no ceiling. This is a graph from the Federal Reserve itself it's a timeline starts at about the year 2000 goes to the modern day these gray vertical bars you see here, oh yeah I got a laser pointer, these are recessions these are periods of recession in the economy. This blue line is the creation of money it's Federal Reserve balances maintained by Federal Reserve Banks. See this little blip right here? This was unprecedented at the time. That was September 11th 2001. The terrorist attacks and there was like a huge multi-billion dollar infusion to go to war in Afghanistan and that was the highest that had ever been on this graph. We get right here (mid-2008) and look what happens. There's no limit to how many dollars you can create. It's probably no irony that bitcoin is, the first mine, block is mined right about there. And part of this goes back to this man who, this President temporarily suspended the convertibility of the dollar into gold in 1971. This is a screenshot and think about that, the temporary suspension of the dollar into gold you can see there was a time you could trade your paper money and get precious metals but it's been temporarily halted for 48 years or as Erik Voorhees so eloquently put it in his debate with Peter Schiff that's almost as long as William Shatner's film career. So back to this limited supply nature so you have a cap on how many coins you can create but how do they get created and how often? So with Bitcoin the supply is created to go down by half every four years. And so this is how that works; the first block is mined in 2009. 50 Bitcoin are created. Every transaction block that happens about every 10 minutes creates another 50 Bitcoin. And you do that for 4 years. And then in 2012 there was a halvening event which dropped it down to 25 Bitcoin, so now you have 25 Bitcoin being generated with every block for the next 4 years and then in 2016 it goes down again and we're still in that mode which is 12 and a half Bitcoin every 10 minutes more or less. Next year there's another halvening it goes to 6.25. Four years after that it's 3.125,  and four years after that my math's not good enough to know, but you get the idea. Dash is different; Dash has a supply that drops off more gradually so rather than these big drops which create you know opportunities for speculation and thinking, oh the supply is going down the price is going to go up. Dash isn't about speculation. Dash is about utility, Dash is about function, it's about digital cash and so the supply goes down gradually it's about 7% every year more or less. Both use a proof-of-work for consensus so there's there's mining in both but with Dash you have another second tier which are the masternodes, and these are very cool the masternodes anybody can have a masternode; to have masternode you just have to have a thousand Dash. At today's price that's about 70 grand that you'd have to put up to have a masternode. It has to all be in one single encrypted address and if you can prove that to the network you can run a masternode and then you can become part of the network and get some incentive to do that which we'll talk about. The mining times like I mentioned Bitcoin every 10 minutes you've got a block that gets mined every 10 minutes. Dash it's about two and a half, so about four times faster on the on the mining time. And then this is really key; so with Bitcoin all of that new Bitcoin goes to the miner. 100%. So if you're in a mining pool or you're a miner you get you validate the block you get all that new Bitcoin you get all twelve and a half and then you go for it for another ten minutes and hopefully you get the next one and that's why you see these server farms and they're chewing up tons of energy trying to get that Bitcoin but it's all going to the miner there's no incentive for development of the network. With Dash it's split three ways so with Dash you have 45% of the block reward goes to miners 45% goes to these masternodes and if you're a masternode owner there's about 4,900 of them right now and they're anonymous. You could, somebody in this room could be a masternode owner I don't know. They're generally distributed around the globe it's one person they own more than one, maybe a group of people own one together, they're anonymous but they get to share in the reward it's kind of a round-robin system and then 10% goes to this DAO; decentralized autonomous organization which is the Treasury. Which is very cool because this is what enables development of the Dash network so today that's about four hundred thousand dollars a month at today's price of Dash, that just goes to this Treasury. That money is available for development of the network. Right now about half of it goes to Dash Core Group, Inc. and I have to make a very strong distinction. Dash is decentralized. There's no Dash CEO there's no Dash building or anything like that. There are multiple development teams, the key core development team is called Dash Core Group, Inc. It is a corporation, it is a C- corporation and 100% of the shares belong to the network, and the CEO can be fired at any time by the network if they don't like what the CEO or anybody else there is doing. But what's cool is that anybody, for 5 Dash can submit a proposal to the network; so let's say I've got an idea to do a really cool I don't know like a point of sale I've got some hardware device I want to build and it's gonna take about 300 Dash for me to pull this thing off. I can submit for 5 Dash which is about $350 in today's price to the network and say hey I've got this great idea I want to make this point of sale system to benefit the network and then the masternodes get to vote on that proposal they get to decide hey that's a great idea we want to fund that that sounds really cool. Or they can reject it. If they reject it I lose my 5 Dash, I put some skin in the game, I lost, but if I get the funds I can use it for the development and I don't have to pay it back. And again the Dash Core group of the core developers, they're on the hook for this too, they have to submit proposals for their funding. They don't just get it by default, they have to submit a proposal like everybody else. And so talking about these masternodes most recently the last version of the software that came out had a new technology called chain locks and this prevents the 51% attacks or chain reorganizations from happening and the way they do that are through these long-living masternode quorums so you have masternodes there's about 4900 and so what the network does is periodically it will go in because in Dash what happens is the miners produce the blocks but the masternodes validate them. Okay and so let's say you have a transaction block what happens is 400 masternodes are randomly selected and those 400 masternodes 60% of them whichever ones of them have the first seen of the first block that locks the chain tip. So you don't have like in Bitcoin this massive network where you take ten minutes and then you need like six confirmations so your transactions are like an hour before you even have settlement; This happens in about 4 to 6 seconds that these masternodes are able to lock in and say that's the that's the definite block for this chain tip any other chain that tries to have a different block at that block height we're gonna reject it. And so then that broadcasts out to the rest of the network and allows for this functionality. And then this is what enables the default setting for Dash which is Instant Send if and we'll do this later who's going, is anyone going to the after partyat the Rio Bravo? So come find me download a Dash wallet; I'll send you a penny. And I can afford to do that because a Dash transaction I can literally send you one penny and it'll cost a fraction of a penny, try sending a penny with Bitcoin. You know the fee might be 50 cents just to send a penny or you'll for days. I think my longest Bitcoin transaction ever was in the height of that craziness I waited three weeks for one to confirm. Instant Send is instant. My wife Bonnie, hey sweetheart, we bought coffee at Prosum Roasters the other day took less than two seconds to settle the transaction. Boom, the merchant had the funds the merchant can spend the funds right away. In the case of Instant Send it's just thirty randomly selected masternodes and again sixty percent of those have to agree and that's what enables an instant send of just a couple of seconds with Dash. And these settlement times are really key so again with Bitcoin you're talking maybe an hour of real settlement real trust six confirmations on the blockchain with Dash you really do you got about two and a half seconds on average you're right there with Visa you're right there with MasterCard and that's what enables real merchant adoption. That's why right now it's taking off especially in Latin America Dash is huge right now in Venezuela, Colombia, Brazil, in parts of Asia and Thailand, in Africa, it's wherever a currency is in crisis wherever the the currency is tanking hard and you've got hyperinflation this is doing fantastic right now. And I can go to you know I can get on an airplane and go to Caracas right now and I can live off Dash. I can take Uber rides I can eat at restaurants I can stay in a hotel because there are over two thousand merchants just in that one place that will take it. And so don't expect this to really take off in the US right away right we have pretty good infrastructure for our own money but in these places where it's a very different world that we can't even really comprehend unless we've been there this is game-changing. And this is what's gonna allow for the mass adoption and so I just kind of end going back to this ad where it's telling you to think of this as money. It's more than that I'm telling you with Dash you got to think of it as financial freedom. There's that freedom gap in the world you know yeah there's regulation yeah there's a need for all that but there's also a need for the freedom to do with my money what I want to do if I want to give it to somebody like with cash you know what if I what if I just what if I want to go to a place where my dollars aren't welcome? Well I can use a currency like this like Venezuela or if I just want to travel freely and not worry about thieves you know I can take the app off my phone there's not even any proof I have currency and then download it when I get to my destination and have that flexibility and have that freedom. That's what it's really about for me that's why I like cryptocurrency is is believing in that aspect of our freedom and I think that's what this gives us and that'll wrap up my presentation because I think we were going a little late I don't know what time it is right now but do I have time for questions or do we need a break? Okay so if you got a question shoot it out and I'll try to get to it yes somebody right there. So you said the settlement time on blocks is two-and-a-half minutes, but the quicker Dash was two-and-a-half seconds, so how, how does that coordinate? Right, so you don't have to in other words you don't have to have a block be mined in order to validate the transaction for settlement because the masternode network is what is driving that part of it so when when the when a transaction occurs the the there's a basically a mechanism where the master nodes are able to say okay we have a consensus based on this quorum that that's the first block we saw and so we're going to validate that block and does that answer the question? Well, not really because if they approve it, and then you're handed your cup of coffee and then something goes wrong and then it never hits a block, isn't it not a valid transaction? That's a really good question you know what I don't have a sword but I got a tire iron in my trunk that I'll give you for stumping me on that one. I'll look into that Tom I don't have the answer to that that's a really good question yeah I'm curious I get like you know why (inaudible) But I do feel intrigued by the fact that cryptocurrency is not being used more extensively by the states for the legal marijuana industry. And that you know given all the restrictions around cash, it's all cash based as you know, well what's your thinking about why it is that in states like California and Colorado and Washington that those merchants haven't moved to digital cash? that's a great question about why the marijuana industry hasn't adopted this already I think that's coming very quickly in fact Dash is partnered with another company called alt36 which is for this very specific industry for that very specific reason because this is a great use case if you're in the marijuana business that's a federally illegal thing to trade in so even if you're in Colorado you have to do business in cash you can't receive payments through plastic you have to have paper money and to have paper money there's a lot of expense there's security there's armored cars there's there's you got to have a guy with a gun there in the store to keep people in line and all that so Dash is partnered again with alt36 for that very reason to make these transactions happen on the blockchain and don't stump me I only have one tire iron but it's the same kind of deal where it's not violating federal regulation to do it in Dash you can do it in Dash on that front end with the consumer, so I can walk into a cannabis store and pay with Dash right now if they accept it and the merchant can take that and go through a third party like Uphold who can then convert it back into fiat on the other end so you don't have that whole transaction of dealing with and handling physical money. Am I done Bill have I gotta, (yes) all right well thank you very much I'll be around later. 