 Hello everyone. Today we discuss on Blockchain. If you want to make your own blockchain then this video is for you. First you need to understand, what is blockchain. Blockchain is a distributed ledger technology which is primarily used for verifying digital transactions and storing them in an immutable, shared ledger. Why blockchain? Blockchain is a decentralized network where there is no middleman and transactions are verified automatically. Blockchain keeps user data & transactions secure in an immutable database. Wondering how blockchain can benefit you? It can reduce the cost of transactions, improve speed, reduce fraud, Data controlled by users, make transactions secure and Protects user data & privacy. With blockchain becoming the top technology evolution in the past decade, everyone from businesses to governments are exploring this technology to make profits and solve the world’s problems. SAG IPL is the world’s leading blockchain development firm which offers customized blockchain development & marketing services to businesses of every kind and size. Having over 10 years of experience in blockchain development & marketing, we offer best-quality customize solutions & wide range of services and 50+ project successfully done globally. At SAG IPL, we work with all the leading blockchain platforms. including Ethereum, Hyperledger, Corda, Stellar, EOS, and Hashgraph. At SAG IPL, we offer an extensive range of blockchain related services, including smart contract development, blockchain app & platform development, wallet & exchange development, ICO development & marketing, security token, and more. We provide quality blockchain services to a wide range of industries including healthcare & fitness, banking & finance, insurance, real estate, government, cloud storage, e-commerce, entertainment, voting, supply chain, internet of things, etc. The Future Era is Going to be BLOCKCHAIN Technology. We Understand the World of Blockchain. SAG IPL provides end-to-end custome tailored blockchain development solution. You want to boost your blockchain business then hire SAG IPL today. Thank you for watching the video. 