 Translator: Isabelle Andrieu Reviewer: TEDx Milano Translators The blockchain is decentralised. But everyone knows about it, it's written on all newspapers. It's a database organized into blocks that are readable by everyone, everyone can write small data on some pages of some block, and no one can modify the content of the blocks, nor the order of the blocks. The potential of this technology to the humankind is arguably unlimited. Who doesn't appreciate the immutability of a database? Who doesn't like transparency? Who doesn't like the ability to let strangers trust each other? So why do we talk about it? Because there are some caveats, and they are basically three fundamental questions. It's a shared register, in a first approximation; but how do we define it? And after defining it, how do we implement it? And, in the end, what is it for? Let's begin with the first question. What is a decentralised blockchain? First we must define and understand it. Have you ever seen a zoologist sorting animals by the number of their limbs? Sure, we have bipeds, tripods, quadrupeds - but they don't, not even according to color. Because these features are not essential. Because animals, unlike minerals, are alive; so ranking them by reproductive strategy, by how they give birth to newborn, is more meaningful than their fur color. Very well - still, what is a decentralised blockchain? Often administrators and others say: "You can measure it by the user amount". More users, more decentralization. Were I an emperor with millions of subjects maybe I wouldn't be so decentralised? Maybe the number of nodes? No, and why not? For the very same reason: these are not essential features. So what is essential? What's essential in a blockchain is choosing the next block. Because blocks track all the transactions that took place. If they're not on the blockchain, they never took place. And if I could choose the next block and say: "These transactions will be written in the world and these others won't, because I don't want to", I would wield a greater power than Louis XIV, the quintessential absolute monarch. So, let's focus on this fact: the participation in the generation of blocks makes a blockchain decentralised. Whatever you might have heard, from now on I advise you to follow this path. Now that we have learned what a decentralised blockchain is, how do we build it? It's not so easy, because a blockchain is a strictly technological product, and so without technology you don't get much far. At least in blockchain. And why is it difficult? Because up until a few months ago, there was a famous trilemma: if you wanted to use blockchain, you can choose only two out of three properties. Decentralisation, security and scalability. If it was true it would be a disaster, because I'm "Blockchain by design", you are a client, and I tell you: "Welcome to 'Blockchain by design', you want a blockchain?" - "Sure!" - "I'll give you an unsafe one!" - "No, well I'd need a safe one." "Alright then, I have an unscalable one." "I don't need it to play with relatives and friends. I want a scalable one." And in the end what do we lose? Decentralisation, exactly. Luckily - it used to be like that, but this triple dilemma is false. The truth is, the vast majority of blockchain technologies don't guarantee decentralisation. There are many technologies you've heard about. We'll discuss briefly: Proof of Work, Delegated Proof of Stake and so on. None deals with decentralisation, not even a little bit. Let's see why. Proof of work: this was the first great idea. Hat-tip to Mr. or Mrs. Nagamoto, or the Nagamotos, not sure how many they are, who invented this so called Proof of Work, which means: I don't choose a Proof of Work, and you neither. Let's do this: we generate a math puzzle that's extremely complex. The first that solves it comes out with the solutions and is entitled to append the block to the blockchain. It's still a democratic system. Unfortunately, it's also extremely slow. In order to be sure that there aren't two solutions in a range of few seconds; the puzzle must be so difficult, that even if millions of people try to solve it, only once in a while one must succeed, or we wouldn't know if the blockchain goes one way or another. There would be a fork. It is costly, also. I don't know if you've seen, try to google "Blockchain miner" and you will find a picture of thousands and thousands of highly specialized computers, whose single purpose is to improve the chance that you will pick the next block. The system is so expensive - and what happens, when things get so expensive? That only few people can afford it. For example the Bitcoin chain, perhaps the most popular one, is controlled by no more than three mining pools. Now tell me if a chain controlled by three subjects is centralised or decentralised. I think it's quite centralised. Moreover, these three computers combined are enormously polluting. They consume - At the beginning they consumed more electricity than Lichtenstein, then Massachusetts, Switzerland - it's as bad as you can get. The next technology is very easy: delegated Proof of Stake; almost trivial, I'd say. Let's choose these 21 people. Aren't they honest? Yes, they do seem so! And I think they will remain honest, so we allow them to choose the next block on behalf of us all. Well, let's say the Proof of Work started from an idea - there was this puzzle everyone can solve, and it eventuallly turned centralised. But was it centralised? It is centralised and will stay so forever, because it's not the right way of doing things. I don't want to lose time over other features: let's just say, all of these approaches started with a false logic. Which is: An economy is safe overall if the majority of a portion of this economy is honest. Didn't you get it? Of course, because it's meaningless. Let's think of a whole economy, You see that small portion? If those are honest, everything works, otherwise we are doomed. And what is this portion? In the Proof of work it's those three miners. In the Delegated Proof of Stake there are 22 members and no one knows how they got elected. And this is no good. What do we need then? But we don't have to panic. Once the problem is framed, I'm confident in human intellect and generally in technology. Technology states, we should simply, radically change our approach. This instead has, I think, the features we want: it's called Pure Proof of Stake. What does it mean? Here we have Bitcoins, and the well-known tokens. Each Token has the same ability to generate a block. Let's say, all these Tokens, all these coins, where are they? They're in the wallet, ready to be spent, invested in the chances offered by the blockchain. If the majority of coins, across the whole system, is in safe hands, then the system is safe. Let's focus on the third feature: what does it mean? It means, there can't be a small group of people who say: "If I feel like, I disrupt the blockchain". For this to take place, the majority of coin hareholders must unite, coordinate and shoot themselves in the foot so they can disrupt the very economy they hold the majority of. Maybe they'll think twice, before doing so. And how does the creation of blocks take place? Very easy. Each block is generated by a committee. Who are the members of the committee? 1,000 coins are randomly selected: these randomly selected coins will belong to someone, and they are the members of the committee. That committee will select a block. Next time? Another block, another committee! 1,000 coins are selected again, the owners start a committee, that generates the block. What should I do if I were chosen? What if one of my coins was selected and I join the committee? I'd have to send a message on the net, easy to recalculate. Here you can see how blocks are generated. Now you may say, thank you Silvio for this birdview summay of the pure Proof of Stake. But who selects these committees? I don't, otherwise it would be very centralised. No one choose them, they're auto-selected. What? They select themselves? This is perhaps the worst idea I've ever heard, because if were dishonest and could pick up myself, of course I'd do it, in order to join the committee and choose the block. I'd also auto-select myself for the next block, and what then? I keep selecting myself, so I keep choosing the blocks. But it's not that easy. What does auto-select means? It means you have a fine cryptographic fruit machine. There's this popular lever. You drop the money, pull the lever, and either you win or lose. As this fruit machine is cryptographic, I cannot cheat. I can pull the lever only once, then win or lose. If I win, I get a ticket that proves my winning. and I say: "Here's my winning ticket!" Being a proof, everyone can check it. And here's my opinion on the block. It roughly goes on like this. Let me explain why this is decentralised, because each time there's a different lottery. You pull and then it's lose or win, each coin comes with its jackpot. As if it had a small hand pulling the lever. If you own more coins, maybe you'll have more chances. 1,000 coins all around the world, it is decentralised. Maybe it's as decentralised as you can get. Why is it scalable? How much time does it take to pull this lever? One microsecond. And once pulled? You do remember? We transmit the winning ticket and your opinion on the block. It's pretty easy to do. And now we will see why it's very safe. Let's pretend I'm an evil and powerful figure. I can corrupt 1,000 people all over the world in the blink of an eye. And of course, I want to bribe the members of the committee. Yet there's a problem: Who should I bribe? Because you may be pulling the lever, But what do I know? Should I bribe you, him, or this lady in Shanghai? I don't have a clue. But as the autoselected, those with a winning ticket say: "Here's my ticket and my opinion on the block", I get to know them and I can bribe them all instantly. But what do I get? They already said what they had to say. Their ticket, their opinion on the block, are spreading virally throughout the network and I cannot stop it. much like USA government cannot prevent a Wikileaks message to spread virally. So the system is safe, because first I don't know who to bribe, and then it's too late to bribe. Besides the blockchain itself, this promotes a global democratic progress by keeping the world decentralised. And as you can see in the trilemma, by doing things unconventionally what was deemed impossible can actually be achieved. Luckily, there are not many impossible things in life: usually you can solve what is considered impossible. Still, why do we want a decentralised blockchain? Because decentralisation is great source of safety: the more people join in this system, the harder it is to corrupt it. If it's all centralised, I just throw a bomb at it and blockchain is no more. If instead it's widespread enough that everyone in the world with a coin can generate the block, the system is much harder to tamper with. Another reason is, it provides much more than the network safety. Let's remember, blockchain is a communication game. And this communication protocol takes place on the Internet. So not only one can attack the protocol, they can also use old fashioned strategies like cutting the wires and reprogramming the router - and all system beforehand, by reprogramming the computer and cutting the wires, could disrupt the system, even if everyone's honest. So, that's no good. This is an additional protection, just what we want. And as I said before, true decentralisation guarantees disintermediation with no frauds or costs. Hence it guarantees - We all want to interoperate, interact with each other. If we could do it safely, even with people we don't know, I think it would be a great gift for the humankind. This gift comes from technology. I'm a technologist, let me tell you; but I think, technology is very human. Since we came down from tree and built our first tool, we live better. And we likely became more human than before. No disrespect for humanism, it's something that adds on. And as the world becomes more complex, the chance of achieving many of ours ambitions will depend on the quality of the technology we managed to build. One thing, though. Just like everything else, it takes a lot of passion and willpower. But do we really have something better to do than trying to fulfill our ambitions? I don't think so. So let's deserve our technology and enjoy it as much as possible. (Applause) 