 I will show you the essence of what we do in a half-hour presentation. My speech today will be divided into three parts. The first one is to get to the root of the problem, I will tell you why only Bitcoin is the true blockchain technology. And then, I'll spend a lot of time expanding your knowledge. I'm also going to focus a lot of my presentation today on expanding your knowledge, about what Bitcoin technology is, and how can it change the world. Finally, I'll introduce the organization I work for, the Bitcoin Association, and how it is promoting Bitcoin technology worldwide and fulfilling our mission. It all starts with the correct perception. In fact, without the correct perception, many things we do would be on the wrong track. So here are my four questions and probably the questions many people often ask themselves. What exactly is Bitcoin? What is blockchain? What is so advanced about blockchain technology? What is the value of Bitcoin? I have listed these questions. Let's have a look. I hope I can give you some satisfying answers. What is Bitcoin? Bitcoin is actually two words fused together. When the word Bitcoin was created, it was a brand new word. Bitcoin is actually the integration of bit and coin, and this is also what BSV highlights. A lot of people focus only on the monetary features of Bitcoin, and only on the coin or even the token. But what's really important is the first part. Some common misconceptions are that if you are working on blockchain projects, or if you know someone involved in the blockchain business, you will focus your understanding of blockchain on these three points. For example, some projects or teams particularly emphasize the concept of decentralization, or even amplify the concept of decentralization into the idea that an average person can create a very powerful economy, or preach anarchy. But in fact, the concept of decentralization actually refers to a peer-to-peer system in the Bitcoin network. In other words, in the Bitcoin network, any peer is peer-to-peer, and anyone who can be a peer can enter or exit the network, because it is a free and equal peer-to-peer network. This is the concept of decentralization on the Bitcoin network. The second one is the economic incentive model. It's also a concept term that current blockchain projects and companies are particularly fond of. Bitcoin mining is actually a financial incentive that takes advantage of the idea of subsidies. In its early stage, as it was a brand new and very fragile network, it was hoping more people would join in developing this network. So it gave higher incentives and subsidies in the early stages to stimulate the growth of the network. However, with the natural development of the viable network or system, the subsidy gradually decreased and then the system slowly trended to virtuous development. So Bitcoin is where it is today not because of mining, but because it utilized a very common and healthy incentive model, not just one that can be replicated on other blockchains or public chains. The third common misconception is that many people will over-emphasize the value of digital assets. For example, we often see overhyping using the concepts of so-called digital currencies and cryptocurrency concepts, or even scams, in the name of digital assets or digital gold, but in fact, if you really think about it, the value of any asset should come from its practical value. There are so many kinds of precious metals, but gold will always be unique, and it could not be copied. But other assets, both physical and virtual, derive their value from real use. Digital and virtual assets also derive their value from some physical or application-generated values. So don't be tricked by these common misunderstandings. We should also realize that these three points are indeed attributes of Bitcoin, but none of them can represent Bitcoin alone, you can never create another Bitcoin with any of these attributes. Here I have listed a few definitions of the nature of Bitcoin. Although none of them can fully describe what Bitcoin is, each of them can refresh your knowledge. Bitcoin is a distributed ledger, a global ledger that combines money and data, a data network that transfers data value based on Bitcoin transactions. It is also a data protocol on distributed timestamped servers, and a global system for storing and interacting with data and assigning monetary value to the data. Bitcoin, therefore, is an extremely well-designed holistic system, full of very strong and ambitious features. As you can see from the previous page, I have actually marked some of the text in yellow, because when we discuss Bitcoin and blockchain technology, most people or companies repeatedly emphasize the attributes relating to currencies or tokens, but the more important attribute of the Bitcoin system should be data. Data makes Bitcoin valuable as a network, and data makes Bitcoin valuable, because data is a very important emerging commodity in current and future economy. Data has economic value, data commodities also have economic value, and the digital economy can improve social civilization. This is why the value of Bitcoin will increase in the long run. The digital economy can improve our society and the current economy, and it has long-term real value. Therefore, data is the real core of Bitcoin, and the term blockchain is an abstract description of Bitcoin's data structure, so we all know blockchain definitely does not refer to the coin, but to the value of data. Now let's take a look at the concepts between Bitcoin and the blockchain. A block, as we all know, packages the records together into a single packet which we call a block. This data record is usually called a transaction, but in a computer, it is also a data event. The chain is the way we arrange the packets of data in a timeline, when we analyze the word blockchain alone, we can only feel that the blocks are arranged in a chronological order, but it actually has a lot of invisible features, such as how the consensus mechanism on the blockchain determines who is entitled to produce the blocks, including the interaction of the mass data on the blockchain. Next, the trading capacity, the trading capacity refers to who actually issued the transaction, and how much cost the person who issued the transaction bears. And then, the transparency, we know that the blockchain is an open data network. So it has features like security, compliance, and universality, When we talk about the blockchain, we should not only see its data structure but also some of its deeper features. So, if you don't understand Bitcoin, you don't understand what blockchain technology is. Data on the Bitcoin network can be written to and read from the chain in real time. The data points can also interact with each other. The data is time-stamped, which means it is naturally sorted in chronological order and recognized across the network. The data can be monetized. It features ownership; the person who owns the private key will own the data. The data is immutable, and only when all these characteristics of the data are combined, can it exert its great power. All of these are on a blockchain. About ten years ago, Satoshi Nakamoto said there would be only one chain in the world. In addition to some of the data features we've just talked about, I've summarized some of the really practical features of Bitcoin data on the chain, that is, some of its characteristics in real applications. First of all, Bitcoin data is efficient and low-cost, but we had better judge the efficiency and low cost relatively. Its efficiency means that anyone who has access to the network can send a transaction message to the Bitcoin network. A low cost means that the cost of the message, or rather, the cost of the transaction, is very low, so that it can be widely used and applied on a large scale. The Bitcoin blockchain is a transparent, auditable, and publicly untamperable network that protects privacy, and is traceable. So I would like to answer the question you just asked. What is the value of Bitcoin? Actually, the Bitcoin network has greatly increased the efficiency of traditional data model or Internet model. It solves some of the trust problems that couldn't be solved in the traditional Internet model. It creates a more secure data model, and it also stimulates more innovation. So the real value of Bitcoin comes from these four points, not because it's a digital currency, in which the longer you hold it, the more valuable it becomes. With Bitcoin, the less that is issued, the more valuable it is. First of all, many people may think the ideas here are not at all the same as what they understand about Bitcoin, and many of the features I have mentioned are not at all the features of Bitcoin now, and also, for these cases, there have been other solutions in real life. What is more, large Internet companies have mature solutions, so there is no need to use blockchain technology. A centralized system is good enough. Why do we need this distributed ledger? The notion that there is only one chain in the world is impossible, because we can see there are many blockchain technologies competing fiercely right now. So, I've listed the questions you have on your mind, and I am going to continue talking about them. I hope that what I'm going to say will answer your questions. BTC introduced the function of Segregated Witness on August 1, 2017. Some of you may not know this function. Simply put, the transaction signature was removed from the block, so that more transactions could be loaded in a Megabyte of the block while maintaining the block size. This way, the transaction wouldn't be too congested. After the transaction signature was extracted, the block could be loaded with more transactions. Next, I will introduce a few things about why BTC is not Bitcoin, at least not the Bitcoin I just described. First of all, the digital signature is crucial in the Bitcoin system, not only in the Bitcoin system. In web development, everyone knows that the digital signature is very important technology. In addition, the trading capacity of BTC is limited to the peak of processing 7 transactions per second, so it no longer has the data network capability we just mentioned. What is more, the transactions on BTC can basically only realize the numerical transfers of some tokens, and cannot realize more complex logic, let alone the ability of data interaction, so BTC is not the Bitcoin I just described. There is a quote on the right from an email Satoshi Nakamoto wrote in 2009. It said that the current Visa credit card is capable of processing 15 million Internet-based transactions per day worldwide, while Bitcoin is already capable of processing many more transactions based on current hardware, and that Bitcoin will never have a size limit. When Satoshi Nakamoto designed Bitcoin in the early days, he already expected the Bitcoin network to be an open-ended, unlimited network that could withstand mega-transactions and mega-data volumes in the future. He had already made the judgement at that time that the Bitcoin network, a peer-to-peer distributed ledger network, relying on the hardware and network conditions at that time, could surpass the Visa system. So this statement was Satoshi Nakamoto's goal when he first designed Bitcoin. He did not define the Bitcoin as digital gold but rather as the improvements and technological breakthroughs on existing technology and network conditions. BSV is the only blockchain that follows the protocols of Satoshi Nakamoto's 2008 White Paper, because Bitcoin was described as an openly honest, auditable, and compliant system in the White Paper, and it should be a data network with unlimited capacity. Bitcoin SV is the real Bitcoin. Here I'll briefly explain how you can distinguish the concept of BSV. Bitcoin SV refers to a blockchain, and it is also a Bitcoin network protocol which is the earliest network based on the original version of Bitcoin. BSV, which is easier to read, is the generic name of tokens on the Bitcoin SV blockchain. I, as well as other speakers, will use the term BSV a lot for the sake of simplicity. Here I'm going to talk about the four core features of BSV, each of which has a very broad meaning, but I'll focus on the first two. The first one is the stability of the protocol, BSV has basically restored most of the functions of the original version of Bitcoin, and the protocol will remain stable in the future. A stable protocol will give enterprises more motivation and determination to build their applications on a stable network or infrastructure, and as for developers, they definitely want their technologies to be built on a stable foundation, then their products can interact more with external products under a stable protocol. So stability is a very important prerequisite to ensure that BSV can continue to expand throughout the ecosystem. We don't work to emphasize the decentralization like many other blockchain networks or project development teams. And then, every six or 12 months, they have to make significant protocol changes or upgrades on the grounds of version 2.0 or 3.0. We don't. We're always at version 1.0. The second one is scalability, which is also very important, because our judgments about many things that blockchain can't do are based on hearsay. Some projects are so wonderful that all of a sudden the traffic gets very high. As a result, EOS and Ethereum get congested and stuck, and then the projects will be tied up. The safety of blockchain, and the high costs, are the reasons why many enterprises, some serious business projects fail, and they do not have the courage to work with blockchain. While on BSV, you know, the BSV network has no cap, which means the transaction congestion is impossible. The transaction will not be restricted and it will have broader applications. As technology develops, this cap can also be expanded with the technology and economic interests, or with the expansion of the entire ecology. Next, let's take a quick tour of security and safety. Security means that BSV is an auditable and supervised public chain, which is the principle we have been promoting at BSV. We hope the commercial projects built on our public chain are legitimate and compliant. Meanwhile, for those projects of which even the sponsors and developers are anonymous cannot be found, we hope that they will think twice, because we are an auditable and supervisory public chain. We also hope the transaction is safe and timely. On February 4 this year, we officially removed the block cap and restored all script functions, which means that with this hard fork upgrade, we have basically reached the level described in the Bitcoin White Paper. Some of the script functions removed a few years ago have also been restored. Words alone are no proof. Let's look at the data. These are the records of two new blocks created on the BSV main network this year, Both were created on May 12, The sizes were 309 MB and 369 MB, and with 1.17 million and 1.32 million transactions respectively. The big block is much more than that. If you look at it from a technical point of view, you will know that in 10 minutes, it is technically difficult to transmit such a large number of transactions, to verify transactions between different nodes, You also need to propagate the blocks in the network, after they have been created, and to verify the entire large block in a peer-to-peer network system in these 10 minutes. But now this is no longer a technical problem on the BSV network, and both blocks broke the world record. I mean, in a globalized supply chain, these two are far larger than all the other blocks generated on the public chain. This is the record of our test network, we can see a very large block in May this year. It was a 3.23 GB block containing 13.19 million transactions. Now, let's take a quick look at the TPS records of the main BSV network and control test network. I just want to give you an idea, and this number should be quite shocking to those who work with blockchain projects. I've even asked some friends who work on so-called consortium blockchain projects for the government. They are having a hard time getting TPS into several hundred, or they'll soon run into major bottlenecks in their small distributed networks. The peak number of TPS records in the main network of BSV has almost reached 3,000. It is close to the value of Visa or the Visa processing system, and then the peak of the expanded test network is more than 660,000. We expect that after the launch of many large enterprise projects on BSV next year, the main network will reach this value quickly. This is one of the projects that we're also working on, which is how to get the blocks beyond a few hundred megabytes and then to a few gigabytes or more. We have a project called Teranode, with a goal to create blocks of TB level, then each block can contain 4 billion transactions, and then the TPS can reach 7 million transactions per second each day. It means that Bitcoin SV can be a network that can accommodate all kinds of data with lower data costs. It's very important to mention the concept of a single chain which we often talk about for the future. It means BSV is already capable of hosting and accommodating all the data, but it doesn't mean you can't form your own closed-loop ecology for your business projects. Rather, you can build your own business projects or your token economics as a second-layer solution on Bitcoin SV, and put all the data on a global ledger. Bitcoin SV can be the source of all data and the source of honesty. Here's a quick rundown of the enterprise-level projects around the world that have been built on BSV, including e-sports supply chain management, social media, medical projects, and online gaming projects. I took this from a Wall Street report, you can download it yourself if you're interested. Today we're mainly focused on technology, so we will not talk about these large projects. In fact, on BSV, in addition to the general technologies I just mentioned, we have some unique cutting-edge technologies different from all the other public chains. First of all, the smart contracts on BSV are implemented in a scripting language, which is a relatively complex language, but it can execute more complex data logic than you can imagine, and BSV could support micro-payments and nano-services, which may be too cumbersome to describe in detail. Then, what are the micro-payments? If I ask you how you charge for any work or collect money, you might think of a penny or a dime, but on BSV, you can pay or charge a fee much less than a penny to anyone in the world who uses the service or has an application service relationship with you through the BSV network. For example, in recent transactions on BSV, the cost of a transaction can be less than 1% per penny, which is far beyond the imagination of our existing monetary system or payment system to reach such a measurement scale, so we can imagine how broad the space of future applications will be. Simple payment verification is a special technology on BSV, it guarantees that transactions on BSV have been instantly authenticated by the network so in layman's terms, it is zero confirmation. Transaction fee economics is a much more complex technology, and we just talked about how the miners continue to operate the network. We've created a much more complex model of transaction fees based on this massive amount of data, the BSV. Then the signature technology, the payment channels, and more second-layer protocol details are too cumbersome to go into for now. This slide shows many cutting-edge technologies available on BSV, followed by the innovator's thoughts on what areas BSV can be used for when it is said to be so powerful. I've listed some industry sectors here. They also come from large enterprise-level applications from the previous two slides, so I'll just quickly touch on them. You can think about medical data as an example. When we visit different hospitals, our medical data is not interoperable between hospitals, even though you may have the same test done. If you change hospitals, the doctor will run the tests again because the data is not interoperable, and hospital cannot confirm that the data really belongs to you. So there's a very large medical project in the US now. It is a BSV medical project, which is to open up this data between doctors, prescriptions, pharmacies and patients. Clinical research, for example, when a new drug is being researched, you have to submit a lot of past clinical research data, but it's hard to prove that the data was really true for the past 3 to 5 years. But if you can keep sending the hash values of the research data to the chain during the past three to five years of research to prove your clinical research results, you can prove your past data is complete and has not been tampered with, and the results were obtained at a specific time. I'm not going to discuss e-sports and online games, as we have another guest speaker today who will talk specifically about that Supply chain management and production management are the same. Everyone in manufacturing and supply chains, will come across a lot of upstream and downstream issues. There will also be data islands, and the cost of data access. Social media and entertainment, would allow users to own their data, including the following electronic advertising, now we are using a lot of social media software for free, but in fact, we are all socializing, and working for social media platforms, because we have to passively accept a lot of advertising. If we own our data in the future and others pay us for the ads, then we can completely change how users interact with platforms on the Internet. Finally, the financial innovation and regulatory technology. I don't know if what I've said earlier has answered your questions, but I'd like to say the Bitcoin we talked about today is the Bitcoin within the framework of the Bitcoin SV protocol. Not only in my discussion, but also that of the other guests. When you are planning a blockchain project, you have to think about why you will use the blockchain, even though the blockchain has so many benefits, it doesn't mean that those benefits certainly apply to your project. It is a question that everyone planning the innovative projects needs to think about. And then, the centralization system still has the distinct advantages. Of course, the centralization system will not be replaced or superseded by the blockchain, but the blockchain will allow some of its features that were used before to be replaced by the underlying blockchain or network, making it cheaper, more efficient, or easier for you to build trust with other third parties. Here we must ask a soul-searching question. What should you do in this wave of blockchain? Today, I think there are two types of people here. First, the developers. The developers should learn about the latest technologies. For the entrepreneurs, many entrepreneurs here want to start their own projects, so there must be a lot of things to consider. First, if I choose a public chain, I want to choose the one that has best ecological potential and could really power my business, The blockchain feature I'm using needs to be able to stimulate my current business. I will also consider whether the technology is advanced enough, and whether I can get a cost advantage. So I hope you all know what you should choose when you finish this meeting today. Now, what I want to do is to call on all those who have the will to start building or learning. Now that you've made up your mind, I want to introduce the Bitcoin Association, based in Zug, Switzerland, the Association is a global industry organization that aims to promote the development of BSV digital currency and blockchain. I am the China Manager, and I have colleagues all over the world. China is a big market of ours, and we are also active in many countries around the world. The Association is committed to building a regulatory-friendly ecosystem, uniting all participants in the ecosystem, and leading the push for popularization and commercial development of the BSV blockchain. Now we are mainly focused on two sections. The left one is defined as the commercial section, which means we hope to have more enterprise-level applications built on our public chain. We also help the innovative companies and innovation teams obtain better start-up resources, and we build industry communication platforms, just like the meeting today. The right one is our developer section, where we invest a lot in developer education and training, and release tools and documentation to help them learn the new technology quickly. We also have a lot of special campaigns for developers. A lot of our videos you have seen came from the COINGEEK conference. It is the bi-annual Bitcoin SV global summit, each lasting about 2-3 days, featuring entrepreneurs and innovators from around the world who are building enterprise-level applications on BSV, as well as celebrities from all walks of life. We just finished our 6th conference in New York late last month. There are two more photos from previous events that we've been involved with in China, and we've also been actively involved in major technology or industry summits around the world, as well as hosted dedicated BSV sessions. This is the conference we held in Beijing last December, We also have a series of major developer events. For example, the third Hackathon has just ended. The DEVCON developer conference has been held twice. The WEBINARS are proceeded in series and we've already launched three series, each with about 3-8 courses. The BSV ACADEMY is a mid-term course for a few months that we're working on and will be offered to universities and training institutions. I've also included a list of resources for developers, including our official website, which is a big navigation site. The Association's website, where you can find a lot of ecological information. It is an infrastructure site, where you can learn about open source infrastructure projects, and products on the BSV. The DevCon and Hackathon are our campaigns. And our special campaign site, the Bitcoin Wiki, is a Bitcoin knowledge base we reconstructed earlier this year. If you don't know much about a particular term, you can find the most accurate information on Bitcoin Wiki. We have also developer tools, a navigation site, a scalability testing network, and a section on CSDN, one of our largest IT community sites in China, all of which are owned and maintained by the Bitcoin Association. This is a photo of CSDN. It's all in Chinese. You can read all the development information here. This is the official Association website. If you are interested in BSV, want to know more about our ecological development, and hope to join our campaigns in the future, you can check out this website. Our QR code is on the roll up banner outside. You can register to become our member, and then join our ecological system, you can get a lot of resources and opportunities to communicate in the future. That's all. Thank you! 