 [ Music ] My name is Stuart Madnick. Hi, I'm Michael Siegel. I'm Keri Pearlson. Our Cybersecurity at MIT Sloan Consortium is dedicated to studying the most challenging problems in managerial, organizational, and strategic aspects of cybersecurity. And that is precisely what our new online program is all about. Let's look at some sobering numbers about cybersecurity. $6 trillion This is the annual cost of cybersecurity per year. 4000 That's the number of ransomware attacks that occur daily according to an FBI report. 75  That's the percent of all legitimate websites that have unpatched vulnerabilities. 3.8 million That's the average total cost to a US company for a data breach in 2018. That number is expected to rise to $150 million by 2020. 84 That's the percent of cyberattacks due to human error: using an easy-to-guess password, leaving physical devices in unsafe areas, or failing to apply a patch. In other words, avoidable errors. Clearly cybersecurity is a grave and ever-intensifying problem. But with the right knowledge and guidance, organizations can be better prepared and protect themselves against these threats. We believe fighting cyberthreats and vulnerability is a part of everybody's job, not just the technical people in organizations. Every manager can help his or her team be aware and be better cybercrime fighters. In this program, we discuss some basic concepts for managing cybersecurity based on our research findings. And share advice that has helped numerous companies across multiple industries to increase their cyber-resilience. Our research consortium includes companies and organizations from around the world. Companies like Exxon Mobil, Schneider Electric, Mars (the candy and pet food company), State Street Bank, HSBC, Hitachi, and NASDAQ. And government entities such as the Department of Energy and Department of Commerce. We designed this online program for non-technical managers and executives. Leaders like you who want to help keep your organizations as safe as possible. This course will provide you with the language and frameworks you need to work with your technical teams to secure the business environment. It will also help you to create a culture of cyber awareness within your organization. You will gain an understanding of: Measuring risk exposure. Vulnerabilities. Culture of security, and. Ethics and cybersecurity. The program is organized into six modules. In the MIT tradition, this is a hands-on experience. It's all online but it's not passive. An important outcome is that we will help you to create a playbook. A personalized action plan that will help you apply the program concepts to your organization. That is your call to action. Become a knowledgeable participant in cybersecurity discussions in your organization. Come join us for a dynamic six weeks. As we delve into the world of cybersecurity. And then emerge better prepared to lead your organization. To a place of heightened cyber-resilience. [ Music ] 