 We’re introducing GPU-as-a-Service powered by HPE infrastructure and HPE’s BlueData software. This enables IT organizations to deliver a cloud-like experience for their GPU infrastructure on premises, enabling GPUs-as-a-Service for their internal users. In a typical bare metal setup, the infrastructure teams provision dedicated GPU servers for different teams and applications. This tactic allocation leads to queuing where different teams have to wait for their turn. This limited access throttles innovation as it limits experimentation, resulting in delayed or unrealized value in your machine learning projects. In addition, setting up each server or reconfiguring each server with the software libraries and applications could take several days or weeks. We replace this manual, rigid, bare-metal provisioning process, that could take days or even months, with a on-demand, UI-based, elastic provisioning process of auto-configured containers with the right-sized GPU devices. With BlueData, GPUs from multiple heterogeneous servers can be consolidated as a logical pool and made available as containers with the right number of GPU devices that can be provisioned or shifted from one application to another on-demand, in a few minutes, with just a few mouse clicks. HPE is extremely well-positioned to deliver the solution with its best-in-class, GPU-enabled servers such as Apollo 6500 and ProLiant, and combined with BlueData software that was recently acquired by HPE. In addition, HPE has partnered with Nvidia, the leader in GPUs, to maximize your return on investment. The HPE GPU-as-a-Service solution also offers several unique differentiators, such as the ability to pause or stop a container where the GPUs CPU and memory is released while the overall application state is persistent. This solution enables IT organizations to deliver a cloud-like experience for the internal users on premises. The sharing of GPUs improves utilization and delivers a better return on investment. The as-a-service consumption model balances the limited supply of GPU resources with the ever-increasing demand for GPUs. With HPE’s unique GPU-as-a- Service solution, you can now simplify your infrastructure, accelerate innovation, and maximize your return on investment. 