 Hey guys! Huddle up! It's time for another Around the Storage Block Chalk Talk. In this Chalk Talk, I'm going to introduce you to the HPE Container Platform and help you understand why it's needed and the benefits. We've all experienced the changes in IT. Starting in the 90s, we saw the client server architecture on premises led by companies like HPE. Then in the 2000s we saw virtualization take off VMware leading the way and giving customers cost savings and increase efficiency. Cloud went from buzzword to reality during the next decade with consumption based options and increased standardization. So what's next? Containers and Kubernetes with public cloud adopted containers, a common app exchange medium, modern DevOps tools and API-driven automation. At HPE, we've been building expertise to help with knowledge and experience we've gained through acquisitions and organic initiatives across topics like cloud analytics, AI Ops, as-a-service, and most recently through our acquisitions of BlueData and MapR. There are some key challenges and requirements with containers to answer how to run any enterprise workload on containers at scale with Kubernetes. The reality is hybrid and multi-cloud. So how do you make that work - to have a unified control plane to automate and manage on-premises, public clouds, and hybrid deployment models? You can't rewrite all apps as cloud native with microservices to run traditional and cloud native apps on container-based platforms. How do you address persistent storage with Kubernetes accessing a shared data fabric? And can you provide enterprise-grade security with low TCO across bare metal containers and eliminate the VM tax while meeting enterprise security and performance requirements? The HPE vision is a hybrid cloud solutions stack that can address multiple use cases for AI and ML, analytics continuous integration / continuous deployment (CI/CD) and the edge. There are hybrid services in HPE GreenLake Central as-a-service model. And we want to do that across your hybrid cloud estate - on any infrastructure or any cloud. The HPE Container Platform is the glue to bring it all together with a unified software platform for containerized applications using Kubernetes orchestration engine and persistent storage for containers. Introducing HPE Container Platform. The industry's first enterprise grade container platform designed for both cloud native and non-cloud native monolithic applications using open source Kubernetes running on bare metal or virtualized infrastructure on any public cloud and at the edge. The HPE Container Platform helps enterprises to increase the velocity of application development and accelerate digital transformation. Let's look closer at the HPE Container Platform. It's designed for multiple users: data engineers, machine learning architects, app developers, and DevOps. And it can work across any infrastructure in any cloud including the edge. It's a multi-tenant, multi-cluster control plane for containerized applications allowing you to use any compute and tap into any data with pre-integrated persistent container storage and data fabric. There's an App store of curated pre-built images for a wide range of applications, including AI and machine learning, analytics, IOT and edge CI/CD pipeline, application monitorinization and more. Kubernetes is the clear winner is the runtime for containerized workload. There were a half a dozen others, but Kubernetes has emerged as the winner. Kubernetes does a lot but there's more needed for enterprise deployment. And this is where HPE Container Platform kicks in providing additional capabilities around the Kubernetes open source version. Everything you see in the magenta boxes are capabilities that come from the HPE Container Platform. What are the main benefits of the HPE Container Platform? Greater flexibility: A unified platform for orchestration of cloud native and non-cloud native applications on-premises in any public cloud and at the edge. Improved productivity: It delivers a self-service experience through a curated app store of pre-built application images. Streamlined deployment and management for a wide range of use cases including application modernization, AI/ML, analytics, IoT, and CI/CD. Reduce risk: Enterprise class security with integrations into enterprise security and authentication services and in-place access to enterprise data sources without creating data copies. Reduce costs: Lower total cost of ownership and reduce admin overhead and elimination of virtualization tax with bare metal containerization. This is a complex journey to undertake without help and hpe has the experience and expertise to guide you on your journey. We have Container Platform Services - to design and deploy a container platform strategy that addresses technology people and economics. And Application Modernization Services - to transform legacy applications for optimal agility and innovation in a containerized environment all delivered by HPE Pointnext. To learn more go to hpe.com/info/ContainerPlatform Always love to hear from you on twitter where you can find me as @CalvinZito. You can find our blogs at community.hpe.com Thanks for joining me on this Chalk Talk 