 [MUSIC PLAYING] Good morning, good afternoon, and good evening. Thank you for tuning in into the Cloud Platform Integration Suite big-picture session. Really happy to have you here. Hope you're all staying safe. My name is Harsh Jegadeesan, and I come to you from Heidelberg, Germany. Let's get right in into the session. So what is Cloud Platform Integration Suite? cloud Platform Integration Suite is SAP's enterprise integration platform for hybrid and heterogeneous landscapes. And what it allows you to do is to achieve three things. One is process excellence, to be able to build end-to-end processes across SAP and non-SAP systems, automate them. Number two, offer simple, connected experience by exposing APIs for omnichannel access. And number three, innovate on new business models to be able to connect into your ecosystem to be able to monetize your data, so on and so forth. So just a quick check. I hope you're on the right session. And let's go right in and take a look at what we're going to do today. We're going to do five things. The first one is, I'm going to explain why intelligent enterprises are integrated enterprises. You'll have seen some papers from our CEO Christian Klein where he talks about the importance of integration. I want to touch upon a little bit based on our customer engagement. Then I want to talk to you about the product and the capabilities, the Cloud Platform Integration Suite and what it can help you do. Three, we're going to look at some modern integration and API architectures for digital transformation based on our customer journeys. We're looking at customer scenarios and success stories right after that. And finally, I have some top recommendations for you that you can really take away and expand your knowledge. So these are the five things that we are going to look at today. So let's start with why do we say intelligent enterprises are integrated enterprises? You'd have seen this. And these-- we believe at SAP that intelligent enterprises are the ones that will be resilient, will be able to deliver the best customer experience and lead in their industry and market segments. If you're looking at Intelligent enterprises, it starts with interacting with their business network. It starts with end-to-end processes. It's all about managing the experience of your brand, your customers experience, and your product experience, doing all of this in a very sustainable way and doing it all on top of a platform which we call this, the business technology platform. So, very quickly, when we talk about end-to-end business processes that you have to own and excel at, these are lead to cash, hire to retire, design to operate, and source to pay. These other top four processes that you need to own. Be really effective at delivering these process, no matter whether this go across multiple departments, multiple geographies, or even multiple systems-- SAP and non-SAP systems. The second part of it is about the whole intelligent suite. SAP offers you the intelligent suite, allowing you to automate all of your line of businesses, procurement, HR, finance, so on and so forth. And this is completely integrated that all these processes run across this intelligent suite. So why are integration platforms important? Why should you really think about integration platforms and why should you really focus on this session? So I see three strategic imperatives on why our customers are looking at integration platforms. The first one is achieving process excellence, to be able to integrate people, process, data, devices to offer this end-to-end process excellence, no matter where your processes are running. The second one is about offering connected experiences. So, how do you reach your customers at the point of their choosing, at the time of their choosing without exposing your whole organization structure on top of them? How do you have this simple, connected experience for your customers? APIs are a foundational piece for having this. And this is also where integration platforms come in and play a huge role. The third one is about digital ecosystems. No business is operating in isolation. You always need to work with your business partners, your suppliers, your partners, and work in a digital ecosystem or create your own digital ecosystem. And integration is a strategy component for achieving digital ecosystems. So, three big business reasons. End-to-end process excellence, simplified connected experiences, and, last but not the least, building digital ecosystems and innovating on your business model. These are the three strategy imperatives for organizations, why they need to look at integration. If you look at the integration challenges in front of us, integration is not just in isolation. It's very important for your app development, for your analytics, to build your data links, to apply intelligence and learn. So it's actually the foundational building block for anything that you want to do as part of your digital transformation journey. And why is integration becoming more and more challenging? Some of you would have done PI, would have done integration for more than 20, 25 years. But you would also realize that this world is changing. Firstly, our customer landscapes are becoming more and more heterogeneous. They are hybrid, multi-cloud, add systems. So they're really hybrid and heterogeneous. The total cost of ownership of having end-to-end processes has increased because of this heterogeneity and this huge landscape. Applications are getting deployed in a hybrid way, some closer to the edge. Security is becoming a key concern because data is getting shared across applications outside your corporate firewall and with your business partners. So how do you keep it all secured while still integrating and communicating? How do you communicate with businesses? How do businesses communicate with governments? Because governments are becoming e-governments, and most of the businesses are communicating in real time with governments. And last but not the least, how do you accelerate your innovation? By connecting systems, exposing data, and building innovative business models, applications, and new customer experiences on top. These are the new challenges that enterprises face where integration can definitely help. So some of the emerging use cases. We've used integration in the past for business process excellence to do A2A integration to pull data and put it into a data layer, right? So these are some of the integrations that we've done. We've started with file-based integration, going all the way to A2A [INAUDIBLE] based integration. And so on and so forth. Now we see more and more emerging use cases. One-- like I talked about-- is digital ecosystems, to be able to communicate with business networks to governments. So, B2B is getting modernized. Business to government is becoming a reality. So that's one thing. The second thing is about creating engaging customer experiences, to be able to open up data and processes in real time as API so people can build innovations on top, either internal ecosystems or external ecosystems. The third one is app modernization. There is a huge investment. The biggest thing that CIOs, as chief digital officers, and the CEOs are caring about how do I modernize. I cannot rip and replace everything. But I need to keep modernizing on what I have. It's like how Rome evolves over the centuries and generations. You cannot just wipe it out and then build something from scratch. You need to keep modernizing. And how can I modernize, and how can integration support that? And last but not the least, how do innovate on my business model? How do I go from fixed costs to recurring costs? And how do I go from engaging my customers on a flat price to subscription-based, pay-as-you-go business models. These are the different aspects and emerging use cases for integration that we as experts in this domain need to really care about. So now we looked at the imperatives. Process excellence. We looked at simple connected experiences. We really looked at digital ecosystems and business model innovation. The new kind of challenges that-- integration challenges that we face and how integration is becoming central to an intelligent enterprise. So that's how we really sum it up, by saying, intelligent enterprises are integrated enterprises. Now, what does SAP offer you? How does SAP allow you to handle these integration challenges? So I want to talk to you about the Cloud Platform Integration Suite. You would have used our XI, PI process orchestration technology to be able to do some of these integrations in the past. That was our on-premise integration platform with several thousand customers using it for their on-premise integration. We have a set of data integration solutions that are out there. So on and so forth. What we did was re-imagine what a new integration platform should look like. How should it be cloud-native? How should it be really multi-cloud focused. And built the Cloud Platform Integration Suite. That is our strategy. That is our way forward as a hybrid integration platform for intelligent enterprises. So what are our key integration principles? Before I go on in the platform, let's look at the key integration principles which drive all our investments into this. We want to make integration so simple. We want to deliver integrations out of the box. What do I mean by that? If you are a customer who wants to integrate an SAP system with the Salesforce system. Or if you want to build a hire-to-retire process that goes across application tracking systems to your SuccessFactors, to a third party payroll like ADP, how do you have this integration delivered to your out-of-the-box integration outcomes? At SAP, we deliver 1,800-plus pre-built integration flows. And that's how we offer out-of-the-box integration for you for SAP and non-SAP systems overall. The second one is open integration through an API and event-based approach. We want to expose APIs and events from SAP systems so you could really integrate with anything out there in a very easy way. Not with proprietary technology, but with standard open-API specification and AsyncAPIs for events to be able to integrate with anything out there. The third one is holistic integration. Integration has multiple styles. You can do process integration. You can do data integration. You can do API-based integration, event-based integration, IoT integration, analytics integration, so on and so forth. And SAP wants to provide you one platform to do all kinds of integration style and take away the stress and tension for you to assemble all of these pieces together, we actually deliver to you a holistic integration platform which is enterprise-grade out of the box. Last but not the least, there is a lot of drudgery in some of the things that you need to do as an integration expert. Mapping, for instance. We are applying AI and ML to simplify some of those integration steps so it becomes easy for you. We also offer you an integration solution advisory methodology. Close to 2,000 customers really use this today. It's about assessing your integration strategy, designing your hybrid integration platform, bringing it all together, identifying integration best practices, having a center of empowerment which is empowering all your different business units to be able to do integration, and help enterprise architects and CIOs set a clear strategy on how they could implement integration methodologies and get benefit out of the integration platform. I want to actually have one picture where summarize the whole strategy for you so it becomes simple for you to understand. I talked to you about the Cloud Platform Integration Suite, which is our platform as a service offering you different integration starts. Cloud integration, API management integration advisor, data intelligence for data integration, AI, and ML, enterprise messaging for event-based integration, and open connectors to actually connect into 160-plus applications that you may have in your landscape. That's our integration platform as a service. And this runs on a fully-managed multi-cloud environment. What does that mean? You can go and decide to turn it on in Azure, AWS, AliCloud in China. And SAP manages this for you. Fully managed. You don't have to run or operate this. Then, on top, we have the integration SaaS for API Business Hub. We think about this as Netflix for integration. What does this mean? For processes like lead to cash, recruit to retire, digital compliance, source to pay, commerce, payments, we provided 1,800-plus pre-built integrations for you. So if you have to have solved an integration problem, you will find a solution most likely in the API Business Hub. So if you go to api.sap.com and look at integrations, we have all of this delivered to you. And all of this goes free with our platform. And this can really accelerate integration. The third thing-- or the third layer-- is we've taken out integration platform and embedded it into SAP solutions like multi-band connectivity, lifecycle collaboration hub for life sciences, a logistics business network, PayPal for European Union, so that a LOB users can really have a pre-integrated experience without having to think about integration. So we address all kinds of target segments. We offer you a solution which is really accelerating and simplifying enterprise integration for you. I talked about Netflix for integration. I mean, when I put the slide together it was 1,700. Now we have 1,800-plus pre-built integrations covering issue to resolution, lead to cash, source to pay, hire to retire, plan to production. So on and so forth. I really urge you to take a look at API Business Hub. So that's the-- I call this the mushroom picture. It's really a picture for architects, for people to understand a little bit more deeper on what's inside in the platform. The platform has the API Business Hub on top. It allows you to integrate from SAP to non-SAP systems. The foundation of this is based on a unified domain model. We call this the one-domain model. And master data integration, that sort of unifies. It's a layer below which you don't see which actually unifies and connects different pieces of SAP. And all you have to do when you have to connect into SAP is to map into the one-domain model. You can do integrations, process integrations end to end, data integrations, integrate with B2B, with your third-party applications, and with your governments as well. Now I want to show you a quick demo where we're building a customer 360 from data that's available in S/4HANA Salesforce ServiceNow, bringing all the data together, exposing it in an API-first approach. And then, making it available to build apps, analytics, and mobile. So let's take a quick look into the demo. OK. Let's get started. We have 160-plus connectors. The first thing is to connect into Salesforce Cloud. Here I'm going in and authenticating into Salesforce Cloud with my username and password. I'm connecting. And I'm calling the instance customer 360. I can go and tag it. It's easy to search later. I can set up events, either through polling or through web hook. Right now I'm not doing it for the first use case. Let's go and create this instance. I pick my username and password. There is an OAuth happening right now. And I'm able to accept it. Now I can go and test these APIs. Let's actually go and test accounts. These are customers. I can do get accounts. That's beautiful, simplified APIs. I try it out. And when I try it out, I will get all the different accounts from the Salesforce system. That's how simple it was to connect into non-SAP systems and make API calls within a few seconds. We can also connect into other systems. Here we did Salesforce. But we could also definitely connect into ServiceNow. And so on and so forth. The second step is to actually do the integration needed. So let's look at if SAP provides an integration pack between Salesforce and S/4HANA. So I'm searching for Salesforce. And I see that there are integration packages available. I'm going to take S/4HANA with Salesforce. There are 11 pre-built integrations that SAP delivers. I'm going to copy this over into my tenant so I can configure and deploy it. This is completely supported by SAP. So I go on into my tenant and look for what I copied over. I have S/4HANA with Salesforce. I have these 11 pre-built integrations. I can select all of these different integrations and configure my endpoints-- my S/4HANA endpoint and Salesforce endpoint-- and simply deploy it into my tenant. So now we've integrated these two systems. We have to now build and open up these as APIs. So we see the account API, we see the incident API, the opportunities API, all coming from back-end systems in nice OData format. Let's look at how we did this. We go in to the account API. It's OData service. We've used a low-code environment to transform the data that we get from Salesforce connector into an OData format. We are also beautifully mapping the data that we get from Salesforce into OData by adding rich metadata in the mapping step. The advantage of OData is that it's available to be easily consumed in Analytics Cloud, in Fiori, in Mobile SDK. So on and so forth. Even in Excel sheets. So that's how we built the APIs. So we have these APIs all built. We also have incident API coming in from ServiceNow that we pulled in the same low-code manner. Once the APIs are pulled, we go to the third step. The third step is to expose those APIs in the API portal. All these APIs are now exposed. Let's look at business partner API. The business partner API at the end point is S/4HANA, which is already OData so we didn't have to transform it. Now we have the customer API. This comes from Salesforce. And with the protocol transformation endpoint that we have here, we can add policies to protect our APIs against distributed denial of service, do traffic management, cache some metadata. So this is what API management allows you to do, to manage your APIs and provide them for your developers. You can also do API health and monitor API health. Once the APIs are available, then it makes it very easy to go and build apps. Here we have a Fiori app based on Fiori elements. We see account information coming in from Salesforce, revenue information coming in from S/4HANA, open incidents coming in from ServiceNow. So we built a 360-degree view of our customer. The APIs are also available. So it can be used in bots, in mobile applications. We want to show you another example where LOB users can use Analytics Cloud for analysis. They can connect to this API and get a real-time dashboard of opportunities, opportunities per account. They can look at opportunity classification and other upsell opportunities that are available. So in three simple steps, by connecting in into different third-party systems, by transforming that into OData and exposing this with API management, we made it really easy to build such applications. Let us go ahead with our presentation. So now you saw the demo of how we are able to pull data from different places and expose it. I want to also talk to you about some modern integration API architectures that I've been seeing at different customers. So what we are trying to do is to cover multiple integration patterns and support different personas. So some of the scenarios that our customers are doing are, like I said, pure process integration, B2B integration-- either through EDI or through APIs or both-- business to government integrations, exposing data for omnichannel experiences with APIs, the building digital processes, workflows, and apps using APIs. Event-based sense and respond is another scenario that we see. Digital integration hub, where I really like and I also like to deep dive. This is something that I'm seeing more and more are our customers. And then we have building digital ecosystems and networks. And also, data integration insights and intelligence. So those are sort of the eight scenarios that I see. And as I learn, we also refine some of these things. So we provide capabilities in our integration suite to support all of those scenarios to be able to support developers, experts, business users, citizen integrators, and also data analysts. So it's pretty comprehensive to cover all your enterprise-related use cases. Like I promised you, I want to deep dive on the digital integration hub. Our customers call it by different names-- an acceleration layer, in-memory cache layer, the decoupling layer. Gartner calls this the digital integration hub, and I'm using that term. And it's an emerging architecture where we see that customers have to modernize. They have multiple systems, and they have digital interactions where customers are reaching them through multiple channels and they have to build omnichannel experience. And the way they are doing is by inserting a high-performance in-memory cache like HANA on top, having an API service to deliver all of this data, and then still abstracting it from the system of record. So let's go a bit more deeper. So what are the key components of the digital integration hub? Like I said, the first one is a high-performance data store. This data still is on the cloud. It acts like a cache. It may also be used for other use cases like driving analytics. And so on and so forth. And it provides a single consolidated view of all your entities. It could be, even, governed. You could apply data governance on top. And it stores multiple systems of record. In some of the cases, I've also seen parts of this store is also really data federation instead of moving data in. I also see that there is a good semantic model applied. Which is something easy for the end users to understand and consume and hides all the complexity of underlying data models and systems. And on top of this data store is the front-end API services. That is API management. There is a low-latency API service connecting to it. There could also be edge delivery where that is caching of these APIs in edge through a command or something like that. And normally, when a call comes in, the call actually hits the API layer. And if it's a read call, it's delivered from this high-performance data store. And if it's a write call, it gets into an event queue and-- using an integration technology-- gets written into the back end. So for the technically-inclined, this is basically a command query responsibility segregation pattern-- CQRS pattern. And last but not the least, you have the integration layer. Which is the most important layer to keep all of this in sync. So what's the benefit of this digital integration hub architecture? Are we seeing customers like Centrica are doing this. [INAUDIBLE] do this. And I will talk about some of those use cases in a minute. You can have responsive user experience. You won't have those circles around. You don't have to wait for data. There is a good decoupling of back end and front end. There is protection of the back end from access of front-end API calls. You could have different back-end maintenance times without impacting your front-end end experience. You can modernize your legacy landscape using a cloud-native approach. You could normalize all of this through API access. And you could do real-time business insights and analytics on top of this digital integration hub. That's like the deep-into-the-weeds picture of how it looks like. On the bottom layer, you have data sources. Could be structured, unstructured. It could come from SAP applications, third-party applications. You may use a data federation tool or a data integration tool to move data into the SAP HANA. Which is, again, on the cloud. You could have real-time data federation as well. And you could really use that as the in-memory data fabric. Then you have the API layer on top, which is really delivering all of this information. You have the cloud platform integration, which is then taking care of whenever an API call comes to write. It goes into cloud platform integration and writes into the back-end system. We also have an SAP insider article which you could really look at to look at some of these customer examples. And I'm seeing this becoming quite popular in cases where you need to deliver beautiful experiences for your customers on the front end while modernizing your legacy landscape and back-end landscapes as you go ahead. So now let's spend some time on customer scenarios on success stories. And I want to talk to you about five customers. These are all innovation award customers. So it sort of inspires you, taking a look at how they're going about it. The first one is Centrica. Centrica is using an API-first strategy. They're also using the digital integration hub architecture to truly modernize a 10-year-old landscape. While they do the landscape modernization slowly, they had to quickly accelerate delivery of data to their front-end and omnichannel experience. They have different systems in the landscape, SAP Workday, Salesforce, Dynamics, ServiceNow, AWS, and a lot of other third-party systems. And there are millions of customers-- 25 to 26 million customers-- who are accessing their different assets, websites, and apps. And they've used this architecture to deliver on very good response times for their customers and have a great deals of satisfaction. The second one is Harrods. It's an online marketplace. Again, they also use an API-first approach. They use integration to integrate processes. And using a cloud-based integration technology, they could deliver new integrations on the whole project in less than three months. And now the number of API calls have also scaled significantly. And more and more people are going and shopping online and using a digital channel to engage with a brand like Harrods, a highly premium brand. And here it's about integrating with SAP Workday, JDA, and so many other systems in the landscape to provide this simple, connected experience to their customers that I talked about. The third one the San Francisco 49ers. And this is about total fan engagement. To be able to connect into multiple non-SAP systems like Twilio and Park Central and ParkHub to really track the journey of the fan and create the best experience. It uses integration technology. They've also used HANA as this in-memory data store that I talked about and used the digital integration hub architecture. And they also complemented with analytics to get insights and use this for the executive huddle to just understand how their fan experience could be accentuated. The next one is Bacardi. I'm sure a lot of you like the Bacardi experience. And they use our technology to create and educate the front-line employees in all the different places which offer the Bacardi experience. They're also using pro-platform integration. They're using process orchestration. They're using it in a hybrid way and really modernizing it as they go. And like you see, they're also integrating with SAP Azure, ServiceNow, inRiver, Binder, and multiple systems to create this new sales force automation solution. Last but not the least is the Coke One North America-- CONA-- where they've used integration technology to build an ecosystem to work with their bottlers and this whole bottler-to-bottler supply chain. And they've used, also, blockchain in this case to have a trusted multi-party communication along with that integration technology. And this is also bringing them close to 80% absorbed reduction in time and re-cancellation of orders. So these are the five customers. Real customers. And I've also put a link into those customer details for you where you could go and take a look at the solution architecture and how they're using integration in their business transformation. With that, I hope you've got some motivation. I have some recommendations for you. If you are a PI customer and trying to look for what is the future for my PI-- how do I go with SAP into this new world? How do I compliment PI with my Cloud Platform Integration Suite. Read out the paper. This is a most-asked question for me. It's available in insider. I also have a blog where I put the link. The three recommended actions from me is now, one, migrate to NetWeaver 7.5, which is our long-term release supported by SAP. Future-proof your strategy. Build your new, agile integrations on the Cloud Platform Integration Suite. And as you know, whatever integrations to build on top can also be deployed in PI 7.5 in the cloud platform runtime. So also move some of your integration scenarios-- like your API scenarios where you're working with external third parties-- into Cloud Platform Integration Suite. Take a look at this paper, and this gives you all the answers on how you could move forward in your journey and how you could really future-proof your strategy. Top 10 reasons. Versatile enterprise-grade. We provide out-of-the-box integration packs. We have all kinds of connectivity to connect anything to anywhere. We offer a fully-managed multi-cloud service in all different hyperscalers for you. We simplify business process collaboration B2B, apply AI to manage your trading partners and onboard them. We have a complete commitment and innovation in this. It's a very strategic topic for SAP that has a strong focus on enterprise-grade security. We have a beautiful community and partner ecosystem which is also building integration packs. We help you to create a simplified, connected experience with a full-lifecycle API management solution as well. And in addition, we provide you the ISA methodology to really streamline your integration efforts in your company. With that, I also have recommendation for courses. If you want to roll up your sleeves, get more detail and experience, all of these different products. We have the Simplify Integration Using Cloud Platform Integration Suite and API Management Overview and Lifecycle course. It's really free in a MOOC format. And we also have a new course upcoming. It should have been this year. But because of COVID, we pushed it to next year. We're going to have this Accelerated Enterprise Integrations with Cloud Platform Integration Suite, where we have an advanced-level course to help you in learning all of these tools. If you want to follow us and get an insight into what we are doing, we offer a monthly web session. Please register to it. And we also offer you a monthly newsletter where you can look at all our innovations, all our new features and enhancements, and really learn in your journey and upscale yourself. We also have a lot of other integration sessions. We have hands-on sessions, lecture sessions which talk about strategy. There are hands-on sessions which take you into the weeds of the tool. So absolutely recommend you to go into these sessions. And also take a look at the road map sessions. And to continue your journey from TechEd, this virtual TechEd, you can continue your journey. Go into the learning hub, and you have access to all of this material. And you can keep your learning journey on. Thank you so much for watching the session. Stay safe, stay healthy. If you have further questions, feel free to reach out to me. You have my contact out there. Really happy to engage with you. [MUSIC PLAYING] 