 Anzo data discovery and integration platform is the fastest most advanced way to manage and integrate all your data, shattering the limits of technologies like data warehouses and data lakes. So how does Anzo transform your modern data infrastructure? Well, at most companies vast amounts of collective data is locked in data silos, trapped in applications, document repositories and data lakes and dispersed across the many parts of the data landscape. This makes extracting insights a difficult, manual and time-consuming process. Anzo accelerates access to ready state data by applying an overlay to your entire existing data infrastructure allowing connections between all the disparate structured and unstructured data sources across your enterprise's data fabric, integrating data silos, achieving synergy in the places where your data intersects and giving you on-demand access to explore and analyze data at in-memory speed. Since the Anzo overlay is knowledge graph-based this unparalleled data integration reveals high-octane insights that were previously out of reach. Anzo also utilizes semantic technology to describe blend and harmonize data sources using common business meaning, as well as context, to make your data more understandable often exposing additional connections you didn't even know were there and enabling data and knowledge to be accessible to virtually everyone in the organization. From experienced data scientists and data engineers to business users. All of this can enable a 360-degree customer view, fraud detection, research and development, clinical trials and real-world evidence and can serve as fuel for AI and machine learning projects. Anzo is the only truly scalable graph-driven data fabric layer for discovery and data integration available in the market today. Best of all, there's no need to rip and replace. Anzo connects over your existing infrastructure and can help you assemble and access the business insights you need to propel your business forward. To learn more about how leading data-driven companies are weaving together their data fabric for unprecedented value visit cambridgesemantics.com. 