 (sitar fusion music) (bassy techno music) - [Instructor] All right, everyone, welcome. This is video one, we're gonna be describing the data center and going through the fundamental concepts of what a data center is in this video. All right, so here we have some data center fundamentals, so, in this course, we're gonna be using DC as an abbreviation for data center, so if you see DC, it means data center. So, what's the purpose of a data center? To house an organization's data and applications, right? So, it's the data and applications that are the most important things to an organization, and it's the actual reason that we have the data center in the first place. So, what's the definition of a data center? A data center is a physical facility that organizations use to house their critical applications and data, and all the equipment, as well. Okay, so more fundamental concepts, so, a data center network is gonna be completely separate. Or, in most cases, it's completely separate fromm the LAN and WAN networks. It's just important to understand that it's not using the common equipment as the normal network. Most typically, a data center network's gonna connect through the core to access everything else. That does vary a little bit, some of the smaller networks or branch networks, like if you have kind of a mini data center at a branch, those are gonna often share equipment, but in most cases, it's completely separate. So, north/south traffic and east/west traffic, these are just terms that you hear quite a bit. North/south traffic goes in and out of the data center, while east/west traffic stays in the data center. Okay, so now, we're out here on Cisco's documentation. I Google-searched for Cisco "What is a data center", and it takes us to this page. Now, part of the reason that I'm doing this is because I want to show everyone what Cisco's definitions are, right? How they would explain the basics of what a data center is, since we're gonna be taking a CISCO-- So, up here, we have their generic definition of a data center, "At its simplest, a data center "is a physical facility that organizations use "to house their critical applications and data." That's pretty much what we said earlier. "A data center's design is based "on a network of computing and storage resources "that enable the delivery of shared applications and data." All right, so what defines the modern data center? So here, we talk about we're moving away from traditional on-premises physical servers to virtualized stuff, right? So, we're talking about the migration from being on premise and going to the cloud, virtualized infrastructure, I mean, this isn't something that's really new, but it's definitely a concept we're gonna be touching on. Okay, so, "Why are data centers important to business?" So, this is just gonna be the applications, we already discussed that a little bit. Then, "What are the core components of a data center?" All right, so we have network infrastructure, storage infrastructure, and computing resources. So, the network infrastructure connects everything together. The storage infrastructure, so storage is where all the data resides. Computing resources, we're mostly talking about CPU and memory here, but that's actually where the applications reside. So, this is an important concept. Basically, there is a certification that you can get that certifies that this data center is built to a certain standard, so if you decide what standard you wanna build the data center to, it's going to affect a lot of the design decisions you make within that data center. A lot of it's built around redundancy and resiliency, you know, tier one having the least amount of resiliency and redundancy built in, tier four having the most. "A tier one data center offers limited protection "against physical events, it has single-capacity components, "and a single non-redundant distribution path." Then tier four, "This data center provides the highest level "of fault tolerance and redundancy. "Redundant-capacity components "and multiple independent distribution paths "enable concurrent maintainability and one fault "anywhere in the installation without causing downtime." All right, so the difference, I shouldn't say the difference, the decision's gonna come down to how much do you wanna spend? Resiliency and redundancy, of course, are always great, you would always want them in your design, but it does cost to get that. So, the important thing to take away is that these are standards that dictate how you're gonna build the data center if you're gonna go for one of these, these tiers. Like, a tier one redundancy, I don't have the information right here, but a tier one redundancy is gonna have a guaranteed amount of uptime, and then, tiers two, three, and four are gonna have higher guaranteed amount, measures of uptime. And then, going down to types of data centers. So, this mostly has to do with where is the data center, who owns it, and who works on it. So, for enterprise data centers, they're owned, built, and operated at the enterprise and by the enterprise. So, they own the physical facility, everything that is done in the data center is done by people who work in that organization. Managed services data center is where the data center itself is leased or rented, rather than being owned by the organization, and you're also paying other people to operate and maintain that data center. Colocation data centers, this just means that you have two organizations sharing the same data center. And then, cloud data centers is basically the complete hands-off approach. So, the data center isn't located on-premise, it's located in a data center or multiple data centers someplace else. Your organization isn't doing any of the managing of that data center, and then, here, we have some examples: AWS, Azure, and IBM Cloud. So, that sums up the data center fundamentals video. Join me in the next one, where we go into cloud computing. (Bassy techno music) 