 Blockchain technology transforms industries. It opens doors to new exciting business opportunities. However, some of these are still unmastered. For two reasons: Lack of privacy and lack of confidentiality. This is about to change. Let’s have a look at a a wireless spectrum auction for example. The kind of auction that governments use to allocate 5G mobile licenses. In this kind of auction, we are talking about billions of dollars. So the temptation to try to game the system can be very high. Recognizing this challenge and starting from separate efforts at IBM Research and Intel Labs, the two companies decided to join forces to create Fabric Private Chaincode. Fabric Private Chaincode is a framework for the Hyperledger Fabric Blockchain to develop and run smart contracts using Intel® SGX. Intel® SGX is a Trusted Execution Environment that allows a program to remain encrypted while running. It's not even observable by a system administrator or any other privileged software. This solution enables confidentiality. Let’s have a look at a demo of a spectrum auction. To begin the auction, the auctioneer deploys the auction chaincode on the network. Participants can then verify that the correct chaincode has been deployed and has not been tampered with. Once the chaincode is up and running, the auctioneer sets up the auction details, including the available spectrum licenses and the participants. Now it's time for the bidders to enter their first bids and submit them as transactions. Once the bid is created, the user submits their bid to the chaincode. Once the transaction is committed to the blockchain it can be seen in the viewer. It is encrypted in a way that neither the other bidders nor the auctioneer can read the contents. In the meantime, the other bidders are also placing their bids. The content of their bids can not be seen. Now the auctioneer closes the auction. The chaincode reads the bids from the ledger, decrypts them, and announces the results in public. So Fabric Private Chaincode is a new way to run smart contracts on Hyperledger Fabric. Our design and the use of Intel® SGX. enables a new model of Trust otherwise not possible with Hyperledger Fabric. So in many real-world situations and scenarios like this one, this private auction, we expect Fabric Private Chaincode to bring value by reducing the capability and eliminating the incentives to game the system. So, with this technology one can really strengthen the trust to the system and by doing so, one can reduce the cost associated to maintaining highly expensive security measures insurance, and legal fees. IBM and Intel believe that, in the future, Fabric Private Chaincode can facilitate the adoption of trusted execution environment. And move beyond specific high-stake use cases towards widespread use in blockchain applications, similarly to what HTTPS did for the Web. Fabric Private Chaincode is an open source project supported by the Hyperledger community. It is now ready to be considered for pilot deployments of real workloads. Check out our project on Github to learn more. 