 Jo people and welcome to a new Minecraft tutorial here on my channel. Today I will explain how to install Minecraft Fabric, the modloader for version 1.15.2. You can use the tutorial for any other version of Fabric as well. I'll show it here using version 1.15.2 as an example. First of all, it's important that you create a profile of Minecraft with version 1.15.2, because the version has been downloaded before. To do this, simply go to installations in the Minecraft Launcher. Then click on new, I call the whole thing now for example Minecraft 1.15.2 and select, then just here also the version 1.15.2, then click on create and play the whole thing once. Then data will be downloaded here and Minecraft with version 1.15.2 will be started once and once it has started you can close it immediately. So easy, Quit Game. And now you get the Fabric Installer, with which you can install any version of Fabric, this is either the first link in the video description or you just type in Fabric Minecraft on google. Then click on, this page and here is the first paragraph in the text, if there is a link "Here", you click on it. And then you click here on download installer and then there is a message and just click on keep. And now the installer is downloaded, for Fabric with which you can also install all versions and then you click here on the small arrow and then on "Show in folder" and then you double click on the Fabric Installer. If something doesn't work here, double click on it and this window doesn't appear, check out my tutorial in the upper right corner, there I have explained what you can do if Java doesn't work. Otherwise, select version 1.15.2 or the version you want to install, then click on "install" and then on "ok" and you can delete the installer. If you now restart the Minecraft Launcher, you will see that the Fabric installer is installed or the Loader is installed. Here, "Fabric Loader" is even written. And then something is downloaded again and Fabric is started with Minecraft and now I will show you how to install a mod again. This is the second left one in the video description, I put it in there, there you just click on Files and select the mod for version 1.15.2, click on Download or on this little icon there. And there the download will start and then you get a message like this, just click on keep. Then click on "Show in Ornder" and you have the file here. If you press the Windows Tate and R type in %appdata%, click on "ok", go to the ".minecraft" folder and as long as you start Minecraft once with Fabric, this Mods folder will be created here and you just drag the blur into it. It's important that if you play Fabric with version 1.15.2, for example, that you really only have mods in the Mods folder for version 1.15.2. If you then play Fabric for version 1.16.2, the Mods folder must not contain mods from any other version, but only mods from version 1.16.2 or the version you are currently running Fabric or Forge with. This is very important, otherwise you will get an error message when you start Minecraft with other mods. Now you simply restart Minecraft. In any case you can install mods for the version you are running. Just drag them into your Mods folder, they have to be compatible with Fabric, that's it with this tutorial. Ciao 