 Hi I'm Meg I'm the editor here at Seamwork. One  of my favorite things about sewing is connecting   to other people who love to make their own  clothes. And if you love to make your own   clothes you probably also love fabric and here at  Seamwork we are lucky enough to be able to connect   makers worldwide and we're also lucky enough to  be able to meet fabric shops worldwide. So today,   we're going to hear from Aims who owns Indy Bindy  which is an independent fabric shop in Australia,   and Indy Bindy specializes in some pretty  amazing fabric designed by Japanese designers   and Aims has a really close relationship with all  the designers in her shop. So today she is going   to tell you a little bit about her story and  how she started her fabric shop and introduce   you to some of these designers as well as their  incredible work. We're going to go ahead and put   Aims's contact information down below along with  links to social media and her shop so that not   only can you connect to these makers but you  can also do a little bit of fabric shopping.   Hi I'm Aims. I'm the owner of Indy Bindy fabrics  which is an online fabric store specializing in   Japanese designer textiles and I just wanted to  share a little bit about me and my shop and how   it all came about and show you some beautiful  fabrics today. So I'm Australian but I've had a   long held love of Japan. When I was 16 I applied  to go on exchange to two places-one was Japan   because I was studying the language at school and  the other was Italy because I love Italian food,   and I got sent to Japan and I fell in love  with the place. I had a wonderful host family,   I made great friends, I started karate, which  I'm still doing and teaching now 25 years later,   and it turns out I love the food there too. So  it was an amazing year and it changed my life. I   lived in lots of different places around the world  after that but I kept getting drawn back to japan   and so when my second son was born we were  living in Tokyo and I had just discovered the   indie fabric world in Japan and it blew me away.  I learned to sew as a child so I always loved   collecting unique fabrics and so I knew that these  fabrics just had to be shared with other sewists.   I love supporting and sparking creativity and I  just feel like with these fabrics you just can't   help but be inspired. So that was the start of  Indy Bindy fabrics and now the other thing that   I love about what I get to do is being able to  support the designers and the artists that are   behind the designs. So over the last three  years or so that I've been doing this I've   been able to get to know each of the designers  personally and it feels like such a privilege,   they're such beautiful people and  each one is unique in their own   individual way. So I just wanted to share  some of their designs with you today.   I thought I'd start with Otsukiyumi. So  she hand paints her designs before getting   them digitally printed so that means in the  final design you can actually see the hand   the paint strokes that she's made and this design  is the one that first captured my heart of hers.   It is called ajisai which translates to hydrangea  in English and I just love the blues and the   purple tones and the little touches of green  and just the fact that you can literally see   where her paintbrush touched the original canvas  and I just love it. She's such a romantic designer   she does lots of florals and they all have  this kind of beautiful moodiness to them.   Our newest designer at Indy Bindy fabrics  is Kanariya, so I saw her work and wanted   to contact her for the longest time but  I didn't and then I was talking to Yumi   the previous designer one day and I saw one of  Kanariya's designs on her phone this one actually   it's called "Ribbon" and we got talking and it  turns out they went to university together so she   connected us and then the rest is history.  So kana has a very playful organic way of   creating. She's also known for creating designs  with paper cutting. This one she created by   starting off drawing a continuous line and the  design kind of evolved from there. and I really   wanted to share this designer with you um this  is Kaio Aoyama this design is called "Flowerball"   it's quite hard to see online which is one of  the challenges of running an online fabric shop.   She also hand paints her designs before getting  them digitally printed and often in watercolor   as with this one it has these gorgeous  fresh spring-like colors that are even   more beautiful in person, and although she does  a lot in watercolor she also has a huge range   of techniques that she uses to create. She  sketches in graphite pencil, uses gouache,   but this is the design that when I first  saw it I knew that I had to try to get   her on board at Indy Bindy fabrics. Aside  from the gorgeous minty color, I hope you   can see these little matchsticks, it's called  "Match" with the little yellow heads on them   Kaio was inspired to create this one day when she  opened a little match box and she saw each of the   little match heads inside were a different color  and it kind of took her breath away in that moment   and she just thought that there is beauty to be  found everywhere and that is when she brought this   design to life, which I love. Another design house  we have is Nocugou they're made up of a husband   and wife team that are based in the mountains of  Aichi more towards the center of Japan, so they're   heavily influenced by their environment and the  way they create this one is called toritaci all   the birds and if you look closely you can see one  of their two cats they have a ginger and a grey   featured here as well. The other amazing thing  about Nocugou is that every one of their fabrics   are hand printed so they use a printing house  in Kyoto that has been running for over 60   years and for each individual  color a different mold is required,   so it's quite time intensive but the  result is beautiful subtlety in the design.   I love this blush color on this one. This is  called ishigaki which translates to rock wall,   so it's literally inspired by a rock wall that's  near their home and it has these gorgeous blooms   and plants growing from in between the rocks. The  final designer I wanted to share with you today   is Mannine, she is actually the first designer  that I brought onto Indy Bindy fabrics. She has   a completely different way of designing-she  dives deep into researching a theme for every   fabric collection that she releases and then  once she has the theme she creates these   incredible characters. You can see some of them  here, these designs behind me are also by her,   and each character has a name, an age, a star  sign, hobbies, love interests, family trees,   all different kind of quirks and personality  traits and the detail is just incredible.   Like not just in the backstory but also in the  design itself. You can see this lady here is   Mrs Schnapfija and she's actually wearing  a dress in another Mannine fabric so her   imagination is just amazing. I'll show you one  more design from her, this one is called dogulee   and it was the first design of hers that I saw on  that very first day I snapped up the gray colorway   of this and made a top and I also got this red  which I now have a dress in. As you can tell,   I am so grateful to be able to work with these  artists and be able to share their fabric with   sewers all over the world and I love, love, love  seeing what my customers make out of the fabric.   If you would like to leave a comment below and  let me know which fabrics you loved, or what you   think you'd make with them that would make my  day. You can also find me at Indy Bindy fabrics   on all social media, so please drop me a line, I  would love to hear from you. I am happy to speak   all things fabric and sewing any day so I hope  to see you there and thank you for watching bye! 