  Hello, everyone. Good afternoon, and welcome to today's electronic design webcast. Our topic today-- automotive imaging radar for ADAS applications, sponsored by Texas Instruments. I'm Bill Wong, senior content director for Informa's design, engineering, and sourcing group. To begin, let me explain how you can participate in today's presentation. First of all, if you have any technical difficulties during today's session, simply hit F5 to refresh your webcast console. If you need assistance solving common issues, please click on the yellow Help icon below the slides. Additionally, we welcome your questions during today's event. We'll answer as many questions as possible during the Q&A session that will follow the main presentation, but please feel free to send in your questions at any time. To do so, simply type your questions into the question window on the side of your screen, and hit the Submit button. Also, please be aware that today's session is being recorded, and will be available on the Electronic Design website within the next week. Now, let's meet today's speaker. Amit Benjamin leads a millimeter wave RF-CMOS radar sensor product definition and key customer engagement in the automotive ADAS market. Professional experience also includes roles in system engineering and sales management. Now, let me turn things over to our presenter. Amit, the floor is yours. Thank you very much. Hello, everyone. So yeah, great having you in our webinar. I think that imaging radar, or in general, the front long range radar is exciting technology, and Texas Instruments is-- we're having lots of fun working on this technology with you, and we're looking forward to work more. Today, I want to spend time looking on the trends-- technology trends, market trends that we have in front long range radar, and in specific, on the imaging radar. TI is doing great efforts to take these imaging radar, a very complicated technology, and we're trying to make it easier for to adopt, because we do believe it is a very important technology for making the ADAS system safer. So let's look on what's driving to the front radar market, and really, it's a very, very steep hockey stick growth. So we can see that safety measures like the autonomous emergency braking and the automatic cruise control are already requires in Level 0 safety, so today, any new vehicle that will release to the market will very likely have a front radar sensor as part of the safety measures. So that definitely drives the adoption of the front radar sensor in the vehicle, not just from the fancy Level 3, Level 4, Level 5, but already from the high volume mass production, Level 0 vehicles. So we're looking on the NCAP. With the NCAP pursuit of Vision Zero, right?-- we see definitely application like the AEB head on for highway is already required and start being tested in 2020. But also, from the urban scene, applications like the AEB Vulnerable Road User, from bicycle and junction crossing, all of these safety measures required also much higher performance rate of sensor. And today, we already see 20 OEMs that are already committed to add the AEB system as the standard safety equipment in their vehicle. So what it does is definitely contribute to a very, very nice growth in the front radar application, and again, not just from the AAA, from a autonomous driving perspective, but also from the ADAS systems, and that's what just make all our life more safer, because we will drive with vehicles that are more equipped for a safe drive. The other thing that is nice to see here, that the front radar is led by performance, so still performance there are much more important than cost. So you can see that, although fault radar is, in volume, smaller than corner radar, the dollar amount that front radar is generating is higher, or maybe equal to the corner radar, which really tells us that the margins-- these sensors are still being sold in a higher dollar amount compared to corners, and we do see many T1s start amping up. They started with corner radar, but now, they're moving to work on front radar, now that they feel much more comfortable with the radar sensor design. So yeah, just a short look on the urban area, showing how important it is to increase the resolution of the front radar in order for us to really see nicely all the different Vulnerable Road Users in the scene. Few of the technology trends that we see that are driving the front radar development are the need to measure the height, to be able to decide if we can go underneath the bridge or not; the need to for higher resolution in order to differentiate a nearby object in an urban scenario, but also in highway, where we approach to a traffic jam and we need to differentiate between the different cars in the length; and the need to do the fusion with the image sensor, and to use a deep learning or artificial intelligence for classification. All of that driving very nicely the front radar technology, and I will show how TI is leading these requirements in the next few slides. So where's TI in the whole thing? So TI just released a complete to release the first generation products, either from the pure front end, having the RF front end with putting out the raw data with the CSI interface, 1243, or having the system on chip, and TI is the only company today to integrate all the sensor functionality into one device. If they are a front end, the DSP, the safety MCU, the embedded memory, the radar accelerator, and the crypto accelerators-- everything integrated into one device. So today, for front radar, we typically see the front end. It plays a role. And the reason is that the front radar is really defined to handle the extended range and the max velocity that's needed for front radar. So 1243p, which is the device that is released to market today, has very wide IF bandwidth, 15 megahertz, and better phase noise, lower noise figure, and higher output power, compared to other sensors, today, in the market. So definitely a device that is leading today in the market for the front radar, but also four corner. So nothing stops taking this device to corner device, and front, as well as imaging radar. That will show later on. Another thing that this device has enabled is the ability to generate up to 2,000 different chips. So it has a very, very nice flexibility in the amount of chip that you can configure. And that's really-- take out the processor from the equation. So the processor doesn't need, all the time, to talk to the SPI. Plus to generate the different chips, between frame to frame or between chip to chip, you can program the chip into a local memory of this device. Then the device can work by itself. So it could significantly reduce the amount of computing power that the host is required to do. A couple of applications that this high performance allows us to handle-- one application is R79, where we need to identify the motorcycle from a 170 approach in the 130 kilometers per hour. So the very nice R performance of 1243 enables you to detect objects from 200 meters, while using the enhanced RF performance of 12 dB noise figure, 12 dB output power, and 95 dBc per hertz phases. This device also has the ability to control the phase shifters in 6 dB, 6 bit resolution. So we are able to generate the beem-forming and steer the beam in a 6 bit resolution. So that's really allowing us to answer this application requirement result needing to do any trade offs with the antenna footprint. So definitely, you can get to the 170 meter with a higher gain, a narrow beam, using it for a antenna footprint. But that would cost you in the field of view. So with this device, you're not required to do so many trade offs on your antenna footprint to answer these requirements. The other thing that this devices enables us to address is the imaging radar market. So we see the need for enhanced range and enhanced angle resolution rate of sensor already required in the NCAP markets, not just in the autonomous drivers, like level 4 and 5. But already from level 2 and level 3, you can see that advanced safety measures, like automatic emergency steering, are required already by 2022. So to meet these very advanced safety measures, the most economic sensor to address that is the imaging radar with enhanced angle resolution. Now we do see that we do understand that imaging radar is still considered complicated, in today's market. And this is why TI has developed very nice tools to make these developments much simpler and a much more accessible for you guys. So what is imaging radar? We believe that imaging radar is a game changer. Today, the sensors that you have deployed in the field are not capable of differentiating between two static vehicles in different lanes. And this causes, many times, for the fusion system, to completely ignore the radar from the static environment reading, while the vehicle is moving. Imaging radar's going to change it. With the four chip cascade that we released, the development kit that we just released, we are able to go down to 1.4 angle azimuth angle resolution. And that allows us to differentiate from 1 nanometer between the two static cars in our lane, or between the vehicle to the guardrails on the side. And that really can enable, now, the radar sensor to become the primary sensor in the vehicle. Not like today-- today, the image sensor is the primary sensor. And most of the decisions are being taken by the image sensor. Now, with the enhanced angle resolution, the radar can become the main sensor in the vehicle. And then we can have a much more robust sensor. Because the radar sensor is the only sensor that is keeping this performance in winter, in the snow, rain, and different visibility conditions. So in order to make this complicated design more accessible to the broad market, TI is the first one to release to market the imaging radar developing, based on the RF that shows four chips cascade together and able to work as one unit, to be able to reach up to a 350 meter range with beem-forming and down to 1.4 degrees azimuth angle resolution. All of the design files, all of the algorithms, everything that is needed to start designing a imaging radar or cascade product is online. TI believes that we are sharing all our knowledge online, in order to make it easier for our customers to have a first step into adopting very, very important technology. This kit enables driving for 40 minutes, and captures the raw data into a SD card. So between the RF boards and the DSP board, there is a SD card that plugs and allows to store the data, the raw data, and later on, allows you to do the post-processing and run your algorithms in a macro environment. We also-- one use case is a capture use case, storing the data into SD, and then run post-processing. The other use case is doing a real time processing, running the MIMO and beamforming algorithm in the TDA2 processor. But that's the board and hard to see. Again, we have the video online. And we have all the communication already online. And if you're interested in purchasing this kit, it's available online. A few of challenges that we are solving with these kit-- we have a very, very detailed design guide, showing how to synchronize multiple radar front-ends showing how to do the chip configuration for MIMO and beamforming, showing different techniques, showing how to calibrate the goal to the goal site. All of that is detailed in the TI design. We have very detailed information on the memory bandwidth required, showing the antenna footprint mapping that we choose. Of course, that is a first step for you guys. I'm sure that you will have a more dedicated antenna footprint to your application. But that just gives the first step. And then we're also discussing on the processing flow, how to process the various virtual antenna channels that we have on board. And eventually-- anyway. So a few performance that we're showing, based on these kits, is you can see here, the ability to differentiate from 112 meters of two parking vehicles, showing the performance of the goal to go down to 1.7 degrees azimuth angle resolution. Another thing that we created-- and it doesn't move? OK. Another thing that we created-- and you can also see that in a video that we have online-- is the ability to differentiate between the parking vehicles here to the guardrails, the ability to see the contour of the bike, the contour of the vehicle, and really start showing you how the imaging radar sensor starts showing a much more real view of the scene around outside, and really give the back up to what we're saying, that the imaging radar sensor will become the primary sensor of the vehicle. Here, we are taking the Doppler data and relayed that on the static environment. And in the visual, you can see it's also moving in real time. The other thing-- one thing that we highlighted in this video is the MIMO performance, going down to 1.4, 1.7 degree angle resolution. The other thing is the extended range that we gain with the beamforming, going up to 350 meters, and the ability to jump between 350 meter beamforming to MIMO between chip to chip. So we are tracking the vehicles that are driving away from us in one chip. And then in the next chips, we are tracking the pedestrians that are walking next to the sensor, really giving us a nice indication how the digital integrated sensor is able to fully control the scene, all of that, without needing the processor to exercise the SBI. Yeah. So a few of the other platforms that you can find online-- again, TI is putting a lot of efforts to trying to make your life easier. We put all the algorithms, all our EVMs. We're trying to make EVMs dedicated for the end equipment. And we put both the hardware and the algorithm, everything online. In Order for you-- we're not trying to replace you guys, obviously. We're not trying to make the product. But we are trying to make it easier for users do the first step with us, and then take it from there and concentrate on your IP, to gain fast time to market. In addition, we have a wide ecosystem of different partners. Each partner has strengths in different fields. So I encourage you to work with us. Tell us what's your goal. And then we can probably have a good clue on which third party can be the best fit to help you achieve these objectives. So to summarize-- and this is a little bit. There are many details on this slide. But I think it's important. I think TI's competitive advantage comes from our performance. If it's in the signal, processing, safety, security, we are-- our products touching all these major fields. We are trying very, very hard to make our portfolio as scalable as possible. So if you invest in one device, you will be able to scale your investment to all the different sensors we have in our portfolio. So we're trying to prevent you from inventing the wheel, every time, from scratch. This way, you can focus on your IP and not how to work with our device. From time to market, TI is the leader in the RFCMOS market. And we are the first one to release the system one chip. All devices are online. We already have a hundred of cases of devices driving. And so that's also from the availability perspective, we already passed all the qual. And our devices are very mature and ready for the automotive and industrial market. Thank you very much. Ready for your questions. Excellent. A few of you have already submitted questions. So we're going to jump right in. If you'd like to submit a question, type your question into the question window on the side of your screen and hit the submit button. While we're answering your questions, please complete the feedback form, which is located at the bottom of your screen. So for our first question, what's the max distance imaging radar currently sense? Sorry. The max distance? Yes. Yeah. So right now, we are showing, on our video, with the imaging radar, 350 meters. But we can probably go further than that. We stopped there because these are the requirements we see, currently, in the market. We probably can sense further than that. Maybe on our next video, we will show 400 meters. All right. Does radar have accuracy issues in any weather types? No. I don't think-- accuracy is the function of S&R. And radar sensors are not-- the radar sensor performances are not degraded from weather. OK. What makes you believe TI will lead the front in the radar market in the next few years? So I think, today, we see RFCMOS start gaining a lot of traction in corner radar, initially. And now, it's moving very, very strongly, also, the front radar application. TI, today, is the leader in RFCMOS mmWave IC sensor in the market. So the fact that we are leading this domain, and the fact that RFCMOS gained a lot of traction today in the market, I think gives us a good feeling or TI's direction into this market. OK. What are the advantages of RFCMOS, compared to silicon germanium sensors, in front radar applications? So yes. So silicon germanium, for many years, had leadership in RF performance, while it's detail integration-- the ability to integrate microcontrollers and different digital features-- were a disadvantage for this technology. Now, with our first generation RFCMOS products-- and definitely with the generation that will follow-- we believe that we already meet or outperform the RFCMOS performance of the Sig-E sensors. And we are much more advanced in our digital feature integration. So for example, we are integrating many of the functions safety monitors that allow much safer function. So our products are ASIL-B certified. And as well, our ability to generate a high number of chips configuration gives us a very nice advantage over Sig-E. OK. Well, it's time we wrap up, at this point. And those questions that we did not get to, we'll be responding via email. On behalf of Electronic Design, I'd like to think Texas Instruments for sponsoring today's event, and, of course, to all of you for joining us. Have a great rest of the day. Thank you very much. 