 Do you remember our video review of the new Peugeot 508 SW? During the event I had the opportunity to talk with Gilles Vidal, Peugeot's Director of Style. Which means he's one of the people responsible for the present and future of the brand, and yes - he helped design the Peugeot e-Legend, the 100% electric and autonomous concept car that everyone is talking about. In this interview we talk about the challenges of designing a brand new car, about the i-Cockpit, and about Peugeot's future. Like a shooting-brake, it's so much different than we see on the road with other brands... How did you do it? How did you manage to get such an amount of space inside, and still manage to have this athletic design on the exterior? Well, there were a lot of challenges for engineers mostly, actually, to reduce everything that the client doesn't care about and yet keep a safe car so, if you look at the all the sections the thickness of these areas or above the heads of the rear passengers, for example, engineers redesigned the sections and the shapes of the structure to be favorable to a lot of headroom or roominess inside and therefore allowed us to lower the car - so compared to the previous version, those cars are roughly 6 cm lower, which is a lot. And for accessibility, because of the frameless windows, we can actually lower the car and have a good entry point in terms of accessibility inside the car so the frameless windows are not just about sportiness of a sporty spirit they help also lower everything yet keep a big opening. And for the boot space it's actually still better than other SWs in the D segment, and so it's... But you have to sacrifice it just a little bit but maybe you have better... When compared to the previous one, the big one, it's a little bit tighter - it's still very good compared to the competition, but we do this little sacrifice compared to the previous one because what's important in the D segment is not actually the roominess people who buy this they need actually less space than in the C segment SW, like a 308 SW for example. The 308 SW, it's bought for space, this is bought for status. So despite being a bigger car, it doesn't really mean that you need the bigger space inside, it's a different kind of usage. Exactly, it still has to practical, but ultimately the big space is not the issue, so the look is the issue for those who buy this, and the status that comes with the car. And we believe, that the D segment anyway in the future will be attractive because we have more dynamic, you know, sexy looking cars, basically. It's a very sporty car, you put your hand down and open the boot - it's very very, low - do you think this is a trend you're creating, that Peugeot is starting something in this segment because you only see this kind of designs in shooting-brake, for example. And this is not a shooting-brake. It's still a practical brake. Much more practical than a real shooting-brake let's say, but it's... again, I believe that average height cars will still exist in the future, if they become more attractive, more interesting cars, in terms of proportions and look, and they should be very interesting I think, and so there's not just room for big SUVs - ok it's very successful these days, obviously, but still some people who don't need maybe such big things and for the normal height cars, again, the survival is about being more attractive. So to make the cars lower and with more muscle, with more sculpture, is exactly what will keep those cars interesting. So I think it's our vision but maybe some other brands share this vision, and we will maybe see more and more of those lower cars. But for me, they will still exist for sure, the SUVs won't win everything. They will still exist and they will be successful because they will be especially attractive among the rest of the competition. Do you believe this is a car for a person who likes to drive? Because everything seems to point to that, to the driving feeling, and not only just the practical one. Yes, it's true. Actually, if you test drive this car, it behaves exactly like the sedan car, so it doesn't feel like you have a bigger, heavier car behind you, so it's very important for us to still have this special Peugeot touch in our cars, in terms of handling and driving experience, and there are a lot of clients buying D-segment cars that enjoy driving, still. For those who don't maybe care so much about the ultimate driving experience still it's a very good car in terms of just pure ergonomics you know, intuitive use of the car, so the principle of the i-Cockpit, or the smaller steering wheel... it is true, some people will find sportiness in it, but some other people will find just precision. But at this point we sold 5 million cars with an i-Cockpit, between the 208, 2008, the 308 and so on... all those cars that have an i-Cockpit. And there's only positive feedback from the clients, not even one complaint after 5 million cars. You changed it after these years - you've made a little... It did evolve. The principle stays the same, basically, because if you look at the proportions of people - average height and and the ratio between this part and the legs, which changes depending on the people - the geometry, the principle hasn't changed much, but then we optimize everything to the finest millimeter we find solutions on how to build a dashboard to save millimeters everywhere so it gets even better and so on. And also, as we go along the new models, it gets better. And then we tried for every new model to add something to the i-Cockpit as well, so we make it evolve in terms of adjustment, but we also add content and in this car compared to 3008, for instance, we have high-definition screens, the touchscreen became a 10-inch touchscreen, and you will see that in the next model, again, there will be something new inside and more interesting inside, again... Bigger and bigger screens and higher definition. So it could be video, it could be higher resolution... it could be other things, so on the next one you'll have a little surprise. A little surprise on the next i-Cockpit, that's good. How do you evolve after this? Because now this is a new front you've premiere it with the car, with the 508, now the SW continues the line, how will evolve this design? Well, actually we were trying to give a lot of personality to the cars, it's a little bit about the proportions and the height for instance, how do you stand out from the crowd and from the competition in the traffic? In the automotive landscape? And by giving a lot of personality to the car, you could say this one is a little aggressive in a way, in its personality, because of these things on the eyes and the shadow above the eyes and everything. It's a basic principle, which on this car I think works, the next car of course the next models will carry on with the same principle of this new day running lights for example, but of course when you talk about a little B-segment car, or a C-segment car, the way to do it will be different. It needs to be more friendly on the little car of course, and on a medium car it needs to be maybe more technological.... So the personality, the spirit of each car will change will adjust to... you know to who it talks to, and yet on the same principles, until the next generation. So of course we don't think already about the one after, but there are basic principles like this that what's most important in the end, because as you said, it is very subjective you know like / dislike and so on, but what's important in the end is that it has a strong personality, and when you see a lot of what we consider in France crazy looking cars like some Asian brands can do for example - yet they are very successful so you can find them ugly or beautiful or just interesting, but they are successful because they are strong, at least somewhere, somehow. And so, what's important for most people, actually, is the strength of the look, the personality of the car, the charismatics of the car. That's what many people will buy rather than, you know, appreciating its level of beautifulness. So it's interesting to analyze how people work with this and so for us, of course, at Peugeot we want to make it quite simple, quite elegant with strong personality... could be a little aggressive on this one, we adjust so it fits the Peugeot spirit, but in the end I think it works. Last question. How about the future? Autonomous driving, electrification... things will change in the car - in the exterior and in the interior. What are you preparing? How do you see the... The future? The future for the i-Cockpit, for the driver... because, well, we are always talking about this, about the future, but in fact we all know we are going to see a big shift in the next 10 years. Yes, it will be the biggest revolution in the car industry, actually. And well, we showed a little bit of this with the latest concept cars, with the Instinct and e-Legend concept cars, and we believe that, Okay, it will go technological, it will go towards autonomous, maybe one day it will be forbidden for humans to actually drive on open roads, it it will happen, probably, one day. And yet the future shouldn't be boring, the future shouldn't be robotic, it shouldn't lack, you know, spirit and soul and so that's what we meant with the e-Legend concept car, especially, to say "Okay it's autonomous and maybe hit will have no dashboard, it will not look like we think it should look today, because you will do other things while in your car, and it will be an open space with furniture almost, and screens - and not just screens because a lot of car companies, you know, explain all the connectivity and the screens and everything, but a lot of physical objects will end up in your car, like if it's a room, a moving room of your home almost, because you have time to do something else. Like a smartphone, notebook... Magazines and books... Anything that's in your home, almost. And so it will change radically. So our vision is, whatever we decide to do, in terms of technology, content and everything, we want to make sure at Peugeot we design a special spirit that's very human that's very warm, not just cold and technological, and we design also the freedom for people to do whatever they want in there - that's the main thing I think, for the future. Thank you very much. Thank you, it was a pleasure. Thank you so much for watching this video, and don't forget to visit our website at www.razaoautomovel.com, Follow us on Facebook and Instagram, and of course here on YouTube, where you can turn on notifications, so that you always know when a new video is uploaded. 