 All the significant security threats we face today, whether it's password phishing attacks, hacking of servers, compromised accounts... Blockchain solves those problems. What it does let users do is take back ownership of their data. More and more these days, we see that data security is being compromised. People want to know like, what their information is being used for, and how do you track it. When you type something into Google, they know what you're typing and they know when you're depressed, they know when you're happy and they sell you data on the back of that. Now, is that alright? Is that fair? These are the questions that blockchain is going to answer for. The challenge was extremely difficult technically, because it's not you know, your pop theme. It's security and privacy. I think what this has done in terms of takeaways from the event for participants is firstly bring to life the data security and privacy issues, but more interestingly, like, the application of how you go about solving those. We think that the success of the blockchain, its technology lies in the applications that are built on top of this technology. Blockchain technology can help improve security and data protection because it's a decentralized system - No single organization can control the data. It removes a need for trust. It is extremely important to have that layer of transparency and full control. Any industry that involves trust, Blockchain technology will revolutionize. It can be encrypted and it cannot be modified. So to be able to control your own data, maybe monetize your own data and not belong to one centralized Silicon Valley company is just becoming more and more important. It puts the control back into the user's hands. Blockchain, as a universal technology applies to all businesses that have a multi-user website. It's going to fundamentally transform cyber security, making people's identities and accounts more secure. A long term thing is blockchain becomes like the word "internet" - It holds something special and just becomes a part of the language, it'll be in a dictionary, everyone will understand that's just the way it goes. Like breathing air. 