BusinessWe incorporated in 1985 under the laws of the state of California. In 1991, we reincorporated in the state of Delaware. We operate and report using a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the last Sunday in September. Our 52-week fiscal years consist of four equal quarters of 13 weeks each, and our 53-week fiscal years consist of three 13-week fiscal quarters and one 14-week fiscal quarter. The financial results for our 53-week fiscal years and our 14-week fiscal quarters will not be exactly comparable to our 52-week fiscal years and our 13-week fiscal quarters. Both of the fiscal years ended September 29, 2013 and September 25, 2011 included 52 weeks. The fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 included 53 weeks.OverviewWe continue to lead the development and commercialization of a digital communication technology called CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access), and we own significant intellectual property applicable to products that implement any version of CDMA including patents, patent applications and trade secrets. The mobile communications industry generally recognizes that a company seeking to develop, manufacture and/or sell products that use CDMA technology will require a patent license from us. CDMA is one of the main technologies currently used in digital wireless communications networks (also known as wireless networks). CDMA and TDMA (Time Division Multiple Access), of which GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) is the primary commercial form, are the primary digital technologies currently used to transmit a wireless device user’s voice or data over radio waves using a public cellular wireless network.We also continue our leading role in the development and commercialization of OFDMA (Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access) -based technologies for which we own substantial intellectual property. Sales of multimode CDMA and LTE, which stands for “Long Term Evolution” and is an OFDMA-based standard for cellular wireless communication applications, wireless devices have grown significantly during the past several years.In addition to licensing portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, we design, manufacture, have manufactured on our behalf and market products and services based on CDMA, OFDMA and other digital communications technologies. Our products principally consist of integrated circuits (also known as chips or chipsets) and system software used in mobile devices and in wireless networks. We also sell other products and services, which include: integrated circuits for use in wired devices, particularly broadband gateway equipment, desktop computers, televisions, set-top boxes and Blu-ray players; content enablement services to wireless operators; development, other services and related wireless communications products used by the United States government; location awareness and commerce services; and software and hardware development services. 1The Mobile Communications IndustryMobile technology has seen significant growth and adoption since the first mobile phone call took place in 1973. The International Telecommunication Union (ITU) estimated that 90% of the world’s population lived in areas served by mobile network coverage as of 2010. As of September 30, 2013, there were approximately 6.8 billion cellular connections worldwide, comprised of approximately 3.2 billion unique individual cellular account holders, also known as subscribers (GSMA Intelligence estimates as of November 4, 2013). Information regarding wireless technologies used by the mobile industry is provided in the section entitled Wireless Technologies in this Annual Report.  Key trends shaping the evolution and growth of the mobile industry include the expanding role of mobile as the leading computing platform and the shift from primarily voice-centric feature phones to data-centric smartphones; the evolution of technologies aimed at accommodating the increase of data usage; the use of wireless technologies for machine-to-machine (M2M) applications; and the advent of new mobile devices, applications and services that provide new user experiences.Mobile Computing. Due to the processing power and “always on” connectivity available in advanced mobile devices, consumers are opting to use their smartphones and tablets to perform tasks previously reserved for their personal computers,  such as email, web-browsing, gaming and social networking. That preference is reflected in sales trends. More than twice as many smartphones and tablets were shipped globally in 2012 as compared to personal computers (Gartner and IDC, September 2013). Additionally, in 2012, semiconductor industry revenues for mobile phones surpassed those for personal computers for the first time (Gartner, April 2013).While some feature phones support Internet connectivity and other basic computing functions, the mobile industry is seeing a shift to smartphones. Global smartphone shipments reached approximately 700 million units in 2012, representing a year-over-year increase of approximately 44%, and smartphone shipments are projected to reach approximately 1.8 billion in 2017 (Gartner, September 2013). Growth is expected to be particularly strong in emerging regions, with a projected compound annual growth rate of smartphone shipments of approximately 30% between 2012 and 2017 (Gartner, September 2013). For many people, particularly in emerging regions where income levels may make purchasing a personal computer out of reach, the smartphone or tablet may be the first and only device that will be used to access the Internet and perform other computing functions. As smartphone and tablet shipments achieve increasing scale, the chipsets powering these devices are becoming an increasingly important differentiator to industry participants. To compete effectively, suppliers are seeking to strike a balance between performance, form factor (size and design) and battery life of devices. To achieve that, there is a trend toward chipsets that integrate many of the essential components of the mobile device into a unified and optimized system-on-a-chip (SOC), which includes a modem, a central processor (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), multimedia support and other components that work together.Meeting the Needs for Increased Data. The large-scale adoption of smartphones and other connected devices is creating a significant increase in demand for data services. To meet this demand, mobile operators are deploying 3G/4G (third generation/fourth generation) networks and investing in a variety of strategies to increase the capacity and performance of their networks.The total number of 3G and multimode 3G/4G connections worldwide reached approximately 2.3 billion as of September 30, 2013, accounting for only approximately 34% of total cellular connections (GSMA Intelligence estimates as of November 4, 2013). Looking ahead, approximately 4.5 billion 3G and multimode 3G/4G connections are projected by 2017 (GSMA Intelligence estimates as of November 4, 2013). Globally, during the third calendar quarter of 2013, on average more than one million new 3G and multimode 3G/4G connections were being added every day (GSMA Intelligence estimates as of November 4, 2013). In emerging regions, 3G and multimode 3G/4G cellular connections account for more than three times the number of fixed broadband connections (GSMA Intelligence and WBIS, October 2013).Additional data demands are being placed on the networks as mobile technology is incorporated into new connected devices in a growing number of sectors including the consumer electronics, automotive, health and life sciences and utilities sectors. We refer to this as the “Internet of Everything.” To meet the increased demand for data, which we refer to as “the 1000x data challenge,” network operators are expected to deploy a variety of strategies (in addition to deploying 3G/4G technologies) aimed at increasing the performance and capacity of their networks. One key strategy is network densification, such as complementing existing cellular networks by deploying smaller sized, lower-power cellular base stations, commonly referred to as small cells. Another key focus is on more efficient use of spectrum. Some relief from network congestion caused by the demand for data is expected to come from the proliferation of peer-to-peer communications in which devices communicate directly with other devices without having to access the cellular network. Additional efficiencies are expected to come from the continuing evolution of 3G/4G and Wi-Fi technologies and the use of broadcast capabilities made possible by LTE broadcast technology. 2New User Capabilities. There is a growing emphasis on finding ways to provide the ability to efficiently access, sense and control digital content and services. The evolution of mobile technology is expected to augment our senses, in effect creating what we refer to as the “digital 6th sense.” The industry is working on a variety of fronts toward this vision by investing in increased computing capabilities, enhanced connectivity and new ways for users to interact with technology. Among the areas of focus are peer-to-peer connectivity technologies, augmented reality and context awareness.Wireless TechnologiesThe growth in the use of wireless devices worldwide, such as smartphones and tablets, and demand for data services and applications requires continuous innovation to further improve the user experience, enable new services and increase network capacity, make use of different frequency bands and enable dense network deployments. To meet these requirements, different wireless communications technologies continue to evolve. For over two decades, we have invested and continue to invest heavily in research and development of many of these cellular wireless communication technologies, including CDMA and OFDMA. As a result, we have developed and acquired (and continue to develop and acquire) significant related intellectual property. This intellectual property has been incorporated into the most widely accepted and deployed wireless communications technology standards, and we have licensed it to wireless device and infrastructure manufacturers (more than 250 licensees, including all leading manufacturers). Most of the cellular wireless technologies can be grouped into three categories.TDMA-based. TDMA-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency channel by dividing the signal into different time slots. Most of these systems are classified as 2G (second generation) technology.The main examples of TDMA-based technologies are GSM (deployed worldwide), IS-136 (deployed in the Americas) and Personal Digital Cellular (PDC) (deployed in Japan). Compared to the earlier generations of analog technologies, these digital communications technologies provided for significantly enhanced efficiency within a fixed spectrum, resulting in increased voice capacity. These technologies also enable enhanced services, such as SMS (short message service) texting service, as well as low-speed data services. GSM has evolved to support mobile packet data transmission, such as GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) and EDGE (Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution).According to GSMA Intelligence estimates as of November 4, 2013, there were approximately 4.4 billion GSM connections worldwide, representing approximately 65% of total cellular connections. CDMA-based. CDMA-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency and time by allocating different orthogonal codes to individual users. Most of the CDMA-based technologies are classified as 3G (third generation) technology.There are a number of variants of CDMA-based technologies deployed around the world, in particular CdmaOne, Cdma2000, EV-DO (Evolution Data Optimized), WCDMA (Wideband CDMA) and TD-SCDMA (Time Division - Synchronous CDMA) (deployed exclusively in China). Similar to other digital communications technologies, CDMA-based technologies provided vastly improved capacity for voice and low-rate data services as compared to analog technologies. The following are the CDMA-based technologies and their standards revisions:•CDMA2000 revisions A through E•1xEV-DO revisions A through C•WCDMA/HSPA releases 4 through 12•TD-SCDMA releases 4 through 12To date, these technologies have seen many revisions, and they continue to evolve, progressively offering higher capacity and data rates, improved user experiences and new applications and services. As these technologies continue to evolve, new features are being defined in their relevant standardization bodies, the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 (3GPP2) for CDMA2000 and 1xEV-DO and the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) for WCDMA and TD-SCDMA.For simplicity, the releases of these technologies are often combined and given “marketing” or “trade” names that also indicate their benefits. One example is the 3GPP releases: Releases 5 and 6 together are called “HSPA- High Speed Packet Access.” The releases from 7 to 10 are called HSPA+, indicating that they provide performance improvements over HSPA. We refer to releases 11 and beyond as HSPA+ Advanced, again indicating improvements beyond the ones that HSPA+ offers. The naming convention also applies to the releases of CDMA2000, whose successive releases are grouped and referred to as CDMA2000 1X, 1x Advanced, as well as to 1xEV-DO, whose releases are called as EV-DO Rev. A, Rev. B and DO Advanced. CDMA technologies ushered in a significant increase in broadband data services and continue to grow rapidly. According to GSMA Intelligence estimates as of November 4, 2013, there were approximately 2.2 billion CDMA-based connections  3worldwide. As of the fourth quarter of calendar 2012, the first phases of 1x Advanced and DO Advanced, as well as up to the eighth release of HSPA+,  were commercially launched. OFDMA-based. OFDMA-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency and time by allocating different subcarriers to individual users. Most of the OFDMA-based technologies are classified as 4G (fourth generation) technology.The primary OFDMA-based technology is LTE and is incorporated in 3GPP specifications starting from release 8. LTE has two modes, FDD (frequency division duplex) and TDD (time division duplex) to support paired and unpaired spectrum, respectively, and is being developed by 3GPP. The principal benefit of LTE is its ability to leverage wide swaths of spectrum (bandwidths of 10 MHz or more). LTE is designed to seamlessly interwork with 3G through multimode 3G/4G devices. Currently, LTE relies on 2G/3G for voice services across the network, as well as for ubiquitous data services outside LTE coverage area, and on 4G for data services inside the coverage area. LTE’s releases are often combined and given “marketing” or “trade” names that also indicate their benefits. The name LTE covers releases 8 and 9. Releases 10 and beyond are referred to as LTE Advanced. According to GSMA Intelligence estimates as of November 4, 2013, there were 144 million global 3G/4G multimode connections. The first step of LTE Advanced, referred to as carrier aggregation, was commercially launched in June 2013.  Other Wireless Technologies. There are other non-cellular wireless technologies that have also been broadly adopted in mobile cellular devices.Wireless Local Area Networks. Wireless local area networks (WLAN, also known as Wi-Fi) link two or more devices using a wireless technology method and usually provide connectivity through an access point. WLAN systems have been standardized by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) standards committee in the various versions of 802.11, which include advanced features, such as multiple in/multiple out (MIMO), support for large bandwidth and support for different frequency bands and higher order modulation. Bluetooth. Bluetooth is a wireless personal area network that provides wireless connectivity between devices over short distances ranging from a few centimeters to a few meters. Bluetooth technology provides wireless connectivity to a wide range of fixed or mobile consumer electronics devices. Bluetooth functionalities are standardized by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group in various versions of the specification (from 1.0 to 4.0), which include different functionalities, such as enhanced data rate or low energy. Location positioning technologies. Location positioning technologies use satellite systems to provide accurate location of devices and primarily work outdoors, when devices have a clear view of the sky. Cell site assistance with location determination in addition to satellite system determination improves in-building performance. The device location can be used for navigation systems as well as location-based services (e.g., search results based on the location of the device). There are many satellite constellations in use or under development today. Global Positioning System (GPS) developed by the United States, GLONASS (Global Navigation Satellite System) developed by Russia and BeiDou developed by China are some examples of location position technology. Operating SegmentsWe conduct business primarily through four reportable segments: QCT, QTL, QWI and QSI. QSI did not have revenues, or had negligible revenues, in all periods presented. Revenues in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011 for our other reportable segments were as follows (in millions, except percentage data): QCT QTL QWI2013$16,715 $7,554 $613As a percent of total67% 30% 2%2012$12,141 $6,327 $633As a percent of total63% 33% 3%2011$8,859 $5,422 $656As a percent of total59% 36% 4%QCT (Qualcomm CDMA Technologies) Segment. QCT is a leading developer and supplier of integrated circuits and system software based on CDMA, OFDMA and other technologies for use in voice and data communications, networking, application processing, multimedia and global positioning system products. QCT’s integrated circuit products and system software are sold to and/or licensed to manufacturers that use our products in wireless devices, particularly mobile phones,  4tablets, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers and gaming devices, access points and routers, data cards and infrastructure equipment, and in wired devices, particularly broadband gateway equipment, desktop computers, televisions, set-top boxes and Blu-ray players. Our Mobile Station Modem (MSM) integrated circuits, which include the Mobile Data Modem, Qualcomm Single Chip and Qualcomm Snapdragon processor devices, perform the core baseband modem functionality in wireless devices providing voice and data communications, as well as multimedia applications and global positioning functions. Our Snapdragon processors provide advanced application and graphics processing capabilities. QCT’s system software enables the other device components to interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling manufacturers to develop devices utilizing the functionality within our integrated circuits. Because of our experience in designing and developing CDMA- and OFDMA-based products, we design both the baseband integrated circuit and the supporting system as well, including the RF (Radio Frequency) devices, PM (Power Management) devices and accompanying software products. This approach enables us to optimize the performance of the wireless device with improved product features and integration with the network system. We also provide support, including reference designs and tools, to enable our customers to reduce the time required to design their products and bring their products to market faster. We plan to add additional features and capabilities to our integrated circuit products to help our customers reduce the cost and size of their products, to simplify our customers’ design processes and to enable more wireless devices and services. QCT offers a broad portfolio of products, including both wireless device and infrastructure integrated circuits, in support of CDMA2000 1X and 1xEV-DO, as well as the EV-DO Revision A/B evolutions of CDMA 2000 technology. Leveraging our expertise in CDMA, we also develop and offer integrated circuits supporting the WCDMA version of 3G for manufacturers of wireless devices. More than 80 device manufacturers have selected our WCDMA products that support GSM/GPRS, WCDMA, HSDPA (High-Speed Downlink Packet Access), HSUPA (High-Speed Uplink Packet Access) and HSPA+ for their devices. QCT also sells multimode products for the LTE standard, which offer seamless backward compatibility to existing 3G technologies. Our integrated circuit products are included in a broad range of devices, from low-tier, entry-level devices for emerging regions, which may use our Qualcomm Reference Design (QRD) products, to premium-tier devices. In fiscal 2013, QCT shipped approximately 716 million MSM integrated circuits for wireless devices worldwide as compared to approximately 590 million and 483 million in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our modems are built to work with increasingly complex networks. They support the latest communication technologies and adapt to network conditions and user needs in real time to enable delivery of faster, smoother data and voice connections. Our 3G/4G modem roadmap delivers the latest network technologies across multiple product tiers and devices. This roadmap is the result of our years of research into emerging network standards and the development of chipsets that take advantage of these new standards, while maintaining backward compatibility with existing standards. Each Snapdragon processor is a highly integrated, mobile optimized system on a chip incorporating our advanced technologies, including a high performance CPU, digital signal processor (DSP), GPU and modem, multimedia subsystems, including audio, high-definition video and camera capabilities, and highly accurate location positioning engines. Our CPU cores are designed to deliver high levels of compute performance at low power, allowing manufacturers to design slim and powerful devices with longer battery life between charges. Our GPUs are also designed to deliver graphics performance for visually rich 3D gaming and user interfaces. The heterogeneous compute architecture of our Snapdragon processors is designed to ensure that the CPU, DSP and GPU work efficiently together, each being powered up and utilized only when needed, which enhances the processing capacity, speed and efficiency of our Snapdragon processors and provides longer battery life of the devices using our processors. Most Snapdragon processors also incorporate our modem technology for advanced mobile broadband. Our wireless products also consist of integrated circuits and system software for WLAN, Bluetooth, frequency modulation (FM) and near field communications (NFC) as well as technologies that enable location data and services, including GPS, GLONASS and BeiDou. Our wireless technologies are provided in the form of WLAN; Bluetooth and FM products, for which the technologies are integrated into the cellular modem and combined with a companion RF chip; WLAN and Bluetooth combination chips; and stand-alone products. Our wired connectivity products consist of integrated circuits and software for Ethernet and Powerline networks. Our wired portfolio enables delivery of richer, comprehensive multi-connectivity product platforms to our networking, computing and consumer electronics customer base. We also developed the combination of WLAN, Powerline and Ethernet technologies to deliver hybrid networking platforms designed for home, known as Hi-Fi products. The technology has now evolved to become the multiple-physical layer (multi-PHY) networking standard known as the IEEE 1905.1.QCT utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Integrated circuits are die cut from silicon wafers that have been assembled into packages or modules and have completed the final test manufacturing processes. Die cut from silicon wafers are the essential components of all of our integrated circuits and a significant portion of the total integrated circuit cost. We employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. Turnkey is when our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. Under the two-stage manufacturing model, we  5purchase wafers and die from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party suppliers for probe, assembly and test services. We rely on independent third-party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits based primarily on our proprietary designs and test programs. Our suppliers also are responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits, which we believe are currently generally available. The primary foundry suppliers for our various digital, analog/mixed-signal, RF and PM integrated circuits are Global Foundries Inc., International Business Machines Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and United Microelectronics Corporation. The primary semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Amkor Technology, Siliconware Precision Industries and STATSChipPAC. The majority of our foundry and subcontract assembly and test suppliers are located in the Asia-Pacific region.QCT’s sales are primarily made through standard purchase orders for delivery of products. QCT generally allows customers to reschedule delivery dates within a defined time frame and to cancel orders prior to shipment with or without payment of a penalty, depending on when the order is canceled. The market in which QCT operates is intensely competitive. QCT competes worldwide with a number of United States and international designers and manufacturers of semiconductors. As a result of global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological changes, device manufacturer concentrations and the potential for further industry consolidation, we anticipate the market to remain very competitive. We believe that the principal competitive factors for our products may include performance, level of integration, quality, compliance with industry standards, price, time-to-market, system cost, design and engineering capabilities, new product innovation and customer support. QCT also competes in both single- and dual-mode environments against alternative communications technologies including, but not limited to, GSM/GPRS/EDGE, TDMA and TD-SCDMA.QCT’s current competitors include, but are not limited to, companies such as Broadcom, Ericsson, HiSilicon Technologies, Intel, Lantiq, Marvell Technology, Maxim Integrated Products, MediaTek, nVidia, Realtek Semiconductor, Samsung Electronics, Spreadtrum Communications, Texas Instruments and VIA Telecom. QCT also faces competition from internally developed products by our customers, including some of our largest customers, and from some early-stage companies. Our competitors devote significant amounts of their financial, technical and other resources to develop and market competitive products and, in some cases, to develop and adopt competitive digital communication or signal processing technologies, and those efforts may materially and adversely affect QCT. Moreover, some of these current and potential competitors have advantages over us that include, among others: motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers; foreign government support of other technologies or competitors; more extensive relationships with local distribution companies and original equipment manufacturers in emerging geographic regions (e.g., China); lower cost structures; and/or a more established presence in certain device markets.QTL (Qualcomm Technology Licensing) Segment. QTL grants licenses or otherwise provides rights to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which, among other rights, includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, including, without limitation, products implementing CDMA2000, WCDMA, CDMA TDD (including TD-SCDMA), GSM/GPRS/EDGE and/or OFDMA (including LTE) standards and their derivatives. Our licensees manufacture wireless products, such as mobile devices, also known as subscriber units, which include handsets, other consumer devices (e.g., tablets, personal computers, e-readers, personal navigation devices), machine-to-machine devices (e.g., telematics devices, meter reading devices) and plug-in end user data modem cards, certain embedded modules for incorporation into end user products, the infrastructure equipment required to establish and operate a network, and equipment to test networks and subscriber units. QTL licensing revenues are comprised of license fees as well as royalties based on worldwide sales by licensees of products incorporating or using our intellectual property. License fees are fixed amounts paid in one or more installments. Royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale (i.e., licensee’s) selling price of complete licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (e.g., certain shipping costs, packing costs, VAT, etc.). Revenues generated from royalties are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations. The vast majority of QTL revenues have been generated through our licensees’ sales of CDMA2000- and WCDMA-based products, such as feature phones and smartphones. Separate and apart from licensing manufacturers of wireless products and devices and network equipment, we have entered into certain arrangements with competitors of our QCT segment, such as Broadcom, Fujitsu, MediaTek, NEC, Texas Instruments and VIA Telecom. A principal purpose of these arrangements is to provide our QCT segment and the counterparties certain freedom of operation with respect to each party’s integrated circuits business. In every case, these agreements expressly reserve the right for QTL to seek royalties from the customers of such integrated circuit suppliers with respect to such suppliers’ customers’ sales of CDMA-, WCDMA- and OFDMA-based wireless devices into which such suppliers’ integrated circuits are incorporated.We face competition in the development of intellectual property for future generations of digital wireless communications technology and services. On a worldwide basis, we currently compete primarily with the GSM/GPRS/EDGE digital wireless  6communications technologies. GSM has been utilized extensively in Europe, much of Asia, other than Japan and South Korea, and certain other countries. To date, GSM has been more widely adopted than CDMA; however, CDMA technologies have been adopted for all 3G wireless systems. In addition, most GSM operators deployed GPRS, a packet data technology, as a 2G bridge technology, and a number of GSM operators deployed EDGE. However, the majority of GSM operators have already augmented their networks with 3G WCDMA and HSPA. According to the Global mobile Suppliers Association (GSA), as of October 2013, more than 220 wireless operators have commercially deployed and other wireless operators have started testing LTE, a multi-carrier transmission technique based on OFDMA technology. According to GSA, more than 420 wireless operators have committed to deploy LTE networks. We have invested in both the acquisition and the development of OFDMA technology and intellectual property. We expect that upon the initial deployment of OFDMA-based networks, the products implementing such technologies generally will be multimode and will also implement CDMA-based technologies. The licenses granted under our existing CDMA license agreements generally cover multimode CDMA/OFDMA (3G/4G) devices, and our licensees are obligated to pay royalties under their CDMA license agreements for such devices. Further, over 90 companies (including LG, Nokia, Samsung and ZTE) have royalty-bearing licenses under our patent portfolio for use in single-mode OFDMA products (which do not implement any CDMA-based