 Chris: Well, I believe that we are able to connect with central Florida and Dr. Sproul. We are speaking to you coast-to-coast for a little Q & A time. Are you there? RC: I am here Chris. Chris: So, Dr. Sproul, we have not had too many references to the Pittsburg Steelers yet, but we are hoping that you can remedy that for our Seattle friends here. RC: Well, I’ll tell you what Chris, it is a gorgeous day here in Orlando and I have to say that Seattle is one of my favorite cities in all of America, except for one thing, that I understand that there the sun is considered a UFO, an unidentified flying object. But there are rare sightings that have not yet been confirmed. I am not going to make any reference to the Seahawks or the way in which they were robbed by the Steelers several years ago. Chris: That’s very charitable of you. Well, Dr. Sproul, we have had a good number of folks who have expressed their concern and care for you and how they have been praying for you. Could you just provide us a little update in terms of how you are feeling, perhaps, even today? RC: Today? Yes, today is Saturday. I think I’m feeling good today so far, Chris. This has been the toughest year of my life, health wise, as you know. But, I’ve been on the mend and improving, getting stronger, and happy to be back in the pulpit and to be here today for this Q&A. Chris: Well, let’s get right to it then. We have really worked hard to find our first person to be able to bring a question to you. Let’s go ahead and cut over to that now. We’ll go ahead to our first question. Q: (Steven Lawson) Dr. Sproul, I am just a really big fan and I don’t know if you remember me, but you signed my Reformation Bible eight years ago and you signed it upside down, but I was wondering if you would sign it again for me. I actually have a really important question to ask that has lapsarian significance and consequences. A lot of us have been talking here and give you the opportunity to publicly clarify – what is the greatest round of golf you have ever played? And was anyone there to see it? A: You’ve seen several of them. Steven: Well, I’ve seen you shoot your age, like, nine times in a row. A: Yeah, right, and the older I get the easier it is. The unique thing about the greatest round is not the lowest round, but perhaps the most significant round of my life was when I was able to be the medalist in the Gator Golf Day Tournament, that included 25 touring pros, where we all played the same tees and we won that championship. So, that was probably my happiest moment there, in golf. Steven: Well, everyone needs to know that Dr. Sproul was a scratch golfer and a phenomenal player. So, up until really just almost a year ago, so…. RC: What do you mean, almost a year ago? Steven: Who do you think I am, John McArthur? All right, I’m going to turn it over. It was great to see you coach. RC: All right. It was good to see you too Steve. All right, now we’ll go to our bona fide next question. Q: Dr. Sproul, Evette from Portland, OR. So, the Sabbath was observed from Friday sunset to Saturday sunset, and with the Resurrection of Christ, it is observed by most on Sunday. I was wondering, is that Biblical? And, if it’s observed on Sunday, should it be Saturday sunset to Sunday sunset, instead of a few hours on Sunday morning? A: Well, there’s a lot in there, but traditionally, the reason why the church moved from Saturday worship to Sunday worship, is that we do know from the New Testament that the Christian community came together on the Lord’s Day, which was Sunday. And there they devoted themselves to the teaching of the Apostles and to corporate worship and the celebration of the Eucharist and so on. And so, what happened was that the historical mergence then was that the change was from Friday night to Saturday night and from Saturday night to Sunday night. The debate then became whether or not there was a departure from the Biblical law that God had pronounced. And, to make a long story short, basically the argument that the church gave was that the principle of Sabbath was that the cyclical principle of one day in seven – six days of labor and then a day of rest and corporate worship. And, whether that was Wednesday or Thursday or Saturday or Sunday, was immaterial to the ultimate principle of the cyclical experience, and so the church didn’t find any problem of moving the day from one day of the week to another, because of the celebration of the Resurrection that was experienced every week. Q. Dr. Sproul, my name is Luke and I’m from Olympia. Our church has recently made a decision to allow women into the role of elder, and has not elected anyone at this point. It was a very recent decision. My wife and I are struggling with it and would just love any advice that you could impart on whether or not this is an issue worthy of leaving the church that we’ve been a member of for many years? A. Well, I would say that, in the first instance, the question of women in positions of authority is one that has some relevance to various ecclesiastical structures. Not every church has the same structure of authority – that is, every denomination – and when we see the apostolic teaching in Paul’s writings, what he forbids women from having is authentain. That means, what is usually translated by the English word, authority. And you know there are different kinds of authority that we experience in this world. There is the authority of expertise, or Einstein might be considered an authority in physics and so on, and Lawson may be an authority in golf. But, the primary meaning that is usually understood by the verb ‘authentain’, means judicial or juridical authority, governing authority. And so, if you have women elevated to a juridical position of authority, then I think you have a conflict with the apostolic teaching. Now, having said that, let me just add that people will often acknowledge that, yes, in the first century, Paul did prohibit women from holding offices that were of a judicial nature, but that was a matter of contemporary custom and was not something that is to be passed on principally to other generations. Unfortunately, when the Apostle argues in this case, he argues from creation, and if any ordinance is something that is perpetual, it’s something that is imposed by creation. But you asked me a second question, more difficult. You differ with the policy that your church is now embracing, and the question you asked in the final analysis, was, is that grounds for leaving a church? I personally don’t think it is. I got in trouble in the denomination in which I was ordained, but I served for several years in that denomination, when the church had allowed and encouraged the ordination of women to judicial offices. My problem came when they passed a decree that all ministers had to participate in that ordination process. That’s where I have to get off the train, because I said, I have a conscientious objection to this. I think this is in disobedience to the Word of God and I can’t participate. And so, I had to leave the church because they commanded me to act against my conscience at that point. But until they made such a command, I was able to stay within, and work within, because I didn’t think it was an essential issue within the church. Q: Hi Dr. Sproul. May I just proclaim what a blessing and privilege it is to be here. My question is: for a church, a small church, in its humble beginnings, what Biblical advice can you give them as far as seeking a non-profit status versus a free church, as far as not being under government in that aspect. A: Well, to be a non-profit organization does not mean that you can’t be a free church, except the significance of having a recognition of tax deduction status and so on by a 5013C status. I don’t think you are required, biblically, to be a non-profit organization to be a valid church. I don’t see any reason, theologically, why we couldn’t be involved as a non-profit entity within the context of our particular federal government. But, again, I don’t see a mandate one way or the other, so it is a matter of preference whether your church wants to go in that direction. The danger you have in going into a non-profit institution is that in our particular situation, right now, the idea of separation of church and state is becoming more and more and more a one-way street, where the government has no problems in interfering in our status and in trying to impose principles upon us, with the threat of the loss of tax deduction, if we don’t comply. So, you could maybe solve your issues in advance by not applying for non-profit status. But, again, I am not saying that you should or shouldn’t do it in this case, because I’m not clear. Q: Good morning, Dr. Sproul. My name is Peter and I am from Merisel. I am from a Christian family. My Dad had biblical answers from as long as I can remember as a youth and a very young child. I remember way back to when I was 3. I was told by somebody in an office that if I couldn’t point to the date where I became a Christian, I was not saved. How do I answer them? I know I am. A: Well, I would say to you, Peter, that whoever gave you that advice was giving you very bad advice. There’s nothing in Scripture that requires that you know the date and the time when you were converted. I am one of those blessed ones who can tell you, in my own experience, when I was converted – the day and the time, and so on, in 1957. But, Billy Graham can tell you the day and the hour when he was converted. Ruth Graham couldn’t tell within five years of when she had been converted because she had been exposed to Biblical teaching at a very early age and she didn’t know when that conversion took place. Now, here’s the thing, regeneration is instantaneous. You’re not partially regenerate, you’re not partially born again. You either are born again or you aren’t. And so, there is a moment in which you move from being a non-believer to a believer, but we have to make a distinction between the actual conversion and the experience of that conversion. In fact, people may be converted before they are aware of their conversion, whereas other people never know at what time they were converted. And so, since it is a moot question with respect to biblical mandate, there’s no requirement in the New Testament that says you have to know the day and the hour. The question is not, when did you become a Christian, it’s are you a Christian. You have already articulated, Peter, that you are a believer and you know Whom you have believed, and you know that you put your trust in Christ. It’s just not all that significant knowing when that day occurred. God bless you. Q: Good morning, Dr. Sproul. My name is Kinoah. I am from the Bay Area in California. My father, Eric, and I thank you in the Lord for your teaching and preaching ministry. My question is, in light of those who have espoused that maybe Christ didn’t have the capacity or the ability to sin in His humanity. My question is, is that biblical, or did He, in fact, have the ability to sin while He was incarnate? A: That’s a question that’s been discussed for centuries and centuries and the debate that’s been going on, even to this day. There are a vast number of really sound theologians who answer that question by saying that Jesus did not have the human ability to sin because He was like us in all respects except, without sin, and He didn’t have original sin and so on. We all agree with that premise, at least, that He didn’t have original sin. On the other side of the coin there’s those who believe that touching His human nature, as the second Adam, Jesus was like the first Adam prior to the fall. In the language of St. Augustine, Augustine would describe the situation of Adam, prior to the fall, was that he had the posse peccare, the ability to sin, or the potest peccare, the ability to not sin. He could have gone either way. He didn’t have the non potest peccare, the inability to sin, He obviously had the power to sin or He wouldn’t have sinned. Now, the question is, as Jesus is the new Adam, was He in the same state that Adam – the first Adam – was prior to Adam’s fall? I personally believe He was. I believe that Jesus as the new Adam, did have the potest peccare, the ability to sin, the moral ability, the power, to sin if He chose to do so. And He was not already in the state of glorification where He would be non potest peccare, the impossibility of sinning. And so, I think that the temptation that Jesus experienced was real and genuine, and He had, at least theoretically speaking, humanly speaking, the human ability to sin if He wanted to. He never wanted to, therefore He didn’t actually commit sin, but I fall on the side of those who say that He did have that ability. I hope that helps you. Q: Thank you Dr. Sproul for taking my question. My name is Weston and I’m from here in Belleview. With the current secularization of culture, I have seen a resurgence of theonomy and the applying of the Mosaic laws to civil life. My question is, is that the greatest way that we can impact culture for Christ or is there more biblical ways to natural law or other ways that you might see better? A: Well, you asked that question – and it’s a loaded question, Weston. You used the term ‘theonomy’. Now all Christians, all sound Christians, believe in theonomy, namely, that we believe that we ultimately are governed by God and by His law. And so, we all submit to the concept of God’s Divine law. But when you are talking about a historic movement, the movement called Theonomy, was an effort by those who believe that  no parts of the law were really abrogated in the New Testament, including the civil sanctions of the Old Testament, which meant that under the Old Testament theocracy, certain principles of civic punishment punitive measures, such as execution of homosexuals who were practicing, that some would argue that that is in perpetuity still is in force today, where the vast majority of Christians believe that the civil sanctions were lifted in the economy of the New Testament. Because, in the New Testament situation, the framework of civil government was not self-conscious theocratic. In Israel, God was the ruler and His law was what was maintained, but as soon as Christianity was established, and it was multi-cultural, multi-ethnic, and included the Gentiles, so that the civil government was not established as a theocratic society, that represents a significant change. And so, the present-day Christian is asked, ‘well, what are we supposed to do? Should we seek a theocratic kingdom?’ Many Christians believe that they should and that the nation should be self-consciously Christian in its political documents and civil documents. Others say no, we are like the early church where we are living in a pagan world, we are living in a secular society. We hope to see the salt and light influence, righteousness, and that sort of thing, in the culture in which we live. That’s a position I take. I’m not a theonomist in the narrower sense of those who are part of that movement, although I certainly believe in the law of God. That’s a short answer to a very complicated question. I hope it helps. Q: Hi, Dr. Sproul. My name is Zachariah Loftus. In 1 Corinthians 13:9-10, it says, “For we know in part, and we prophesy in part, but when the perfect comes the partial will pass away.” My question is in regards to sign gift, will you please explain what the ‘perfect’ is and whether or not you believe that the sign gift has ceased? A: Thank you Zachariah. A couple of things: first of all, that phrase in 1 Corinthians 13, ‘when the perfect comes the partial will pass away’, many people believe that the ‘perfect’ that is referred to is the authoritative Scripture provided by God that would make the sign gifts unnecessary beyond that point of the formulation of the apostolic teaching. And, that may or may not mean, in terms of those words, because those words are not given full explanation and definition by the Apostle in 1 Corinthians 13. He doesn’t specifically tell us what he has in view about the ‘perfect’. That is, it’s an assumption that the perfect revelation, the perfect final draft of Scripture is what he had in view, but I don’t think that you can prove that beyond a shadow of doubt. Now that’s the first part of the question. The second part of the question is ‘do I think that the sign gifts are still in effect?’ You know, I hate it when people ask me that question. The reason I don’t like it is because, rarely do people understand what I’m saying when I answer my position, because I must be that inarticulate or something. But it has to do with being a professional theologian. When we use theological language, the term miracle is used in a kind of precision that is not commonly used by the public. In fact, in the New Testament, there is not a single word for miracle. You have signs and powers and wonders, all of which we combine together to extrapolate a concept of the miraculous, and I have a very narrow view of miracle. I believe that a miracle is something that is done in the outward perceivable world, that only God can do. It is an action contra naturam – against nature, and not just contra peccatum – against sin, but against nature. I say, in that narrow sense, I believe that the sign gifts have ceased, for this simple reason, that in the New Testament, the signs were given to authenticate the credentials of agents of revelation, just as they were in the Old Testament. The supernatural signs were given to the prophets to confirm that they were teachers sent from God. Just like Nicodemus, I think, he was sound when he said to Jesus, ‘Teacher we know that you are a teacher sent from God or You would not be able to do the things that You do.’ And the New Testament, when trying to authenticate and vindicate it’s claim to final revelation, appeals to those sign gifts that were wrought by the agents of revelation in the new covenant, namely the apostles. Now, if the appeal is sound that the principle being, that the only an agent of revelation can produce an authentic miracle by God, if that’s a sound argument, then obviously non-agents of revelation do not have the capacity to be that. I remember when I got into a controversy with Christian Book sellers several years ago, when the bestselling book that year was “Good Morning Holy Spirit” by Benny Hinn, where he was talking about his personal revelation that he received – He saw God visually, he heard His voice audibly and he performed miracles. And I said, if all of those things are true, that I would say anything that he taught should be in a portion of the next copy of the New Testament. Now, of course, nobody wanted to do that. Certainly, Benny Hinn did not want to include his messages as being part of the New Testament. But, I said, why not? If he has all of the signs of authentication of an apostolic authority, if he is an agent of revelation, then we should receive his teaching as such. But that’s the point: that if it is valid to argue that the Bible is authenticated by miracles by agents of revelation, then obviously, the signs gifts died with the death of the last apostle. Otherwise, your argument wouldn’t be sound. But again, people say, the birth of a baby is a miracle. Martin Luther said that: the birth of a baby is a miracle. I don’t believe that. I think that the birth of a baby is a marvelous thing and it couldn’t happen without the supernatural power of God. All miracles, I believe, are supernatural acts, but not all supernatural acts are miracles, in the narrow sense. I believe that God answers prayers for healing, and that sort of thing, and in that sense, they are supernatural acts of God’s special providence, but that doesn’t mean that they qualify as miracles in that very narrow sense that I was explaining. As I said, I hate that question because I know that people get mad about it. I know they won’t get it, but you asked and I answered it. Here we go! Q: Hello Dr. Sproul. My name is Malachi and I’m from the Portland area of Oregon. My question is: In 1 Corinthians 12 Paul seems to indicate that the baptism of the Spirit is what unites us to Christ. Could you expound on how the Old Testament believers are united to Christ. Is it different than in the New Testament? Was there a change in the position of the Old Testament saints after the ascension of Christ? A: First of all, I say that the salvation was exactly the same in the Old Testament as it was in the New Testament, that justification was by faith, and by faith alone, and it was by faith in the Promised Messiah who would come. The difference was this, that the believer in the Old Testament believed in the promise and was counted just in the sight of God. The New Testament believer believes in the fulfillment of the promise. We look backwards, they look forward, but basically their status was the same. We all are united in the Savior. I believe that regeneration was by the Holy Spirit in the Old Testament, and regeneration was by the Holy Spirit in the New Testament. And so, the Old Testament saints had the Holy Spirit insofar as they were reborn by His power. They were being sanctified by His power, and so on. The big difference, I believe, is this: that in the Old Testament, if you go back to the days of Moses when Moses was trying to do everything in the community, and his father-in-law, Jethro, said to him, ‘what you are trying to do is not good’ and he told him to take 70 men, and to choose 70 men who were elders over the people of Israel, that God would take of the spirit that was upon Moses and distribute it to the other 70 elders, so that they could work with Moses in term of ruling the Old Testament community. Now you are aware of that. And so, when that happened, and the Holy Spirit fell upon those 70 elders, they began to speak in ecstatic utterances and Joshua was offended, remember, and he said to Moses, ‘My lord, Moses, forbid them.’ And Moses responded by saying, ‘Envious thou for my sake, Joshua. Would that all of God’s people were prophets and that God would pour His Spirit out on all of them’. That was just a prayer on the part of Moses; it was not a prophecy. By the time we get to Joel, Joel promises that in the future, there would be such a mighty work of God that the Spirit would come upon all flesh, not just upon an isolated group of particularly blessed or charismatically endowed leaders, like priests and prophets and kings, and so on, but that all the people of God would be anointed and empowered for ministry by God. And that was what happened on the day of Pentecost. All the Jews that were there received the empowerment of the Holy Spirit, and then you have basically, four Pentecosts, one for the Ephesians, one for the God-fearers, and another one for the Samaritans and on those occasions, all of those people were receiving the empowerment of the Holy Spirit, which Peter says, ‘This is that which the prophet Joel was speaking, that that prophesy is now fulfilled.’ Not that there was any more holiness or any more purity endowed with them, but rather it was an empowerment for the task of the church to participate in ministry. And I believe that that’s what happened and was the significance of Pentecost. My friends, who hold a neo-Pentecostal theology, I’ve always said I think they have too low of a view of Pentecost, because they are still having that view that only some of God’s people receive the Spirit. Paul, there in Corinthians, speaks that we have all been baptized into one Spirit, and that’s a generics thing. That’s a very quick answer to a very controversial issue, and I’m sure you are aware of that. Thank you, Malachi. Q: Hi Dr. Sproul. My name is Patrick Talbot. I am from Ecuador, South America. My question for you is: What is your take on the JVV document, the Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification, signed in 1990 by the Catholic Church and some churches in Germany. A: I think that it did not resolve the fundamental issue of justification any more than ECT did a few years later, that the issue that separates Protestants from Roman Catholics, with respect to the Gospel, is still in effect today. Even the Catholic catechism of 1990, reaffirms the position of the Ecumenical Counsel of Trent in the middle of the 16th century, which puts the doctrine of justification by faith alone under the anathema of the Roman Catholic community. And they hedged on this issue – the big point of separation between the Protestants and Rome that could never be resolved – was the question of the grounds for God’s declaration of the sinner’s righteousness. Was it by the imputation of the righteousness of Christ alone, or was the grounds for God’s declaring a person righteous, based upon inherent righteousness – what the Trent defined as “inherens”. And the point that Trent did argue, that faith is a requirement, grace is a requirement, Jesus is a requirement, all those things are needed in order to be justified, but in order to be justified, you have to have an inherent righteousness. You can have it without the help of grace and faith in Christ, but you still have to reach that stage of inherent righteousness or you must go to purgatory before you can ever go onto heaven. That is a fundamental denial of the Gospel. Rome does not, to this day, have the Gospel. Rome, to this day, has condemned the Gospel. That’s why the Reformation is not over. Now, there are many people who love the rhetoric, and love the peaceful relationship the people have, and are not at war without burning people at the stake, and that sort of thing, but the doctrinal issue of justification has not been resolved today. Q. Good morning Dr. Sproul. My name is Glen. I am from Auburn in Washington. It’s been a 12-year journey for me into the Reformed faith, and much has been through the teaching of Ligonier and this is a big deal to me. But, in that journey, in my former life, the objections I get is always around the concept of free will. Can you confirm or reaffirm why the sovereign act of election in God is not fatalistic determinism? A. I think I can do that very clearly. We don’t believe that God’s sovereign government of the universe is reduced to rule and government of mythical fates. That’s what fatalism means. Now, nor is it determinism in the sense of mechanistic determinism, which says that the people are reduced to role of inhuman robots, that God simply pulls their strings, and so on. On the other hand, if you asked me the question ‘does God’s sovereignty determine that the ultimate outcome of any event?’, I’d say, of course. What else could determine the ultimate authority of that. Now, you ask about the issue of free will. In the third chapter of the Westminster Confession of Faith it says that God has, for all eternity, immutably, determined whatsoever comes to pass – semicolon – but not in such a way that denies secondary causes or does violation to the will of the creature, so that Reformed theology, historically, has always argued that human beings, even in their fallen state, still have what was called a free will, or liberum arbitrium, what Augustine defined in that sense, in the sense that every human being has the ability to choose what he wants to do – and the key is ‘want to’. We always want to obey God. And we still have the freedom not to obey God. In fact, that’s the freedom we exercise all the time, to our everlasting peril. But, if you mean, do we still have a will that is not bent or inclined to one direction or the other, then obviously, the Bible would repudiate that because the Bible says that we are in bondage to sin, we are held captive by our evil inclinations. The heart is deceitfully wicked among all things. Now the big issue, I believe, with free will, is not so much a philosophical issue as it is an issue that, particularly in this country, virtually every person born in this country has been reared in an educational system that teaches a view of the will that is humanistic and basically pagan. They don’t know it because they have been taught that the will has been unaffected by the Fall, that man has the equal ability to choose the good and the bad, even in his fallen condition. That, as I said, is a secularistic, humanistic, pagan view of the will and fails to recognize what the Bible clearly teaches, the doctrine of original sin. Now this is a very short answer. I’ve written a whole book on this called “Willing to Believe” and I’ve traced the history of the debate all the way back from Augustine and his debates with Pelagius, then dealing with Luther and his debates in sixteenth century, Calvin with Pigius and Edwards with Chop and so on, going through church history, where we see that man is free insofar as he’s has the power to do what he wants to do. And God is free. God is more free than I am. I have heard it said many times that God’s sovereignty ends with man’s freedom. If that’s the truth, then man is sovereign and God isn’t. I’d say I have freedom, real freedom, but it ends where God’s freedom begins. Q. Hello Dr. Sproul. My name is Stirling and I’m from Seattle. Please explain why or why not it is Biblical to tell non-believers that God loves them? A. Well, when we talk about the love of God – again, I have written a book about the love of God – so forgive the abbreviated version I am giving here. When we talk about the love of God from a Biblical perspective and a theological perspective, we distinguish among at least different types of the love of God. We can talk about, what we call, God’s love or His goodwill, His benevolence, that is, that God has a kind disposition to all men. There is also, with respect to God’s providential activity, where God causes his rain to fall upon the just as well as upon the unjust, and in that sense it is not only benevolence, but it’s also God not just having a good attitude towards people, but what He does in carrying out His good works. He has a beneficence towards them. But the ultimate question of God’s will and love is that love, or what we call love of complacency, that’s a little bit misleading because when I talk to you about complacency, people mean ‘well, I’m feeling complacent, I’m at ease, I can put my feet up and relax.’ That’s not what the love of complacency means theologically. The love of complacency is that love that God has for Christ and for all those who are in Christ Jesus. It is a special, salvific love that is reserved only for God’s adopted children. Now, if I say to you that God loves you, what am I saying? Am I saying God is benevolent towards you, that God is being nice towards you or that God loves you in the salvific way? I think, if you look at that very carefully Biblically, the Bible makes it very clear that in one sense God hates the sinner and those who are swift to shed blood. Look at Psalm 5, for example. Another illustration is in Isaiah 5 and 7 where it speaks specifically of God’s displeasure and hatred for the impenitent sinner. Now you have heard the cliché, God hates the sin but He loves the sinner, but keep in mind that it’s the sinner that He sends to hell, not just the sin. And so, God is mightily displeased with the unbeliever, and the unbeliever, every minute is exposed to His unmitigated wrath. So from a question of strategy, and of speaking clearly to people, when I say to people ‘God loves you’, what they hear is ‘He loves me salvifically. Or people even say ‘God loves you unconditionally’. What does that mean? ‘Well, I don’t have to meet any conditions to meet His approval. I can live all I want without fear of God’s punishment. I can live impenitently, and He loves me just precisely and exactly as I am.’ That’s Mr. Roger’s neighborhood. That’s not Biblical teaching about the love of God. So, from a strategic viewpoint, I think it is a very poor choice of words to say to people indiscriminately that God loves them, because He may actually hate them. Chris: Can you all thank Dr. Sproul for being with us today? It’s really good to see you Dr. Sproul. RC: It’s good to be seen Chris. I’m sorry I couldn’t be there live and in person, but at least I’m live. 