  Well, I knew it's a hackneyed expression, but today's speakers truly do not need an introduction. That's how we're not going to stop me, but I will keep it short. Peter and Rosemary Grant have conducted what is arguably the most famous and most important study in the history of evolutionary biology. I refer of course, to their 40 year research program on the Darwin's finches of the Galapagos Islands. This study has produced one major finding after another that has significantly changed our understanding of how evolution works, including making important advances in our understanding of the pace of evolution, the strength and constancy of natural selection, how new species arise, and many other topics. It is our great privilege a privilege to hear more about this work in just a few moments, but I want to say few words about the Grants. Peter Grant did his undergraduate studies at the other Cambridge over in England, before coming to North America for his doctorate at the University of British Columbia. He then did postdoctoral work at Yale. And I should note that in those days, Peter was a mammalogist. Rosemary Grant did her undergraduate work at the University of Edinburgh, and received her PhD from the University of Uppsala. After spending time in New Haven, the Grants held positions at McGill and Montreal and the University of Michigan, before moving to Princeton University in 1985, where they have been ever since. Now I don't have enough time to list all the awards and honors that Rosemary and Peter have received, so I'll briefly give you a few of the highlights. They have been elected Fellows of the Royal Society of London, of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States, and of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. They've won the Leidy medal from the Philadelphia Academy of Sciences, the Edward O Wilson naturalist award, the Grinnell medal of the University of California at Berkeley, the Darwin Wallace medal of the Linnean Society, the Balzan Prize, and the Kyoto Prize. In addition, the University of Michigan has created an endowed professorship, the Rosemary Grant Collegiate Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology. The Society for the Study of Evolution, the leading international organization for the Study of Evolution, has created an award in recognition of Rosemary's work in mentoring young students, the Rosemary Grant Graduate Student Research Awards, which are given out annually. Well, today we're fortunate to have a double, double header. What I mean by that is for the first half of the evening, we are going to hear Peter and Rosemary speak separately. Each of them will speak for a few minutes. Then we'll take a very short break, and Peter and Rosemary and I will have a conversation up here about their work and about evolutionary biology, after which we will take questions from the audience. Well, with that I'm delighted to introduce Peter and Rosemary Grant, and we'll start with Peter. Thank you Jonathan, very much for that very nice introduction. And also for the invitation to come here on this splendid occasion. Very exciting, and you have an excitement that in a way, I know I have an excitement that you do not share. But I will try to share it with you. I'm not sure how I operate this machine here, so I hope you'll come forward to the edge of your seat and hope, like me, that everything is going to work as I want it to by pressing the right button. Now between about one and 1/2 and two million years ago, a flock of finches arrived on the Galapagos Islands. And now there are at least 14 species. And as evolutionary biologists, Rosemary and I would like to know how to explain that multiplication of species from a single ancestral individual species. It's a kind of fundamental evolutionary question that many biologists-- some of whom are in the audience now-- address with a variety of organisms. In 1973, we decided to address that question by visiting Galapagos and starting on a research program that began an archipelago-wide level, and zeroed in increasingly on the system of this little island, Daphne major, in the middle of the archipelago. It is about 3/4 of kilometer long, 120 meters high, and it's never been settled by humans. And what I'd like to do is to share something of the experience of being on the island by showing you little clips of video material. Rosemary and I have made six videos for educational purposes that we have licensed Pearson Education and the Films Media Group to show on their respective outlets. So you're going to see-- if this works properly, you're going to see little clips to illustrate the various points that I would like to make by way of introduction of our talk. And so with that, let's try. As I say, wish me luck on this. Daphne is in the center of the archipelago. Right in the middle, there is a crater where sea birds nest. It's a tuff cone. It was formed underwater about 20,000 years ago. And it has a variety of habitats. The key to understanding how finches can live in an environment like this is an underappreciation of the strong seasonality in rainfall. So in a normal year, Galapagos receives rain any time between January and April or May, and nothing for the rest of the year. And so in a normal dry season, there's no production going on. And in some years, there's no production going on because there is no rain. And here is a scene from the inner wall of the crater that could be just as easily taken from the dry season of one year as a dry year. There is a strong challenge for birds to find enough food. The opposite is true in seasons where rain falls and in particular, in years of El Nino, where an abundance of rain falls over a period lasting from four to eight months. And then the finches breed for as long as that. So I would like to give you an idea what it's like to be actually on the island working, by describing our normal routine of getting to the island. Then after that, as I said before, we'll say something about what we found by studying the finches. So we'll get our supplies at the Charles Darwin Research Station, put them into quarantine for 48 hours, and then load them onto a boat which delivers us to this little island within one day. Once we're on the island, once we've reached the island, we have to get ashore and unload our belongings and lift them up a four meter cliff in order to then transport them to where we will establish camp. And the "them" refers to scientific equipment, camping equipment, water, food, and anything else that we need for field season, that lasts anywhere between three weeks and several months. Like everything else we bring to the island, these metal boxes have been in quarantine and would be used to store our food for the period on the island. But before we put the food in that is brought in other containers, we check these metal boxes for fear that we might have introduced alien insects or seeds. The kitchen is in a cave. On the left is the stove. In the center on the right on the screen here, is a large container where water is filtered underneath a large green plastic bag that serves to exclude sunlight. On the right is another box not shown in this picture, where we store all of the scientific equipment, binoculars, tape recorders, cameras and the like in other white metal boxes. There's no fresh water on the island. Fresh water is our lifeblood, and we have to bring it in 30 large plastic containers, which with a built-in safety margin, should be enough to last us for about a month. And then after that, we get resupplied. All clothes that need to be washed, all the dishes that need to be washed, ourselves that need to be washed-- all that washing has to be done in the sea. So part of the daily routine of our lives is to go back to the landing where we arrived, and collect seawater. Then I should mention finally, in this tour of the living conditions of the island where we camp, there is only one place on the island to put a tent. That's on the outer slope. The center part of the island, the crater is occupied by sea birds, and we shouldn't be interrupting their activities. Now to understand the finches, we need to capture them, we need to measure them, band them with unique combinations of bands on their legs so that we can release them and recognize them as individuals, and then watch what they do and quantify, study and quantify their activities, including their survival. So putting out mist nets which many ornithologists do, is a key activity in our scientific program. And like ornithologists elsewhere, we do the usual thing of capturing them early in the day typically, remove the birds from the net, disentangle their heads, necks, wings, and beaks as well as a claws, and then put them into light cloth bags. And then we take them up to a shaded cavelet, where we then start to measure and band the birds. Banding begins with a numbered metal band that's placed on one of the legs. And then we add three colored plastic bands made of PVC plastic. The colors are coded to correspond to the numbers so that when we release the bird, we'll be able to see just by the colors alone what the number of that bird has been assigned. So for example, black is coded as zero and yellow is coded as nine. So we measure them, as I've mentioned here, we put the bands on. And then we put the bands on in a particular way, such that the band is above the color on one leg for one species, Fortis, and below the color for another species, Scandens. The colors are actually recorded, but the numbers are read from upper left position on the left leg to the lower position on the right leg. Then after the banding, Rosemary takes the bird and with a fine needle, pricks the wing vein and takes a small drop of blood; transfers it to a filter paper and then stores it in a jar of drierite, having labeled the paper, and placed into some cool area, typically a cave, to keep the temperature as low as possible. It's a procedure that we humans used for getting blood typing rather, of newborn babies. It's exactly the same process that we use. And then we release the bird and that we watch what they do. Another key activity is finding nests. So when we found the nest, we flag a nearby bush so that we could recognize where it is and go back to it to find it again. And then when the time is ready, we band the nestlings, and then later, we measure them. Similarly, we take blood samples for DNA analysis. And by that means, we could build up an inventory of relatedness through pedigrees across generations of grandparents, parents, offspring and so forth. There are three species of birds on the island and the commonest is this one, the medium ground finch, which is by the ground finch genus Fortis. There are two others. One is Magnirostris, the other one is Scandens. The first being the large ground finch, this one being called the cactus finch. Medium ground finch feeds on small seeds on the ground and on low herbs, and it has a small beak. Magnirostris has a much larger beak, which it uses to crack open the large and hard seeds of a plant known as Tribulus. Scandens, the cactus finch, has a pointed beak and this is a tool that it uses for probing cactus flowers, Opuntia cactus flowers for nectar, for pollen, and then for later, getting out the seeds by hammering a hole in the sides of the fruits. So a key difference between these species is their diets in the dry season, when food is scarce. And that is associated with a difference in beak size and beak shape. And so the evolution question is how does a beak size or shape evolve, and how do the differences between the species evolve? Well, a drought in 1977 gave us an answer, when four out of every five members of the medium ground finch population died as a result of starvation. We had banded a very large number of them entering the drought. And so we knew from that that the ones that survived were particularly large, particularly especially in beak size and beak depth is the dimension that I'm illustrating here in this diagram. Beak size on average, increased over the whole of the drought of 1977, stopped only when the rains resumed in 1978. And the reason for this differential survival was the ability of birds with large and deep beaks to crack open the hard seeds of Tribulus. You see in the top left hand corner an illustration of the fruit. It's a woody fruit, hard and difficult to crack open. Small beaked birds, having depleted the supply of an abundant small seeds-- having depleted that supply, could not open the Tribulus, whereas the large beaked birds could do so. They survived, and as a result, natural selection with an advantage going to the large beaked birds occurred. The net result was an increase in average beak size. And because beak size is a heritable trait, evolution took place from one generation-- this one, the one subjected to natural selection, and the next generation, the generation of offspring produced by the survivors in the following year, 1978. We also discovered that evolution by natural selection occurs as a result of competition between species. This happened in a rather extraordinary way. In 1982, '82 to '83, there's a very severe El Nino event. An abundance of rain. And the large ground finch species, in spite of Magnirostris, colonized the island, not having been a breeding member of the community up to that time. Two females and three males stayed to breed, and they produced 17 offspring, most of whom died. But in successive years, that population gradually built up. So by the time of the next really intense drought in 2003 to four, and then all into 2005, there were at least 250 Magnirostris on the island. Now they have much larger beaks-- as you saw earlier, than Fortis. And so with that large equipment, their capable of very much quicker cracking of the fruits of Tribulus down here in the bottom right, than the large beaked Fortis, which are in the top left illustrated there. As a result of that differential efficiency, Magnirostris survive better than Fortis with large beaks, large beaked Fortis died to a very large extent, a rapid extent. Now, small beaked Fortis, bottom left, were also dying at the same time. But dying at a slower rate. So there was a selective shift towards on average, a smaller beak size in over here. And because the beak size is a heritable trait, to say it once again, evolution took place from that one generation that was a selected generation, to the next one, the offspring generation. And remained low thereafter. Evolution by natural selection had occurred once again, and as a consequence, the sizes of Fortis and Magnirostris diverged. So these results illustrate two major factors responsible for the diversification of the finches. Not just here on this island, but we think more broadly in the archipelago. One is a fluctuating food supply, the other one is competition between species for food in short supply. But they're not the only factors. So Peter has shown you how beak size changes. What I'm going to do is to tell you how a severe El Nino event, how this severe event in 1983 led to a change in beak shape. And then I'm going to tell you about one of the most exciting parts of our study, which is the formation of a new lineage, which we were able to follow from its inception up for six generations. But first of all, this severe El Nino. This occurred as Peter said, in 1982 to 1983. And it was from Concord Data the most severe event in 400 years. It brought an enormous amount of rainfall to the islands, and also to this little dry desert island of Daphne, which received over a meter of rain. It completely altered the ecological conditions of the island, changing it from a large hard seed producer to a small soft seed producer. And rather than show you all our quadrant data or boring numbers, it was so obvious that I can just use pictures to show this. This is part of the island showing a normal dry season. And you can see that there are no leaves on the trees as you would expect, and the ground is made up mainly of rocks. Now a normal wet year, leaves come up on the trees and then little herbs grow up through the rocks. And most of these plants are Tribulus plants, producing these large hard seeds which made the difference between survival and non-survival in the first natural selection event that Peter showed you. But in this year, the rain continued. Grasses and other plants grew up, all small seed producing plants, completely smothering the Tribulus plants. More rain fell, and then vines started to grow. They grew up over the cactus bushes and also over the trees, and completely smothered the island. And then even the year afterwards, after the rain had stopped, you could still see the remnants of the vine-draped cactus bushes and trees on the island. And the abundance of seeds were now small seeds, rather than these large hard Tribulus seeds. And the season seed bank remained like this with small seeded plants producing more small seeded plants for the next 30 years. So with an abundance of small soft seeds, the rare hybrids that have been forming between Fortis and Scandens occurred about 1% of the birds being produced each breeding season, are hybrids between Fortis and Scandens, and they have intermediate beak sizes. But they were now able to survive. Before that, they'd not been able to survive because their beaks were not appropriate for the large hard seeds which were the predominant seeds. But now with a vast amount a small soft seeds, they were able to survive to breed. There were very few of them. They didn't breed with each other, but they did back-cross to one or other of the parental species, according to another story about how they do this, but according to the song type that they had learned when they were young. So Fortis and Scandens, Scott Edwards told you 2 times ago that actually, you could hardly tell the difference between the finches, but here's a slide where I think you already can. Fortis has this blunt beak, Scandens with its long pointed peak. And the hybrids were intermediate. Now I'm showing you now a plot of the depth of the beak length and for the first 10 years of our study, the longer beak-- for every dot in 1975 represents a bird that was alive in 1975. And you can see that the population of Scandens with the longer beak are clearly different from the population of Fortis. But after this gene flow between Fortis and Scandens, the two populations began to converge. This started in 1983, and by 1987, you can see the beginning of the convergence, and it continued for the next 30 years. Now we were able to track the genes because we had genetic representatives at this time, called microsatellite loci, and we were able to track these genes going from one population into another. And when we did this, we could look at the difference between the genetic difference between Fortis and Scandens before those in congressional gene flow, and then follow it right through the next 30 years. And you could see that the two populations, Fortis and Scandens began to converge on each other. And then with our measurements, our morphological data, the morphology converged at the same rate as you would expect. Now if we actually extrapolated this into 2057, by that time if everything was equal-- and I'm sure won't be-- the populations would be identical. But the average beak size of Fortis population became much more Scandens-like and became much more pointed, and this the point where it became more pointed. This is the beginning of integration, and it continued this way for the next 30 years. And we'd already shown with measurements and watching them, that the small pointed beaks are more efficient at dealing with the small soft seeds. Now, just last year, or two years ago in the last couple of years, we had actually sent genetic samples over to our collaborators in Sweden. And they had found a very important gene called the ALX1 gene. This gene is highly conserved, both in birds and mammals. And in fact, it is responsible for what's called transcription pattern. It's responsible for the cranial facial development. And interestingly, a mutation in the ALX1 gene in us humans causes cleft pallet. But in the birds in the Darwin's finches, it comes in two varieties and the ALX1 blunt haplotype is predominantly in blunt-beaked birds like the Magnirostris you saw and the Fortis. And whereas the ALX pointed haplotype is in all the pointed beak birds, like Scandens. So we thought ah-ha. So we sent our blood sample the ALX1 haplotype, so variants are probably responsible or contributing to the more pointed beaks that we see in Fortis. So we sent the blood samples back, we had them still in the minus 80 freezer, we got them out and sent them over last year to Uppsala. And sure enough, that's what they found. So the ALX1 pointed variant was introduced from Scandens into Fortis, and this probably contributed to Fortis' more pointed beaks. Now genetic exchange goes both ways, there's gene flow from Fortis to Scandens and Scandens to Fortis, and just as you would expect, the average beak shape of Scandens became blunter and more Fortis-like. And in those populations, the variation in size was increased to a really noticeable extent. So all these photographs were taken in 2012, actually it so happened because we had the camera there from the same net, and they're all Scandens. So at the top, the Scanden was a pointed beak. It is very similar to the Scandens before there was any genetic introgression. And these two Scandens were the blunter and more Fortis-like beak after introgression are most similar in the population. So we have this huge variation of Scandens and beak shapes. So we argue that as a result of genetic exchange between Fortis and Scandens, the population acquired new genetic combinations, and the genetic and phenotypic variation, the appearance of the birds increased. And we'd argue that if such birds flew to another island with different ecological conditions, because of this huge amount of variation both genetic and phenotypic variation, it could be a possible starting point for new evolutionary trajectory. And we never thought we would actually see this, but it did in this formation of the new lineage of finches. What happened was a bird arrived on the island, it looked like a Fortis, but it was much larger. It weighed 28 grams, whereas a normal Fortis weighs 17 grams. So considerably larger. We caught it, we took some blood from it. And we tested it just to see if it didn't confirm that the hadn't been born on Daphne. And we also looked at its genetic profile and checked it with all the birds in the island around, to try and find out where it could possibly have come from. And it seems to have come from Santa Cruz, and with about a 90% probability, it was not a Fortis from Santa Cruz, but a Fortis/Scandens/Fortis back-cross from Santa Cruz. To our excitement, it had a genetic marker. It had an anneal that was very rare, one of our microsatillite loci. And then when it started to sing, it had a completely unique song, never before been heard on Daphne. But also to our puzzlement, had never been heard on Santa Cruz. It took ages to breed and when it did, it bred first of all, with a Fortis/Scandens/Fortis back-cross born on Daphne. And then it bred with two Fortis, and that was the only out crossing it did. Produced quite a large number of offspring. All these birds had at least one copy of this unique anneal, and they all sang. We had banded this bird 5110, and they all sang this unique song. And then along came the two and 1/2 year drought that Peter referred to, and all these birds died except for two. These two are inbred brother and sister. These two brother and sister, when the rains came again, they bred with each other. They've produced 26 offspring. All but nine of them survived, and so we had terrific in-breeding with the son mating with his mother and the daughter with her father, and the sibs with each other to produce more offspring. All these birds had two copies of this rare anneal. All the males sang this 5110 song that had been passed down from father, to son, to grandson, et cetera. And all were large, like 5110. So from 5110, we had a cultural transmission of song and a genetic transmission. So is this new lineage behaving like a separate species? It's much larger than its nearest relative, Fortis. It's in morphilogical space. It lies between on a plot of bill and bill depth, it lies between Magnirostris in green and Fortis in blue. And the population lies just here, which is in the gap that became enlarged in that last natural selection event that Peter told you about, when the Magnirostris out-competed the large Fortis for the remaining large hard Tribulus seeds. It has a different song. This is three generations of the big bird's song, different song from Fortis, Scandens and Magnirostris. It holds large territories that are contiguous with each other. The blue dots are territories before the drought, the red dots after the drought. And these territories overlap with Fortis Scandens and Magnirostris, who ignore them and who are ignored by them. So that's in all respects, this new lineage is functioning as a separate species. Will it die out through inbreeding depression? Well, it's surely inbred, it might. But we see no sign of it. Will the genetic variation be augmented through genetic exchange? Again, it might. And this we think is quite likely, so we look very, very carefully for this but haven't found it. But whether it survives or not, this new lineage gives us insight into how a new species could arise and either persist, or become extinct. So in summary very quickly, we started with two different species, ended up with Fortis and Scandens intergrogressing Magnirostris and the big bird lineage. So we thank all our many graduate students, our post-doctoral fellows, our collaborators, and doctors, which none of this work could be done without these people. And also the Galapagos National Park and the Darwin Station for all the logistics. But I would like to-- just before I pass this over to Jonathan, I would like to leave you with one message. And that is all of us who worked on these islands are very conscious that environments and populations are dynamic, they're constantly changing, and to keep our environment, we must keep them both capable of further natural change. Thank you. Thank you Peter and Rosemary, for that fascinating look at how your research is conducted and what you found. The first question I have is how did you get started? What brought you to the Galapagos in the first place, and what did you think you would find? You want to go? Shall I go? I'll start and people will fill in. What brought us to the Galapagos was we were really very curious about the process of speciation. And the Galapagos has several things that are an advantage to look for this. First of all, we knew they had this environment that swung from El Nino to La Nina. And so we thought this would be the most likely place that we would be able to find this sort of thing. And then the other thing is that it was a young radiation. We had read David Lack's book, we knew all about that this radiation was possibly a young radiation, where there were 14 species that had probably been derived from one. And also, many of the islands on the Galapagos are completely pristine or almost pristine, never had any humans. So any dynamic that we were able to see and that we could measure would be a perfectly natural situation. So can you add anything? I'll just add a couple of things to that. One is that there are several species, and it's often difficult to tell the difference between two very similar species, whether they are on the same island or a different island. And as David Lack, our predecessor pointed out in a book in 1947, this situation looks as if it is one of speciation taking place, actually now in contemporary time. Most of the species we see around here, robins, starlings, in the bird world for example, are very clearly different from each other. They have been produced by a process of speciation, yes, but you're not likely to see the process now. But in the Galapagos, one could possibly see the very slight changes taking place from one to another. So that was one extra reason that motivated us in going there in the first place. And secondly, there was an argument in the scientific literature about the importance of competition between species for basic requirements like food or nest sites, and that as a result of this competition, when two species came together, they will likely to be subject to natural selection and diverge. And so the reason why we see differences between species, let's say here in Massachusetts in birds, mammals, or software, whatever it is that they've undergone a process by which not only have they been selected in different directions for adjustment to their own particular environment, but they have in under some circumstances, been selected to minimize competitive interactions between the entities. And here on the Galapagos, we thought we may see the evidence for it as a process. Whereas here in Massachusetts-- we didn't have Massachusetts in mind, but continental regions, we would see the product of the process but not the process itself. And so it looked very favorable for that. And we did not know that we were going to be more than about two or three years to study the birds. It has taken a long time to really establish the processes that both Rosemary and I have been talking about today. How did it go from two to three year study, to a 40 year study? And what are the challenges of keeping a study going that long? It's very difficult. I'm sure it's more difficult now than it was in our day. And it was bad enough in those days, because research money is available usually, if you're lucky, in three year pieces. And so after three years of doing a piece of field research in Galapagos, we had to demonstrate to our funding agency, which in those days, was the National Science and Energy Research Council of Canada. We had to demonstrate that we had something special discovered in the first three years that led naturally to a problem that we could solve for the next three years. Well, fortunately we had exactly that. So we got the funding for the second level. And we thought that maybe five or six years would be as much as we could possibly persuade a funding agency to give us money for. Because there was a general informal-- that's outside the research granting agencies-- but an informal idea that we went down to the Galapagos to lie on the beaches and have a really good time. Well, you see what Daphne is like. How many beaches of sand did you see? None. So anyway, we did the second three year stint. And that's where the 1977 drought occurred. We discovered we thought, that we now had wonderful opportunities for continuing further research. We had previously demonstrated the heritable nature also beak size variation. The natural selection completed one unit of study, but then in this kind of scientific research, one question always leads to at least two others. And we wanted to know transgenerational effects better than we could establish in the first two periods of funding of three years. So that led to another one-- and then I'm going to stop in a moment, don't worry. I would just say that there came a time when we realized after quite a number of years, that hybridization wasn't a dead end, but there was actually genes going from species A into species B, and back again from B to A. And fast forward now to 40 years later, we're now in the genomic era. So we're able to do the genetic analysis of what we knew on the observational level, all the way back in the early 1970s which is a very, very satisfying way to spend more than 40 years of one's life. I'll just add one sentence that actually, none of our findings were ever put into a research grant , because it was impossible, right? Yeah, we could never say, oh next year, we're going to discover natural selection. So the video clips that Peter showed, I think we're taking recently. And it looks like pretty rough conditions. What was it like 40 years ago? Was it any different? Well, the boats delivering us to the islands were very different, but we were younger. So we could cope a bit be better. But no actually, apart from what I showed you that the island had been converted into something that's of a small seed producer, yet the island really has changed very little. Wouldn't you say? From 1973, when we went there. Apart from the transition from pre-Nino to Nino, but even allowing for that, the drought of 2003 to 2005 was really more severe than the one in 1977. So I don't know what the island looks like now this year, because this is supposed to be an El Nino year, although it hasn't rained very much. But just recently, just let's say 2010, the island would not look very different from what it looked like in 1973 in our first year of study. In fact, one of the people who worked with us in the early days, Peter Boyle, went back about 15 years later, and he didn't see the difference. It was a subtle difference that we could detect. He did not see much in the way of a difference between the islands. The seed supply was definitely different, so that required a scientific study to establish. So hindsight is always 20/20. If you were starting again now, what would you do differently? Well, when we first started, we did not take blood samples because it in the days before you could actually analyze any of the blood samples or microsatellites. But actually what we did do, we had thought about this a little bit, and we took a little bit of a small feather. And we did a feather smear, and looked at the chromosomes on some of the birds. And when we analyzed that, we found that also by taking a feather, which the birds had a black. And so they had these little granules in it. And we couldn't really tell the difference between the granules and the microchromosomes. So it didn't work very well. But actually, those slides we kept. And we were able later to use the blood from some of those sides for the genetic analysis. But I wish we had really systematically taken a small drop of blood from every single bird, which we started to do in 1988 was the first time we started to do this. So I'd add to that we would, if we had the time over again, do more botanical studies. The plant that the finches put pressure upon, that plant Tribulus. And it's possibly selective in that they may have been cracking open the easier ones, the smaller ones. The ones with only two spines instead of the four spines, and so on. And it's possible that an evolutionary-- but a very subtle evolutionary change had taken place over the years in the Tribulus plants. A couple of reasons why I don't think that is so, one is that they're perennial. So this year's crop may be wiped out by consumption by the finches, but the plants are going to be producing. Most of the plants are going to be surviving and producing seeds and fruits the following year. So it's not quite the same as the finches, but nonetheless, I think it would have been a very interesting study to do a parallel investigation of the plant, the seeds that are exploited by the finches, at the same time as doing the study of the finches. And maybe also the cactus. I haven't mentioned the cactus very much. So you've been studying these finches for 40 years now. And people might think you know everything there is to know about Darwin's finches. But I'm going to guess that there are some things that remain unknown. What do you think, what's the next frontier? Or what would you like to know about these birds? Everything. What would we like to know? Our science progresses most of the time incrementally, with a slightly better understanding of this and slightly better understanding of that. We would like to go much further in understanding the phylogenetic history of the group. That's one clear problem area. Another one is we would love to be able to explain to anybody who asks us how is a beak formed? And why does that one I have that size and shape, and what is this one have a beak of a different size and shape? Well, we know some things about the genes that are responsible for the differences between the individuals, but only some things. There's an enormous amount more work yet to be done. And many, many more discoveries to be made. If people carry on doing Darwin's finch work well after we're either under the ground or in the air somewhere, they will be working with the genomic tools of the 2030s and the 2040s with still pathways involved in the development of structures like beaks and cranium and the muscle that go with it, and so on, to peel back the various pathways that are responsible for the adult structures. So I think there's an enormous amount to be done there. And then ecologically, we've had the good fortune to have a complete drought of no rain whatever. Not even a single millimeter one year, and we've had 1.3 meters of rain in that extraordinary 1983 El Nino. Well, that's impressive. Are they the limits? I doubt it. Zero you can't beat, but 1.3 meters you can with the next major, major El Nino of who knows when that produces two meters of rain. And maybe over 10 months or 11 months. Well, the thing that we would anticipate most affecting the finches and for which we are still in ignorance of is what would happen if droughts now occur not in ones and two successive years, but three and four? What about the possibility of a five year drought? Would the finches be wiped out? Would they be reduced to an exceedingly small number? Would we see a major change taking place that we have not seen in 40 years? And what about the arrival of a new food onto the island that enables a new ecological niche or create a new ecological niche for a new kind of finch? And what about the evolutionary forces producing a finch fitted to this new ecological niche? I bet in the long, long, long term, that could be studied. And so I would like to know the answers before I quit. I would like to know the genetics underlying the big bird formation, which I think is in progress. And so maybe in a year or two, we will actually be able to find out more about that. So that means the beginning of the genetics of possibly a new species or new lineage forming. And the other thing I'd like to know is I didn't mention the song at all. But the song is interesting in these birds. It's one of the few species of birds where the song is learned very early in a very short sensitive period of time. Many of the song birds will learn their song, and that's about 1/2 the number of birds, and another 1/2 of birds didn't learn their song. And it's very interesting how song is learned, and then why do some species of birds only learn for a very short time, and others were learned throughout their life. And this I think, has a bearing on ourselves. It has a bearing on language formation. And if I had another longer life, I think that would be another thing. And Darwin's finches could play a role there. So with regard to the big birds, don't you think what would be really nice to know is how genes from one species and genes from another, when they come together, how they interact. In the case of the big bird, it looks as if there's a combination of genes that made for success. We don't know that, but that's the question that we would like to be able to answer. Because it's obviously not a clear mixing. Because they have remained large, maybe some genes coming in, and some remaining, and then other genes being brought. So I think the whole genetic architecture and what is going on will be fascinating. Maybe we will get part of the way, and then all you younger people could take it over. That's actually what I was about to ask you. Your work has been an inspiration to many people for many years. There are in the audience I see, undergraduates thinking of a career in evolutionary biology. There are graduate students, who knows? Maybe high school students, or even younger who will be inspired today. What is the message you would like them to take from your talk, or to think about as they develop their own careers? Well, to find something that interests you know and literally, to follow your passion or follow your heart. And don't let yourself be dissuaded just plug on and follow it. And also, the other thing that I would say is as you're doing this, don't be too blinkered by your theoretical expectations, but actually follow your exceptions. Because it's been actually us following our exceptions that have led to the most exciting discoveries. So I would say follow your passion, and lookout for the exceptions. And follows those. Would you agree? I agree. Would you recommend that a young researcher embark maybe not on a 40 year study, but think about a long term study? Well, a 40 year study can be improved upon by a 50 year study. And they're younger. We started at 35, why didn't they start at 25, right? No, I would emphasize or echo what Rosemary said. If there are young people here who are inspired to any degree by the work that Jonathan does, Rosemary or I do, then there is in enormous scope for further research and investigations into this whole field of ecological genetical evolutionarily biology, out in the field and in the laboratory. An enormous amount of scope. So go for it! Get the money, though. 