 Oh , Yanez listen to this stuff! Smart-Dust here comes the dust that spies San Fransisco the scientists of the state of California have called it Smart Dust The Pentagon defines it  "the strategic technology of the next years" One day it will change our lives nowadays it's already changing the way of doing war and can probably be tested in Iraq. The intelligent specks of dust are composed of myriads of microscopic computers Each one measures less than a cubic millimeter but incorporates electronic sensors with capacity to communicate by radio waves, software and batteries Captain Futuro how is the visual on radar? Very good,we are near to the objective  Colonel Morpheus Invisible and untouchable , the dust made  of artificial intelligences camouflage it self in the surroundings and monitorates heat , sounds , movements it Can be diffused over a huge territory to look with an unusual precision It knows how to spy on soldiers, being stuck to them unknowingly to report chemical and nuclear weapons it intercepts communications, transmits its information to satellites Captain Harlock , how's the instrumentation? Standard , Colonel Asso!! The production is made by a  firm from Silicon Valley that demonstrates already some of the properties of the smart dust even if we shall never know the most important abilities As Darpa supports,the revolution of  micro-sensors diffused in the environment "will be the primary source of the armament system" The objective is well declared on the Darpa's website That's the way to unfold a huge quantity of remote sensors to recognize and the battle field Colonel, we are on the drop zone!  .... ok! 3....2...1... go! Chemtrails in Afghanistan , the information has not been confirmed from Defence but scientists in California got no doubts  smart dust has done its first apparition over a real battle field in Afghanistan  where the U.S.A has spread clouds of it  on roads and mountains Probably it was used also in Iraq Smart dust will be spread from the sky to the desert sand being camouflaged with it, waiting for  enemy troops artillery or scud missiles Colonel Asso,we have 60% of smart dust charge! ...Received ! Nanotechnology could appear also inside  the new marine combat-suit The Pentagon has paid 700 million dollars for this project to product a light suit made by new materials fit to desert conditions with intelligent sensors in its fibres, a light armour for torrid climates able to stop poisons of the chemical weapons and to monitorate soldier's health exposed to these attacks Elettronic sensors are visible by infra-red so that U.S.A. troops could not kill each one in the night by "friendly fire" ..mmh..other rotten smart dust Very well! we are in Alfa zone.. Smart dust in the Nothern-East of Italy Smart dust has been created not just for war the speck of dust of micro-computers is also used for peaceful purposes Spread along the forests of California  it's a sentry against pollution and fires thanks to its ability, it can warn immediately of every sources of heat in the surroundings Colonel,tack 15 grades to the East.. Received ..let's turn Yes..Flying Eagle to Control Tower, received over.. Colonel, the control tower informed the new route, We keep this route excellent, Captain Future! Colonel , I see them on the radar, are en route Excellent maneuver , the net is closed!! Let's go!!.. very good!! Mission accomplished.. Captain Futuro !! 