 Hi! My name is Andrew, Humber College Media Studies & IT I'm with Yifei who's the program lead of our UAV set of courses and we're talking specifically today about UAV Pilot Ground School. And we are going to introduce some stuff here as you go into Module 1 and the first thing that we want to talk about is what is a UAV or what are the different categories. Exactly! UAV it a fairly large term it represents all type of aircraft without a pilot on board it stands for Unmanned Aerial Vehicle, so let's look at what are the types out there. I have it up here, there's the Military Drones which you'll be talking about and then the remote controlled helicopter and fixed-wing airplanes those would be sort of traditional remote control model airplanes And then finally what we're interested in are these. They are Multi-Rotor Vertical Take-off and Landing UAVs. And we are in this course and in this industry interested in using these UAVs for image capture processing. Exactly so there are some common characteristics as we can see from this type of UAVs. Number 1 they're Multi-Rotor so meaning that they have multiple individual propulsion system and that provides redundancy and stability. Number 2 they're Vertical Direct Take-off and Landing so similar to a helicopter different from a fixed wing that requires runway. And number 3 let's look at the function and their purpose they're for Image Capture and Processing so not only there is Aerial Photography, there is media all the film inside of things there's also Inspection, Mapping, Search & Rescue and they're all for some sort of Image Capture and Processing. And then in terms of this Image Capture and Processing here are some of the attributes of those UAVs, that would include Lower Altitude. Combining the function of Image Capture and Processing with the Multi-Rotor Vertical Direct Take-off, so they fly at lower altitudes comparing to commercial airlines flying space there is small in terms of flight area and footprint because they are vertical direct take-off no runway required, they have lower speed and shorter flight time due to their function, their purpose is to capture image or video so is not really aimed at racing speed. Then they're vertical direct take-off and landing so compare all of that together making multi-rotor VTOL as more of a add-on skill due to the shorter training time. So in other words we're also talking about you as the person who is going through pilot ground school and somebody who's might be from another profession and this is considered for our purposes an add-on skill. Exactly! So inspector who is using UAV to inspect a building police officer who was using UAV in disaster management. So they have existing profession. As opposed to just training you for a full on pilot. Exactly! Which is more fitting for the military side of things or RC helicopter and fixed-wing airplanes. And then just a quick mention here of our course objectives with this last slide. Yes so this gives everyone a good idea of  where multi-rotor UAV VTOL where we fit in a general aviation industry. Now that we understand aviation industry is large and it represent actual airlines, it represents military drones, there are even some model airplane RC applications and then here is us multi-rotor UAV VTOL. Excelent! So that's our introduction of Module 1, and the course, so there's much more to come, and we'll see you in the next module, have fun with this information, digest it. If you have any questions get in touch with us. 