BUSINESSGeneral Citrix is a leader in virtualization, networking and cloud infrastructure to enable new ways for people to work better. Citrix solutions help IT and service providers to build, manage and secure virtual and mobile workspaces that seamlessly deliver apps, desktops, data and services to virtually anyone, on any device, over any network or cloud. We market and license our products directly to customers, over the Web, and through systems integrators, or SIs, in addition to indirectly through value-added resellers, or VARs, value-added distributors, or VADs, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs and service providers.Citrix is a Delaware corporation founded on April 17, 1989. Business OverviewFor over twenty five years, we have pursued our long-term vision: a world where people can experience work and life their way. We have led several waves of innovation to help our customers realize that vision. Today, mobility and cloud services offer us the greatest opportunities to continue to advance that vision.We see very clearly three forces impacting our customers' IT organizations - consumerization, transformation and fragmentation of IT. These forces are creating two rapidly growing gaps, between the consumer computing experience and the enterprise experience, and between the speed and flexibility of the cloud versus traditional enterprise IT. These forces are accelerating the disruption of our accustomed ways of computing and legacy platforms; but they are also enabling the reinvention of work, of computing and of business - in a concept called mobile workstyles, enabled by cloud services.We are combining our products and technologies in the areas of mobility, desktop and application virtualization, cloud networking, cloud platforms, collaboration, and data sharing into a compelling set of solutions that power mobile workstyles and cloud services. An overview of our current products and solutions follows.Products and ServicesOur products and services target customers of all sizes, from individuals and professional consumers, to large global enterprises. Two divisions, the Enterprise and Service Provider division (formerly Infrastructure division) and the Software as a Service, or SaaS division (formerly Online Services division), administer the research and development, product marketing, and product management for our offerings. Our Enterprise and Service Provider division is comprised of Mobile and Desktop and Networking and Cloud products. Our SaaS division is comprised of Collaboration and Data products. Broadly, as an organizing principle, we group our offerings in the following main categories within our two divisions:Mobile and DesktopDesktop and Application VirtualizationOur Desktop and Application Virtualization products are built to transform and reduce the cost of traditional desktop management by virtualizing the desktop and applications in the datacenter and delivering a cloud-like service to users anywhere on any device. •Citrix® XenDesktop® is a fully integrated desktop virtualization system that gives customers the flexibility to deliver desktops and applications as cloud services - enabling mobile workstyles and simplifying desktop management. XenDesktop breaks down traditional cost barriers by reducing server and storage costs through the use of pooled desktops that can be personalized on-demand. XenDesktop is available in multiple editions designed for different requirements, from simple VDI-only deployments to sophisticated, enterprise-class desktop and application delivery services that can meet the needs of everything from basic call center environments to high-powered graphics workstations. In XenDesktop Enterprise and Platinum editions, customers also receive the  3industry-leading Citrix XenApp to manage and mobilize Windows applications. FlexCast delivery technology powers all these options for delivering desktops and apps, for different types of users and use cases, while optimizing solution costs. XenDesktop includes HDX technologies to give users a high-definition experience - even when using multimedia, real-time collaboration, USB devices, and 3D graphics content - while consuming less bandwidth than competing solutions.  •Citrix® XenApp® is a widely deployed solution that allows Windows applications to be delivered as cloud services to Android and iOS mobile devices, Macs, PCs and thin clients. XenApp enables mobile workstyles by running applications in the security of the data center and using HDX technologies to deliver the user experience to any device, anywhere. XenApp can optimize the application experience for smartphones, tablets and touchscreen laptops, providing intuitive touch capabilities for the latest generation of devices. Keeping applications under the centralized control of IT administrators enhances data security and reduces the costs of managing applications on every PC. XenApp runs on all current versions of Microsoft® Windows Server® and tightly integrates with the Microsoft® Desktop Optimization Pack, Microsoft App-V, and Microsoft System Center. Our joint solution lowers the cost of delivering and maintaining Windows applications for all users in the enterprise. The capabilities of XenApp are available standalone as well as with XenDesktop Enterprise and Platinum Editions.•Citrix® XenClient® Enterprise is a high-performance, bare-metal hypervisor that runs directly on the client device hardware, dividing up the resources of the machine and enabling multiple operating systems to run side by side in complete isolation. XenClient is available as a free download on citrix.com.•Citrix Receiver™ is the client side of XenApp and XenDesktop. Citrix Receiver is available as a free download from citrix.com supporting numerous types of client devices. Citrix Receiver uses the HDX technologies (discussed below) to communicate with XenApp and XenDesktop. MobilityOur Enterprise Mobility Management products help organizations secure and manage mobile devices along with the apps and data that reside on the mobile device. XenMobile® allows IT to easily meet mobile device security and compliance requirements for BYO and corporate liable devices while giving users the freedom to experience work and life their way. Unlike other mobile device management, or MDM and mobile application management, or MAM products, XenMobile provides the quickest path to productivity for mobile users with the low cost of ownership:•XenMobile® Enterprise is a comprehensive solution to manage mobile devices, apps, and data. Users have single-click access to all of their mobile, SaaS and Windows apps from a unified corporate app store, including seamlessly integrated email, browser, data sharing and support apps. IT gains control over mobile devices with full configuration, security, provisioning and support capabilities. Flexible deployment options give IT the choice to manage XenMobile in the cloud or on-premise. In addition, XenMobile securely delivers Worx Mobile Apps, mobile apps built for businesses using the Worx App Software Development Kit, or SDK and found through the Worx App Gallery. With XenMobile, IT can meet their compliance and control needs while users get the freedom to experience work and life their way.•XenMobile® MDM™ provides role-based management, configuration and security of corporate and employee-owned devices. IT can enroll and manage any device, blacklist or whitelist apps, detect jailbroken devices and perform a full or selective wipe of a device that is out of compliance. Users can use any device they choose, while IT can ensure compliance of corporate assets and the security of corporate content on the device.Networking and CloudNetworking and Cloud includes our Cloud Networking and Cloud Platform products. Our Cloud Platform products help organizations build clouds, transform and deliver apps and desktops as cloud services. Our Cloud Networking products allow organizations to deliver cloud services to any device with high performance, security and reliability.  4Cloud Networking•Citrix® NetScaler® is an all-in-one Web application delivery controller designed to make applications run five times faster by application accelerator methods such as hypertext transfer protocol, or HTTP compression and caching, ensuring application availability through the advanced L4-7 load balancer and content switching methods; increase application security with an integrated application firewall; and substantially lower costs by offloading servers to enable server consolidation.•ByteMobile® Smart Capacity™ solutions encompass a range of functionality that helps mobile network operators effectively address the traffic challenges and revenue opportunities of the mobile data revolution. These solutions include video optimization, web optimization, policy control, mobile analytics, adaptive traffic management, and quality of experience management.•Citrix CloudBridge™ connects enterprise datacenters to any end point required of network branches, public and private clouds, data centers and other third party providers. The flexibility of CloudBridge allows enterprises to turn on optimization and acceleration features to ensure quality of experience for desktops, applications, video and multimedia applications for branch and mobile users. CloudBridge is optimized for virtual desktops and applications delivered by XenDesktop and XenApp. Cloud Platform•Citrix CloudPortal Business Manager™ is a comprehensive portal for provisioning hosted applications, desktops, services and infrastructure as a service, or IaaS, from the cloud. The multi-tenant platform automates business and operations support services thereby saving time and money while empowering customers with self-service day-to-day administration. CloudPortal simplifies cloud services by making management consistent and easy through a Web portal for on-boarding, provisioning, adds-moves-changes and usage reports.•Citrix CloudPlatform™ powered by Apache CloudStack™, provides an advanced open source software platform to build highly scalable and reliable private and public cloud computing environments. With CloudPlatform, customers can quickly and easily build cloud services within their existing infrastructure and start realizing the benefits of this transformative service delivery model without the overhead of integration, professional services and complex deployment schedules.•Citrix®XenServer® offers a complete virtualization platform enabling companies to create and manage virtual infrastructures for servers, desktops and clouds. Built on the powerful open source-based Xen hypervisor, XenServer is designed for efficient management of Windows® and Linux® virtual servers, delivering cost-effective server consolidation and business continuity.Collaboration and DataCollaboration and Data products allow organizations to enable mobile workstyles and offer employees the ability to move seamlessly across a diverse mix of devices and collaborate and share information. Collaboration•GoToMeeting® is an easy-to-use, secure and cost-effective product for online meetings, sales demonstrations and collaborative gatherings. GoToMeeting users can easily host, or participate in online meetings from a Mac, PC, iPad, iPhone, Windows 8 tablet, Windows Phone or Android device. GoToMeeting comes equipped with integrated conference dial-in numbers, Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP and HDFaces® high-definition video conferencing. It features an advanced, secure communication architecture that uses industry-standard secure sockets layer, or SSL, encryption.•GoToWebinar® is an easy-to-use, do-it-yourself webinar product, allowing organizations to increase market reach and effectively present online to geographically dispersed audiences. GoToWebinar users can easily host, attend or participate in a webinar session from a Mac, PC or mobile device without significant training or IT support; attendees can join from a Mac, PC, iPad, iPhone or Android device. GoToWebinar includes such features as full-service registration with real-time reports; customized branding; automated email templates; polling and survey capabilities; a webinar dashboard for monitoring attendance and participation; easy presenter controls for changing presenters; high-definition webcam sharing for up to 6 organizers and panelists and VoIP and toll-based phone options. •Podio™ is a tool for small to medium-sized businesses, or SMBs, to organize and track their projects and everyday work. Podio workspaces enable teams to structure their work with Podio Apps that they build themselves, to suit their processes. These workspaces are designed to increase transparency, and foster greater accountability, knowledge sharing and employee engagement. Podio works seamlessly on both web and mobile.•GoToTraining® is an easy-to-use and secure online training product that enables individuals and enterprises to provide interactive training sessions to customers and employees in any location. GoToTraining users can easily create  5curriculums for their students from a Mac or PC without significant training or IT support; attendees can join from a Mac, PC, iPad, or iPhone. GoToTraining includes such features as full-service registration with real-time reports; materials; automated email templates; polling and survey capabilities as well as testing; and high-definition webcam sharing for up to 6 participants and VoIP and toll-based phone options. •GoToMyPC® is an online service that enables mobile workstyles by providing secure, remote access to a PC or Mac from virtually any Internet-connected computer, as well as from supported iOS or Android mobile devices, such as the iPad, iPhone, Kindle Fire and, Samsung Galaxy. GoToMyPC sets up easily with a secure encrypted connection and enables individuals to remotely use any resources hosted on their desktop just as though they were sitting in front of it. •GoToAssist® provides easy-to-use cloud-based IT support solutions to deliver maximum uptime for people and their computers, mobile devices and apps. GoToAssist's integrated toolset is built specifically for IT managers, consultants and managed service providers. Data Sharing•ShareFile® is a secure, cloud-based file sharing and storage solution built for business. ShareFile enables business professionals to manage and share data securely and easily and solves the mobility and collaboration needs of users. It replaces insecure and inconsistent methods of transferring large and confidential files including email attachment, FTP and consumer cloud storage services. ShareFile protects client data throughout the storage and transfer process, using up to 256-bit encryption and SSL or Transport Layer Security, or TLS encryption protocols for transfer and 256-bit encryption for files at rest on ShareFile servers. Password protection and granular access to folders and files stored with ShareFile ensure that data remains in control of the company. With ShareFile Enterprise, organizations can manage their data on premises in customer managed StorageZones, choose Citrix managed secure cloud options or create a mix of both.License Updates and MaintenanceWe provide several ways for customers to receive upgrades, support and maintenance for products.•Subscription Advantage provides customers access to the latest product version updates when made available during their membership term. These updates include major changes to the product architecture and updates to the feature set of a product. Citrix software products eligible for participating in the Subscription Advantage program come with the first year of Subscription Advantage embedded into the cost of the product.•Technical Support Services are specifically designed to address the variety of challenges facing our customers’ IT environments. We offer several support-level options, global coverage and personalized relationship management. Post-sale technical support is offered through Citrix-operated support centers located in the United States, Ireland, Japan, Hong Kong, Australia, Singapore and India. In most cases, we provide technical advice to channel distributors and entities with which we have a technology relationship, who act as the first line of technical assistance for end-users.•Premier Support provides 24x7x365 unlimited-incidents worldwide support for Citrix software products covered by Subscription Advantage. Available at the time of product purchase or with a Subscription Advantage renewal, Premier Support is offered on a per license basis.•Hardware Maintenance provides technical support from Citrix experts to diagnose and resolve issues encountered with appliances. It also offers the latest software upgrades and replacement of malfunctioning appliances to minimize organizational downtime. Additionally, dedicated account management is available as an add-on to the program for an even higher level of service.•Software Maintenance combines 24x7x365 unlimited worldwide support with product version upgrades when available. The first year of Software Maintenance is required with certain corresponding product purchases. 6Professional Services We provide a portfolio of professional services to our business partners and customers to manage the quality of implementation, operation and support of our solutions. These services are available for additional fees paid on an annual or transactional basis.•Citrix Consulting helps support the successful implementation of Citrix technologies and solutions through the use of proven methodologies, tools and published best practices. Citrix Consulting focuses on strategic engagements with enterprise customers who have complex, mission-critical, or large-scale Citrix deployments. These engagements are typically fee-based on-site engagements for the most challenging projects in scope and complexity, requiring consultants who are uniquely qualified with project methodology and Citrix product expertise. Citrix Consulting is also responsible for the development of best practice knowledge that is disseminated to businesses with which we have a business relationship and end-users through training and written documentation. Leveraging these best practices enables our integration resellers to provide more complex systems, reach new buyers within existing customer organizations and provide more sophisticated system proposals to prospective customers. Citrix Consulting has worked with Fortune Global 500 companies, technology providers, and government organizations to deliver solutions that achieve their unique technical and business objectives.•Product Training & Certification helps enable our customers and partners to be successful with Citrix and achieve their business objectives faster. Authorized Citrix training is available when and how it is needed. Traditional or virtual instructor-led training offerings feature Citrix Certified Instructors delivering training in a classroom or remote setting at one of approximately 400 Citrix Authorized Learning Centers™, or CALCs, worldwide. CALCs are staffed with instructors that have been certified by us and teach their students using Citrix-developed courseware. Self-Paced Online offerings, available to students 24 hours a day, seven days a week, provide technically robust course content without an instructor and include hands-on practice via virtual labs. Certifications validate key skills and are available for administrators, engineers, architects and sales professionals. Technology Our products are based on a full range of industry-standard open source technologies. In addition, certain of our products are also based on our proprietary technologies.•Citrix HDX™ Technologies is a family of innovations that optimize the end-to-end user experience in virtual desktop and virtual application environments. These technologies incorporate our ICA protocol, which consists of server- and client-side technology that allows graphical user interfaces to be transmitted securely over any network, and include HDX Broadcast, MediaStream, Realtime, Mobile, Plug-n-Play RichGraphics, WAN Optimization and Adaptive Orchestration features which work together to provide a high-definition user experience across a wide array of applications, devices and networks. •Citrix FlexCast® technologies combine a range of desktop and application virtualization innovations that work in concert to enable enterprise IT departments the ability to support a wide range of use cases. •Citrix personalization technologies increase desktop virtualization adoption by providing a personalized end-user experience while optimizing resource usage in the data center and overall total cost of ownership, or TCO. •NetScaler® Software Packet Engine, or the Packet Engine, forms the foundation of our NetScaler line of products. The Packet Engine allows high-performance networking and packet processing without the need for special purpose hardware.•NetScaler® nCore™ Technology is an architecture which enables execution of multiple Packet Engines in parallel. nCore technology allows the distribution of packet flows across multiple central processing unit cores to achieve efficient, high-performance parallel processing across multiple Packet Engines. The new architecture incorporates innovations in flow distribution and state sharing and provides for efficient execution across Packet Engines.•ByteMobile® Adaptive Traffic Management System combines functions such as video and web optimization, caching, policy control, and reporting and analytics into a single centrally managed element. These functions are performed based on dynamic awareness of mobile carrier traffic conditions and also based on User Experience Indexing (UXI), where the quality of a single mobile subscriber’s data experience can be tracked and enhanced by automated modifications made to network performance.•Citrix XenMobile® is our foundational technology that delivers a holistic mobile computing platform. Its main components include MDM, MAM and a set of mobile applications including secure email, web browsing, and data sharing on a host of mobile platforms including iOS, Android and Windows mobile.•Citrix CloudPortal™ Business Manager is a service aggregation, catalog, billing, and chargeback solution that enables service providers and IT organizations to offer cloud services. 7•Citrix Internet Overlay Platform is our foundational technology for GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar, GoToTraining and GoToAssist. The platform implements one of the largest multicast overlay data networks in the world using the Internet. It provides proprietary screen-sharing technology that separately optimizes screen transmission for each endpoint device (such as a remote PC during an online meeting or remote access session).•Citrix PSTN/VoIP Bridge is core technology that allows the seamless integration of Public Switched Telephone Network/Voice over Internet Protocol, or PSTN/VoIP, in our products that use our audio conferencing.•HDFaces® in GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining delivers high-definition video conferencing and one-to-many video streaming over the public Internet. It includes proprietary network transport protocols and transcoding software that optimize video quality for each endpoint device.Innovation is a core Citrix competency. We have many additional unique inventions that are important enablers of our continued leadership in desktop and application virtualization, mobility, cloud networking, cloud platforms, collaboration and data sharing. Customers We believe that the primary IT buyers involved in decision-making related to our solutions are the following:•Strategic IT Executives including chief information officers, chief technology officers, chief information security officers and vice presidents of infrastructure, who have responsibility for ensuring that IT services are enablers to business initiatives and are delivered with the best performance, availability, security and cost.•Desktop Operations Managers who are responsible for managing Windows Desktop environments including corporate help desks.•IT Infrastructure Managers who are responsible for managing and delivering Windows-based applications.•Directors of Messaging and Mobility, who are, respectively, responsible for Exchange and defining mobile strategies and solutions for securing and managing mobile devices including their content and applications. •Network Architects who are responsible for delivering Web-based applications who have primary responsibility for the WAN infrastructure for all applications. •Server Operations Managers who are responsible for specifying datacenter systems and managing daily operations.•Individuals and prosumers, who are responsible for choosing personal solutions and helping small businesses select simple-to-use computing solutions.•Small business owners who are responsible for choosing the systems needed to support their business goals, such as SaaS.•Line of business and functional executives that determine the need for our SaaS offerings at certain enterprises.•Chief technology officer office and engineering department (managers, architects, etc.) for telecommunications service providers are the primary buyers of our ByteMobile Smart Capacity solutions.•Chief information officer office and engineering departments within service providers, using Citrix product to deliver desktops and applications as hosted cloud services.The IT buyers for our products include a wide variety of industries including those in financial services, technology, healthcare, education, government and telecom.We offer perpetual and term-based software licenses for our products, along with annual subscriptions for software updates, technical support and SaaS. Perpetual licenses allow our customers to use the version of software initially purchased into perpetuity, while term-based licenses are limited to a specified period of time. Software update subscriptions give customers the right to upgrade to new software versions if and when any updates are delivered during the subscription term. Perpetual license software products come primarily in electronic-based forms and, in selected markets, we offer pre-packaged shrink-wrap products to meet local customer needs. Our SaaS products are accessed over the Internet for usage during the subscription period. Our hardware appliances come pre-loaded with software for which customers can purchase perpetual licenses and annual support and maintenance.Technology Relationships We have a number of technology relationships in place to accelerate the development of existing and future products and go-to-market. These relationships include cross-licensing, OEM, joint reference architectures, and other arrangements that result in better solutions for our customers. Microsoft We have collaborated with Microsoft on various technologies, including terminal services, cloud networking and virtualization. Since our inception, we have had a number of license agreements with Microsoft, including patent cross-licenses and source code licensing agreements that have provided us access to source code for versions of Microsoft Windows Server. These agreements are not required for our software development processes on Windows Server and do not provide for  8payments to or from Microsoft. Our two companies have a long-standing go-to-market partnership, and that continues to grow as we introduce more joint solutions in new areas such as XenDeskop on Azure.CiscoWe have a technology collaboration with Cisco Systems, Inc., or Cisco, to develop and deliver solutions that help customers simplify and accelerate large-scale desktop virtualization deployments, including high-definition virtual desktops and applications and improved end-user experiences, over a highly secure Citrix® HDX-enabled Cisco network. We license the specifications of ICA® to Cisco as part of this agreement.In October 2012, Cisco and Citrix announced an expanded relationship in three strategic areas: cloud networking, cloud orchestration and mobile workstyles. In 2013, we delivered solutions in all three areas. Cisco introduced an OEM version of our Netscaler Application Delivery Controller technology, called Citrix Netscaler 1000V, which is sold as a part of their Cloud Virtual Network Services architecture platform. We are also delivering tight integration between appliance versions of Citrix NetScaler and Cisco’s higher end Nexus 7000 product line. Also announced by Cisco this year is a new joint Desktop as a Service solution offering targeted at service provider companies.Additional Relationships Over the past year, our partners have expanded their focus on the broad range of Citrix products. Some examples include Alcatel-Lucent, who OEMs Citrix CloudPlatform as a part of their CloudBand solution, and Dell who OEMs XenDesktop, for their DVS-Enterprise solution. HP, IBM and Fujitsu also have multiple offerings in the market with XenDesktop, XenMobile and NetScaler. We have also built relationships with NetApp and CA Technologies that complement the benefits provided by Citrix XenServer, XenDesktop, XenApp and CloudPlatform. Amazon now re-sells Citrix NetScaler, Citrix CloudBridge, and Citrix XenMobile in its Amazon Web Services, or AWS Marketplace, and we collaborate to allow customers to run XenDesktop on the AWS platform.Through our Citrix Ready program, more than 21,000 products have been verified to work with Citrix technologies. In addition, numerous partners proactively incorporate Citrix products and technologies such as Receiver, XenServer, XenDesktop, XenClient, XenApp, NetScaler, CloudGateway, and HDX (ICA) technologies into their customer offerings. Our HDX and Receiver technologies are often included with or offered for thin clients, industry-standard servers and mobile devices, such as Apple's iPhone and iPad, Windows Mobile, Blackberry and Google Android devices. Licensees include Dell, Samsung, Fujitsu and Hewlett Packard, among others. Research and Development We focus our research and development efforts on developing new products and core technologies in our core markets and to further enhancing the functionality, reliability, performance and flexibility of existing products. We solicit extensive feedback concerning product development from customers, both directly from and indirectly through our channel distributors. We believe that our software development teams and core technologies represent a significant competitive advantage for us. Included in the software development teams is a group focused on research activities that include prototyping ways to integrate emerging technologies and standards into our product offerings, such as emerging Web services technologies, management standards and Microsoft's newest technologies. Many groups within the software development teams have expertise in Extensible Markup Language, or XML, based software development, integration of acquired technology, multi-tier Web-based application development and deployment, SSL secure access, hypervisor technologies, cloud technologies, networking technologies, VoIP-based audio technology, Web-based video technology and building SaaS. We incurred research and development expenses of approximately $516.3 million in 2013, $450.6 million in 2012 and $380.7 million in 2011. In addition to internal research and development, Citrix also supports an eco-system of early stage companies via our Startup Accelerator program which provides seed capital for new technologies.Sales, Marketing and Services We market and license our products and services through multiple channels worldwide, including thousands of Value-Added Resellers known as Citrix Solution Advisors™, Value-Added Distributors, hosted Service Providers, System Integrators, or SIs, Independent Software Vendors, or ISVs, direct over-the-Web and OEMs. These distribution channels are managed by our worldwide sales and services organization. We provide training and certification opportunities to our channel partners and consultants for the full-range of Citrix products, solutions and services through our Citrix Partner Network. In addition, our SaaS division provides our collaboration and data sharing offerings through direct corporate sales, Solution Advisors, and direct over-the-Web through our websites.In 2013, we made global partner program changes to help Solution Advisors develop new opportunities and specializations, engage at a deeper level with customers and lead in mobile workstyle solutions and cloud services. The changes included: differentiated Citrix Advisor Rewards by partner level; Citrix Opportuni