BUSINESSGeneral Citrix is a cloud computing company that enables mobile workstyles - empowering people to work and collaborate from anywhere, accessing enterprise apps and data on any of the latest devices, as easily as they would in their own office - simply and securely. Citrix cloud computing solutions help IT and service providers build both private and public clouds, leveraging virtualization and networking technologies to deliver high-performance, elastic and cost-effective services for mobile workstyles.We market and license our products directly to enterprise customers, over the Web, and through systems integrators, or SIs, in addition to indirectly through value-added resellers, or VARs, value-added distributors, or VADs, and original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs.Citrix is a Delaware corporation founded on April 17, 1989. Business OverviewFor over two decades, we have pursued our long-term vision: a world where people can experience work and life in harmony. We've led several waves of innovation to help our customers realize that vision. Today, mobility and cloud services offer us the greatest opportunities to continue to advance that vision.We see very clearly two forces impacting our customers' IT organizations - consumerization and industrialization of IT.  These forces are creating two rapidly growing gaps, between the consumer computing experience and the enterprise experience, and between the speed and flexibility of the cloud versus that of traditional enterprise IT. These forces are accelerating the disruption of our accustomed ways of computing; but they are also enabling the reinvention of work, of computing and of business - in a concept called mobile workstyles, enabled by cloud services.We are combining our products and technologies in the areas of mobility, desktop virtualization, cloud networking, cloud platforms, collaboration, and data sharing into a compelling set of solutions that power mobile workstyles and cloud services. An overview of our current products and solutions follows.Products and ServicesOur products and services target customers of all sizes, from individuals and professional consumers, to large global enterprises. Two divisions, the Enterprise division, comprised of Mobile and Desktop and Networking and Cloud and the Online Services division, comprised of Collaboration and Data, administer the research and development, product marketing, and product management for our offerings. Broadly, as an organizing principle, we group our offerings in the following main categories within our two divisions:Mobile and DesktopDesktop VirtualizationOur Desktop Virtualization products are built to transform and reduce the cost of traditional desktop management by virtualizing the desktop and applications in the datacenter. •Citrix® XenDesktop® is a fully integrated desktop virtualization system that gives customers the flexibility to deliver desktops and apps as cloud services - enabling mobile workstyles and simplifying desktop management. XenDesktop breaks down traditional cost barriers by reducing server and storage costs through the use of pooled desktops that can be personalized on-demand. XenDesktop is available in multiple editions designed for different requirements, from simple VDI-only deployments to sophisticated, enterprise-class desktop and application delivery services that can meet the needs of everything from basic call center environments to high-powered graphics workstations. In XenDesktop Enterprise and Platinum editions, customers also receive the industry-leading Citrix XenApp to manage and mobilize Windows applications. FlexCast delivery technology powers all these options for delivering desktops and apps, for different types of users and use cases, while optimizing solution 3costs. XenDesktop includes Citrix HDX technologies to give users a high-definition experience - even when using multimedia, real-time collaboration, USB devices, and 3D graphics content - while consuming less bandwidth than competing solutions.  •Citrix® XenApp® is a widely deployed solution that allows Windows applications to be delivered as cloud services to Android and iOS mobile devices, Macs, PCs and thin clients. XenApp enables mobile workstyles by running applications in the security of the data center and using HDX technologies to deliver the user experience to any device, anywhere. XenApp can optimize the application experience for smartphones, tablets and touchscreen laptops, providing intuitive touch capabilities for the latest generation of devices. Keeping applications under the centralized control of IT administrators enhances data security and reduces the costs of managing applications on every PC. XenApp runs on all current versions of Microsoft® Windows Server® and tightly integrates with the Microsoft® Desktop Optimization Pack, Microsoft App-V, and Microsoft System Center. Our joint solution lowers the cost of delivering and maintaining Windows applications for all users in the enterprise. The capabilities of XenApp are available standalone as well as with XenDesktop Enterprise and Platinum Editions.•Citrix®AppDNA application lifecycle management software enables enterprises to discover, automate, model and manage applications for faster application migration, easier application virtualization and streamlined application management. AppDNA software combines application insight with accurate application testing, remediation and compatibility.•Citrix® VDI-in-a-Box™ is an easy, affordable, all-in-one, appliance-based, desktop virtualization solution aimed at departmental, branch office, and other small to medium sized deployments. Running on off-the-shelf servers, the solution enables IT to quickly and easily deliver centrally-managed virtual desktops to virtually any user, on virtually any device.•Citrix® XenClient® is a high-performance, bare-metal hypervisor that runs directly on the client device hardware, dividing up the resources of the machine and enabling multiple operating systems to run side by side in complete isolation. XenClient is available as a free download on citrix.com.Citrix Receiver is the client side of XenApp and XenDesktop. Citrix Receiver is available as a free download from citrix.com supporting numerous types of client devices. Citrix Receiver uses the Citrix HDX Technologies (discussed below) to communicate with XenApp and XenDesktop.MobilityIn January 2013, Citrix acquired Zenprise, a leader in mobile device management. Zenprise and existing Citrix mobile technology, namely CloudGateway, will serve as the foundation for the Citrix mobile platform. Initially, we will offer CloudGateway and XenMobile as a Mobile Solutions bundle.•Citrix CloudGateway™ is a unified service broker that aggregates, controls and delivers Windows, Web, Software as a Service, or SaaS, and mobile applications to virtually any device. CloudGateway provides end-users with an intuitive single point of access and self- service to all of their business applications on virtually any device. CloudGateway also provides IT with a comprehensive single point of aggregation and control for applications and users.•XenMobile MDM™ provides role-based management, configuration and security of corporate and employee-owned devices. IT can enroll and manage any device, blacklist or whitelist apps, detect jailbroken devices and perform a full or selective wipe of a device that is out of compliance. Users can use any device they choose, while IT can ensure compliance of corporate assets and the security of corporate content on the device.Networking and CloudNetworking and Cloud includes our Cloud Platform and Cloud Networking products. Our Cloud Platform products help organizations build clouds, transform and deliver apps and desktops as cloud services. Our Cloud Networking products allow organizations to deliver these cloud services to any device with high performance, security and reliability.In July 2012, Citrix completed the acquisition of privately held Bytemobile, a leading provider of data and video optimization solutions for mobile network operators. This acquisition gives Citrix a strategic foothold in the core infrastructure of more than 130 mobile operators in 60 countries around the world, significantly extending the company's market reach, and enhancing the broader Citrix strategy of powering mobile workstyles and cloud services. Bytemobile is part of our Cloud Networking group. The principle offering, Bytemobile Smart Capacity, is described below.Cloud Networking•Citrix® NetScaler® is an all-in-one Web application delivery controller designed to make applications run five times faster by application accelerator methods such as hypertext transfer protocol, or HTTP compression and caching, ensuring application availability through the advanced L4-7 load balancer and content switching methods; increase 4application security with an integrated application firewall; and substantially lower costs by offloading servers to enable server consolidation.•Bytemobile Smart Capacity™ solutions encompass a range of functionality that helps network operators effectively address the traffic challenges and revenue opportunities of the mobile data revolution. These solutions include video optimization, web optimization, policy control, mobile analytics, adaptive traffic management, and quality of experience management.•Citrix CloudBridge™ connects enterprise datacenters to any end point required of a network branches, public and private clouds, data centers and other third party providers. The flexibility of CloudBridge allows enterprises to turn on optimization and acceleration features to ensure quality of experience for desktops, applications, video and multimedia applications for branch and mobile users. CloudBridge is optimized for virtual desktops and applications delivered by XenDesktop and XenApp. Cloud Platform•Citrix CloudPortal™ is a comprehensive portal for provisioning hosted applications, desktops, services and infrastructure as a service, or IaaS, from the cloud. The multi-tenant platform automates business and operations support services thereby saving time and money while empowering customers with self-service day-to-day administration. CloudPortal simplifies cloud services by making management consistent and easy through a Web portal for on-boarding, provisioning, adds-moves-changes and usage reports.•Citrix CloudPlatform™ powered by Apache CloudStack™, provides an advanced open source software platform to build highly scalable and reliable private and public cloud computing environments. With CloudPlatform, customers can quickly and easily build cloud services within their existing infrastructure and start realizing the benefits of this transformative service delivery model without the overhead of integration, professional services and complex deployment schedules.•Citrix®XenServer® offers a complete virtualization platform enabling companies to create and manage virtual infrastructures for servers, desktops and clouds. Built on the powerful open source-based Xen hypervisor, XenServer is designed for efficient management of Windows® and Linux® virtual servers, delivering cost-effective server consolidation and business continuity.Collaboration and DataCollaboration and Data products allow organizations to enable mobile workstyles and offer employees the ability to move seamlessly across a diverse mix of devices and collaborate and share information during their day. Collaboration•GoToMeeting® is an easy-to-use, secure and cost-effective product for online meetings, sales demonstrations and collaborative gatherings. GoToMeeting users can easily host, attend or participate in online meetings from a Mac, PC, iPad, iPhone or Android device. GoToMeeting comes equipped with toll-based conference dial-in numbers, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) and HDFaces® high-definition video conferencing. It features an advanced, secure communication architecture that uses industry-standard SSL encryption. Users can hold unlimited meetings of any length with up to 25 attendees for a flat-fee subscription price. GoToMeeting is available in French, German, Italian, Spanish, Chinese and English. GoToMeeting also comes with application programming interfaces (APIs), allowing users to integrate GoToMeeting into management systems and websites. GoToMeeting is also supports multiple organizer accounts, more robust reporting and advanced administrative capabilities for corporate customers. •GoToWebinar® is an easy-to-use, do-it-yourself webinar product, allowing organizations to increase market reach and effectively present online to geographically dispersed audiences. GoToWebinar users can easily host, attend or participate in a webinar session from a Mac or PC without significant training or IT support; attendees can join from a Mac, PC, iPad, iPhone or Android device. GoToWebinar includes such features as full-service registration with real-time reports; customized branding; automated email templates; polling and survey capabilities; a webinar dashboard for monitoring attendance and participation; easy presenter controls for changing presenters; and Voice over Internet protocol (VoIP) and toll-based phone options. GoToWebinar also offers registration and reporting application programming interfaces (APIs) via the GoTo Developer Center. Users can hold unlimited webinars of any length with up to 1,000 attendees for a flat-fee subscription price. For those requiring full-scale video content, GoToWebcast users can hold unlimited online events for one flat-fee subscription price, with up to 5,000 attendees. GoToWebcast Premier offers a custom-built event, which includes moderator assistance and webinar planning for events up to 20,000 attendees.•Podio™ is a social collaborative work platform supporting people and teams working the way they want to through seamlessly providing social activity streams, a fully customizable App Market, and integrations with other services, 5including GoToMeeting and ShareFile - all within an intuitive experience available on the web and across Android, iPhone and iPad mobile devices.•GoToTraining® is an easy-to-use and secure online training product that enables individuals and enterprises to provide interactive training sessions to customers and employees in any location. •GoToMyPC® is an online service that enables mobile workstyles by providing secure, remote access to a PC or Mac from virtually any Internet-connected computer, as well as from supported iOS or Android mobile devices, such as the iPad, iPhone, Kindle Fire, Samsung Galaxy. GoToMyPC sets up easily with a secure encrypted connection and enables individuals to remotely use any resources hosted on their desktop just as though they were sitting in front of it. •GoToAssist® provides easy-to-use cloud-based IT support solutions to deliver maximum uptime for people and their computers, mobile devices and apps. GoToAssist's integrated toolset is built specifically for IT managers, consultants and managed service providers. Data Sharing•ShareFile® is a secure, cloud-based file sharing and storage solution built for business. Allowing users to connect and share data from any computer or mobile device with Internet access, ShareFile enables collaboration anytime, anywhere. It replaces insecure and inconsistent methods of transferring large and confidential files including email attachment, FTP and consumer cloud storage services. ShareFile protects client data throughout the storage and transfer process, using up to 256-bit encryption and Secure Socket Layer (SSL) or Transport Layer Security (TLS) encryption protocols for transfer and 256-bit encryption for files at rest on ShareFile servers. Password protection and granular access to folders and files stored with ShareFile ensure that data remains in control of the company and available to users on a need-to-know basis. ShareFile also offers a number of desktop tools that allow users to integrate secure file exchange into their normal workflow, including ShareFile Sync, the ShareFile Plugin for Microsoft Outlook and the ShareFile Desktop Widget. With ShareFile Enterprise, organizations can manage their data on-premises in customer-managed StorageZones, choose Citrix-managed secure cloud options or create a mix of both. As a customer-centric company, ShareFile also provides a custom-branded online interface, individual training and support to every client.License Updates and MaintenanceWe provide several ways for customers to receive upgrades, support and maintenance for products.•Subscription Advantage provides customers access to the latest product version updates when and if available during their membership term. These updates include major changes to the product architecture and updates to the feature set of a product. Citrix software products eligible for participating in the Subscription Advantage program come with the first year of Subscription Advantage embedded into the cost of the product.•Technical Support Services are specifically designed to address the variety of challenges facing access infrastructure environments. We offer several support-level options, global coverage and personalized relationship management. Post-sale technical support is offered through Citrix-operated support centers located in the United States, Ireland, Japan, Hong Kong, Australia, Singapore and India. In most cases, we provide technical advice to channel distributors and entities with which we have a technology relationship, who act as the first line of technical assistance for end-users.•Premier Support provides 24x7x365 unlimited-incidents worldwide support for Citrix software products covered by Subscription Advantage. Available at the time of product purchase or with a Subscription Advantage renewal, Premier Support is offered on a per license basis.•Hardware Maintenance provides technical support from the Citrix experts to diagnose and resolve issues encountered with appliances, the latest software upgrades and replacement of malfunctioning appliances to minimize organizational downtime. Additionally, dedicated account management is available as an add-on to the program for an even higher level of service.•Software Maintenance combines 24x7x365 unlimited worldwide support with product version upgrades. The first year of Software Maintenance is required with the corresponding product purchase.Professional Services We provide a portfolio of professional services to our business partners and customers to manage the quality of implementation, operation and support of our solutions. These services are available for additional fees paid on an annual or transactional basis.•Citrix Consulting helps support the successful implementation of Citrix technologies and solutions through the use of proven methodologies, tools and published best practices. Citrix Consulting focuses on strategic engagements with 6enterprise customers who have complex, mission-critical, or large-scale Citrix deployments. These engagements are typically fee-based on-site engagements for the most challenging projects in scope and complexity, requiring consultants who are uniquely qualified with project methodology and Citrix product expertise. Citrix Consulting is also responsible for the development of best practice knowledge that is disseminated to businesses with which we have a business relationship and end-users through training and written documentation. Leveraging these best practices enables our integration resellers to provide more complex systems, reach new buyers within existing customer organizations and provide more sophisticated system proposals to prospective customers. Citrix Consulting has worked with Fortune Global 500 companies, technology providers, and government organizations to deliver solutions that achieve their unique technical and business objectives.•Product Training & Certification helps enable our customers and partners to be successful with Citrix and achieve their business objectives faster. Authorized Citrix training is available when and how it is needed. Traditional or virtual instructor-led training offerings feature Citrix Certified Instructors delivering training in a classroom or remote setting at one of approximately 400 Citrix Authorized Learning Centers™, or CALCs, worldwide. CALCs are staffed with instructors that have been certified by us and teach their students using Citrix-developed courseware. Self-Paced Online offerings, available to students 24 hours a day, seven days a week, provide technically robust course content without an instructor and include hands-on practice via virtual labs. Certifications validate key skills and are available for administrators, engineers, architects and sales professionals. Technology Our products are based on a full range of industry-standard technologies. In addition, certain of our products are also based on our proprietary technologies.•Citrix HDX Technologies is a family of innovations that optimize the end-to-end user experience in virtual desktop and virtual application environments. These technologies incorporate our ICA protocol, which consists of server- and client-side technology that allows graphical user interfaces to be transmitted securely over any network, and include HDX Broadcast, MediaStream, Realtime, 3D, Plug-n-Play and IntelliCache features which work together to provide a high-definition user experience across a wide array of applications, devices and networks. •Citrix FlexCast® technologies combine a range of desktop and application virtualization innovations that work in concert to enable enterprise IT departments the ability to support a wide range of use cases. •Citrix personalization technologies increase desktop virtualization adoption by providing a personalized end-user experience while optimizing resource usage in the data center and overall TCO. •NetScaler® Software Packet Engine, or the Packet Engine, forms the foundation of our NetScaler line of products. The Packet Engine allows high-performance networking and packet processing without the need for special purpose hardware.•NetScaler® nCore™ Technology is an architecture which enables execution of multiple Packet Engines in parallel. nCore technology allows the distribution of packet flows across multiple central processing unit cores to achieve efficient, high-performance parallel processing across multiple Packet Engines. The new architecture incorporates innovations in flow distribution and state sharing and provides for efficient execution across Packet Engines.•Citrix CloudPortal Business Manager enables organizations to provide product catalogs and billing system integration for their public clouds.•Citrix Internet Overlay Platform is our foundational technology for GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar, GoToTraining and GoToAssist. The platform implements one of the largest multicast overlay data networks in the world using the Internet. It provides proprietary screen-sharing technology that separately optimizes screen transmission for each endpoint device (such as a remote PC during an online meeting or remote access session).•Citrix PSTN/VoIP Bridge is core technology that allows the seamless integration of Public Switched Telephone Network/Voice over Internet Protocol, or PSTN/VoIP, in our products that use our audio conferencing.•HDFaces in GoToMeeting delivers high-definition video conferencing and one-to-many video streaming over the public Internet. It includes proprietary network transport protocols and transcoding software that optimize video quality for each endpoint device.Innovation is a core Citrix competency. We have many additional unique inventions that are important enablers of our continued leadership in desktop virtualization, mobility, cloud networking, cloud platforms, collaboration and data sharing. 7Customers We believe that the primary IT buyers involved in decision-making related to our solutions are the following:•Strategic IT Executives including chief information officers, chief technology officers and vice presidents of infrastructure, who have responsibility for ensuring that IT services are enablers to business initiatives and are delivered with the best performance, availability, security and cost.•Desktop Operations Managers who are responsible for managing Windows Desktop environments including corporate help desks.•IT Infrastructure Managers who are responsible for managing and delivering Windows-based applications.•Network Architects who are responsible for delivering Web-based applications who have primary responsibility for the WAN infrastructure for all applications. •Server Operations Managers who are responsible for specifying datacenter systems and managing daily operations.•Directors of IT, messaging and mobility, who are, respectively, responsible for Exchange and defining mobile strategies and solutions.•Individuals and prosumers, who are responsible for choosing personal solutions and helping small businesses select simple-to-use computing solutions.•Small Business Owners who are responsible for choosing the systems needed to support their business goals, such as SaaS.•CTO office and engineering department (managers, architects, etc.) for telecommunications service providers are the primary buyers of our Bytemobile Smart Capacity solutions.The IT buyers for our products include a wide variety of industries including those in financial services, technology, healthcare, education, government and telecom.We offer perpetual and term-based software licenses for our products, along with annual subscriptions for software updates, technical support and SaaS. Perpetual licenses allow our customers to use the version of software initially purchased into perpetuity, while term-based licenses are limited to a specified period of time. Software update subscriptions give customers the right to upgrade to new software versions if and when any updates are delivered during the subscription term. Perpetual license software products come primarily in electronic-based forms and, in selected markets, we offer pre-packaged shrink-wrap products to meet local customer needs. Our SaaS products are accessed over the Internet for usage during the subscription period. Our hardware appliances come pre-loaded with software for which customers can purchase perpetual licenses and annual support and maintenance.Technology Relationships We have a number of technology relationships in place to accelerate the development of existing and future products and go-to-market. These relationships include cross-licensing, OEM, and other arrangements that result in better solutions for our customers. Microsoft We have collaborated with Microsoft on various technologies, including terminal services, cloud networking and virtualization. Since our inception, we have had a number of license agreements with Microsoft, including patent cross-licenses and source code licensing agreements that have provided us access to source code for versions of Microsoft Windows Server. These agreements are not required for our software development processes on Windows Server and do not provide for payments to or from Microsoft. CiscoWe have a technology collaboration with Cisco Systems, Inc., or Cisco, to develop and deliver solutions that help customers simplify and accelerate large-scale desktop virtualization deployments, including high-definition virtual desktops and applications and improved end-user experiences, over a highly secure Citrix® HDX-enabled Cisco network. We licensed the specifications of ICA® to Cisco as part of this agreement.In October 2012, Cisco and Citrix announced a new relationship in three strategic areas: cloud networking, cloud orchestration and mobile workstyles. As part of this strategic partnership, Cisco and Citrix intend to integrate their technologies to jointly deliver innovative solutions for the mobile-cloud era. The expanded partnership will include investments in people and resources to drive market-leading technology innovation, solution integration and validation, customer support, and joint go-to-market investment on a global basis.8Additional Relationships Over the past year, our partners have expanded their focus on the broad range of Citrix products. Some examples include Alcatel-Lucent, who OEMs Citrix CloudPlatform as a part of their CloudBand solution, and Dell who OEMs VDI-in-a-box as an appliance, called DVS-Simplified, and XenDesktop, called DVS-Enterprise. HP, IBM and Fujitsu also have multiple offerings in the market with XenDesktop. Announced in 2012, Amazon now re-sells Citrix NetScaler and Citrix CloudBridge in its Advanced Web Services, or AWS, Marketplace.Through our Citrix Ready program, more than 21,000 products have been verified to work with Citrix technologies. In addition, numerous partners proactively incorporate Citrix products and technologies such as Receiver, XenServer, XenDesktop, XenClient, XenApp, NetScaler, CloudGateway, VDI-in-a-Box and HDX (ICA) technology into their customer offerings. Our HDX and Receiver technologies are often included with or offered for thin clients, industry-standard servers and mobile devices, such as Apple's iPhone and iPad, Windows Mobile, Blackberry and Google Android devices. Licensees include Dell, Fujitsu and Hewlett Packard, among others. Our XenClient technology was developed in cooperation with Intel and is licensed for shipment by desktop computer manufacturers, including Dell and Hewlett Packard. Research and Development We focus our research and development efforts on developing new products and core technologies in our core markets and to further enhancing the functionality, reliability, performance and flexibility of existing products. We solicit extensive feedback concerning product development from customers, both directly from and indirectly through our channel distributors. We believe that our software development teams and core technologies represent a significant competitive advantage for us. Included in the software development teams is a group focused on research activities that include prototyping ways to integrate emerging technologies and standards into our product offerings, such as emerging Web services technologies, management standards and Microsoft's newest technologies. Many groups within the software development teams have expertise in Extensible Markup Language, or XML, based software development, integration of acquired technology, multi-tier Web-based application development and deployment, SSL secure access, hypervisor technologies, cloud technologies, networking technologies, VoIP-based audio technology, Web-based video technology and building SaaS. We incurred research and development expenses of approximately $450.6 million in 2012, $380.7 million in 2011 and $361.4 million in 2010. In addition to internal research and development, Citrix also supports an eco-system of early stage companies via our Startup Accelerator program which provides seed capital for new technologies.Sales, Marketing and Services We market and license our products and services through multiple channels worldwide, including Value-Added Resellers known as Citrix Solution Advisors™, VADs, Service Providers, SIs, Independent Software Vendors (ISVs), direct over-the-Web and OEMs. These distribution channels are managed by our worldwide sales and services organization. We provide training and certification to Solution Advisors, integrators, and consultants for the full-range of Citrix products, solutions and services through our Citrix Partner Network. In addition, our Online Services division provides Enterprise SaaS offerings through direct corporate sales, Solution Advisors, and direct over-the-Web through our websites. In 2012, we continued to focus on increasing the productivity of our existing partners and building capacity through recruitment of new partners to sell and implement our expanding product portfolio. Our channel incentive program, Citrix Advisor Rewards™, is an innovative influencer program that rewards our partners for registering projects and providing value-added selling even if they do not fulfill the product. In 2012, we offered additional Advisor Rewards incentives to increase partner mindshare, limit channel conflict and increase partner loyalty to us. As Citrix continues to evolve as a cloud computing company enabling mobile workstyles, we have also been cultivating a base of over 2,000 partners for XenDesktop and XenApp known as the Citrix Service Provider program. These partners consume technology on a subscription basis in order to deliver IT Services to 