RISK FACTORSRISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRYOur multi-year transition from a perpetual licenses to a subscription-based business model is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties which could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.The focus of our business model has been shifting away from sales of perpetual licenses to sales of subscriptions. This multi-year transition may give rise to a number of risks, including the following:•we may not be able to effectively or efficiently transition our customers from perpetual licenses to sales of subscriptions;•we may not be able to implement effective go-to-market strategies and train or properly incentivize our sales team and channel partners in order to effectively market our subscription offerings;•we may be unsuccessful in maintaining our target pricing, adoption and renewal rates; and•we may select solution prices that are not optimal and could negatively affect our sales or earnings. We have plans to generally discontinue the sale of perpetual licenses for new products during the course of 2020. We continue to offer choices for our customers and in the first quarter of 2020 we relaunched our on-premise licensing for our offerings through our term subscription license. As we continue to transition our customers from perpetual licenses to subscriptions, we expect an impact on the timing of revenue recognition and potential reductions in operating margin and cash flows. Because subscription revenue is typically recognized over time, we expect to continue to experience a near-term reduction in revenue and revenue growth as more customers move away from perpetual licenses to subscriptions. We also expect the mix shift within our Networking business away from hardware towards software-based solutions will create pressure on reported Networking revenue over time. Further, while many of our subscription-based offerings involve multi-year commitments, ultimately our subscription customers may decide not to renew their subscriptions for our solutions after the expiration of the subscription term, or to renew only for a portion of our solutions or on pricing terms that are less favorable to us. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions, their ability to continue their operations and spending levels, the pricing of our solutions and the availability of competing solutions. We anticipate that our subscription-based model will require us to dedicate additional resources toward educating our existing and potential customers as to the benefits of the subscription model and our solutions generally and to re-train our sales employees, who have historically focused on hardware sales and selling perpetual software licenses, on selling subscription-based products and services in order to maintain and increase their productivity. As a result, our sales and marketing costs may increase. In addition, we anticipate needing to adjust our go-to-market cost structure, particularly as it relates to how we compensate our sales teams for renewal transactions, to become more efficient as we continue to transition to a subscription-based business model. Those adjustments may negatively affect the productivity of our sales teams and cause our renewal rates to fluctuate or decline, and there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement the adjustments in a timely or cost-effective manner, or that we will be able to realize all or any of the expected benefits from such adjustments. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our solutions, demand pricing or other concessions prior to renewal, or if our renewal rates fluctuate or decline, our total billings and revenue will fluctuate or decline, and our business and financial results will be negatively affected.  In addition, the metrics we use to gauge the status of our business may evolve over the course of the transition as significant trends emerge. The transition to a subscription-based business model also means that our historical results, especially those achieved before we began the transition, may be difficult to compare to our future results. As a result, investors and financial analysts may have difficulty understanding the shift in our business model, resulting in changes in financial estimates or failure to meet investor expectations. Moreover, we forecast our future revenue and operating results and provide financial projections based on a number of assumptions, including a forecasted rate at which our subscription bookings as a percentage of total product bookings will increase throughout our business model transition as well as the mix within subscription of on-premise versus cloud. If any of our assumptions about our business model transition or the estimated rate at which our subscription bookings as a percentage of total product bookings will increase and in which periods are incorrect, our revenue and operating results may be impacted and could vary materially from those we provide as guidance or from those anticipated by investors and analysts. If we are unable to successfully establish our subscription-based business model or navigate our transition in light of the foregoing risks and uncertainties, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted.11The expansion of cloud-delivered services (as opposed to traditional on-premises delivery of our products) has and will introduce a number of risks and uncertainties unique to such a shift, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Expansion of our cloud-delivered services may require a considerable investment in resources, including technical, financial, legal, sales, information technology and operation systems. Additionally, market acceptance of such offerings is affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: security, reliability, scalability, customization, performance, current license terms, customer preference, customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage their data, public concerns regarding privacy and the enactment of restrictive laws or regulations.Our cloud-delivered services are primarily operated through third-party cloud service providers, which we do not control and which may be subject to actual or perceived damage, interruption, vulnerabilities and other cyber-related risks. Customers of our cloud-based offerings need to be able to access our platform at any time, without interruption or degradation of performance, and we provide them with service level commitments with respect to uptime. Third-party cloud providers run their own platforms that we access, and we are, therefore, vulnerable to their service interruptions. We may experience interruptions, delays and outages in service and availability from time to time as a result of problems with our third-party cloud providers’ infrastructure. Lack of availability of this infrastructure could be due to a number of potential causes including technical failures, natural disasters, fraud or security attacks that we cannot predict or prevent. Such outages could lead to the triggering of our service level agreements and the issuance of credits to our cloud offering customers, which may impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if our security, or that of any of these third-party cloud providers, is compromised, our software is unavailable or our customers are unable to use our software within a reasonable amount of time or at all, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within a period of time acceptable to our customers. It is possible that our customers and potential customers would hold us accountable for any breach of security affecting a third-party cloud provider’s infrastructure and we may incur significant liability from those customers and from third parties with respect to any breach affecting these systems. We may not be able to recover a material portion of our liabilities to our customers and third parties from a third-party cloud provider. It may also become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve our performance, especially during peak usage times, as our software becomes more complex and the usage of our software increases.Our cloud-based solutions provide customers with increased visibility into the level of active use of such solutions by the customers’ employees or other end users. This enhanced visibility may adversely impact renewal rates, if enough users in a customer organization do not actively engage with our solutions.In addition, the increasing adoption by our customers of cloud-delivered services as opposed to on-premises delivery of our products has and will introduce a number of risks unique to such a shift, including: •we may not be able to meet customer demand or solution requirements for cloud-delivered services; •we may incur costs at a higher than forecasted rate as we expand our cloud-delivered services thereby decreasing our gross margins;•we may encounter customer concerns regarding changes to pricing, service availability, and security; and•we may experience unpredictability in revenue as a result of usage fluctuations within our cloud service provider business.  Any of the above circumstances or events may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services or cyberattacks on our services infrastructure or corporate networks could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Use of our products and services has and may involve the transmission and/or storage of data, including in certain instances our own and our customers' and other parties’ business, financial and personal data. As we continue to evolve our products and features, we expect to host, transmit or otherwise have access to increasing amounts of potentially sensitive data. For example, we have recently added, and expect to continue to add, intelligence features to our Workspace offering that involve connections into a customer’s systems and applications, including enterprise resource planning and human resource management tools. Maintaining the security of our products, computer networks and data storage resources is important or service vulnerabilities could result in loss of and/or unauthorized access to confidential information. We have in the past, and may in the future, discover vulnerabilities in our products or underlying technology, which could expose our reputation, our operations and our customers to risk until such vulnerabilities are addressed. In addition, to the extent we are diverting our resources to address and mitigate these vulnerabilities, it may hinder our ability to deliver and support our products and customers in a timely manner. For example, in December 2019, we discovered a vulnerability in our Citrix Application Delivery Controller, Citrix Gateway and certain deployments of Citrix SD-WAN that would have allowed an unauthenticated 12attacker to perform arbitrary code execution. In response, we published a security advisory with detailed mitigations designed to stop a potential attack across all known scenarios and also developed and made available fixes to address this vulnerability.As a more general matter, unauthorized parties may attempt to misappropriate, alter, disclose, delete or otherwise compromise our confidential information or that of our employees, partners, customers or their end users, create system disruptions, product or service vulnerabilities or cause shutdowns. These unauthorized parties are becoming increasingly sophisticated, particularly those funded by or acting as formal or informal representatives of nation states.  Perpetrators of cyberattacks also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, malware and other malicious software programs that directly or indirectly attack our products, services or infrastructure (including third-party cloud service providers - such as Microsoft Azure, AWS and Google Cloud Platform - upon which we rely). Because techniques used by these perpetrators to sabotage or obtain unauthorized access to our systems change frequently and often are not recognized until long after being launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Despite our efforts to build secure services, we can make no assurance that we will be able to detect, prevent, timely and adequately address, or mitigate the negative effects of cyberattacks or other security compromises. For example, in March of 2019 we disclosed that we were the victim of a cyberattack during which international cyber criminals gained intermittent access to our internal network through “password spraying”, and over a limited number of days stole business documents and files from a shared network drive and a drive associated with a web-based tool used in our consulting practice.  Our investigation found no indication that the cyber criminals discovered and exploited any vulnerabilities in our products or customer cloud services to gain entry, and no indication that the security of any Citrix product or customer cloud service was compromised; however, this incident has resulted in three class action complaints related to the loss of personal data of current and former employees, significant costs (substantially funded by insurance coverage), and distraction of management.  In addition to the cyberattack discussed above, malicious actors regularly attack our network and services, and certain of those attacks have resulted in successful unauthorized access to our network and services.  For example, in late 2018, we became aware that perpetrators were using compromised credentials to gain access to individual ShareFile customer accounts in a so-called “credential stuffing” attack. These cyberattacks or any other compromises of our security measures (or those of one of our customers) as a result of third-party action, malware, employee error, vulnerabilities, malfeasance or otherwise could result in (among other consequences):•loss or destruction of customer, employee, partner and other business data; •disruptions in the operation of our business, such as interruption in the delivery of our cloud services;•costs associated with investigating, responding to and remediating the root cause, including additional monitoring of systems for unauthorized activity;•negative publicity and harm to our reputation or brand, which could result in lost trust from our customers, partners and employees and could lead some customers to seek to cancel subscriptions, stop using certain of our products or services, reduce or delay future purchases of our products or services, or use competing products or services;•individual and/or class action lawsuits, due to, among other things, the compromise of sensitive employee or customer information, which could result in financial judgments against us or the payment of settlement amounts and cause us to incur legal fees and costs;•regulatory enforcement action in the United States at both the federal and state level (such as by the Federal Trade Commission and/or state attorneys general) or globally under the growing number of data protection legal regimes, including without limitation the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, and the California Consumer Privacy Act, or CCPA, which could result in significant fines and/or penalties or other sanctions and which would cause us to incur legal fees and costs; •costs associated with responding to those impacted by such issues, such as: costs of providing data owners, consumers or others with notice; legal fees; costs of any additional fraud detection activities required by such customers' credit card issuers; and costs incurred by credit card issuers associated with the compromise;  •disputes with our insurance carriers concerning coverage for the costs associated with responding to, and mitigating an incident; and/or•longer-term remediation and security enhancement expenses.Any of these actions could materially and adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, while we maintain multiple layers of oversight over enterprise cybersecurity and data protection risks associated with our products, services, information technology infrastructure and related operations – including our management-level cybersecurity risk oversight committee comprised of senior executives across core functions, as well as our Technology, Data 13and Information Security Committee of the Board –  there is no guarantee that this oversight framework will be successful in providing the necessary governance to prevent or adequately respond to the actions described above.  Regulation of privacy and data security may adversely affect sales of our products and services and result in increased compliance costs.There has been, and we believe that there will continue to be, increased regulation with respect to the collection, use and handling of personal, financial and other information as regulatory authorities in the United States and around the world have recently passed or are currently considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, privacy and data security. This includes the California Consumer Privacy Act, or CCPA, which came into effect in January 2020, and the GDPR, which is a European Union-wide legal framework to govern data collection, use and sharing and related consumer privacy rights that became effective in May 2018. The CCPA provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches that may increase data breach litigation.  The GDPR provides significant penalties for non-compliance (up to 4% of global revenue).  European data protection authorities have already imposed fines for GDPR violations up to, in some cases, hundreds of millions of Euros.  Many states in the United States are also considering their own privacy laws that, in the absence of a preemptive Federal privacy law, could impose burdensome and conflicting requirements.  The interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws and industry standards in the United States, Europe and elsewhere can be uncertain and currently is in flux. Cloud-based solutions may be subject to further regulation, including data localization requirements and other restrictions concerning international transfer of data, the operational and cost impact of which cannot be fully known at this time.  In addition to the possibility of fines, application of these existing laws in a manner inconsistent with our data and privacy practices could result in an order requiring that we change our data and privacy practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Also, any new law or regulation, or interpretation of existing law or regulation, imposing greater fees or taxes or restriction on the collection, use or transfer of information or data internationally or over the Web, could result in a decline in the use and adversely affect sales of our solutions and our results of operations. Finally, as a technology vendor, our customers and regulators will expect that we can demonstrate compliance with current data privacy and security regulations as well as our privacy policies and the information we make available to our customers and the public about our data handling practices, and our inability to do so may adversely impact sales of our solutions and services to certain customers, particularly customers in highly-regulated industries, and could result in regulatory actions, fines, legal proceedings and negatively impact our brand, reputation and our business.Our business could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting the information technology market.The markets for our solutions and services are characterized by:•rapid technological change; •evolving industry standards; •fluctuations in customer demand; •changing customer business models and increasingly sophisticated customer needs; and •frequent new solution and service introductions and enhancements. The demand for our solutions and services depends substantially upon the general demand for business-related computer appliances and software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including capital spending levels, the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers, and general economic conditions. As we continue to grow our subscription service offerings, we must continue to innovate and develop new solutions and features to meet changing customer needs. Our failure to respond quickly to technological developments or customers’ increasing technological requirements could lower the demand for any solutions and services and/or make our solutions uncompetitive and obsolete. Moreover, the purchase of our solutions and services is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. We need to continue to develop our skills, tools and capabilities to capitalize on existing and emerging technologies, which will require us to devote significant resources.U.S. economic forecasts for the information technology, or IT, sector are uncertain and continue to highlight an industry in transition from legacy platforms to mobile, cloud, data analytics and social solutions. If our current and prospective customers cut costs, they may significantly reduce their information technology expenditures. Additionally, if our current and prospective customers shift their IT spending more rapidly towards newer technologies and solutions as mobile, cloud, data analytics and social platforms evolve, the demand for our solutions and services most aligned with legacy platforms (such as our desktop virtualization solutions) could decrease. Fluctuations in the demand for our solutions and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.14We face intense competition, which could result in customer loss, fewer customer orders and reduced revenues and margins. We sell our solutions and services in intensely competitive markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. We compete based on our ability to offer to our customers the most current and desired solution and services features. We expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors’ products may be less costly, more heavily discounted or free, provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our solutions. Additionally, there is a risk that our solutions may become outdated or that our market share may erode. Further, the announcement of the release, and the actual release, of new solutions incorporating similar features to our solutions could cause our existing and potential customers to postpone or cancel plans to license certain of our existing and future solution and service offerings. Existing or new solutions and services that provide alternatives to our solutions and services could materially impact our ability to compete in these markets. As the markets for our solutions and services, especially those solutions in early stages of development, continue to develop, additional companies, including companies with significant market presence in the computer hardware, software, cloud, networking, mobile, data sharing and related industries, could enter, or increase their footprint in, the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe price competition will remain a significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.We expect to continue to face additional competition as new participants enter our markets and as our current competitors seek to increase market share. Further, we may see new and increased competition in different geographic regions. The generally low barriers to entry in certain of our businesses increase the potential for challenges from new industry competitors, whether small and medium sized businesses or larger, more established companies. Smaller companies new to our market may have more flexibility to develop on more agile platforms and have greater ability to adapt their strategies and cost structures, which may give them a competitive advantage with our current or prospective customers. We may also experience increased competition from new types of solutions as the options for Workspace and Networking offerings increase. Further, as our industry evolves and if our company grows, companies with which we have strategic alliances may become competitors in other product areas, or our current competitors may enter into new strategic relationships with new or existing competitors, all of which may further increase the competitive pressures we face.In addition, the industry has been volatile and there has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue, especially in light of the increased availability of domestic cash resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the 2017 Tax Act. Also, we expect companies will attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving and volatile industry. For example, some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer a more comprehensive solution than they had previously offered. Further, some companies are making plans or may be under pressure by stockholders to divest businesses, and such divestitures may result in stronger competition. Additionally, as IT companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in the evolving digital workspace services, networking and data sharing markets, these companies continue to seek to deliver comprehensive IT solutions to end users and combine enterprise-level hardware and software solutions that may compete with our Workspace and Networking solutions. These consolidators or potential consolidators may have significantly greater financial, technical and other resources and brand loyalty than we do, and may be better positioned to acquire and offer complementary solutions and services. The companies resulting from these possible combinations may create more compelling solution and service offerings and be able to offer greater pricing flexibility or sales and marketing support for such offerings than we can. These heightened competitive pressures could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in our revenues or revenue growth rates, all of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.A significant portion of our revenues historically has come from our Application Virtualization and VDI solutions and our Networking products, and decreases in sales for these solutions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our revenues has historically come from our Application Virtualization and VDI solutions and Networking products. We continue to anticipate that sales of these solutions and products and related enhancements and upgrades will constitute a majority of our revenue for the near future. Declines and variability in sales of certain of these solutions and products could occur as a result of:•new competitive product releases and updates to existing products delivered as on premises solutions, especially cloud-based products;•industry trend to focus on the secure delivery of applications on mobile devices;•introduction of new or alternative technologies, products or service offerings by third parties;•termination or reduction of our product offerings and enhancements;•potential market saturation;15•failure to enter new markets;•price and product competition resulting from rapid and frequent technological changes and customer needs;•general economic conditions; •complexities and cost in implementation; •failure to deliver satisfactory technical support;•dissatisfied customers; or•lack of commercial success of our technology relationships.We have experienced increased competition in the Application Virtualization and VDI business from directly competing solutions, alternative products and products on new platforms. For example, AWS provides Amazon WorkSpaces and VMware provides Horizon, both of which compete with these offerings among numerous other competitors. Also, there continues to be an increase in the number of alternatives to Windows operating system powered desktops, in particular mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets. Users may increasingly turn to these devices to perform functions that would have been traditionally performed on desktops and laptops, which in turn may reduce the market for our Application Virtualization and VDI solutions. Further, increased use of certain SaaS applications may result in customers relying less on Windows applications. If sales of our Application Virtualization and VDI solutions decline as a result of these or other factors, our revenue would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Similarly, we have experienced increased competition for our Networking products, including our core Citrix ADC solution. For example, there are an increasing number of alternatives to traditional ADC hardware solutions, enabling our customers to build internal solutions, rely on open source technology or leverage software and cloud-based offerings. In addition, our Networking business generates a substantial portion of its revenues from a limited number of customers with uneven and declining purchasing patterns. As a result, the potential for declining sales within our Networking business may not be offset by gains in our other businesses, which could result in our operations and financial condition being adversely affected. If our Workspace strategy is not successful in addressing our customers’ evolving needs beyond traditional Application Virtualization and VDI solutions, we may be unable to expand our user base and our financial performance could be adversely impacted.Our success depends on customer and user adoption of our newer products and services. Increased adoption will depend on our ability to deliver a Workspace platform that provides value and use cases beyond traditional Application Virtualization and VDI solutions. The market for solutions that meet our customers’ needs in accessing and organizing their work in a secure way is evolving and dynamic. Our Workspace vision and solutions may fail to meet our customers’ needs and our revenue growth, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Delivering our new solutions presents technological and implementation challenges, and significant investments continue to be required to develop or acquire solutions to address those challenges. To the extent that our newer products and services are adopted more slowly or are displaced by competitive solutions offered by other companies, our revenue growth rates may slow materially or our revenue may decline substantially, we may fail to realize returns on our investments in new initiatives and our operating results could be materially adversely affected.In order to be successful, we must attract, engage, retain and integrate key employees and have adequate succession plans in place, and failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business.Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, engage, retain, and integrate qualified executives and other key employees throughout all areas of our business. Identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining highly-skilled managerial, technical, sa