BUSINESSBusiness OverviewWhat We DoCitrix is an enterprise software company focused on helping customers improve the productivity and user experience of their most valuable assets, their employees. We do this by creating a digital workspace that provides unified, secure, and reliable access to all applications and content employees need to be productive - anytime, anywhere, on any device. Our Networking solutions, which can be consumed via hardware or software, complement our Workspace solutions by delivering the applications and data employees need across any network with security, reliability and speed. As our customers manage the complexity created by the proliferation of Software-as-a-Service (SaaS)-based applications and the emergence of hybrid multi-cloud environments, our solutions are designed to provide end-users with the simplicity of a common user experience while ensuring IT administrators are able to deliver applications and data with the security and controls necessary to protect the enterprise and its customers.Our Business TransformationAs an organization, we are evolving our business in three primary ways:•On-Premise to Cloud: As the share of applications and data continues to move rapidly from on-premise data centers to the cloud, our product development and engineering resources have increasingly focused on delivering cloud-based solutions;•Perpetual to Subscription: Our business model is shifting away from selling perpetual licenses towards subscription, or recurring contracts in the form of SaaS, on-premise term, and consumption-based agreements; and •Point Products to Platform: Our offerings and our go-to-market activities are shifting away from selling individual point products towards our platform solution, in a tiered offering that provides us the ability to deliver a variety of value-enhancing modules to our customers in the future.3Citrix was incorporated in Delaware on April 17, 1989. Solutions and ServicesWe offer solutions and services that we categorize into three inter-related and complementary areas: Workspace, Networking and Professional Services. WorkspaceThe Citrix Workspace platform encompasses a broad range of features and functionalities that tie together the myriad of applications that reside within enterprises. It helps to elevate employee productivity and employee engagement and improve an enterprise’s security profile. Citrix Workspace delivers a unified, secure and intelligent workspace with single sign-on access to all the applications and content employees use in one unified platform. Citrix Workspace enables IT administrators to proactively manage security threats in complex, distributed, hybrid, multi-cloud and multi-device environments, and it empowers IT administrators to deliver applications to end users more securely than operating them natively. Intelligent analytics and user behavior insights are derived for the enhanced security, management, orchestration, and automation of workspaces and application delivery.  Citrix Workspace comes with ready integrations with widely-used business applications, including Salesforce, Workday, SAP Ariba and SAP Concur, ServiceNow, Microsoft Outlook and G Suite and is compatible with identity and access management providers, including Okta, Ping, Radius, and GoogleID. Citrix Workspace can be delivered on-premise, running in a customers’ datacenter, or in the cloud. Pricing for the Citrix Workspace platform is tiered based on the level of functionalities provided. Capabilities offered include: •Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops - gives employees the freedom to work anywhere on any device while cutting IT costs and securely delivering Windows, Linux, Web and SaaS apps, and full virtual desktops. •Citrix Content Collaboration - provides a secure, cloud-based file sharing and storage solution built to give users enterprise-class data services across all corporate and personal devices.•Citrix Endpoint Management - provides unified endpoint management allowing IT administrators to adhere to security and compliance requirements for "bring your own device" programs and corporate devices while enabling user productivity. Centralizes the management of mobile devices, traditional desktops, laptops and Internet of Things, or IoT, through a single platform, directly integrating with Microsoft EMS/Intune to extend mobility and device management capabilities.•Workspace Intelligence - customizes and streamlines user workflows and microapp creation with low-code tooling, automates tasks and functions, and allows end users to perform actions across various applications directly within the Citrix Workspace.NetworkingOur Networking solutions optimize the performance of Citrix Workspace. They enable organizations to deliver applications and data with security, reliability, and speed. Our Networking products can be consumed under pooled licensing agreements that give customers flexibility to consume in either a hardware form factor or as software, over the term of the agreement. Our networking capabilities include: •Citrix ADC - an application delivery controller and load balancing solution for web, traditional and cloud-native applications regardless of where they are hosted.•Citrix SD-WAN - a next-generation WAN Edge solution that delivers flexible, automated, secure connectivity and performance for the workspace.The combination of our Workspace and Networking businesses generates data that spans network traffic, users, files, and endpoints. The application of machine learning to these rich sources of data enables us to provide valuable analytics and insights to customers. Our cloud-based analytics service works across the Citrix portfolio of products as well as third-party products.•Citrix Analytics for Security continuously assesses the behavior of Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops users and Citrix Workspace users and applies actions to protect sensitive corporate information. The aggregation and correlation of data across networks, virtualized applications and desktops, and content collaboration tools enables the generation of valuable insights and more focused actions to address user security threats. 4•Citrix Analytics for Performance uses machine learning to quantify user experience, providing end-to-end visibility and enabling capacity planning and proactive response to performance degradation.•Citrix Analytics for Operations collates and presents information on user activities such as websites visited and bandwidth spent. It also reports bandwidth use and detected threats, such as malware and phishing sites. Support and ServicesWe offer support and services to help business partners and customers manage the quality of implementation, operation and support of our solutions:•Customer Success Services - offered in support of our software and our cloud-based services. Customers are given a choice of tiered offerings combining product version upgrades, guidance, enablement, support and proactive monitoring to help customers and partners fully realize their business goals and maximize their Citrix investments. Additionally, customers may upgrade to receive personalized support from a dedicated team led by an assigned account manager. •Hardware Maintenance - offered in support of our Networking products. Customers are given a choice of tiered offerings including technical support, software upgrades, and replacement of malfunctioning appliances. Dedicated account management is available as an add-on to the program. •Citrix Consulting - guides the successful implementation of Citrix technologies and solutions with proven methodologies, tools and leading practices. Citrix Consulting focuses on strategic engagements with enterprise customers who have complex, mission-critical, or large-scale Citrix deployments. •Product Training & Certification - enables customers and partners to be successful with Citrix and achieve business objectives faster. Authorized Citrix training is available as needed. Traditional or virtual instructor-led training offerings feature Citrix Certified Instructors delivering Citrix-developed courseware in a classroom or remote setting at one of our Citrix Authorized Learning Centers worldwide. Customers  Our customers are among the largest enterprises and institutions in the world spanning every major industry vertical, including health care, financial services, technology, manufacturing, consumer, and government agencies. Our largest customers are often our longest tenured customers.Technology Relationships We have a number of technology relationships in place to accelerate the development of existing and future solutions and our go-to-market initiatives. These relationships include cross-licensing, original equipment manufacturer (OEM), resell, joint reference architectures, and other arrangements that result in better solutions for our customers. MicrosoftFor over 30 years, Citrix and Microsoft have maintained a strategic partnership spanning product development, go-to-market initiatives and partner development, enabling our mutual customers’ secure, high-performance delivery of applications, desktops and data to their employees anywhere, anytime on any device. Together, Citrix and Microsoft offer solutions and services that aid and accelerate the transition from on-premises IT infrastructure and practices to emerging hybrid-cloud and multi-cloud delivery models for the full breadth of legacy and modern applications. These solutions and services include the unique ability to deliver Windows 10 desktops hosted within the Microsoft Azure cloud platform, services to deploy apps directly on Azure, Office 365 and Microsoft Teams integrations, and smart tools to simplify the deployment of a new class of integrated workspaces that include legacy Windows apps and a growing array of popular SaaS applications. In 2019, we announced several new integrations designed to add value to Microsoft technologies, including Citrix Managed Desktops, Citrix Day One Support for Windows Virtual Desktop (WVD), Citrix HDX Optimization for Microsoft Teams, Citrix Analytics integrations with Microsoft Security Graph and Unified Experience with Citrix Workspace and Microsoft Outlook.GoogleCitrix and Google Cloud have been strategic partners for over eight years, offering secure and simple digital workspace solutions that free employees to work anywhere, anytime. Expanding on the flexibility and choice we provide to companies in 5enabling a superior digital work experience, we offer joint solutions with Citrix Workspace for Google Cloud Platform, Chrome Enterprise, and G Suite. These solutions empower companies to deliver unified access to all of the apps employees need and prefer to use on Google devices and operating systems and fuel a simple, intelligent experience that improves engagement and productivity. In 2019, we made Citrix SD-WAN and Citrix ADC available on Google Cloud Platform, enabling companies to extend their networks to the cloud and deliver applications in an agile and scalable way that gives users access to the tools they need and prefer to use and to perform at their best anywhere, anytime from any device. We also extended Citrix Workspace to Google Cloud, expanding the flexibility and choice companies have in transitioning to the cloud by enabling them to quickly and efficiently deliver apps to Google devices and operating systems and create a superior digital work experience that unleashes productivity and innovation.SAPCitrix has been partnering with SAP for more than a decade to provide virtualization, management, networking and cloud services to our joint customers. Together, SAP products and Citrix technologies enable the mobile workspace to run better. SAP solutions empower people to work together more efficiently and use business insight more effectively to stay ahead of the competition. Citrix Workspace offers integrations from leading SAP applications including Ariba, Concur and SuccessFactors. Additional RelationshipsWe have developed our partner ecosystem to enable infrastructure choice for our Citrix Cloud customers. For public cloud choice, we have relationships with Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Oracle. We continue to expand the Citrix Workspace appliance program to enable a hybrid cloud choice for on-premises solutions, and we are forging partnerships with SaaS providers to deliver cloud access control and intelligent workspaces. Delivering Secure and Cost-Effective Hybrid Cloud Solutions with Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Cisco, Lenovo and FlexxibleITWe recognize that many enterprise customers have significant investments in on-premises infrastructure that continues to serve their financial investments or have regulatory requirements that require data control and governance. Together with our infrastructure partners like Hewlett Packard Enterprise, or HPE, Cisco, Lenovo and FlexxibleIT, we provide a simple and fast way to deploy hybrid cloud app and desktop virtualization that is scalable and secure. With Citrix Cloud services, companies can quickly and cost-effectively create a centrally managed, enterprise-class virtualized app and desktop environment in a rack-mounted appliance and manage VDI as-a-service in the cloud with simple subscription-based pricing. Compute, network and storage are pre-integrated with a Citrix Cloud connection in an easy to use hyper converged infrastructure, or HCI, appliance, and the offering is tested and certified as Citrix Ready, which showcases verified products that are trusted to enhance Citrix solutions for mobility, virtualization, networking and cloud platforms. Driving Digital Transformation with Global System IntegratorsDigital transformation is a strategic initiative that companies around the world are undertaking to transform their operations. To help accelerate their journeys, we continue to invest in partnerships with Global System Integrators who provide solutions and services that improve employee experience and engagement with Citrix Workspace and Citrix Networking solutions, including Fujitsu, DXC, IBM and Wipro. In 2019, we announced several key integrations with Fujitsu. Integration between Citrix Workspace and RunMyProcess DigitalSuite enables companies to drive greater efficiency and productivity by organizing and automating work in an intelligent way. And integration between Citrix Workspace and DigitalSuite Business Fabric, a connected and collaborative ecosystem designed to enable digital business innovation by providing seamless access to information from IoT devices, ensures employees have unified, secure and reliable access to this information on any device.We continue to provide an easy way for our customers to locate compatible solutions and our channel partners to evaluate and deploy joint offerings through our Citrix Ready program. The Citrix Ready Program is a technology partner program that helps software and hardware vendors of all types develop and integrate their products with Citrix technology. It includes partners like AWS, Cisco, Google, and Microsoft and hundreds of other technology companies. In order to earn the Citrix Ready designation, partners must validate their solutions following a testing regimen that ensures compatibility with our solutions.  6Research and Development We focus our research and development efforts on developing new functionalities across our solutions, while continuing to invest in functional improvements to our core technologies. We solicit extensive feedback concerning product development from customers and through our channel distributors and partners. We believe that our global software development teams and our core technologies represent a significant competitive advantage for us. As of December 31, 2019, we held a worldwide portfolio of 3,247 patents and had an additional 1,489 patent applications pending. We incurred research and development expenses of $518.9 million in 2019, $440.0 million in 2018 and $415.8 million in 2017. Sales, Marketing and Services We market and license our solutions through multiple channels worldwide, including selling through resellers, direct and over the Web. Our partner community comprises thousands of value-added resellers, or VARs, known as Citrix Solution Advisors, value-added distributors, or VADs, system integrators, or SIs, independent software vendors, or ISVs, OEMs, and Citrix Service Providers, or CSPs. Distribution channels are managed by our worldwide sales and services organization. Partners receive training and certification opportunities to support our portfolio of solutions and services.We reward our partners that identify new business, and provide sales expertise, services delivery, customer education, technical implementation and support of our portfolio of solutions through our incentive program. We continue to focus on increasing the productivity of our existing partners, while also adding new transacting partners, building capacity through targeted recruitment, and introducing programs to increase partner mindshare, limit channel conflict and increase partner loyalty to us.As our customers shift workloads to the cloud, we have been cultivating a global base of technology partners within our CSP program. Our CSP program provides subscription-based services in which the CSP partners host software services to their end users. Our CSP partners, consisting of managed service providers, ISVs, Citrix Solution Advisors, hosting providers and telcos, among others, license our desktop, application, networking and endpoint management solutions on a monthly consumption basis. With our software, these partners then create differentiated offerings of their own, consisting of cloud-hosted applications and cloud-hosted desktops, which they manage for various customers, ranging from SMBs to enterprise IT. Besides supplying technology, we are actively engaged in assisting these partners in developing their hosted businesses either within their respective data centers or leveraging public cloud infrastructure by supplying business and marketing assistance.Engagement with SIs and ISVs continues to be a substantial part of our strategic roadmap within large enterprise and government markets. Our integrator partnerships include organizations such as DXC, Fujitsu, IBM, Wipro and others, who all deliver consultancy or global offerings powered by the Citrix Workspace. The ISV program maintains a strong representation across targeted industry verticals including healthcare, financial services and telecommunications. Members in the ISV program include Allscripts, Cerner Corporation and Epic Systems Corporation. For all of our channels, we regularly take actions to improve the effectiveness of our partner programs and further strengthen our channel relationships through management of non-performing partners, recruitment of partners with expertise in selling into new markets and forming additional strategic global and national partnerships.Our corporate marketing organization provides an integrated global approach to sales and industry event support, digital and social marketing, sales enablement tools and collateral, advertising, direct mail, industry analyst relations and public relations coverage to market our solutions. Our efforts in marketing are focused on generating leads for our sales organization and our indirect channels to acquire net new accounts and expand our presence with existing customers. Our partner development organization actively supports our partners to improve their commitment and capabilities with Citrix solutions. Our customer sales organization consists of field-based sales engineers and corporate sales professionals who work directly with our largest customers, and coordinate integration services provided by our partners. Additional sales personnel, working in central locations and in the field, provide support including recruitment of prospective partners and technical training with respect to our solutions.In fiscal year 2019 and 2018, one distributor, the Arrow Group, accounted for 15% and 14%, respectively, of our total net revenues. In fiscal year 2017, two distributors, Ingram Micro and the Arrow Group, accounted for 13% and 12%, respectively, of our total net revenues. Our distributor arrangements with Ingram Micro and the Arrow Group consist of several non-exclusive, independently negotiated agreements with their respective subsidiaries, each of which covers different countries or regions. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 for information regarding our revenue recognition policy.7International revenues (sales outside the United States) accounted for 48.2% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019, 47.0% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 46.3% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. For detailed information on our international revenues, please refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019.Segment RevenueWe operate under one reportable segment. For additional information, see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019.OperationsFor our cloud-based solutions, we use a combination of co-located hosting facilities and increasingly use Microsoft Azure and AWS as well as other infrastructure-as-a-service providers. For our Networking products, we use independent contractors to provide a redundant source of manufacture and assembly capabilities. Independent contractors provide us with the flexibility needed to meet our product quality and delivery requirements. We have manufacturing relationships that we enter into in the ordinary course of business, primarily with Flextronics, under which we have subcontracted the majority of our hardware manufacturing activity, generally on a purchase order basis. These third-party contract manufacturers also provide final test, warehousing and shipping services. This subcontracting activity extends from prototypes to full production and includes activities such as material procurement, final assembly, test, control, shipment to our customers and repairs. Together with our contract manufacturers, we design, specify and monitor the tests that are required to meet internal and external quality standards. Our contract manufacturers manufacture our products based on forecasted demand for our solutions. Each of the contract manufacturers procures components necessary to assemble the products in our forecast and test the products according to our specifications. We dual-source our components; however, in some instances, those sources may be located in the same geographic area. Accordingly, if a natural disaster occurs in one of those areas, we may need to seek additional sources. Products are then shipped to our distributors, VARs or end-users. If the products go unsold for specified periods of time, we may incur carrying charges or obsolete material charges for products ordered to meet our forecast or customer orders. In 2019, we did not experience any material difficulties or significant delays in the manufacture and assembly of our products.While it is generally our practice to promptly ship our products upon receipt of properly finalized orders, at any given time, we have confirmed product license orders that have not shipped and are unfulfilled. Backlog includes the aggregate amounts we expect to recognize as point in time revenue in the following quarter associated with contractually committed amounts for on-premise subscription software licenses, as well as confirmed product license orders that have not shipped and are unfulfilled. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the amount of backlog was not material. We do not believe that backlog, as of any particular date, is a reliable indicator of future performance.We believe that our fourth quarter revenues and expenses are affected by a number of seasonal factors, including the lapse of many corporations' fiscal year budgets and an increase in amounts paid pursuant to our sales compensation plans due to compensation plan accelerators that are often triggered in the fourth quarter. We believe that these seasonal factors are common within our industry. Such factors historically have resulted in first quarter revenues in any year being lower than the immediately preceding fourth quarter. We expect this trend to continue through the first quarter of 2020. In addition, our European operations generally generate lower revenues in the summer months because of the generally reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer. This seasonal factor also typically results in higher fourth quarter revenues on a sequential basis. Competition We sell our solutions in intensely competitive markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. As the markets for our solutions and services continue to develop, additional companies, including those with significant market presence in the computer appliances, software, cloud services and networking industries, could enter the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe price competition could become a more significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Technology Relationships” under “Risk Factors” below. WorkspaceOur primary competitors for various components of our Workspace offering include VMware, Okta, Box, Dropbox, AWS Workspaces, Nutanix, MobileIron and Microsoft. We believe Citrix Workspace is differentiated in that it is the only solution on the market that organizes, guides and automates work for an individual employee, offers unified management and security 8policies for all components of the digital workspace that uniquely addresses the needs of on-premises, cloud or hybrid deployments and surrounds all of that with innovative security controls. Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops are based on a proprietary technology platform which is differentiated from basic virtualization solutions offered by competitors such as VMware Horizon, AWS Workspaces, and Nutanix Xi Frame, by robust security, higher flexibility and what we believe to be a better end-user experience that enables IT to deliver Windows and Linux apps and desktops for better business outcomes. We also provide a hardened browser integrated into a web/SaaS access control solution, enabling customers to tightly control how web and SaaS applications are consumed by their users and prevents information leakage. Citrix Endpoint Management competes with AirWatch by VMware, MobileIron, BlackBerry and others. We believe we differentiate ourselves from these competitors by providing a complete solution, with mobile device management, mobile application management and superior core mobile productivity applications, including secure mobile email, calendar, browser, and editing along with integration with Microsoft's EMS mobility management platform, Microsoft Intune and Microsoft Office 365. Our apps feature unique workflow integrations designed to help people work better, a significant advantage over competitors that do not focus on the end user experience and either have basic applications or rely on third parties to deliver similar integrations. With respect to our Citrix Content Collaboration solutions, direct competition includes Dropbox, Box, Syncplicity, Egnyte, BlackBerry Workspaces and Accellion, as well as legacy solutions such as traditional file transfer protocol. Many of these competitors have strong brand recognition through consumer and free versions of their products. We believe Citrix Content Collaboration offers a superior solution for businesses as it is built specifically for the needs of the enterprise. Our solutions are further differentiated by their ability to integrate data stored on local file repositories, such as network shares, SharePoint or Documentum, which simplifies onboarding of the solution as there is no migration of data as required by competitors.NetworkingOur Citrix ADC hardware products compete in traditional data-center-deployed application environments against other established competitors, including F5 Networks, Inc., Radware, A10 Networks and Cisco. In addition, with new cloud-integrated and software-centric use cases, large cloud providers, such as AWS and Microsoft Azure, provide customers with competitive ADC solutions built into their public cloud platforms. We continue to expand our open source integrations with leading companies to enhance feature capability and invest in go-to-market resources to market Citrix ADC to our existing customer base and new potential customers. Our Citrix SD-WAN product competes against both traditional WAN optimization and infrastructure vendors, such as Riverbed, VMware, Cisco, Silver Peak Systems and Oracle. Additionally, WAN service providers are integrating and reselling SD-WAN products as a part of their service offering from vendors including VMware, Cisco, Riverbed and Versa Networks, Inc. We have partnered with Microsoft to provide SD-WAN capability in Azure as a part of the Azure Virtual WAN and have also made our solution available on Google Cloud.Technology and Intellectual PropertyInnovation is a core Citrix competency. Our success is dependent upon our solutions, which are based on intellectual property and core proprietary and open source technologies. These technologies include innovations that optimize the end-to-end user experience, through workspaces and analytics, in virtual desktop and virtual application environments, and enhance networking capabilities to deliver a holistic content collaboration and mobile computing experience.We have been awarded numerous domestic and foreign patents and have numerous pending patent applications in the United States and foreign countries. Certain of our technology is also protected under copyright laws. Additionally, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality and proprietary information agreements to protect our proprietary technology. We have established proprietary trademark rights in markets across the globe, and own hundreds of U.S. and foreign trademark registrations and pending registration applications for marks comprised of or incorporating the Citrix name. See our "Research and Development" discussion above and “Risk Factors” below.9Available InformationOur Internet address is http://www.citrix.com. We make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019.EmployeesAs of December 31, 2019, we had approximately 8,400 employees. In certain countries outside the United States, our relations with employees are governed by labor regulations that provide for specific terms of employment between our company and our employees.10