BUSINESSGeneral Citrix is leading the transition to software-defining the workplace, uniting virtualization, mobility management, networking and SaaS solutions to enable new ways for businesses and people to work better. Citrix solutions power business mobility through secure, mobile workspaces that provide people with instant access to apps, desktops, data and communications on any device, over any network or cloud. We market and license our products directly to customers, over the Web, and through systems integrators, or SIs, in addition to indirectly through value-added resellers, or VARs, value-added distributors, or VADs, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs and service providers.Citrix is a Delaware corporation founded on April 17, 1989. Business OverviewFor the past twenty-six years, we have been a visionary in software-defining the workplace guided by our core belief that “work is not a place". A software-defined workplace is one where people can securely and effortlessly collaborate across the boundaries of time, place and device. In a software-defined workplace, people create better business outcomes, they are more productive and engaged and their businesses are more agile and responsive to change.We have positioned, scaled and transformed Citrix through significant growth phases from remote access, to web app delivery, to virtualization, to mobile workspaces and now we are doing it again. Our customers are faced with the pressures to deliver business results while creating an engaging work-life experience for their employees. Our focus on enabling a software-defined workplace is putting Citrix in front of this strategic challenge through the unique integration of our workspace services, delivery networking and mobility apps. Products and ServicesOur products and services target customers of all sizes, from individuals and professional consumers, to large global enterprises. Two divisions, the Enterprise and Service Provider division and the Mobility Apps (formerly Software as a Service, or SaaS) division, administer the research and development, product marketing, and product management for our offerings. Our Enterprise and Service Provider division is comprised of Workspace Services (formerly Mobile and Desktop) and Delivery Networking (formerly Networking and Cloud) products. Our Mobility Apps (formerly SaaS) division is comprised of Communications Cloud, Documents Cloud and Workflow Cloud products. Broadly, as an organizing principle, we group our offerings in the following main categories within our two divisions:Workspace ServicesMobile PlatformsOur Enterprise Mobility Management, or EMM products help organizations secure and manage mobile devices along with the apps and data that reside on the mobile device. XenMobile® allows IT to easily meet mobile device security and compliance requirements for BYO and corporate liable devices while giving users the freedom to experience work and life their way. Unlike other mobile device management, or MDM and mobile application management, or MAM products, XenMobile provides the quickest path to productivity for mobile users with a low cost of ownership for IT:•XenMobile® Enterprise is a comprehensive solution to manage mobile devices, apps, and data. Users have single-click access to all of their mobile, SaaS and Windows apps from a unified corporate app store, including seamlessly integrated email, browser, data sharing, IT support and collaboration apps. IT can deliver a rich user experience with WorxMail™ for secure mobile email, calendar and contact access, WorxWeb™ for secure browsing and Sharefile for enterprise data syncing. IT gains control over mobile devices with full configuration, security, provisioning and support capabilities. Flexible deployment options give IT the choice to manage XenMobile in the cloud or on-premise. In addition, XenMobile securely delivers Worx Mobile Apps, mobile apps built for businesses using the Worx App  3Software Development Kit, or SDK and found through the Worx App Gallery. With XenMobile, IT can meet their compliance and control needs while users get the freedom to experience work and life their way.Desktop and Application VirtualizationOur Desktop and Application Virtualization products are built to transform and reduce the cost of traditional Windows app and desktop management by virtualizing applications and desktops in the datacenter and delivering a cloud-like service to users anywhere on any device. We differentiate from basic virtualization solutions with robust security and flexibility to enable IT to deliver Windows apps and desktops for better business outcomes.•XenDesktop® is a fully integrated desktop virtualization system that gives customers the flexibility to deliver desktops and applications as cloud services - enabling people to work better and simplifying desktop and app management. XenDesktop includes HDX technologies to give users a high-definition experience - even when using multimedia, real-time collaboration, USB devices, and 3D graphics content - while consuming less bandwidth than competing solutions. XenDesktop breaks down traditional cost barriers by reducing server and storage costs through the use of pooled desktops that can be personalized on-demand. XenDesktop is available in multiple editions designed for different requirements, from simple VDI-only deployments to sophisticated, enterprise-class desktop and application delivery services that can meet the needs of everything from basic call center environments to high-powered graphics workstations. In XenDesktop Enterprise and Platinum editions, customers also receive the industry-leading Citrix XenApp to manage and mobilize Windows applications.•Citrix XenApp® is a widely deployed solution that allows Windows applications to be delivered as cloud services to Android and iOS mobile devices, Macs, PCs and thin clients. XenApp enables people to work better by running applications in the security of the data center and using HDX technologies to deliver a superior user experience to any device, anywhere. XenApp can optimize the application experience for smartphones, tablets and touchscreen laptops, providing intuitive touch capabilities for the latest generation of devices. Keeping applications under the centralized control of IT administrators enhances data security and reduces the costs of managing applications on every PC. XenApp runs on all current versions of Microsoft® Windows Server® and tightly integrates with the Microsoft® Desktop Optimization Pack, Microsoft App-V, and Microsoft System Center. Our joint solution lowers the cost of delivering and maintaining Windows applications for all users in the enterprise. The capabilities of XenApp are available standalone as well as seamlessly integrated within with XenDesktop Enterprise and Platinum Editions.Citrix Workspace SuiteWe offer customers the opportunity to acquire our mobility, desktop and app products through a single integrated product offering - the Citrix Workspace Suite. Citrix Workspace Suite is a complete, integrated business mobility solution for helping people and business become more productive with an on-demand mobile workspace. •Citrix Workspace Suite™ delivers the user experience for any app or desktop using a universal client - Citrix Receiver™ - available on all tablets, smartphones, PCs, Macs or thin clients, IT can securely deliver content over low bandwidth high latency WANs, highly variable 3G/4G mobile networks or a reliable corporate LAN to ensure native experience. Citrix Workspace Suite offers enterprise grade security to ensure data and applications are always secure and compliant. Workers can access and sync all of their data from any device and securely share it with colleagues and customers. Organizations can minimize loss of intellectual property and sensitive private information through data encryption, password authentication, secure lock and wipe on the device or through centralization of applications and desktops which keeps all content in the datacenter. Citrix Workspace Suite provides a single, flexible solution that can streamline application and desktop deployment and lifecycle management to reduce IT costs. By centrally managing and delivering on-demand standard images, IT can improve the success rate of application and desktop image updates and provide role-based management, configuration, security and support for corporate and employee-owned devices. Delivery NetworkingOur Delivery Networking products allow organizations to deliver cloud services to any device with high performance, security and reliability. •NetScaler® is an all-in-one Web application delivery controller designed to make applications run five times faster by application accelerator methods such as hypertext transfer protocol, or HTTP compression and caching, ensuring application availability through the advanced L4-7 load balancer and content switching methods; increase application security with an integrated application firewall; and substantially lower costs by offloading servers to enable server consolidation.•ByteMobile® Smart Capacity™ solutions encompass a range of functionality that helps mobile network operators effectively address the traffic challenges and revenue opportunities of the mobile data revolution. These solutions  4include video optimization, web optimization, policy control, mobile analytics, adaptive traffic management, and quality of experience management.•CloudBridge™ connects enterprise datacenters to any end point required of network branches, public and private clouds, data centers and other third party providers. The flexibility of CloudBridge allows enterprises to turn on optimization and acceleration features to ensure quality of experience for desktops, applications, video and multimedia applications for branch and mobile users. CloudBridge is optimized for virtual desktops and applications delivered by XenDesktop and XenApp. Mobility AppsCommunications Cloud, Documents Cloud and Workflow Cloud products allow organizations to enable mobile workstyles and offer employees the ability to move seamlessly across a diverse mix of devices and collaborate and share information. Communications Cloud•GoToMeeting® is an easy-to-use, secure and cost-effective product for online meetings, sales demonstrations and collaborative gatherings. GoToMeeting users can easily host, or participate in online meetings from a Mac, PC, iPad, iPhone, Windows 8 tablet, Windows Phone or Android device. GoToMeeting comes equipped with integrated conference dial-in numbers, Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP and HDFaces® high-definition video conferencing. It features an advanced, secure communication architecture that uses industry-standard secure sockets layer, or SSL, encryption.•GoToWebinar® is an easy-to-use, do-it-yourself webinar product, allowing organizations to increase market reach and effectively present online to geographically dispersed audiences. GoToWebinar users can easily host, attend or participate in a webinar session from a Mac, PC or mobile device without significant training or IT support; attendees can join from a Mac, PC, iPad, iPhone or Android device. GoToWebinar includes such features as full-service registration with real-time reports; customized branding; automated email templates; polling and survey capabilities; a webinar dashboard for monitoring attendance and participation; easy presenter controls for changing presenters; high-definition webcam sharing for up to 6 organizers and panelists and VoIP and toll-based phone options. •GoToTraining® is an easy-to-use and secure online training product that enables individuals and enterprises to provide interactive training sessions to customers and employees in any location. GoToTraining users can easily create curriculums for their students from a Mac or PC without significant training or IT support; attendees can join from a Mac, PC, iPad, iPhone or Android device. GoToTraining includes such features as full-service registration with real-time reports; materials; automated email templates; polling and survey capabilities as well as testing; and high-definition webcam sharing for up to 6 participants and VoIP and toll-based phone options. •OpenVoice® is a reservation-less audio conferencing service, providing robust web-based account tools that allows user provisioning and audio meeting controls for users to manage small and large audio conferences without operator assistance. OpenVoice Integrates seamlessly with all Communications Cloud products, adding a toll-free number to online sessions.Documents Cloud•ShareFile® is a secure, cloud-based file sharing and storage solution built for business. ShareFile enables business professionals to manage and share data securely and easily and solves the mobility and collaboration needs of users. It replaces insecure and inconsistent methods of transferring large and confidential files including email attachment, FTP and consumer cloud storage services. ShareFile protects client data throughout the storage and transfer process, using up to 256-bit encryption and SSL or Transport Layer Security, or TLS encryption protocols for transfer and 256-bit encryption for files at rest on ShareFile servers. Password protection and granular access to folders and files stored with ShareFile ensure that data remains in control of the company. With ShareFile Enterprise, organizations can manage their data on premises in customer managed StorageZones, choose Citrix managed secure cloud options or create a mix of both to meet the needs for data sovereignty, compliance, performance and costs. In addition, ShareFile supports e-signature and approval workflows.•GoToMyPC® is an online service that enables mobile workstyles by providing secure, remote access to a PC or Mac from virtually any Internet-connected computer, as well as from supported iOS or Android mobile devices, such as the iPad, iPhone, Kindle Fire and, Samsung Galaxy. GoToMyPC sets up easily with a secure encrypted connection and enables individuals to remotely use any resources hosted on their desktop just as though they were sitting in front of it.  5Workflow Cloud•GoToAssist® provides easy-to-use cloud-based IT support solutions to deliver maximum uptime for people and their computers, mobile devices and apps. GoToAssist's integrated toolset is built specifically for IT managers, consultants and managed service providers. License Updates and MaintenanceWe provide several ways for customers to receive upgrades, support and maintenance for products.•Subscription Advantage provides customers access to the latest product version updates when made available during their membership term. These updates include major changes to the product architecture and updates to the feature set of a product. Citrix software products eligible for participating in the Subscription Advantage program come with the first year of Subscription Advantage embedded into the cost of the product.•Technical Support Services are specifically designed to address the variety of challenges facing our customers’ IT environments. We offer several support-level options, global coverage and personalized relationship management. Post-sale technical support is offered through Citrix-operated support centers located in the United States, Ireland, Japan, Hong Kong, Australia, Singapore and India. In most cases, we provide technical advice to distributors, resellers, service providers and entities with which we have a technology relationship, who act as the first line of technical assistance for end-users.•Premier Support provides 24x7x365 unlimited-incidents worldwide support for Citrix software products covered by Subscription Advantage. Available at the time of product purchase or with a Subscription Advantage renewal, Premier Support is offered on a per license basis.•Hardware Maintenance provides technical support from Citrix experts to diagnose and resolve issues encountered with appliances. It also offers the latest software upgrades and replacement of malfunctioning appliances to minimize organizational downtime. Additionally, dedicated account management is available as an add-on to the program for an even higher level of service.•Software Maintenance combines 24x7x365 unlimited worldwide support with product version upgrades when available. The first year of Software Maintenance is required with certain corresponding product purchases.Professional Services We provide a portfolio of professional services to our business partners and customers to manage the quality of implementation, operation and support of our solutions. These services are available for additional fees paid on an annual or transactional basis.•Citrix Consulting helps guide the successful implementation of Citrix technologies and solutions through the use of proven methodologies, tools and leading practices. Citrix Consulting focuses on strategic engagements with enterprise customers who have complex, mission-critical, or large-scale Citrix deployments. These engagements are typically fee-based on-site engagements for the most challenging projects in scope and complexity, requiring consultants who are uniquely qualified with project methodology and Citrix product expertise. Citrix Consulting is also responsible for the development of best practice knowledge that is disseminated to businesses with which we have a business relationship and end-users through training and written documentation. Leveraging these best practices enables our integration resellers to provide more complex systems, reach new buyers within existing customer organizations and provide more sophisticated system proposals to prospective customers. Citrix Consulting has worked with Fortune Global 500 companies, technology providers, and government organizations to deliver solutions that achieve their unique technical and business objectives.•Product Training & Certification helps enable our customers and partners to be successful with Citrix and achieve their business objectives faster. Authorized Citrix training is available when and how it is needed. Traditional or virtual instructor-led training offerings feature Citrix Certified Instructors delivering training in a classroom or remote setting at one of approximately 400 Citrix Authorized Learning Centers™, or CALCs, worldwide. CALCs are staffed with instructors that have been certified by us and teach their students using Citrix-developed courseware. Self-Paced Online offerings, available to students 24 hours a day, seven days a week, provide technically robust course content without an instructor and include hands-on practice via virtual labs. Certifications validate key skills and are available for administrators, engineers, architects and sales professionals.  6Technology Our products are based on a full range of industry-standard open source technologies. In addition, certain of our products are also based on our proprietary technologies.•Citrix HDX™ Technologies is a family of innovations that optimize the end-to-end user experience in virtual desktop and virtual application environments. These technologies incorporate our ICA protocol, which consists of server- and client-side technology that allows graphical user interfaces to be transmitted securely over any network, and include HDX Broadcast, MediaStream, Realtime, Mobile, Plug-n-Play RichGraphics, WAN Optimization and Adaptive Orchestration features which work together to provide a high-definition user experience across a wide array of applications, devices and networks. •FlexCast® technologies combine a range of desktop and application virtualization innovations that work in concert to enable enterprise IT departments the ability to support a wide range of use cases. •Citrix personalization technologies increase desktop virtualization adoption by providing a personalized end-user experience while optimizing resource usage in the data center and overall total cost of ownership, or TCO. •NetScaler® Software Packet Engine, or the Packet Engine, forms the foundation of our NetScaler line of products. The Packet Engine allows high-performance networking and packet processing without the need for special purpose hardware.•NetScaler® nCore™ Technology is an architecture which enables execution of multiple Packet Engines in parallel. nCore technology allows the distribution of packet flows across multiple central processing unit cores to achieve efficient, high-performance parallel processing across multiple Packet Engines. The new architecture incorporates innovations in flow distribution and state sharing and provides for efficient execution across Packet Engines.•ByteMobile® Adaptive Traffic Management System combines functions such as video and web optimization, caching, policy control, and reporting and analytics into a single centrally managed element. These functions are performed based on dynamic awareness of mobile carrier traffic conditions and also based on User Experience Indexing (UXI), where the quality of a single mobile subscriber’s data experience can be tracked and enhanced by automated modifications made to network performance.•XenMobile® is our foundational technology that delivers a holistic mobile computing platform for enterprises. Its main components include MDM, MAM and a set of mobile applications including secure email, corporate app store, web browsing, data sharing, secure note taking and document editing on a host of mobile platforms including iOS, Android and Windows mobile.•Citrix Internet Overlay Platform is our foundational technology for GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar, GoToTraining and GoToAssist. The platform implements one of the largest multicast overlay data networks in the world using the Internet. It provides proprietary screen-sharing technology that separately optimizes screen transmission for each endpoint device (such as a remote PC during an online meeting or remote access session).•Citrix PSTN/VoIP Bridge is core technology that allows the seamless integration of Public Switched Telephone Network/Voice over Internet Protocol, or PSTN/VoIP, in our products that use our audio conferencing.•HDFaces® in GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining delivers high-definition video conferencing and one-to-many video streaming over the public Internet. It includes proprietary network transport protocols and transcoding software that optimize video quality for each endpoint device.Innovation is a core Citrix competency. We have many additional unique inventions that are important enablers of our continued leadership in delivery networking, workspace services and mobility apps. Customers We believe that the primary IT buyers involved in decision-making related to our solutions are the following:•Strategic IT Executives including chief information officers, chief technology officers, chief information security officers and vice presidents of infrastructure, who have responsibility for ensuring that IT services are enablers to business initiatives and are delivered with the best performance, availability, security and cost.•Desktop Operations Managers who are responsible for managing Windows Desktop environments including corporate help desks.•IT Infrastructure Managers who are responsible for managing and delivering Windows-based applications.•Directors of Messaging and Mobility, who are, respectively, responsible for Exchange and defining mobile strategies and solutions for securing and managing mobile devices including their content and applications. •Network Architects who are responsible for delivering Web-based applications who have primary responsibility for the WAN infrastructure for all applications.  7•Server Operations Managers who are responsible for specifying datacenter systems and managing daily operations.•Individuals and prosumers, who are responsible for choosing personal solutions and helping small businesses select simple-to-use computing solutions.•Small business owners who are responsible for choosing the systems needed to support their business goals, such as SaaS.•Line of business and functional executives that determine the need for our mobility apps offerings at certain enterprises.•Chief technology officer office and engineering department (managers, architects, etc.) for telecommunications service providers are the primary buyers of our ByteMobile Smart Capacity solutions.•Chief information officer office and engineering departments within service providers, using Citrix products to deliver desktops and applications as hosted cloud services.The IT buyers for our products include a wide variety of industries including those in financial services, technology, healthcare, education, government and telecom.We offer perpetual and term-based software licenses for our products, along with annual subscriptions for software updates, technical support and SaaS. Perpetual licenses allow our customers to use the version of software initially purchased into perpetuity, while term-based licenses are limited to a specified period of time. Software update subscriptions give customers the right to upgrade to new software versions if and when any updates are delivered during the subscription term. Perpetual license software products come primarily in electronic-based forms and, in selected markets, we offer pre-packaged shrink-wrap products to meet local customer needs. We also offer subscription licenses to service providers via a Service Provider License Agreement, which are invoiced on a monthly basis or based on reported license usage. Our Mobility Apps products are accessed over the Internet for usage during the subscription period. Our hardware appliances come pre-loaded with software for which customers can purchase perpetual licenses and annual support and maintenance.Technology Relationships We have a number of technology relationships in place to accelerate the development of existing and future products and go-to-market. These relationships include cross-licensing, OEM, joint reference architectures, and other arrangements that result in better solutions for our customers. Microsoft We have collaborated with Microsoft on various technologies, including terminal services, cloud networking and virtualization. Since our inception, we have had a number of license agreements with Microsoft, including patent cross-licenses and source code licensing agreements that have provided us access to source code for versions of Microsoft Windows Server. These agreements are not required for our software development processes on Windows Server and do not provide for payments to or from Microsoft. Our two companies have a long-standing go-to-market partnership, and that continues to grow as we introduce more joint solutions in new areas. A number of key Citrix products will leverage the Microsoft Azure cloud including XenDesktop, ShareFile and NetScaler. CiscoWe have a technology collaboration with Cisco Systems, Inc., or Cisco, to develop and deliver solutions that help customers simplify and accelerate large-scale desktop virtualization deployments, including high-definition virtual desktops and applications and improved end-user experiences, over a highly secure Citrix® HDX-enabled Cisco network. We license the specifications of ICA® to Cisco as part of this agreement. Cisco and Citrix collaborate on our delivery networking products and mobile workspaces solutions. Cisco sells an OEM version of our NetScaler Application Delivery Controller technology, called Citrix Netscaler 1000V, which is sold as a part of their Virtual Network Services architecture platform. In 2014, we introduced a number of new joint technology solutions, including Cisco Mobile Workspace solution with Citrix, an integrated DaaS solution for service providers to sell and implement for their end-user customers, and integrations of NetScaler into Cisco’s data center architectures.Additional Relationships Our partners continue to expand their focus on the broad range of Citrix products. Some examples include HP, Dell, IBM and Fujitsu which have multiple offerings in the market with our workspace services solutions and delivery networking products. We have also built relationships with VCE, NetApp and CA Technologies that complement the benefits provided by workspace services solutions and delivery networking products. Amazon continues to re-sell Citrix NetScaler, Citrix CloudBridge, and Citrix XenMobile in its Amazon Web Services, or AWS Marketplace, and we collaborate to allow customers to run XenDesktop on the AWS platform. Through our Citrix Ready program, more than 25,000 products have been verified to work with Citrix technologies. In addition, numerous partners proactively incorporate Citrix products and technologies such as Receiver, XenDesktop, XenApp, NetScaler, and HDX (ICA) technologies into their customer offerings. Our HDX and Receiver technologies are often included  8with or offered for thin clients, industry-standard servers and mobile devices, such as Apple's iPhone and iPad, Windows Mobile, Blackberry and Google Android devices. Licensees include Dell, Samsung, Fujitsu and Hewlett Packard, among others. Research and Development We focus our research and development efforts on developing new products and core technologies in our core markets and to further enhancing the functionality, reliability, performance and flexibility of existing products. We solicit extensive feedback concerning product development from customers, both directly from and indirectly through our channel distributors. We believe that our software development teams and core technologies represent a significant competitive advantage for us. Included in the software development teams is a group focused on research activities that include prototyping ways to integrate emerging technologies and standards into our product offerings, such as emerging Web services technologies, management standards and Microsoft's newest technologies. Many groups within the software development teams have expertise in Extensible Markup Language, or XML, based software development, integration of acquired technology, multi-tier Web-based application development and deployment, SSL secure access, hypervisor technologies, cloud technologies, networking technologies, VoIP-based audio technology, Web-based video technology and building SaaS. We incurred research and development expenses of approximately $553.8 million in 2014, $516.3 million in 2013 and $450.6 million in 2012. In addition to internal research and development, Citrix also supports an eco-system of early stage companies via our Startup Accelerator program which provides seed capital for new technologies.Sales, Marketing and Services We market and license our products and services through multiple channels worldwide, including selling through resellers and direct over the Web. Our partner community comprises thousands of value-added resellers known as Citrix Solution Advisors™, VADs, cloud service providers, SIs, Independent Software Vendors, or ISVs and OEMs. Distribution channels are managed by our worldwide sales and services organization. Partners receive training and certification opportunities to support our expanding portfolio of products, solutions and services. In addition, our Mobility Apps division provides our collaboration and data sharing offerings through direct corporate sales, our partner community, and direct through our web sites.In 2014, we worked closely with partners to benefit from changes to our global partner program made in 2013. The changes included: differentiated Citrix Advisor Rewards by partner level; Citrix Opportunity Registration discounts for cloud networking; clear, published criteria for achieving Gold and Platinum status; and refreshed certification requirements to expedite acquisition of the latest knowledge and skills. Citrix Advisor Rewards™, is an innovative influencer program that rewards our partners for registering projects and demonstrating value-added selling even if the sale is fulfilled by another partner. In 2014 we offered full year promotions with additional rewards for selling to new customers as well as lowered the deal qualifications to include partner sales to Small and Medium businesses. We introduced new certifications and a sales enablement platform to provide partners with the breadth of skills required to plan, design, deliver and support our solutions. We continued to focus on increasing the productivity of our existing partners, and building capacity through targeted recruitment, introducing programs to increase partner mindsha