RISK FACTORSOur operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and could in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. From time to time, information provided by us or statements made by our employees contain “forward-looking” information that involves risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, and in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to, statements concerning our strategy and operational and growth initiatives, our transition to a subscription-based business model, product development and offerings of solutions and services, market branding and positioning, distribution and sales channels, our partners and other strategic or technology relationships, financial information and results of operations for future periods, competition, seasonal factors, stock-based compensation, licensing and subscription renewal programs, international operations and expansion, investment transactions and valuations of investments and derivative instruments, restructuring charges, reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, tax estimates and other tax matters, liquidity, stock repurchases and dividends, our debt, changes in accounting rules or guidance, changes in domestic and foreign economic conditions, acquisitions, litigation matters and intellectual property matters, constitute forward-looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements are neither promises nor guarantees. Our actual results of operations and financial condition could vary materially from those stated in any forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. Such factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which only speak as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made.RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRYOur transition from a perpetual licenses to a subscription-based business model and from on-premises software to cloud-delivered services is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.The focus of our business model is shifting away from sales of perpetual licenses to sales of subscriptions. Additionally, we expect our customers will increasingly rely on our cloud-delivered services instead of on-premises deployments. This transition may give rise to a number of risks, including the following:•we may not be able to effectively or efficiently transition our customers from consuming our solutions and services as on premises solutions to cloud-based solutions;•we may not be able to implement effective go-to-market strategies and train or properly incentivize our sales team and channel partners in order to effectively market our subscription offerings;•we may be unsuccessful in maintaining our target pricing, adoption and renewal rates;•we may select solution prices that are not optimal and could negatively affect our sales or earnings;•we may incur costs at a higher than forecasted rate as we expand our cloud-delivered services thereby decreasing our gross margins;•we may experience unpredictability in revenue as a result of usage fluctuations within our cloud service provider business;•we may not be able to meet customer demand or solution requirements for cloud-delivered services; •we may encounter customer concerns regarding changes to pricing, service availability, and security; and•our cloud-delivered services are primarily operated through third party data centers, which we do not control and which may be vulnerable to damage, interruption and cyber-related risks. As we transition our customers from perpetual licenses to subscriptions, we expect an impact on the timing of revenue recognition and a potential reduction of cash flows. Because subscription revenue is typically recognized over time, we may experience a near-term reduction in revenue and revenue growth as more customers move away from perpetual licenses to subscriptions.Our subscription-based business model and expansion of our cloud-delivered services may also require a considerable investment in resources, including technical, financial, legal, sales, information technology and operation systems. Market acceptance of such offerings is affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: security, reliability, scalability, customization, performance, current license terms, customer preference, customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage their data, public concerns regarding privacy and the enactment of restrictive laws or regulations. 12In addition, the metrics we use to gauge the status of our business may evolve over the course of the transition as significant trends emerge. If we are unable to successfully establish our subscription-based business model or expand our cloud-delivered services, and navigate our transition in light of the foregoing risks and uncertainties, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted.Our business could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting the information technology market.The markets for our solutions and services are characterized by:•rapid technological change; •evolving industry standards; •fluctuations in customer demand; •changing customer business models and increasingly sophisticated customer needs; and •frequent new solution and service introductions and enhancements. The demand for our solutions and services depends substantially upon the general demand for business-related computer appliances and software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including capital spending levels, the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers, and general economic conditions. As we continue to grow our subscription service offerings, we must continue to innovate and develop new solutions and features to meet changing customer needs. Our failure to respond quickly to technological developments or customers’ increasing technological requirements could lower the demand for any solutions and services and/or make our solutions uncompetitive and obsolete. Moreover, the purchase of our solutions and services is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. We need to continue to develop our skills, tools and capabilities to capitalize on existing and emerging technologies, which will require us to devote significant resources.U.S. economic forecasts for the information technology, or IT, sector are uncertain and continue to highlight an industry in transition from legacy platforms to mobile, cloud, data analytics and social solutions. If our current and prospective customers cut costs, they may significantly reduce their information technology expenditures. Additionally, if our current and prospective customers shift their IT spending more rapidly towards newer technologies and solutions as mobile, cloud, data analytics and social platforms evolve, the demand for our solutions and services most aligned with legacy platforms (such as our desktop virtualization solutions) could decrease. Fluctuations in the demand for our solutions and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We face intense competition, which could result in customer loss, fewer customer orders and reduced revenues and margins. We sell our solutions and services in intensely competitive markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. We compete based on our ability to offer to our customers the most current and desired solution and services features. We expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors’ products may be less costly, more heavily discounted or free, provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our solutions. Additionally, there is a risk that our solutions may become outdated or that our market share may erode. Further, the announcement of the release, and the actual release, of new solutions incorporating similar features to our solutions could cause our existing and potential customers to postpone or cancel plans to license certain of our existing and future solution and service offerings. Existing or new solutions and services that provide alternatives to our solutions and services could materially impact our ability to compete in these markets. As the markets for our solutions and services, especially those solutions in early stages of development, continue to develop, additional companies, including companies with significant market presence in the computer hardware, software, cloud, networking, mobile, data sharing and related industries, could enter, or increase their footprint in, the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe price competition could become a more significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.We expect to continue to face additional competition as new participants enter our markets and as our current competitors seek to increase market share. Further, we may see new and increased competition in different geographic regions. The generally low barriers to entry in certain of our businesses increase the potential for challenges from new industry competitors, whether small and medium sized businesses or larger, more established companies. Smaller companies new to our market may have more flexibility to develop on more agile platforms and have greater ability to adapt their strategies and cost structures, which may give them a competitive advantage with our current or prospective customers. We may also experience increased competition from new types of solutions as the options for Digital Workspace and Networking offerings increase. Further, as our industry evolves and if our company grows, companies with which we have strategic alliances may become competitors in other product areas, or our current competitors may enter into new strategic relationships with new or existing competitors, all of which may further increase the competitive pressures we face. 13A significant portion of our revenues historically has come from our Application Virtualization and VDI solutions and our Networking products, and decreases in sales for these solutions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our revenues has historically come from our Application Virtualization and VDI solutions and Networking products. We continue to anticipate that sales of these solutions and products and related enhancements and upgrades will constitute a majority of our revenue for the near future. Declines and variability in sales of certain of these solutions and products could occur as a result of:•new competitive product releases and updates to existing products delivered as on premises solutions, especially cloud-based products;•industry trend to focus on the secure delivery of applications on mobile devices;•introduction of new or alternative technologies, products or service offerings by third parties;•termination or reduction of our product offerings and enhancements;•potential market saturation;•failure to enter new markets;•price and product competition resulting from rapid and frequent technological changes and customer needs;•general economic conditions; •complexities and cost in implementation; •failure to deliver satisfactory technical support;•dissatisfied customers; or•lack of commercial success of our technology relationships.We have experienced increased competition in the Application Virtualization and VDI business from directly competing solutions, alternative products and products on new platforms. For example, Amazon Web Services provides Amazon WorkSpaces and VMware provides Horizon, both of which compete with these offerings among numerous other competitors. Also, there continues to be an increase in the number of alternatives to Windows operating system powered desktops, in particular mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets. Users may increasingly turn to these devices to perform functions that would have been traditionally performed on desktops and laptops, which in turn may reduce the market for our Application Virtualization and VDI solutions. Further, increased use of certain SaaS applications may result in customers relying less on Windows applications. If sales of our Application Virtualization and VDI solutions decline as a result of these or other factors, our revenue would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Similarly, we have experienced increased competition for our Networking products, including our core Citrix ADC solution. For example, there are an increasing number of alternatives to traditional ADC hardware solutions, enabling our customers to build internal solutions, rely on open source technology or leverage software and cloud-based offerings. In addition, our Networking business generates a substantial portion of its revenues from a limited number of customers with uneven and declining purchasing patterns. As a result, the potential for declining sales within our Networking business may not be offset by gains in other areas of our Networking and other businesses, which could result in our operations and financial condition being adversely affected.Our growth prospects depend on increasing the number of users within our customer base, as well as attracting new customers.We believe that our penetration into our existing customer base is limited and that we have an opportunity to expand the pool of the available users of our solutions. This represents a longer-term opportunity to both expand within our installed base and to attract new customers. There are no guarantees, however, that we will be able to capitalize on this opportunity if we do not innovate and expand the set of potential users, or otherwise attract customer interest and adoption. If we are unable to expand the number of users within our customer base or unable to attract new customers, our revenue would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.In order to be successful, we must attract, engage, retain and integrate key employees and have adequate succession plans in place, and failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business.Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, engage, retain, and integrate qualified executives and other key employees throughout all areas of our business. Identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining highly-skilled managerial, technical, sales and services, finance and marketing personnel are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees can be intense. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. If we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity compensation in a competitive manner, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. Failure to successfully  14hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of solutions in our industry. The loss of services of any key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring may harm our business and results of operations.Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. We have experienced significant changes in our senior management team over the past several years, including the appointments of David J. Henshall as our President and Chief Executive Officer in 2017 and Andrew Del Matto as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2018. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully integrate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Industry volatility and consolidation may result in increased competition.The industry has been volatile and there has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue, especially in light of the increased availability of domestic cash resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. In addition, we expect companies will attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving and volatile industry. For example, some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer a more comprehensive solution than they had previously offered. Further, some companies are making plans or may be under pressure by stockholders to divest businesses and such divestitures may result in stronger competition. Additionally, as IT companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in the evolving digital workspace services, networking and data sharing markets, these companies continue to seek to deliver comprehensive IT solutions to end users and combine enterprise-level hardware and software solutions that may compete with our Digital Workspace and Networking solutions. These consolidators or potential consolidators may have significantly greater financial, technical and other resources and brand loyalty than we do, and may be better positioned to acquire and offer complementary solutions and services. The companies resulting from these possible combinations may create more compelling solution and service offerings and be able to offer greater pricing flexibility or sales and marketing support for such offerings than we can. These heightened competitive pressures could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in our revenues or revenue growth rates, all of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our solutions and services or cyberattacks on our networks could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Use of our solutions and services may involve the transmission and/or storage of data, including in certain instances customers' business, financial and personal data. Thus, maintaining the security of our solutions, computer networks and data storage resources is important as security breaches could result in solution or service vulnerabilities and loss of and/or unauthorized access to confidential information. We aim to engineer secure solutions and services, enhance security and reliability features in our solutions and services, deploy security updates to address security vulnerabilities and seek to respond to known security incidents in sufficient time to minimize any potential adverse impact. We have in the past, and may in the future, discover vulnerabilities in our solutions or underlying technology, which could expose our operations and our customers to risk until such vulnerabilities are addressed. In addition, to the extent we are diverting our resources to address and mitigate these vulnerabilities, it may hinder our ability to deliver and support our solutions and customers in a timely manner.  As a more general matter, unauthorized parties may attempt to misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions, product or service vulnerabilities or cause shutdowns. These perpetrators of cyberattacks also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, malware and other malicious software programs that directly or indirectly attack our products, services or infrastructure (including third party cloud service providers -- such as Microsoft Azure and Amazon Web Services and Google Cloud Platform - upon which we rely). Because techniques used by these perpetrators to sabotage or obtain unauthorized access to our systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until long after being launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Despite our efforts to build secure services, we can make no assurance that we will be able to detect, prevent, timely and adequately address, or mitigate the negative effects of cyberattacks or other security breaches. For example, in late 2018, our file sync and sharing service was the target of a “credential stuffing” attack, in which we believe that malicious third-party actors used credentials obtained from breaches unrelated to any Citrix service to attempt to gain access to individual Citrix Content Collaboration customer accounts. To date, we believe the event had limited impact on a small percentage of Citrix Content Collaboration customers; however, these types of attacks have the potential to materially and adversely impact our customers and, as a result, our results of operations and financial condition. 15A breach of our security measures as a result of third-party action, malware, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise could result in (among other consequences):•loss or destruction of customer data; •interruption in the delivery of our cloud services;•negative publicity and harm to our reputation or brand, which could lead some customers to seek to cancel subscriptions, stop using certain of our solutions or services, reduce or delay future purchases of our solutions or services, or use competing solutions or services;•individual and/or class action lawsuits, which could result in financial judgments against us or the payment of settlement amounts, which would cause us to incur legal fees and costs;•regulatory enforcement action under the General Data Protection Regulation or other legal authority, which could result in significant fines and/or penalties or other sanctions and which would cause us to incur legal fees and costs; and/or•in the event that we or one of our customers were the victim of a cyberattack or other security breach, additional costs associated with responding to such breach, such as investigative and remediation costs, and the costs of providing data owners or others with notice of the breach, legal fees, costs of any additional fraud detection activities required by such customers' credit card issuers, and costs incurred by credit card issuers associated with the compromise and additional monitoring of systems for further fraudulent activity.Any of these actions could materially adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.Regulation of privacy and data security may adversely affect sales of our solutions and result in increased compliance costs. We believe increased regulation is likely with respect to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal, financial and consumer information as regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, privacy and data security. This includes the California Consumer Privacy Act, which is set to come into effect in 2020, and the Global Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR. The GDPR is a new European Union-wide legal framework to govern data collection, use and sharing and related consumer privacy rights, which became effective in May 2018. The GDPR includes significant penalties for non-compliance. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws and industry standards in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. The application of existing laws to cloud-based solutions is particularly uncertain and cloud-based solutions may be subject to further regulation, the impact of which cannot be fully understood at this time. Moreover, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data and privacy practices. For example, although the GDPR will apply across the European Union without a need for local implementing legislation, local data protection authorities will still have the ability to interpret the GDPR through so-called opening clauses, which permit region-specific data protection legislation and have the potential to create inconsistencies on a country-by-country basis. In addition to the possibility of fines, application of these laws in a manner inconsistent with our data and privacy practices could result in an order requiring that we change our data and privacy practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Also, any new regulation, or interpretation of existing regulation, imposing greater fees or taxes or restricting information exchange over the Web, could result in a decline in the use and adversely affect sales of our solutions and our results of operations. Finally, as a technology vendor, our customers will expect that we can demonstrate compliance with current data privacy and security regulation, and our inability to do so may adversely impact sales of our solutions and services to certain customers, particularly customers in highly-regulated industries.Our solutions could contain errors that could delay the release of new products or that may not be detected until after our products are shipped.Despite significant testing by us and by current and potential customers, our products, especially new products or releases or acquired products, could contain errors. In some cases, these errors may not be discovered until after commercial shipments have been made. Errors in our products could delay the development or release of new products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Additionally, our products depend on third-party products, which could contain defects and could reduce the performance of our products or render them useless. Because our products are often used in mission-critical applications, errors in our products or the products of third parties upon which our products rely could give rise to warranty or other claims by our customers, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16Certain of our offerings have sales cycles which are long and/or unpredictable which could cause significant variability and unpredictability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period.Generally, a substantial portion of our large and medium-sized customers implement our Digital Workspace solutions on a departmental or enterprise-wide basis. We have a long sales cycle for these departmental or enterprise-wide sales because:•our sales force generally needs to explain and demonstrate the benefits of a large-scale deployment of our solution to potential and existing customers prior to sale; •our service personnel typically spend a significant amount of time assisting potential customers in their testing and evaluation of our solutions and services; •our customers are typically large and medium size organizations that carefully research their technology needs and the many potential projects prior to making capital expenditures for software infrastructure; and •before making a purchase, our potential customers usually must get approvals from various levels of decision makers within their organizations, and this process can be lengthy. Our long sales cycle for these solutions makes it difficult to predict when these sales will occur, and we may not be able to sustain these sales on a predictable basis. In addition, the long sales cycle for these solutions makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. Delays in sales could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period, and large projects with significant IT components may fail to meet our customers’ business requirements or be canceled before delivery, which likewise could adversely affect our revenue and operating results for any particular period.Overall, the timing of our revenue is difficult to predict. Our quarterly sales have historically reflected an uneven pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of a quarter’s total sales occur in the last month, weeks and days of each quarter. In addition, our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and such fluctuations are generally most significant in our fourth fiscal quarter, which we believe is due to the impact on revenue from the availability (or lack thereof) in our customers’ fiscal year budgets and an increase in expenses resulting from amounts paid pursuant to our sales compensation plans as performance milestones are often triggered in the fourth quarter. We believe that these seasonal factors are common within our industry. In addition, our European operations generally generate lower revenues in the summer months because of the generally reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer.Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain and further access large enterprise customers.We must retain and continue to expand our ability to reach and access large enterprise customers by adding effective value-added distributors, or VADs, system integrators, or SIs, and other partners, as well as expanding our direct sales teams and consulting services. Our inability to attract and retain large enterprise customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Large enterprise customers usually request special pricing and purchase of multiple years of subscription and maintenance up-front and generally have longer sales cycles. By allowing these customers to purchase multiple years of subscription or maintenance up-front and by granting special pricing, such as bundled pricing or discounts, to these large customers, we may have to defer recognition of some or all of the revenue from such sales. This deferral, compounded with the longer sales cycles, could reduce our revenues and operating profits for a given reporting period and make revenues difficult to predict.Changes to our licensing or subscription renewal programs, or bundling of our solutions, could negatively impact the timing of our recognition of revenue.We continually re-evaluate our licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including specific license models, delivery methods, and terms and conditions, to market our current and future solutions and services. We could implement new licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including promotional trade-up programs or offering specified enhancements to our current and future solution and service lines. Such changes could result in deferring revenue recognition until the specified enhancement is delivered or at the end of the contract term as opposed to upon the initial shipment or licensing of our software solution. We could implement dif