 The studio is kind of a contradiction, you know in a lot of ways--- the houses, all these analog tools for making things that I think many architects have rejected in this day and age, you know. I still make physical models that's still part of my practice. I sketch a lot, you know. I print things out and I draw over them by hand. You know the contradiction here is that the way the studio is set up as a business, it's just completely the opposite. It really depends on the internet. It depends on all those new technologies. All these digital connections are really required for this to operate the way it does. But it I actually like Having a place in both of those worlds. It feels like the right mix to me Hey, welcome to 30 by 40 design workshop. Today, we're gonna do a studio tour. So 30 by 40 started in 2013, It did start as a residential architecture practice, but I always knew that I wanted it to be more than that I knew I wanted this to be a place to make films I knew I wanted to be performance and practice space for my kids and their band It wanted to be design space for the studio Obviously meeting space for friends, family You know hangout space for the kids, it wanted to be an educational space, a space where I could actually give Workshops, of course. This was gonna be the home for the YouTube channel, you know in that sense It had an educational component to it. I do printmaking here. I do graphic design here Photography. I really do see everything as a design challenge and something to be solved and this is the sort of creative cage That I put myself in each day But it's not just residential architecture So lighting here was really important to me the whole concept of the building really explored apertures And because it's such a simple structure, you know, you can only there's only a few things you can really do. And so natural light was one of the really important organizing features of this so we have these really large openings which open to the east and then, we have these like really narrow ones that open to the West out to this sort of forest view. We have slot skylights that look up to the sky We have these like tiny punches. And then we also have walls that just have no openings on them altogether And so the you know those combination of elements that gives you this great variety in what's a really small space? It couldn't be more perfect in the morning here When I'm working here, the morning light from the east just kind of pours in and illuminates the work surface here on my desk It's also like this kind of seasonal timepiece. The building is there's a this little window up in the gable here You know the light sunlight from that only reaches down into this space, when the Sun is low in the sky and all the leaves Out there have, have fallen and so it just means that you know, this place is a little bit different every single day Design studio here, meeting space in the middle, instrument practice space on this end to either end There are storage loss. So this has a twin bed in it, set of twin beds in it This one has a queen bed in it And so we use this as overflow sleeping space, when we have guests in the main house The idea with this is that it's meant to be flexible and swing space So these tables move out of the way, the lights move up This can be used as performance space or it can be used to set up You know, large workshop tools a table saw can be converted to you know vehicle storage in the future The idea is to make it like a barn, in the sense that it's multifunctional So I think Studios fall into kind of two general categories when it comes to organization so there's the chaotic kind of studio where all the process and mess of design is visible and out in the open and then there's the sort of Ultra, organized studio and this definitely falls into that camp. I'm someone who can't work in cluttering spaces So in this studio, everything has a home Centerpiece of the studio is this drafting table Which I salvaged from a dumpster at the first architecture job that I ever had when I graduated architecture school And I strapped this to the roof of my Honda Civic and it's been at the center of my practice since that day Central to this is my workstation. So I using my Mac here for a lot of reasons primarily because I use Final Cut Pro I also have a PC which is has Revit on it, so that's something that I'm Transitioning to as well. There is no clutter on this workspace So at the end of every day I'm basically putting things away where they live, things are organized in terms of how often they are used So things that are used or often are within arm's reach, things like my sketchbook, markers. I have my Muji sketchbooks to this side I have my Froy bowl blocks to this side So frontal blocks are these little sort of wooden blocks that I can use to get out of the digital environment and start thinking three dimensionally I have two sets of these These are the rectangular ones and then, these are the cubic volumes here, so sets three and four They sit on top of a piece of granite, which is a cobble from a local Quarry here. I have these little metal stamps with they're numbered metal stamps Everything in this studio has a place and you know I use these sort of boxes as a means for organizing things So all small objects will fit into some sort of box and these boxes end up creating their own sort of aesthetic in the studio which you know, I find particularly appealing. I have paper clips, binder clips. They're said of bonsai shears here at love these Just they just look nice. To the right side. I have two four terabyte hard drive, external hard drives My EarPods. I have a charging station here. I have my roll of trace. I have writing implements in a Muji pencil case so sign pen, of course Pilot precise pens, now you like the v7 version of these, so both red and black. My favorite new mechanical pencil This is the kuru toga, love that one and eraser In here, I have colored pencils just all the tones that I use commonly another Muji sketchbook My current one is kind of always kept out there more writing implements and these are in these sort of metal cases That were used to sterilize things and my grandfather's model shop and these are the caps to those cases You can see sterile here But I just find they keep things orderly and organized, a small scale My Olfa l2 a couple other things. So I have down in front a soundbar and I have a remote subwoofer So that's just a way of having sound in the studio. It's kind of nice Actually, if you have a meeting just to have some layer of background noise, more markers Prisma colors to this side so everything from sort of counter level up to eye level is Sort of priority level stuff. So on the right, to the right of the the drafting table here I have monographs and the monographs are really kept closest to the meeting table So I'm always pulling those for imagery for meetings Then there's the sort of reference materials things that I'd be referencing while I'm doing technical drawings at the drafting table here. So building construction Illustrated my steel manual, detailing manuals to are to this side Below that I have project related specific information, so I have filing folders here This has current sketches Current design ideas and just reference information for the ongoing projects here,  below that I have critical path documents So for any project that's in construction there'll be a set of critical path documents that I can just grab and Add to my messenger bag here and then leave for a meeting. Inside the messenger bag I have a 25-foot tape. That's essential and I also have a laser measure and then in here I just load up the project files and then I head to the meeting So things below counter level are less important and then stored-up high are even less important than that So organizationally at the very bottom is my archive So I have archived project folders here archived sketches, archived sketchbooks Okay, left side of the drafting table has all of my photography gear These are two shelves that I bought at cb2 and I basically just spray-painted the black the outside, black spray paint the inside primer gray So these are great, because they're providing some horizontal display space but you can kind of contain all the clutter so I have Writing implements extra pilot pens, sign pens, Sharpie ultra-fine points, all my charging equipment Specialty charging equipment for the slider and things like that some extra batteries, SD cards stepping rings, four lenses and filters Manuals things like that here On top of that they act as shelves for the most commonly used equipment that I have photography Lenses, you know my Joby Batteries, microphones, scotch tape things like that. The far end is display space basically these two shelves have Miscellaneous charging cords, rubber, bands tape, survey tapes things like that And then I have the Mavic here that so I can grab and go since I'm using this all the time this is easy just to plug in and Way close this up, and it's all Self-contained, so below that level we have coffee maker obviously Hot spot, because we have no internet on the island here. This is the t-one 20 It takes a 24 inch wide role It also takes 8 and 1/2 by 11, 11 by 17 sheets Great for plotting technical drawings, not so great for plotting images or renderings this end I have tools easy access, so a drill Some working tools here. I have some stationery below that is all model making supplies So I'm not using that quite as frequently as I am some of this stuff paper here for the plotter And then this is kind of snack zone here. And then this last shelf is for some random tech, you know scanner, microphones extra laptops things like that The center of the space is really meant to be flexible, it's used primarily for meetings But these tables can move against the wall underneath of the windows The idea is that this functions like a bar and that its future function is not limited by what we fixed in place So the tables here are from room and board and these tables come in any size you need at any height So you'll notice that the module of the table is the same as the module the window is same as the module of the skylight And that these tuck in right behind the ladders, paired with that are these chairs from IKEA and they're stackable So again, we can move these out of the way, the two pendant lights can be rearranged using different mounting hooks There's different swag hooks at the top here which allow them to move up and out of the way This is the materials storage cart what I do is typically for this top tray I kind of pick and choose from the materials here and build a material palette that we then have sitting next to us for the meeting So this kind of fits into that idea of no everything is proximal to its use. The cart is rolling again So it's thick it's not fixed in a way that limits the use or function of the studio. Coming over to this side here So I do have some larger sample materials over here I've got some decking samples, a larger piece of soapstone and some shingle samples Tool box has a direct relationship to when I'm using it to build models on this table Cutting that. So at this far corner here again this wooden box aesthetic extends here These are all sort of current drawings that I have, so I can use them grab and go out to a meeting I like to print hard copies of these just so that I can pull them out and easily reference them on this table if I'm having a phone call. I also have some model making supplies Here as well. All right. So coming over here these loft ladders I fabricated myself just out of pine basically, and some some brackets at the top. They're fixed with Magnets, cut magnets here. So you can see I've cut it to notch into the loft framing and then to keep it in place I've installed recessed magnets But you can see the box aesthetic sort of happening here as well. On the other side I have some reference materials which are not used as frequently Everything above the 8 foot level is rendered in white to keep things light and airy Let's quickly talk about the music end of things, the drumset takes up the largest amount of space at this end obviously flanked by the IKEA storage system here Which has storage for all the musical items as well as some overflow storage from the studio. I also have printmaking supplies there I use the top of that to store some extra sort of models, swinging over to this side. We have the guitars They're all mounted to the walls with this black hardware here guitars are all black. The amps are black The lighting stands are black. The drumset actually used to be black. It's now this sort of cherry red So it's definitely something to consider when you're planning a small space How does all the furniture and fittings and equipment all speak to each other and speak a common language? Let's have a look at the mini split for a minute. Alright, so Norwegian flag. This is my heritage. My grandfather was from Norway We move that we'll see the heating system and the cooling system for this space We don't tend to use the cooling very much here in Maine, but it's efficient both ways. This is a mini split It's basically a heat pump system and depending on which direction you run it in You'll either heat the interior or cold the interior, you'll notice it's off-center. And this was a mistake of mine during the rough-in phase I didn't realize that the rough-in which sits over here was actually not positioned in a way to Center it in the space so that's why we have Flag hanging over it to correct that asymmetry, never notice You know when I think about it everything I've ever needed to make things has always sort of been right here on this table and I love the studio. It's been a fantastic experiment and a great place to work But the studio's importance doesn't lie in its size or its architecture or layout or organization. It's Just what it allows you to make 