 Do your dirty floors every get you down? Does sweeping up that dirt aggravate your allergies? For a lot of us, not even allergies. Sometimes you get some of that dirt in your airway and you start coughing and you can't stop. Well, today, we have a little trick to make your dust pan work better for you and the trick is actually, you take your dust pan, and then you just dampen the dust pan before you sweep and then, you're seeing a picture of it here, what will happen is those dust particles will basically be trapped by the liquid in your pan and if you have a heat, the one caveat here, you're going to see those pieces stick. Yup. You have to wash your pan. You do and if there is a ton of dust, obviously, this is going to pick up every last little dust particle. If there's a lot of dust, I really recommend to people look into getting a true respiratory mask that will prevent those particles from getting in your lungs because I am someone who has very temperamental lungs and I can start having difficulty breathing, asthma attack if I inhale this stuff. So I always put something over my face before I start dusting or, whereas now I do Boop! Go get it Roomba! Good job! (laughs) I'm telling you right now, I still dust in the garage but those little vacuums, I don't know if any of you have tried them? For, you press it, you leave the room, you come back, oh, nice, good job! That's a good tip for the garage because the garage can get funky. It really can. Yeah. Insects and mold and spores and-- I think people forget that dust mites are one of the most common causes of allergic asthma symptoms. So, people don't realize that if you got a lot of dust mites and they're in your house, and you're sweeping them up, and let's say your kid comes in the room and they're inhaling those dust mites, and they have an asthma attack, well, dust mites are often the cause so don't forget about those little mites that live in the dust. Those little sucker mites. They may not show up in your lip like the little parasite-- Like parasitic worms? 