 (dramatic music) - [Announcer] Citizens of Kamstar, at 2100 hours, your keepers will conduct sterilization operations within the quarantine zone. The gates will remain closed. Stay alive today for a better tomorrow. Treatments were made available at-- (booming) (heavy breathing) Stay inside, survive. (knocking) Stay inside, survive. - Ma, it's me, let me in. - [Woman] I don't know you, get away. - Come on, it's Marky, let me in. (dramatic music) - I don't got a son named Marky. Marky moved to the fancy part of town two years ago and never came back. Marky said he don't need no family. - Ma, there are people after me. - Just get in here! And don't touch any of my shit, Marky, I mean it. (door slamming) My superhero days may be over, but I can still make your mind explode with just a thought. - Thanks, ma. I missed you. - Don't give me that bullshit. You in trouble? - No, it's. Really? It's not like that. - Well, either you've gone active or you're here to rob me. Either way. (gun cocks) - That shit's made you paranoid. - This shit is the only thing stopping those nanos from burning a whole through my cortex. Besides, little paranoia's worth your discomfort. (exhales) (dramatic music) Think I've got some coffee left I could put on. Got that omni-processor working again, so we've got hot water and power most of the time now. - [Marky] No, uh, sorry. I can't stay long. I just came to check up on you. - Oh, God, Jesus. - All right, um, listen, I understand that I haven't visited. That I have not kept in touch. But I've been working very hard for you. I'm important now. I'm trying to be. I'm on the cusp of something huge and it's gonna bring a lot of attention on me. I do not want attention on you and I do not want that attention on the kids. - And that's why you haven't come to see me-- - God damn it! I need a fucking minute to make sure that this works out my way. I am so sorry that I have not visited. I love you, fuck you! (sighs) I, I'm trying my best to be a good son. And I'm trying my best to do good work for you. I brought some meds for you and the kids. - You've been trying to charm me since the day I met you, boy. Has it ever worked? - Uh, once or twice. - You think you can waltz in here with this sweet smile and a few trinkets and I'll forget what you said to me? How many times are we gonna go through this, Marky? I was hoping a coupla years of hard living would kill that snake inside your soul. - Ma, I'm sorry. If I could take back what I said, I would take back what I said. Because I think about it every day. (whirring) - I hope you have. Because every morning, I wake up and I think about that little boy that I pulled from a pile of bodies, telling me, "I never loved you." (sinister music) That memory is burned inside my soul, boy. And I am not a woman who easily forgives. - [Marky] But the meds will help. - The kids need 'em. - Mom, look at your eye! - Look, you just never know when to shut the hell up! It's been harder getting the treatments this far from the city. It's okay, children, it's just Marky. Coming to pay a visit. - Marky! - Hi! (laughing) (growling) Hi, Iris, hello, you big, giant, hog monster. Hi, Jazz, hey, Jay. - Ma says you're a shithead now. - Oh. - What's a shithead, Marky? - Okay, haha, I guess I'm the shithead, Iris. Guys, I need you to go play 'cause I gotta keep talking to Mom for another minute, okay? (growling) I know that I can never take back what I said to you and I know that maybe you're gonna hate me forever. But I'm just trying to do what you taught me. I'm just trying to survive. (growling) (heavy breathing) - [Man] Easy, easy. Easy now. (gasps) (knocking) - You brought this mess down on my babies. Come on, come on, come on. Come on, with me. (knocking) - Where's the rat? (gun cocks) - I'm gonna give you about three seconds to get the fuck off my property. - We just need Marky and we'll be on our way. You see, my two friends here haven't had treatment in months. They're just dying for a taste of that fresh child meat. - Three. (gun fires) (dramatic music) (growling) (gun fires) (gun fires) (gun fires) (grunting) (gun fires) (heavy breathing) (growls) (dramatic music) (growls) (gasping) - [Marky Voiceover] My mother used to tell me that no situation was impossible. (dramatic music) For a man wise to opportunity, she taught me that every problem had a simple solution. If you set aside your emotion long enough to find it. (children screaming) She said that we had to stick together to survive in a world this mean. - [Child] Marky, Marky, please! - [Marky Voiceover] Well, look where that got her. (heavy breathing) (dramatic music) I guess you can't be right all the time. (bird cawing) (tense music) 