 You know what closes the distance between yourself and a fixed point? time if only we had more time I know Time's funny you know we make it so important and it affects every aspect of our lives but we can't ever clearly see where we're going in time only where we've been Let's hold up here two or three more kilometers this way there should be a road I'm not sure Zek? Do you think Lonn has shared enough of the water? Why do you care? You don't need any I'm just concerned you're not looking good hey I'm gonna need some water Hey! I know you heard me We need to start conserving Zek there's not much water left we're moving out He might still be upset with you How much water do we have? We got enough Maybe if you didn't talk so much you wouldn't need so much water I told you You don't know where we're going do you? You've been walking us in circles for days I'm done listening to you I think I should lead Enough How much water do we have? We'll be fine you just.. and why should I trust you? Who are you? We're all in this together you don't think I can see it? You slowly cutting me off from water I know what's going on Just give me the water! That's enough Time and time again I follow you around and every time it just turns into shit Stop it! Just stop it! Both of you We're all thirsty, we're all tired, just stop it You know we're not going home don't you Why don't you tell them? You know the truth Oh wait You don't know I'm tired of all your mind games You mean truths You know what I think I think you're afraid I think you're scared you might die out here and you're afraid that no one will care It's actually much simpler than that Little girl of yours is really something else isn't she You still think that what happened back there was an accident that I made a mistake it wasn't I know I was supposed to bring Artemis and all its crew down here for a quick data trip But after that suicidal orbit approach that killed damn near everyone I decided to check the flight data recorders and at first I thought it was a glitch that was caused by the crash and maybe gamma radiation but then I noticed something unusual someone or something adjusted the Hohmann transfer orbit and made us run into the atmosphere The 130 people aboard Artemis only two people had that capability Me and her Although I don't think she qualifies as people You have no proof I do back on the ship at least what's left of it Honestly I'm just tired of following you all around I've been walking for Lord knows how long and for what? Some... Lonn's idea of some rundown launch facility that we don't even know exists Not to mention it's been decaying ever since this planets been evacuated and you still think that we have a shot of making it back home from here? Good luck He's correct. It was a one-way trip. Wait what? It was a one-way trip for you nobody was meant to return What are you talking about? All those people? Everyone burning in that wreckage. Our entire crew was full of... liabilities. No This is your fault I had nothing to do with this Technically you did What? You gave me access to the amos through the on-board computer I did not I am not capable of accessing any of the onboard systems without authorization from a commanding officer You gave it to me What is she talking about Tashin? she... she told...she told of course I can't...I didn't know No...this wasn't me..I didn't I didn't do this! Go ahead walk away like you always do Just like you did with us. Go! We all know you want to for once in your life, be a man and tell me us how you feel You want to know how I feel?! It's her I hate that thing. I always have. You turned the memory of our dead daughter into a machine Why? Because you needed a way to cope? And you thought by bringing her back like that it would make everything better? It's made everything worse look around We're here because of her You know I needed you but but you didn't care about how I felt or what I wanted it's always about you always has been You asked me once why this didn't work it's because of that That thing that stranded us here that thing that almost killed us that thing is not my Telos It never was I'm done with this With all of you I'll be fine on my own You think there's anything out there? Yeah You know how I said time closes the distance Well it isn't time time Time is just a perception there's no such thing as a fixed point you can only perceive time and garner its effects and... each has a unique perspective of time depending on our position in space I know it's a pleasant fiction to entertain I'm sorry for what? I'm sorry Lonn for everything for this for all of it Me too tell me a story I just wanna go home I think I have one you don't know A true one? I think there's truth in every story It's one my dad told me I miss your dad me too so... as my dad would say One day there was a hungry wolf passing through the woods when he came upon a hare Hare said I know that you are famished but I am far too small to satisfy your hunger If you allow me I know a fox who is plump and fat I can entice him from his hole so that you could devour The wolf intrigued by these words agreed to the hares request so once at the Fox's den the hare very meekly and cunningly explained to the Fox that her friend was outside and wished to meet him the Fox agreed to meet the hare's friend so the hare scurried outside to get the wolf the Fox was more sly than the hare ever suspected because long ago he'd built a deep pit in the center of his passageway and covered it with leaves so that no one would ever see it the hare curious to see the end of the game followed the wolf inside but before they knew it they were both trapped at the bottom of the pit and the wolf thinking that the hare planned this all along ate the hare up right away all while the fox lay and watch with great pleasure I know it's a good story Not now Please not now Please come back Don't leave me 