 I have two damaged hard drives here, and I'm going to open them up in ordinary dust-filled air. Then try fixing them and hopefully start using them and see what happens.  These don't spin up. So I'm going to open them and have a look to see what's going on inside. I'll start with the Toshiba. So I'll put the other one away for a moment. There we go, we've got a one terabyte Toshiba, but this makes a really unusual sound when you power it up. I have recorded it. So have a quick listen to it now. It's a bit of a strange sound. I'd like to see what's causing that so I'm going to open this. Now I've been told this drive came out of a laptop that was dropped and that's very likely what has caused the malfunction. It should be noted that if you're wanting to do a backup, you should never ever open a hard drive like this. Once you take one of these apart dust gets inside and, Any sort of dust inside of these will cause problems and malfunctions and your data simply won't be safe. I'm expecting a hidden screw, but I can't seem to detect one yet. Nope that wasn't the hidden screw or there. Oh. Well, I've breached a seal on the hard drive that doesn't appear to be a hidden screw either. OK, what a mess so the seal is now broken. Dust is getting inside. Yes, I think that's a hidden screw, yeah it is. OK We have the drive open, let's have a look inside and we can see, We can see the heads are stuck in the middle of the platter there. It looks like there's two platters I'm going to spin the platters counterclockwise as I pull the heads away. Wow! OK This drive can now spin again. The question is what will happen when I power it up. I'm keen to see and There's the breech I did on the seal. I'm gonna have to seal that up again. OK Let's get this back together and see what happens. OK, I'm gonna put a piece of tape over that seal that I breached just to keep the dust out of it. OK All right, the drivers re-sealed with whatever contaminants I put just put in there, OK. I've done a quick test and this drive does now spin up. So let's have a listen. However, I found this drive doesn't detect on a computer so put this one aside for now. I'm now going to have a look at this one and, This one makes a little bit of a different sound. It wasn't dropped as far as I can tell. But I recorded the sound. So let's have a quick listen now. So that sounds like the heads are also stuck on the platter on this one, and this one I wouldn't mind recovering some data. from However, If you're actually serious about recovering data, then don't open the drive and this because air has a lot of dust in it. I think it's got about 30 million dust particles per cubic meter and, Hard drives should only be ever opened in clean rooms. Clean rooms typically have perhaps a few hundred or a thousand or so dust particles per cubic meter. Significantly less and general air. Now we had a lot of rain here today because a storm front moved through this morning, so it got me thinking does rain clean the air at all and, I had a quick look and I found this chart and sure enough it does. Clean the air, you know 20 percent in a lot of cases less a dust. Oh, that still leaves you with tens of millions of dust particles per cubic meter. I think we have a hidden screw under here. I'm gonna lift this label off because I'm not sure where the hidden screw is if there is one. I mean there must be one. I found the hidden screw finally it's here. So let's get that out. Never do this if the data is actually quite valuable to you. Take it to data recovery and They will have a good chance of actually getting your data out. Most places will have an excellent cleanroom where they can actually take the driver apart properly and, then they'll do things like replace the heads to give the maximum chance of data recovery. If it's important, then it's worth paying for. Okay, we have an open drive and sure enough. There are the heads, and they're stuck onto the platter, two platters. I've heard this is fairly common in this model the, ST1000LM025 is known for getting stuck heads like this. So let's, turn the platters, counterclockwise and pull the heads out. Ah! There we go. Very easy. I'm gonna get this back together and, see if it spins up and see what happens. We now have dust inside the hard drive. At 30 million pieces of dust per cubic meter. I probably have introduced tens of thousands if not hundreds of thousands of pieces of dust onto the platters. A quick spin up test and this one sounds good. Listening to it. I can hear the heads seeking. The first one that was likely impact damaged spins up but doesn't detect on the computer at all. The second one spins up and detects and there is indeed data on there. So the first thing I did was copy everything off there just in case there was something important that needed to be saved. So with the drive that doesn't want to detect on the computer, I think I'm going to open it up again. Because I want to see what's going on inside. Get a bit more of a picture of what has happened to this drive. OK. We're open. I'm going to, I'm going to connect a USB adapter onto the drive. OK, let's have a look inside this drive. Heads are parked everything looks fine. I'm gonna power this up right now and we'll have a look. Let's see this thing spin up. Let's get a close-up of that action. OK, so that's obviously a really unhealthy drive and I think we'll just put that one away. That one is gone, done. OK, the second one in which I immediately did read all the data off it. This one spins up and appears to mostly work. So seeing as this is a Samsung Drive, but made by Seagate. I downloaded SeaTools and have a look and, Ran some tests the SMART tests which are the inbuilt monitoring system all tested OK. have a running actual tests using the Seatools for Windows reported quite a lot of errors. And that would be consistent when I read data off the drive there was about 3% of data that I couldn't actually get off it. The drive appeared to just slow down to a crawl from reading and then sort of stall at that point. So I switched from Seatools for Windows to Seatools for DOS and ran more extensive tests and did some bad sector testing and found a whole host of bad sectors likely where the head had impacted or touched the platter in some way. I also noticed that Seatools for DOS, Constantly told me that the drive had at some point in its life been above 70 degrees Celsius. So I wonder if that's a contributing factor to why this drive froze up at some point and stopped spinning. So I use Seatools for DOS to mark out all the bad sectors and Then I put it into a computer and did a format and it didn't really format correctly. It seemed to slow to a crawl again. But I let it go and it did seem to get eventually a format done and I started copying new data on to the drive. It's going to be interesting to see how long this drive can hold data for into the future. Obviously nothing important should be put on here. But maybe some casual backups of things that aren't so important or are backed up elsewhere. I'll see if I can revisit this drive in 2028 when I do my big backup analysis of everything. OK, so two hard drives done and here's a bit of a bonus. I also have a different sort of a drive It's a DVD burner. And this one is apparently only nine millimeters thick. How did they do that? So as you can see, this one's had a bit of an impact. And I don't think it's really worth doing anything with except taking it apart. I wouldn't mind seeing some of the construction in this extremely thin burner. Maybe get to the lasers. Here we go. Almost a, Bit of a clip there. Let's just pull it apart, OK. There we go. See if we can get into it, there we go. It's coming apart. That's very thin metal. Bing. OK, we have the control board. One control board, there's the heads. Now these lasers are probably quite static sensitive and I expect I can easily damage them just by touching that into the connector. But that's how it goes. Well, there's the, There's the spindle motor. and There's the laser head assembly. Yeah, they really did make this incredibly thin. OK, let's get a close-up of the laser head assembly there. So there's the laser in the middle. And there are, if can hold it still. Four permanent magnets and Four coils, but you can see that our orange there. And they move and stabilized the laser on to the correct track for reading or writing. We have a look at the underside. You can see there is a prism here. We can see an optical path. and we have a sensor there. That's it for today's drives. For more inside hard drives, I made a previous video showing a three and a half inch down to some of the smallest platters ever made. Let's finish up with a quick peek inside a quantum Bigfoot. This is a five and a quarter inch drive This one was opened a long time ago. Those are some pretty big platters, compared to some of the other drives we've been looking at recently. OK, that's it for now Thanks for watching Janus Cycle 