 hey guys today I'm going to present an amazing gadget that makes our day to day life easier. you know clean the dust in the Home Office is not an easy task. It is more time consuming when you clean the dust specially furniture, electronic items, kitchenware ...etc. and it's more difficult and it is more difficult to clean under tables, cupboards, beds, bulbs on top...etc. So how remove dust in all these surfaces just within few seconds? Yes. You can do all these thing using this gadget. It is easier and more fun than you ever imagined! So let me quickly unbox this, show you how to operate this If you still didn't subscribe to our channel,  please click the subscribe button  & Bell icon this is available in the market under following brand names go duster, spin duster - and the magic duster. This is a battery-operated duster that is lightweight perfectly balanced and completely cordless this comes with 2 extension rods Long Brush Head 26cm Small Brush Head 20cm This is the motorised Duster handle This is good for the disabled people and specially who has heavy back-pains. So we will see how to operate this Spin Duster Great for all your electronics such as TV, DVD, game consoles, computers and keyboards. you can clean shelves and books without having to move it you need 4 AA batteries to operate this Insert these batteries by checking the plus(+) and minus(-) directions We'll check how to connect the extension rods Cleaning a LED Monitor Cleaning the Dust on a Key Board Cleaning the Dust on a Table clock Removing heavy dust on a stand fan Cleaning Upper area with the help of extension rods Removing Dust on a car windscreen Cleaning the Car Body using Spin Duster Removing Dust in a wine glass Cleaning Picture Frames using Hurricane Spin Duster Cleaning a Macbook Removing dust on a computer table Removing Dust on Books Cleaning / Removing Dust on a laptop using Spin duster as I said before the brush heads are completely washable Please completely dry it before use. Don't wet the motor head Thank You for watching 