 This spring, most of South Korea has had high levels of fine dust pollution. It's seen as a crisis for public health, and as consumers move to protect themselves, the issue is reflected in the marketplace. Our business correspondent Kim Hyesung has this report. Young and old, locals and tourists,... all wearing face masks to protect themselves from breathing in ultra fine dust. It's not just masks, demand is soaring for home appliances like air purifiers to help filter air indoors and remove ultra fine dust. "I have one air purifier in my living room and another in my son's room as he has respiratory problems. When fine dust levels are high, the air purifier goes on automatically with warning alerts and cleans the air. Every time I change the filter, I can see all the fine dust. Having air purifiers at least gives me some sort of peace of mind. It's better to use them than doing nothing." " I bought an air purifier last spring, and I came out today to look for a vacuum cleaner that can suck up the ultra fine dust. I heard ultra fine dust needs special filters to remove." In the last three years, Korea's air purifier market has exploded. Around 3 million purifiers were sold last year, and the market is expected to top 3 billion U.S. dollars by 2020. "As well as air purifiers and air conditioners, other products like so-called air dressers that help remove fine dust from clothes are grabbing consumers' attention. In just 30 minutes, air dressers help remove fine dust and odor with air and steam that bursts from the top and bottom. A sterilisation feature also helps kill viruses and germs. The latest air conditioners also have fine dust removing features that come with two filters, with a pre-filter to capture large dust particles before they reach the inner filter. There are also portable air purifiers. "The portable air purifier can purify around 10 square meters. You can use it in your car, office desk or attach it to a baby stroller." With growing concerns about fine dust and air pollution, companies are coming up with innovative air purifying home appliances, and demand is likely to keep going up for the time being. Kim Hyesung, Arirang News. 