 Rock dust don't fall for the scam, you may be wondering what this title is all about but there are many rock dust companies out there claiming to add all sorts of minerals back to the soil. In this episode I'm going to crush the rock dust myth I'm Tony O'Neill and this is UK Here We Grow on this channel we deal with all things gardening poultry keeping and beekeeping if you want our perfect garden to relax in or just want to grow your own nutrient-dense foods and start now by clicking the subscribe button and the bell icon to be notified each time I release new content just like this with With all the claims that these companies are making it's no wonder why rock dust has swept the market over recent years adding nutrients back to the soil is what we all want isn't it? of course it is! Getting your soil in the best condition as possible is the fundamental rule, and I'm constantly telling you guys that you need to feed your soil not to plants. Building great quality soil should be every gardeners number-one priority. And you would think that by adding rock dust to the soil would be beneficial. These rock dust companies continue with their claims. They say that plants grow bigger. Do mine look like they're suffering without rock dust and they also continue and say that plants yield better and have more disease resistance. Now after all, that's what every gardener is after. So what's the issue? I want to address a few questions that arise about the claims that the makers of rock dusts are making. And as we've already discussed one of those claims is that it adds nutrients and minerals back to the soil. I have to totally agree with them on this, adding rock dust to your soil adds tons of nutrients and minerals to the soil what I have in my hands here, is some stones and if I toss these stones onto my growing beds I've just added tons of nutrients and minerals to my soil. But can my plants use these? of course they certainly cannot. So adding rock dust your soil doesn't mean that plants can utilize it. So the next question. How long does rock dustt take to break down and become available to the plants? Well I contacted numerous companies that make rock dust and sell it. And not one of them has come back to me with an answer. Now, rocks take hundreds if not thousands of years to break down and even then they only break down into a sediment, and eventually they compress back to rock with pressure. I argue that adding rock dust to ground for one season is gonna make absolutely no difference to your plants, and I do appreciate that adding it over time would possibly add nutrients to the soil at your plants could use. But this is going to take hundreds if not thousands of years. So you are not going to see it in your lifetime. Also when you consider the makeup of volcanic basalt which rock dust mainly comes from, over 40% of it is made up of one form of calcium or another. Now over time this could turn your ground alkaline because calcium will be the first constituent to break down as its water soluble. Another claim these companies are making, is that there are over 75 trace elements and minerals. But that would only make up just under 1 percent of the bulk. The rest of it is made up from inert dust furthermore of that 1% most of it would never be used by plants anyway. As plants only use micro amounts of trace elements and minerals. With all these claims a wonder how any of us ever grew any plants at all with a rock dust. Another thing to consider is rock dust is a waste product from the quarry industry. And they thought that they could turn this waste product into a revenue stream, and they marketed it at like £30 or $40 for a 20 kilo bag and it had people believing that it must be some sort of miracle cure for your depleting soils, because it why would they charge £30 or $40 for a sack if it wasn't really good at conditioning our soils. I think you'd be surprised to learn that you could probably go to your local quarry and get a ton of this stuff for maybe five pounds or ten dollars. But these companies were really smart, they had fantastic marketing teams and they were able to market this product as a fantastic soil conditioner. And it duped thousands of people into believing they were helping the environment while all along improving their soil. Now, I'm fully aware that there are many gardeners out there some friends of mine that will swear by rock dust. But the science and the physics just doesn't support it over the short term. Now over the long term it may well improve the soil a little, but that would happen anyway if we just let nature take its course. Because nature always reverts back to itself. Don't get me wrong though. Throwing kilos of rock dust over your garden does one good thing. If nothing else it adds drainage to the ground, but I don't think that you want to be spending £30 or $40 just to add drainage to your ground. Now I know that some of you believe totally and utterly in rock dust, and I really respect your views. And if you believe it's helping your garden it doesn't matter what I say you're gonna continue to use it. But for those of you who are unsure, take a look around the internet and just check out all the laboratory results that have come back, that show that the comparison between rock dust and normal growing there is no difference in plant cell membrane whatsoever. For me your hard-earned pounds or dollars would be much better spent if you were to go and spend it on compost or some well rotted cow manure that would really do some good to your garden soil, because this stuff will add nutrients it will add minerals and not only that it adds organic matter which helps your soil to really hold on to moisture. Now we know all about rock dust don't fall for the scam. Put those pounds or dollars to better use in the garden now maybe just maybe I've given you something to think about before you hand over that credit card. Question of the day! do you use or have you used rock dust in your garden before? Listen I'm under no illusions that I may have upset some people with this video. But I think that this topic deserves a bigger broader discussion. So why don't we do that? Let's continue this discussion further in the comment section below so that I can get your point of view as well. Don't forget to give this video a thumbs up, and if you've enjoyed this video you can subscribe here, and once you've done that you can continue the journey by watching one of the other videos here. I'm Tony O'Neill this is U K Here We Grow and remember folks, You Reap What You Sow. I'll see you in the next one. bye-bye 