 Everyone makes mistakes - what matters is how you clean them up. In this video, we’ll show you the best erasers for students, artists, erasing colored pencils and more! Stick around til the end to see our absolute favorite eraser to use for just about anything. For General Use The Light Erasing Pentel Hi-Polymer Eraser picks up graphite with just the lightest touch. It removes most writing with just a few passes, and although it sometimes smudges a little, it’s easy to erase any extra marks for a clean page. For Students The Kokuyo Resare is a perfect addition to any student’s pencil case. Not only does it erase easily, but its eraser dust also clumps together for an easy clean up. We especially love all the colors the Resare comes in - you can easily coordinate with other stationery! For Artists An electric eraser might seem a little extra, but trust us - once you try the Seed Sun Dolphin, you’ll never go back to regular erasers. Its powerful motor spins a slim eraser refill at 10,000 revolutions per minute to remove pencil marks amazingly well. And since you don’t need to rub or apply pressure for the eraser to work, it’s super gentle and precise. For Colored Pencils The Kokuyo Campus Student Eraser for 2B Lead is made for erasing the stubborn marks of soft 2B lead, so it’s no surprise that it also does well with colored pencils. It won’t remove colored pencil marks completely, but it’s perfect for lightening overpigmented areas without leaving hard edges. For Fun These Iwako Novelty Erasers come in more than 40 themed sets to delight kids and kids at heart, including animals, food, and school supplies. Even though they look more like toys than erasers, they are quite capable of removing stray marks from your paper - if you can bear to use them. For the Environment The Tombow Mono NP Non-PVC Eraser is our eco-friendly pick. It’s made from a special styrene rubber that reduces the emission of toxic gases during production. This material does take a little more rubbing than regular Tombow Mono erasers, but it gets the job done reliably and without smearing. Top Choice The Sakura Sumo Grip is a fantastic all-around eraser. It’s made from a microporous foam that lifts graphite almost effortlessly and traps it so it won’t smudge the paper. The Sumo Grip is firmer and grippier than other foam erasers, which makes it easy to control. Since it’s black, it’ll keep looking tidy no matter how much you use it! Do you have a go-to eraser? Tell us about it in the comments! You can find everything in this video at JetPens.com, plus more recommendations in the eraser guide on our blog. Thanks for watching! 