 Hello and welcome to the show today, I'm really glad you could join us. So today we're talking about one of the most important aspects of a business. And I think a lot of people overlook that. When you get this right, it makes it way easier to scale to seven, eight figures and beyond. What I'm talking about here are virtual assistants. So virtual assistants are a very affordable way    that you can get the support that you need  to start working on your business and less   in your business and do it even especially in stages of your business where you're just getting   started. You don't have a lot of money. And even as you continue to grow, there's all kinds of roles   that VA's can fill within the organization. So with us today is Nathan Hirsh. Now, Nathan started   his first company, Portlight, in 2009 and that a frustration of hiring remotely for Portlight he found FreeUp in 2015 or he founded FreeUp in 2015 with this business partner, because they wanted a better way and scrap poor support and unreliability of some of the existing platforms. Now, then four years FreeUp revenue scaled from 5 to 12 million in yearly revenue, was recently   acquired by the Hoth. Today, our newly launched company, Outsource School, teaches entrepreneurs  how to hire and scale their business with virtual assistants and will share all of the secrets with    us today. So, Nathan, thanks for coming on with us, I appreciate you joining. Yeah, thanks for having me, I don't know if I'll be able to share all the secrets, but I'll do my best. Well, we got 30 minutes, so we got to move right now, listen, I'm a huge fan of what you do. I mean, you know, when we first started Credit Suite, my COO, my other C-level said, hey, let's hire this person for like 15 bucks an hour. I said, you are crazy. We would never hire somebody at that rate for for that position. Let's get a VA for 5 bucks. She's like, you're crazy what's a VA? How's that work? And now I look at this and we have 25 full time VA's. I mean, I credit as being one of the top three reasons we're able to scale to eight figure. And to be honest, I love what you're doing man. Yeah, I appreciate it,   and that was kind of the position I was in. I mean I was in college when I started my first business. I tried to hire college kids and my friends around me and they were super unreliable. And so I turned to people, adults. And not only did they not take me seriously as a 20 year old, but they cost 40, 50, 60, $70,000 a year. And that was a high price to pay as someone just starting their entrepreneurial journey. So I got in the VA space out of necessity and that's really why I became obsessed with learning how to hire VA and how to manage them, because I saw that it would have opened the door and it did open the door of running a lean scale business where you can have 30 person teams all remote from the Philippines and it cost you as much as two to four US employees. Yeah, very much so very much so, and that's often what I say is when they say it's got to be somebody that is from    the states, it's got to be a non-virtual system. My question is always the same. Do you think you    can get that one person to get better results than the two or three people? I can get at exactly the   same cost in the VA, but you and I get that a lot of people watching aren't even familiar with   VA's. So let's start with the basics. What when we're talking about this, what is a virtual assistant? Yeah. So I like to break down hiring into three levels. You've got followers, you've got doers   and you got experts. And to some people, virtual assistant is anyone that works from home. We're filming this during COVID. So a lot of people are working from home.  But because I talk about virtual assistant all the time, I like to add a little bit of clarity. So   when I say the word virtual assistant, I am just talking about the followers 5 to 10 bucks an hour, usually non-US, but they might have years of experience, but they're there  to follow your system, your process. If you don't have a system or process to follow, you're going to struggle to hire those followers, those VA's. If you hire VA for 5 bucks an hour and you say, I don't know how to run Facebook ads, go run my Facebook ads, probably not going to work out too well for you. Then you've got the doers, the freelancers. The specialist could be video  editors, graphic designers. You're not teaching a graphic designer how to be a graphic designer,   but they're not consulting with you either. They're there to do that one task at a high level. And then you got the experts, the high level freelancers, consultants, agencies, they could be 50 bucks an hour, it could be 10,000 bucks an hour. But they're bringing their own systems, their own process to the table, and you're hiring them for strategy and expertise. And so as an entrepreneur, you need to be thinking yourself, do I need a follower? Do I need to a doer? Or do I need an expert, every time you go to hire? That's a great way of looking at it, you know, why are you saying so many successful businesses are going this way? Because one of my buddies is in your space and we were just talking to the mastermind. Dude, it's been explosive, like their growth is doubled, if not quadrupled. So why do you think that, especially with COVID so many businesses are going this way? Yeah, I mean, I think we're going this way before COVID I mean, we saw it with FreeUp when we started it. I mean, Amazon sellers, at first they were hiring everyone in person and then they moved to VA's. Then you kind of saw the same thing with marketing agencies and in other businesses followed suit. I mean, we talk about price a lot and you mentioned the hey, why would you hire someone at 15 bucks an hour? But it's even more than that I mean, let's say best case scenario, you hire a customer service rep in the US for 15 bucks an hour, which isn't a low wage. I mean, we both live in Florida. Minimum wage is 7 bucks an hour, but it's not a super high rate either, it's   it's relatively okay. But let's say best case scenario, they end up being a rockstar customer service rep. How long were they really going to be happy with 15 bucks an hour? Eventually, they're going to want 18, 20, 25, and eventually, you get into a situation that you are either drastically overpaying for a role or you have to start all over and you waste all that time whereas you  hire VA for 5 bucks an hour and there a rockstar like we teach people to hire rockstars  at Outsource School. Give them 6, give them 7, give them 8, give them 9. They're going to be with you for a very long time, and it gives you a lot of flexibility. Hiring people in the US very tough to hire people part-time for 5 hours a week, 2 hours a week, 10 hours a week   not impossible. But when you're hiring virtual assistant, you get flexibility to hire people for what makes sense for you. I have a bookkeeper I had a bookkeeper I've increased her hour cents.    But she started off for 5 hours a month just to help me get Outsource School off the ground,   very tough to do that in the US. Do you see people hiring one VA for a bunch of different tasks when they kind of get their first person, or are you seeing that they get a VA for a very specific reason, a very specific tasks? If you're new to hiring virtual assistants, I recommend hiring for a specific task. It kind of reduces the risk. A lot of times when you're hiring VA's for the first time, you don't really know what you're doing and that could lead to more turnover. And if you put all your eggs in one basket and you might have been in this situation before, I been in that situation before where I hired someone and I taught them how to do everything, and then they quit on me and it was a much bigger pain to replace. Now, once you're you're like you where you have 25 VA's are like me, where I just sold the company that had 35 VA's I got 10 to 15 right now you become better   at hiring and better at finding the rockstars, the team leaders and then you can hire people to run our partnership program, which we have right now, a VA to take sales calls and do follow up which we're training for right now, and and more advanced things where it's not just one task they do every single day. It's a it's a multitude of things. But when you're starting out, you want to start off with those specific task, learn how to hire, learn how to spot red flags, and then increase from there.    Do you, you mentioned training, and I think that a lot of people ask me this question when it comes to VA's, what are the best ways you found to go about getting somebody trained and onboard and when you hire this VA? So the key is SOP, standard operating procedures and it's something we preach at Outsource School. We even have our own software simply SOP, to create and store and share SOP and what SOP allow you to do is avoid the training trap. Now, the training trap is where an entrepreneur hires a virtual assistant. They do one on one training with them, teaching them how to do something. But then at the end of the week, the virtual assistant doesn't really get it. And then the entrepreneurs in a really tough spot because they just invested one on one time to get them    trained. Do they give the virtual assistant another week and then there are two weeks in? Do they fire that VA and they just throw away a week of training, a week of their life? What you will are able to do with SOP is give the SOP to the VA and pay them. I always believe in paying for people's time, but pay them to go through that SOP and learn it. And you're there to support them. You're there to ask questions or to answer any questions they have. And at the end of that day, that hour, that week, depending on how long that SOP is, you test them. And if they get 80% of it, great. Do one on one training, get them that last 20%, maybe use it as an opportunity to make your SOP even better. But if they get 20% you part ways, you pay them for their time and you didn't waste any of your time or your team's time at their training then. And you have to be able to value time over money as an entrepreneur if you grow and SOP allow you to do that, along with making the virtual assistant learn the SOP on their own. Do you see qualities that you really should look for in any VA that you hire? Yeah, I mean, we're all about communication and attitude. I mean, the skill and   experience we look for that too. But you'll get people that have a lot of experience or a really good skillset and they're just a pain to work with. And so for attitude, we want people who want to be part of something that don't just care about money, because when you find people that only care about money, there's always another client out there who can pay your virtual assistant more than you can. And it's very tough battle to to win. When you get people that care about what they do. Maybe they they love customer service they love graphic design, or you get people that want to be a part of something that buy into your company, that want a leadership position, that wants self-improvement, that want to learn new skills. Those are the kind of attitudes that we look for along with positivity and being the bigger person and taking accountability and then communications, is everything. I mean, I only speak English, although I'm learning Vietnamese on the side, which doesn't help me with virtual assistant. But for someone like me that can only speak English, I need someone who can communicate in my language at a very high level. And that's not just voice, that's slack, that's eMail, that's responding quickly. That's that's asking good questions on meeting. So we look for that trifecta of skill, attitude and communication. Make sense, what about preparing to hire a VA, as are things you should do or change internally to kind of set yourself up to basically. And we talked about setting up your SOP to train them. But is there anything else that we should be doing to set ourselves up to receive them and get them on track right as they get going? Yeah, so a few things that we encourage people to do at Outsource School, one is understand that the different levels which we kind of briefly talked about. Next is figure out what your hiring budget is. We have a great calculator if you go to outsourceschool.com/vacalculator, you can plug in the information your business and it'll spit out, hey, you can afford one part-time VA, 10 full-time VA’s whatever it is. And I can't tell you how many entrepreneurs, hire VA without actually knowing what their VA budget is. And it leads to massive issues down the line. From there, you want to create a list of all the tasks that you know how to do, that you either   have systems for or that you can build systems for easily. And that's going to give you a starting point. And usually starting with the easiest stuff on your plate is going to be the place to start. Or you have to start building out systems for what you're going to hire for. And those are what the things you have to do before you even start pushing a job or interviewing a virtual assistant. Makes a ton of sense, when you are going about kind of getting somebody started, what kind of tasks can VA's do and what kind of tasks can't VA's or ones that aren't really good or they're not really able to do well. So I'm biased, but I hire a virtual assistant to do everything and it Outsource School. I mean, we have trainings on how to hire VA's to do billing. I mean, at FreeUp, they were billing clients $200,000 a week and handling all of that,  refund straight PayPal how to hire VA's for customer service for lead generation, for getting you on podcasts or partnerships or joint ventures or webinars. A lot of people think of VA's in operations, which we've got plenty of trainings for. But for me, the fun part is hiring VA's to actually grow your business, get new clients, get new partners. We have VA's that run our partnership program. So the sky is the limit and it can be a little bit overwhelming on what you can hire a virtual assistant for. But I mean, that's really why we created Outsource    School where we say, hey, here's our hiring process. And now that you know that, here's how you set up   a team or person for a specific role in all these different parts of your business. You know, when you bring somebody in like this is a VA, a lot of people are concerned about security if they're in another country. So what do you say about that? I mean, how do you    keep your data information secure when you're working with somebody else from another country? Sure, so there's two sides of it, there's the common sense side, which is using stuff like  LastPass, giving people user permissions, building trust over time, giving them more and more access over time. But then there's just the fact that virtual assistant, especially hiring from a third world country like the Philippines, care so much more about providing for their family, staying on the marketplace. You've got them getting a referral or or a review online than they do about stealing or hurting your business in any way. It's just almost never worth it to them. Now, you can do all those other things, the LastPass and HubSpot and all these different tools that are out there. But the number one way to really protect your business is to build a relationship with the people that you work with. And if you have a US staff, encourage them to build a relationship with your VA's. I mean, I've hired, I have VA's that were billing me like 10,000 hours a week with   FreeUp. And this is for years even before that, and Amazon business never had a VA do anything serious to my business. And I had VA's that quit on me I had VA's that I fired, but we treated them well, we treat them with respect. We got them to buy into to what we were doing. And to me that eliminates   99% of the issues. Like can you have them sign an NDA or legal agreement? Sure, but are you really   going to chase someone across the Philippines over a piece of paper? Probably not. So do you only work in the Philippines and recommend people in the Philippines or VA's available from everywhere? VA's are available for everywhere? I hire mostly from the Philippines. I do have people outside    the Philippines as well. My mentality for for people that are hiring VA's is what you don't want to do is hire two people from the Philippines, two people from India, two people from South Africa. If you're just getting started because you're just adding a lot of extra work to your plate. There are cultural differences or time differences. There are all these different things that are going to come up that's just going to make it harder for you. Not impossible, just a lot harder. And from my experience and we have a video called Hiring from the Philippines 101 people grab  a free trial of Outsource School, everything from that they’re all about family, which is great when you're building a team to speak English at a high level to them being used to working US hours to my just personal experience, hiring there for 10 years, it is a great place to start. So you want to start with one place and if you have to start with one place, the Philippines is a good place to do it. But there are plenty of great VA's from all over the world. And I get this question a lot, too. Why would these people work for 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 dollars an hour? Yeah, it's a great question. We did a video on this in our Facebook group yesterday. We actually had one of our VA's go live in the group and just talk about like, why is she a virtual assistant? And there's a money factor, and actually they all make a lot more usually being a virtual assistant they would in their home country. I mean, the the average minimum wage in the Philippines is around 12 bucks a day. So if you're paying someone five to ten bucks an hour and I've had VA's that I paid 15 to 20 bucks an hour out of the Philippines, eventually they're going to  make a lot more. But there's other factors, too. I mean, before COVID, they had to drive to work. And traffic in the Philippines is brutal. I was in the Philippines once and we spent an hour in traffic    to go like a mile and a half. And they had to do that every single day. A lot of them have large    families. They have to leave or they have to hire a nanny for which is just an additional expense, where being able to work from home gives them a lot more flexibility. And a lot of the same reasons that I like working from home, I've been working from home for ten years is the same reason that they do. I mean, I wear shorts and a t-shirt every day. I work pretty much flexible hours or at least    hours that I have agreed to with other people. I can take care of personal stuff like I'm moving    right now. Right after this podcast. I have someone coming to buy a desk and I have to run home from work. There's so many benefits and flexibility and lifestyle to go along with the money component. The Philippines, I've seen a lot of them have college degrees, most of them why? I mean, like it seems, is common there is it is a you know high school degree from here. Yeah, I mean, I wouldn't be fooled by the hourly rate, like I work with very intelligent people  from the Philippines, we just hired a salesperson who's worked at Verizon who's got like 10 years of    sales experience, who's bringing a lot to the table. He'll probably bring stuff to the table that I don't even know how to do because I've never had a sales corporate job. So there is a lot of really    talented people out there. I personally like a college degree. Whether they have it or not is not the biggest factor. Might be a factor, but like I have a college degree on the wall that I've never used and I've hired plenty of people that that did go to college, didn't go to college. And it hasn't always been a perfect reflection of how good of a VA they'll be. But there are plenty   of people in the Philippines that get a great education and then become a virtual assistant. If I'm on Outsource School and I use Outsource School to be able to find my VA, what kind of things should I be looking at as I'm vetting one candidate versus another?   Yeah. So at Outsourced School, we don't actually provide the virtual assistants. We can help you get a virtual assistant once you're ready, but we're giving you a step by step process, everything from the exact interview, questions to ask and what to look for, how to set expectations with onboarding, how to create SOP with software to create SOP you get access to our trainings on how to build separate teams so you don't have to do any of the guesswork plus community and support if you do run into issues or you have specific situations. We've seen it before we know exactly how to handle it. So you're getting that support along the way to make sure that you can hire rockstars, hire them    quickly and efficiently. Our interview process is fast and be able to keep them around. I mean, our    members have very low turnover. We have very low turnover, and we want to take everything that we've learned and pass it along to you so that whenever you need to hire, you can go wherever you want, get a virtual assistant, use our process, and know that you're going to get results. Where do you think of the best places to go and find VA's? So I'm biased, right I created the FreeUp marketplace. I trained all the people there I have a great relationship with there with them. I have a great relationship with the new owners. I get my own VA's there. So I recommend checking out FreeUp    if people haven't already. But I mean there's no shortage of marketplaces to go to the UpWork, the Fiverr, stuff like that. I like FreeUp because it's going to send me options that already have a level of vetting. And I know that they're going to back me up if anything goes wrong with it. And so I can still do my vetting. I put my VA's through the same process we teach at Outsource School.   But I'm not I'm not going to have to go through 50 people to do it. I'm going to get 2 to 3 people that are already vetted and then I can vet them the way that I want. What steps does somebody go through in the hiring process to be able to find a VA? Hire a VA? Like what's that like versus American employees? I mean, we call our hiring process IOTM, IOTM, which stands for Interviewing, Onboarding, Training, and Managing, and we talked a little bit about what you do before you interview the budget, the different levels. We talked a little bit about the interviewing, the care interview process communication, attitude, red flags, and experience onboarding is all about setting expectations.    It's one of the most important things that we learned hiring VA's and that a lot of our students, it's made probably the biggest difference in their business, because when you set expectations well upfront, you avoid all those issues down the line. We talked about training, which is the SOP. And then lastly is managing and managing can be broken down into so many different things, everything from bonus and raise programs to meetings to giving feedback to firing virtual assistants. All of that goes in there and we have specific tactics and wave ways. We've done it to not only get stuff done at a high level but also get it done quickly and efficiently. We don't want to have 4-hour meetings. We want to have 20-minute meetings that are fast and efficient and get the job   done so we can move on to the next thing. What about pay? How do you pay them? Do you pay them direct deposit to a bank? I mean, is it better to pay? Because if I pay them through UpWork, I pay like a 10% fee and I don't know exactly how much FreeUp is, but do you continue to manage them long term   and pay them through the actual platform? You hire them because I mean, I don't think a lot of people do. I mean, I, I you know hire a lot on UpWork. I keep them there and then eventually I move them and just start paying and direct. What's your advice in that area? Yeah, I mean, the cool thing about FreeUp is there's a lot of protections. If you do keep them through, they're like they have a no turnover guarantee where if someone quits, though, coverall replacement costs and get you someone else, if   someone disappears, they'll reach out to the VA and get a hold of them for you, stuff like that. And whether you use a marketplace or you hire direct, that's a personal preference. There's pros and cons for both. I hire through FreeUp, I pay FreeUp and they pay the VA, it's easy. They draw for my bank account every single week. There's a convenience factor there as well. If you want to pay people directly, I recommend Payoneer they're a company that I've worked   with for a while I what I like to do is go to the people in the Philippines. I ask them what's good for them because anything that doesn't really matter to me that I can make a win for them.   It just makes me one step closer to becoming their favorite client. And my goal is to be the favorite client of every single VA. So if they prefer transfer wise or PayPal or Payoneer, I'm happy to do it. And I found that most people in the Philippines like Payoneer because they just pay a $3 fee to withdraw the money. And the conversion rate tends to be pretty good.   But this always fluctuates over time there's always new companies coming out. People change their conversion rates and all sorts of stuff. How do you know how much to pay them? Like I have this like rule, they should be on in 3,4,5 bucks an hour. They speak good English and    should be like 7, 8. But that's just based on experience I really don't know. So how do you figure out how much to pay a VA. Yeah, so we break this down a little bit at Outsource School, I mean, usually around 5 and I say 5, but that's a ballpark it can be 3, 4, it can be 6. Whatever is pretty good for that standard virtual assistant. If I'm going to promote them to voice calls or team leaders or some kind of project manager or they're doing higher-level   projects, they're going to be more in that 7 to 10 range. But I like to say 5 to 10 is a good range for easier tasks are usually in that 5 to 7 seven. If you get a little cheaper, that's fine, too. My biggest thing is we don't hire anyone unless we know that they're happy with the rate. And it's part of our interviewing process, part of our onboarding process. We want to make it very clear that we don't want issues down the line in 6 months with rate. We want to we want to make sure they're happy with the rate now, and they're not only just happy with the rate now, they're happy with my bonus and raise program, because if they start off at 5, but they're expecting to make 10 by the end of the year and I only give a dollar raise every year, that might not blow up on me now, but that's going to blow up on me at the end of the year. So it's all about being proactive and makes you making sure you're 100% on the same page with the virtual   assistant. Makes sense, but paying them hourly think that's smarter than paying them per task iIt depends for like weblog writers will pay per article, graphic designers, stuff like that. We tend to pay our virtual assistant hourly the ones that are doing a customer service, stuff like that, for sales calls it's actually hourly plus commission. What we found, because a lot of people do fix pricing, but a lot of people will do fix pricing like like a monthly fixed price or weekly fixed price. But they're really doing it to save money on the extra hours. So they'll have the virtual assistant work 50 hours a week, but only pay the 40. That tends to backfire on them at some point. So what we like to do is we'll pay them like a fixed price for 40 hours, but then we'll just pay them hourly for anything. They work above that and that works pretty well for us. It's all about being fair. Again, our goal is not only to have a great VA, but to be the favorite client of the virtual assistant. And that's something that that    we found works. How do you communicate with them? You mentioned communication is really important. But I mean, how do you communicate? Is it by phone? Is it by Zoom? Is it by Slack? Is it by all of them? Yeah, so we set up 3 communication channels. Slack is for day to day communication meetings are there interviews on boardings, any when they do a task started task change a tasks, have questions. All the Slack, emails is for responses within a business day. So I'm not going to send people an email if they need to respond to me in the next hour or if it's something urgent they need to read right now and then an emergency channel. So I connect with my VA's on social media well they have WhatsApp or Viber on their phone. So if something blows up on the weekend or whatever it is, we can get a hold of them. We're not waiting for them to respond to an email. And it kind of goes both ways because if people are emailing me over something, they should be Slacking me I correct them. If they're Vibering me at 9:00 p.m. on a Friday or something not important, I'm going to correct them. So setting up those communication channels, making sure you're calling them and they're following them is incredibly important. How do you do with a difference in time? Because daytime here is nighttime there. So whenever someone excuse me as concern over time to me that that's the smallest issue like I have at a time zone issue in years. And that's because we only we set the expectation upfront, like if we're just hired a salesperson and I need them to work 9:00 to 5:00 and we made 195 but he's worked 9 to 5 before. And so we don't want to experiment and working night shift on us. He may like it he might not like it. We're not willing to take that risk. So we spend extra time there. Now with my virtual assistant, Anna, who's my team leader I don't need her to work 9 to 5. So she works for our set schedule from eight to noon and then 4-hours flexible schedule, which is totally fine. So it depends on the role, but the key is you need to know what schedule actually works for you. You need to hire someone that's worked that schedule    before, wants that schedule and you need to set the expectations and make sure you're on the same page before you get further along in the hiring process. What about culture? Culture is really important to our organization. How do you build culture, get them to continue the culture remotely like that? Yeah, I mean, I could talk about culture for for an hour. I mean, culture comes down to to 3 things you've got knowing what your culture is. My culture might be slightly different than your culture, but you have to define your culture. Then you need to find people that are an actual culture fit. You don't want to take someone to try to mold them into your culture. You want to find people    that already fit that culture, and then you want to do things to maintain that culture over time. We have a culture meeting once a month. We actually just had a I think yesterday or the day before all happened Zoom call. And we just we we talked, we share stories, we bonding we have other culture meetings where we'll get to know each other, get them to buy into the company. Culture is something that you need to maintain over time. You can't just say, hey, this is our culture, this   is what it is. And you have to be willing to have tough conversations with people who are not following the culture and remove people, even if they're your best salesperson if they're not following the company culture and they're refusing to do it, they have to go because it very, very easy to break that delicate balance of culture. Make sense is a culture difference is pretty significant between their culture over there and the United States culture, many of their problems there we should look out for. Yeah, I mean, I personally like the Filipino culture, I mentioned family a few times, that's a big part of it. I think there are certain things that are part of our culture, like  we care about giving feedback, being brutally honest about things, taking responsibility, like    speaking up if you think something's wrong. And and sometimes and I hate to put everyone in everyone in one country in one bucket because it's just not true. But from my experience, a lot of times VA's can be shy and it might take me a few reminders to be like, hey, I don't want you to just say yes, Nathan, because I'm your boss. I want you to actually speak your mind and tell me what you think, because you're doing this task more than me and I want to help make it better. So there's certain things you have to pull out of them. But I think the basics and the overall values are very much the same. We're all human beings we for the most part, if you hire right, we want   the same things. They want to keep their job we want to grow our business. They have the same common goals and you just have to figure out a way to bring it together. Talk to me a little bit about loyalty because in my experience, man, I mean, I've never seen anything like Filipino VA's I have once they're hired and onboard, if you take care of them, they do not leave. Like, I can't even think I can't even think of a VA that's ever left our organization voluntarily. I mean, very few we've even had to let go. So why is that man like what's the loyalty? Why is there so loyal over there   compared to what I've ever seen in the states? Yeah, it's a good question. I've seen the same thing. I'm not sure if I know exactly what the answer is. I mean, they're looking for an opportunity. Imagine what it's like being in a third world country where there's not that many great jobs. And every job that you have one to get is a further drive away and you have to be away from your family. So when you find a client and a lot of them have had bad clients before, clients that talk down to them didn't treat them like right nickel and dime them over every single hour, stressed them out over and over. So when you come in and you treat them right and you become their favorite client, they want that. They've been looking for that for who knows how long. And they don't want to lose that and they   want to be a part of something. They're looking for the opportunity to be a part of something. So when   you're able to do it and it seems like you are and I've had that same situation, I mean, the people we hired in the first few months of FreeUp, we're with FreeUp 4 years later when we sold it, they're still with FreeUp a year later after we sold it. And same thing with Outsource School and my Amazon business. They are very loyal, but it all comes down to treating them well just because you're paying them an extra few bucks an hour, that that alone is not going to keep them around.    Nathan as we get ready to wrap up, what should I asked you that maybe I didn't mean   anything else relating to the interviewing, the onboarding, the training and managing a VA's that you think that everybody listening and watching today should know? Yeah, I mean, I'll kind of end it with this. Like, if you never hired a VA before, just keep in mind, iI didn't just wake up one day and I'm sure you didn't either and just hire 25 full-time people. You start small, you build up from there, start off trying to get 5 hours a week back and build up from there you'll learn a lot whether using our processes or trying to figure it out on your own and build up, hire more VA's increase their hours and and that's the way to go about it. That's how you grow a business, you don't have to dive in and hire for VA's today. Thanks for coming on with us today. Thanks for having me. So, everybody, I can't tell you the  importance of this topic, I just can't. When I owned a mortgage company and it was crashing in the mortgage crisis, I hired my first VA Sarah 10 years ago. She still works with me today. Matter of fact, I mean, 95, 99% of every VA I've ever hired still works today. And what we love about them is that they're loyal, they're dedicated. They just do the job you ask him to do to almost perfection every single time. There's no drama, there's no drama, it's crazy. It's absurd when you hire employees in the United States, how much drama there is, how much entitlement there is. You just don't deal with any of that with VA's. But there's a huge problem a lot of people don't know how to hire them they don't know how to interview them. They don't know how to find the right person they don’t know how to onboard them they don’t know how to train them, they don't know how to scale the organization using them. That is exactly what Outsource School does, and this is the biggest problem. It's not hiring VA's Nathan said there's a bunch of places there's Fiverr there's UpWork there's there's FreeUp there's a lot of places you can go. But the problem is what do you do when you find the right one? How do you know you find the right one? How do you interview them? How do you are you onboard of how do you get them in the organization the right way with our part of    your culture? And they can really be a huge asset to your organization. It's exactly what Outsource School does. So make sure you check out their Website outsourceschool.com tons of really valuable information here. They even map out all the different types of training that they do. And    what's interesting is that even if you look at the training modules they have in the Website, you   get a lot of really smart ideas of how you could use VA's in your organization. So if you're sitting   there going, I'm not exactly sure where I use them or how I use them. Another big problem I have and    another big problem I've heard. And the answer to that is just go to outsourceschool.com there   they have all the training modules listed and you can even get a lot of ideas like booking them for podcast, for example, that will help you grow your organization, because once you see the power, what VA's do, you're going to want more. Because what happens is it's not just about taking care of your existing tasks. It's about finding a way to do a lot more cool things, to grow the organization even faster VA's is the key. So make sure you visit outsourceschool.com that's outsourceschool.com to learn everything you need to learn about finding the right VA's, in your organization, interviewing them, hiring them, onboarding them, getting them trained, and making them a very valuable asset to    your organization. Thanks, everybody for tuning in and make sure you visit outsourceschool.com. 