 What's going on, guys? My name is Ravi Abuvala, founder of ScalingwithSystems.com and no, I'm not going to ask you to come to some seminar before I give you all the good stuff in this video. I'm going to be walking through the exact steps that you should be taking as a real estate investor or as people whose service real estate investors in order to generate more leads for your company, closed more deal and take home more cash at the end of the day. So some you may know, I've built a lot of my career and my businesses around servicing the real estate industry, and that's naturally where we start to go into. And we started skin with systems was helping real estate investors and agents close more deals. Now, one of the biggest issues that I see systemically, honestly, and businesses all across the world, but more specifically in real estate investing and residential real estate is a lack of consistent lead generation. And the reason that is, is because there's so much admen and paperwork and noise and day to day driving listings showing, you know, property evaluations, etc, etc. that goes on in your industry, that it's almost impossible to expect someone to be able to do all of that and do consistently generation every single day. However, you may know just as well as I do that there's no way you're going to be able to actually scale up your business for your company without that predictable and consistent lead generation. So what's the solution? We actually recommend our clients to hire virtual assistants. That's what we do for our clients asking positions. We give them fully trained virtual assistants. And what those virtual cities can do for you is they can take over that day to day lead generation process and you can hire commission based employees in order to actually close the deals. So if you're a real estate investor or an agent and you're doing one to two deals a month, it's now time for you to start scaling up because you'll have a proven process to that point, you know, something that works and you've proven that you can do it in your industry. And so now what you do is actually remove yourself and hire other people in your place. So the two people that we recommend to hire first are going to be a virtual assistant. It's a very easy hire, very, very low costs, as well as incredible output. They can do for you. And then a commission based employee that can actually be kind of your acquisition deal and they can go out and close those deals in person for you. So the first thing you got to want your virtual assistant to do for you and your real estate investing business is start scraping data and lists. If you're a real estate wholesaler or a real estate investor, you know how important the actual quality of that original list that you're doing, direct mail campaigns, cold calls or voice mail drops, too, is so it's incredibly critical that you get that right from the beginning. I'm not gonna go too deep into this video here on different lists. Source possibilities, but inside skin was this. And some of the places that we do recommend our clients going as having the virtual assistants actually call county and public records in order to get those list of absentee owners or high equity. And another really great software tool that we recommend using is something called Red X, which will not only give you addresses of also phone numbers that your virtual assistant can call those people and pre qualify them for your commission based employee to go close the deal. Okay, so once we have an incredibly clean and both segmented list of target prospects, so you wanna make sure you have your absentee owners in one list, you'll measure your high equity owners and other lists, tax delinquent in another list so you can customize those messages for all of them. You have a higher response rate. Then we're going to get into the I'd say, though, the powerhouse, the workhorse of real estate investing, and that's direct mail campaigns. Once again, there's hundreds of direct mail campaigns out there and direct mail companies other that you can use. We use info U.S.A or if have our clients use Info USA for some of the stuff that they do board. You can now do is have your virtual assistants take those segmented lists and upload them into segment and campaigns for a direct mail company to send those out to those homeowners in order to elicit a response. What you'll notice is a lot of times the first time you enter into a market with a hot with a direct mail campaign, you're gonna get a really high response rates in the beginning. But it's mostly going to be negative response rate, asking for people to take you off their list. All of these inbound phone calls that are coming in should not once again be up to you as a real estate investor or a wholesaler. It's not worth your time. You could very easily have a virtual assistant overseas be the one taking all these inbound calls. We use a software called Ring Central in order for them to take the inbound calls, an inbound text messages so they can both prequalified people. And also, if people are just calling to be asked to take it off their list, they can take it off their list. And it's not even worth bothering you for your time. In addition, the direct mail campaign, what we like to do to kind of spice it up and add a little more effectiveness is hit cross-channel communication. So we'll also of using software like Red X, you can get phone numbers. We'll also have the virtual and call them within three to five days of doing the direct mail campaign and confirming that they've got the the direct mail campaign. And if they did or didn't try to prequalified them on that call, we also are the virtual assistant send out voice mail drops using a software called Sligh broadcasts once again to do the exact same thing, trying to pre qualify them and get them a callback. And then finally, would a lot of you don't realize you can do as well as take those names and phone numbers or even if you saw half on their e-mail address as well, and upload those as a custom audiences inside of Google Display Network or Facebook ads. And then you can also follow these people four dollars a day around the entire Internet. And the third and final way you should be using virtual assistance as a real estate investor is to handle inbound response. So if you remember in the beginning, this video, we talked about two types of employees you should be hiring. That's me, a commission based employee. That can be your boots on the ground in order to close a deal. And that's a virtual assistant. Now, the boots on the ground commission may simply should not be handling inbound lead response. You shouldn't be handling inbound lead response. It's not worth your time. Instead, you train a virtual assistant or you work with a company like us that's Let's Away Systems, which gives you pre trained virtual citizens who can speak to the prospects and pre qualify them and make sure that it's worth the commission based employees time in order to go out there and actually close that deal so they can figure out your qualifying questions and make sure that they're actually distressed, they're actually looking to move forward. Now, before you had to set a time in the calendar for your commission based employee to go out there and close it, this is when it becomes really incredibly efficient to have a really strong CRM. And you can have your virtual assistant focusing on one aspect of the CRM, which can be all your outbound prospects that don't even know who you are yet. I mean, you have your commission base employees working on another part of the CRM that will the people that have responded and I've been pre qualified. So we don't like to keep. I see a lot of real estate investors and agents keeping both of those in the same essentially CRM and the same type of that same view. And a clutter's everything up. You should separated by people that don't know who you are and then people that are qualified and know who you are. So you can make sure that each person, each employee is focusing on the right segment of people. So there you have it. In order to use a virtual assistant correctly as a real estate investor or a wholesaler. You should be having them scrape and find quality data leads you using multiple different Web sites like Red X or county and public records. You should have them send direct mail campaigns for you in addition to that fall of those direct mail campaigns with voice mail drops, cold calls and or Facebook and Google display network retargeting. And finally, what you want to do is actually have the virtual assistant handle, the inbound leads that are coming in from those direct mail campaigns, from the Facebook and Google ads and from the cold calls so that you are able to make sure that your commission base employee's time is only spent going out and closing deals for you. This is going to make your company or your system incredibly Google profitable, way more scalable. And it's going to remove you from the process so that you don't have to spend 18, 20 hours a day trying to create a successful real estate investor or wholesale company. So now you know exactly what to do when you have a virtual assistant to help them scale your real estate investor or wholesale business. But you know where to find a virtual assistant. I would invite you to click the link in the description down below and you actually can get access to a free course that I put together that's going to cover exactly where we find our virtual systems, from what technology and software as we used to make them more efficient, and how we use them to scale up to a 20 to 30 person virtual assistant team so that you can have a lead generation machine going on 24 hours a day. Finally, if you got any value on this video, please be sure to give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to my channel and comment down below. Any additional questions you have? Thanks, guys. 