 Linh: Hey guys, it's Linh Podetti here... the director of Outsourcing Angel. In this video I want to share with you what a Virtual Assistant can do for your E-commerce, Shopify or Amazon business. Now, most of you have probably heard that a Virtual Assistant is a cost effective solution. But, you're probably wondering... what can they actually do? Why are they different? How are you different? I want to debunk all of those questions for you today. Now, let's start with, why are they different? You surely can get a lot of things done for your business through someone locally. Now, why choose a Virtual Assistant? Well, a Virtual Assistant is someone that works virtually and can assist you in your business. For example, they might be in places like the Philippines. Now, in places like the Philippines, as you know, it is more cost effective in terms of the salary, so you expect to pay one third or half of what you normally pay to a local person. Now, another benefit that you might be interested in a VA, is that they can actually provide service to you before hours and after hours, because they work virtually and from anywhere around the country. For example, if you work with someone locally, most likely, you would be hiring them between nine to five - normal business hours. If you need them to work before hours or after hours, then a Virtual Assistant is a great option for that. Now, let me share what a Virtual Assistant can do for your E-commerce business. E-commerce store setup, for example, product market research, competitor analysis, store setup, web design, database management. From product management category, you can do product sourcing, product listing, write your product content, order management, product fulfillment, shipment, tracking, inventory manager. Now, when it comes to professional design, they can help you with logo design, correct graphics, edit product photos, video editing. In terms of digital advertising, they can do social media ads, sponsored ads, pay per click, email marketing, content writing, SEO, conversion rate optimisation, social media management, and link building. Now, in terms of customer service, they can help with answering customer inquiries, they can comment on reviews, they can locate past orders and assisting with order inquiries and they can even help with refunding orders. Now, as you can see, there are many ways that you can use a Virtual Assistant. Most of the time, people think that a VA is someone that just does admin or your secretary of work, but in our case, as you can see, they can cover a lot of aspects in your business, from your back end support to your marketing. Now, you're probably wondering, how do I get a VA? I want to share with you some of the options that are out there in the marketplace for you. Now, the first option I'd like to share with you, which is the cheapest option for you. You can expect to pay the least amount of money. However, it does require a lot of work from your end. This is where you go to a marketplace and you post a job up, you find your own person by checking their profiles and interviewing them. Now, I must say, this is the option that I started with and I made a lot of mistakes here. I didn't know who I was choosing and I did get ripped off a lot. It really takes someone who's more experienced to do it. Now, the next option you can do is... teach yourself about outsourcing education out there, where you can learn how to find these people and how to work with them. Now, you just got to spend a lot of the time learning what to do, and then go to a marketplace to actually go and find them. That's the second option that you could do. Now, the third option that you could do, when you don't want to do all the work and you want someone else to do it for you, is when you hire an agency, like us. So, with an agency, we handle the recruitment part, we help you onboard and work with the VA. We also even provide you with all the processes, checklists and everything you need to support your journey along the way, but with building your virtual team. Now, I must say, I want to share with you the two differences in our agency. In the agency world, there are agencies who have an office space, for example, in the Philippines. All the people there are working for them, and they work for you on their behalf. In our case, we're actually an online business. So, all of our VA's are working from home. We can access VA's from all around the country. These VA's have a better work-life balance because they are able to work from home and be there with their families. They are more happier. I just want you to remember there are two options. Either, you want to have your Virtual Assistant in an office, where they're almost like an employee for this organisation, or you want to go down our route, which is more like freelancing. These are the people that work from home, but because they work through us, we help to support them as well. We give them a community, we give them the support they need, so that they can be performing the best for you. Now, I'm sure you have a lot more questions than this video could answer. I would love to invite you for a free discovery session with our team, where we can learn more specifically about your business and discover what are the things that you can do to really scale your business, to improve your bottom line. Please don't hesitate to get in contact with us today. 