 Hello everyone and welcome back to my channel My name is Afreen and in today's video I will be sharing with you the top five side hustles that you can start in 2020 and make some money online. Make sure to subscribe to my channel because I post videos on freelancing social media and entrepreneurship every Saturday. Also stay tuned till the end of the video because there is a bonus tip for you guys. So without any further ado, let's jump right into the video. Sign hustle 1: COPY WRITING Don't confuse copy writing with content writing because these two are completely different Copy writing is selling in writing. All those copies for social media posts, emails, funnels, sales pages they all require expert and great copies. People pay a lot of money to great copywriters because they are the ones who can convert their audience to paying customers. If you like persuading people, and if you love writing then mix these two together, and you can be a great copywriter. Of course It will take time to learn it and experience it but at the end of the day it still worth it and very very profitable Side hustle: 2 GRAPHIC DESIGNING With more and more people coming onto social media and websites, brands are actually hiring expert graphic designers in order to elevate their brand in front of their audience I'm a graphic designer myself, and my clients are extremely overwhelmed with the idea of moving an image or adding a text to the artwork. Therefore they hire me for they hire me for their designing needs. Similarly, if you have the artistic ability or if you want to learn designing then you must because this is a very high-in demand skill. You don't have to start with Photoshop or illustrator Just to begin with you can either start with canva and see if you really like it if you love it You can experiment complex software's as well like Photoshop Illustrator and CorelDraw Side hustle: 3 SOCIAL MEDIA MANAGEMENT, if you love using Facebook and Instagram, this side hustle can be for you as well But hear me out, there are so many different people proclaiming themselves as social media experts But they don't really know what is there on the platform and how the algorithms really work So if you want to succeed using this particular skill You need to know how the algorithms work and the platforms inside out If you are a newbie You can definitely take online courses like Facebook blueprint or Digital Garage or maybe take free courses on Udemy and Coursera Just to be better than the rest and to stand out from the crowd. Moreover My advice to you would be instead of being jack of all and learning all the different platforms like Facebook Instagram YouTube Twitter master one single platform and really really Become an expert in it because that is how you will make more money online and you'll be able to raise your prices higher. Before I move to side hustle number four I'd really want you to understand that do not be attracted to a new skill every single time you hear about it So let's say if I'm talking about the five side hustle that you can start doesn't mean that you should be doing every single thing just pick one thing they learn it and really Master it because that is how you're gonna be an expert in that field Side hustle: 4 VIDEO EDITING or becoming a video editor So before I talk about this, I need to share one stat with you. So by 2020 Online videos will make up more than 80% of all consumer Internet traffic. That is correct This is why video editing is one of the top five side hassles that you can start today because it's super super Important and it can be highly profitable in the future so if you are a video editor, congratulations If you are not learn it because this can be very profitable. Side hustle: 5 VIRTUAL ASSISTANT With more and more businesses being launched every single day from solopreneurs to corporations people need a virtual assistant in order to maintain and manage their business and admin tasks But who exactly is a virtual assistant? A virtual assistant is a person who provides? Various services to entrepreneurs or businesses from a remote location There are a host of things that virtual assistants can do including social media management event management managing calendars Reports and simple digital marketing tasks. Here you go If you think that you can do all of these tasks and if you love being organized and if you how people do that then you can definitely try out being a virtual assistant for someone and managing all these tasks because trust me this is one of the Top-rated skills people actually need. If you are still stay tuned till the end of the video here is your bonus tip So if you think that you cannot do either of these five tasks that I just mentioned well I have a longer list for you guys to explore and maybe something that you can really sell online Let me show you. Alright guys If you are looking for a longer list, then you can simply go to fiverr.com and search for any service, so let's click on voiceover and Here you go with all the categories that people are actually buying and paying for online So graphics and design we have so many different options to choose from Digital marketing writing and translations if you have if you are fluent in more than one language You can go for translation services video and animation music and audio programming and tech Business we have other options as well besides virtual assistant that we talked about life style and so on and so forth So explore this list and I'm sure that you will find at least one to two Things that you can really sell online on this platform that is it you guys. Thank you so much for watching well in my next video I will be sharing my top secret tips on how you can get freelance clients when you have 0 clients So if you're interested give this video a like subscribe to my channel and follow me on Instagram for behind the scenes of my business Thank you. Bye 