 Richard: When you empower people in your team to do that, it gives them a sense of ownership. Ownership in something new. It's a skill and an improvement. They get to take it on. If they take it on with both hands, then you can... Who knows what's going to happen? I don't know. Hopefully Jan Alvin becomes a master and can start doing some more crazy stuff with HubSpot, but we don't know what's possible if we don't get an opportunity. Linh: Hi everybody, and welcome to Outsourcing Angel. My name is Linh Podetti. I'm the director of Outsourcing Angel and I have here... Richard Phu. Welcome. Richard: Hi Linh. Finally, we get to be on here, right? Linh: Yeah, so I decided that I need to interview my own Operations Manager, Richard Phu, because he's got all the knowledge of what it takes to actually work effectively with your remote team, as well as having the most productive way of working business. I pride myself in hiring the best people. But, since working with you, I must say I've learned so many hacks to improve the way I run the business. I now have the freedom. I work three days a week now, because of the Coronavirus, having my kids full time and you have given me that chance. Throughout this whole year and a half of working with you, you're always asking me to think about how I'm being really busy. and how I am constantly, even though I'm freeing up time and hiring more people, I'm still caught up in business. You really did open my eyes up to what it takes to be free from your business and remove myself. So, that's why I want everyone to hear firsthand from you... the five steps to the ultimate freedom system, that you have taught me. How's that? Richard: Hopefully, if you're watching this and you can get If you have any questions I'd love for us to engage and some value out of it. connect more, so that we can help you. That's really what I want to bring here with you. So let's go. Let's go for it! Linh: Yeah, yeah. Well, let's talk about your credibility actually, who are you? Why should we listen to you? I was really impressed hearing your background too. So, I think everyone needs to know a little bit about where you came from and why you became obsessed with this way you run the business efficiently. I'll try and build some credibility here. Richard: I'll try Linh... If you know, even me wearing a leather jacket in wintertime doesn't help enough. So, I guess a bit about my background, what helps a lot, is that I hope you understand where I came from. My parents, they're Vietnamese refugees, who came to Sydney, and I was born in Australia. So no, nothing but Australian culture myself. I grew up, went through the whole system. Went to school, went to university, went for that dream of mine. Just get a good job, son, and you'll be fine. I did get a good job. I worked at KPMG, Australia, one of the big four accounting firms in the world in the management consulting team. For the first six months. I just want to go make partners, and make partners over there. And that's all that matters. No, no, buy a lot of property Linh and then I'm gonna retire at 40. That was literally the dream. Within six months, I was, something's off here. This doesn't make sense why I want to do this. The funny thing that happened was I started delving into more about the human psychology. Why do people make decisions? Why do girls like certain guys? Yeah, I went down the whole route. I got more into personal development and eventually, I found a guy called Tony Robbins. Linh: I know him! Richard: I went down that rabbit hole path. I met other people like T Harv Eker. I realised, "what am I here doing in this company helping big banks?" What I would do is go into big banks, big companies and see how people are doing things. They would say change this thing, put that in, take that out and that doesn't need to be in here. You will have this in, because otherwise you're going to get in trouble. Then, I come back and now watching, review the whole process again and be, okay, change this, do this, keep doing that and that's what we kept doing. I realised that after eight years in that role, what the hell am I doing here helping big banks make million of dollars, fire thousands of people every year? This is not what my social impact is, this is not what I want to be doing. This is not what I want to be remembered for, so I quit my job. I followed down that rabbit hole of Tony Robbins, all that personal development front. No joke, when I went out there and, "I'm going to be this... I'm going to be Asian Tony Robbins!" I'm going to take all these calls. They are going to clap like Tony or I get up and just into it. I went all in on that. I went full hardcore into it, so that now, we're going to bring this to Asia... Asian leaders. Let's go sit up in Singapore for two years, with only knowing probably a handful people in Singapore. I went in and unfortunately Asians weren't ready for Asian Tony Robbins. I'm still young enough, so still got time to come back for it. When I realised then there was I got off the stage once and I saw a bunch of these volunteers. They're all rolling around, like chooks with their heads cut off. What's going on? What's going on guys? What's happening? We're just trying to do stuff. But you run this event almost every month, so why is it a mess? They said, "I don't know, Richard, it's always different for some reason." I talked to the organiser and he said, "I don't know, Richard. It's just not what we do. We're just used to doing things on the fly." You shouldn't be on the fly, especially if you're doing it every month, it is the same thing. So, you should have a checklist. He says, "I don't understand what the hell you're saying, Richard, but look, how about you do this for us?" That's how I got back into the process world. Then, I started creating a company and this is where we connected a lot, because I actually created a virtual assistant company very similar to OA. There was the client, there's the VA, but I'm slotted in the middle, so that the client talks to me, I talk to the VA, build their processes, systems, make sure everything's done right. Eventually, I got approached by these partners in Singapore. They said, "Richard, you're really good at operations, but you're not very good at marketing. So, how about we combine our powers and create a super company!" Let's make it so that you do operations only, I'll do sales, this guy's gonna do marketing and the other guy will do partnerships. We're gonna have so much fun, and it's gonna be so awesome. So, let's do this and why not make an online marketing agency. So let's do it! We did that and I built it from zero to 15 people, everyone working from home remotely, across six different countries. But, after a year, I left the business because I felt my partners weren't where I wanted them to be. Instead, I came back to Sydney and that's how I reconnected with you. Now, what I need to do here, is be your right hand man. Make sure we are building the right processes, the right systems, make things efficient, but also looking after client experience and making sure I bring all that virtual experience here to the client. Linh: Yeah! I must say, although we were running a virtual assistance company or similar companies, we had different skill sets. For me, I was really strong in the recruitment of staff. But, the way I was running the business was still very amateur. When you came into the business, I was still using Skype, we had not much automation, although I have more people resource. I was not using softwares and tools to make my life easier. So, no matter how bigger the team got, I was still very, very busy. That's why I really love when you came in, you really thought about the end game, the end game for me was how do I free you up so that you can ultimately, have a business that can run without you. So there you go, you really summed it up really well with your credibility. For me, like you, I made a lot of mistakes with recruitment. I then knew how to recruit them really well. I think together we want people to know that it's not just about recruitment of the best people, it's really about how to work with them on an ongoing basis and how to run your business efficiently, so that you could ultimately, be free. Okay, let's go into the first point. Our first point for everybody is get over busyness. Why is that most business owners... even I actually know people who've been in business for 20 years, 30 years, no matter how long they've been in or how big they are, they get caught with busyness. Why is that? Richard: It's a good question. I'm sure I've been guilty of it, you've been guilty of it. There's this attachment with wha  we used to call a badge of bu yness. Everyone wants to be able to say, I'm super busy, I'm so busy I can't even talk to you. I couldn't call you, couldn't message you. I'm so busy. Oh, well. I'm so busy. You're gonna call me? It's a status symbol, it feels like almost. It doesn't make sense to me. It's like loading up your plate and it's constantly full and you're at the buffet. How do you make space for something that is better, that helps you further down the track and I ask the question when I was coaching, why does it matter that you get here so quickly? Why does it matter that you become a $50 million company? Why does it matter that you get married by 23? Why does it matter? If you can't answer that question, then it doesn't make sense. Because most of the times people don't answer that question. So, they're just rushing to the next thing, rushing to the next hit, rushing to the next high, rushing to the next show, to keep themselves busy. Because sitting by yourself and being with your thoughts is actually scary. I think that's what a lot of people are afraid of, so, that's what also holds a  ot of business owners back. Because when they have that space, that time, that freedom to then sit there, they don't know what to do with themselves. I used to fill it all up with doing admin things. I used to fill it up with making calls. I used to fill it up with doing all this, I could do all that. But, then you come to a crossroads, and now I actually have that time because I hired VAs or people to take care of the things that I don't want to do. Then now I'm at a crossroad, and I don't know what to do. Sometimes, they just revert back to what they knew. I need control again, and I need to do other things that I used to do. It's this idea that, if you have time in your space, that it's not cherished, it's not recognised as it's important. I think you're a great testament to it because after you kindly passed over some more business areas over to me, you realised actually, let's just sit with this. I'm a big advocate for not rushing through things, but let's just see what it feels like and assess what's going on. You think it's an off putting feelings like you're scared, you're upset. It's turmoil, butterflies in your stomach, but you don't know why there's butterflies or where they came from. It's looking at that and then letting all that pass by and settle. Then, things get clearer. At that point in time, it's foggy and then, you are waiting for the sun to come up. You see the clear path and that's what I think a lot of business owners are lacking. It's that time to sit down and reflect. That's why I think this whole pandemic with the Coronavirus is really powerful in the sense that, not only is it going to reveal who is doing well and who's not doing so well, but also a chance for everyone in the whole world honestly, to stop and reflect on this busyness that they've been running through and to really recognise and evaluate what they really want. Linh: I definitely think that you can be busy, but as long as you design your day to fill in activities and things that you love and treasure. So now, my day is busy, but it's a different busy. There's time for meditation, there's time for the exercise, there's time for family, there's time for work. It's busy in a sense of, I always have something to do. But, because it's so well balanced with personal time, as well as work time, I'm just so much more happier. So, I think people just need to start to design their day not just by what kind of task or job am I going to offload, it's what time blocks are you going to free up? What are you going to do that's going to fulfill yourself, that's going to make you happy? Otherwise, you always end up doing more work. You've seen me guilty of coming up with new project ideas. Ideas this and idea that and you're, let's sit with it. You have empowered me to do it too. It's okay to take time off and when I do have some time off, I came back with more ideas, even smarter, innovative ideas through silence. So I think number one for everybody is stop getting busy and really think about how you want to design your day, and then work towards that day. Richard: What you're saying, Linh, there's something hitting in there that I want to bring out. It's that you sat there, just to plan out your day, but at the same time, you have to create a space where it's okay to not have a plan set out. So, what I mean by that is, when you had those free days, you don't have to do work. Now, I can do whatever. But, the most important thing that you chatted with me before is you don't feel guilty about work. That's the biggest thing here is when I was running my own company, at every moment every day, I gotta know what to do. I gotta think about the business. But, that clogs up your thinking and what you need to do is really free yourself. I'm giving you permission to not work on a weekend. "Oh my god, Richard. That weekend was the best." I went out with friends and went out having fun, whatever. You really tap into why you're running your business in the first place. It's not just to get status, as a status is a by-product and shouldn't be the driving force. It should be what do you want. Most of us are really got our business so that we can go and spend more time in what we want to do. Be it traveling, be with family, be with friends Do other things, whatever that could be charity work, whatever. Linh: Yeah. Richard: It's really ultimately, buying time freedom. Yes. If that's what you want, that's fine. Go follow it. But, be very clear. Don't be chasing the status because it's like the gold medalists olympic champions. They train, they train, they train, they train. They get the gold medal and they think the whole world's gonna stop and yeah, you're amazing forever. Then, that moment just disappears. So, what? You're a gold medalist, good for you. Then, everyone moves on with their lives. It's recognising what it is that you really want, creating a space and being okay with not having to spend every single minute thinking about business. Thinking about how to get more leads, and more sales. Linh: Yes, a testament of when I'm not busy, I have the most amazing ideas that came out of nowhere. So, cheers to that. Alright, let's go to number two. Number two is all about patience is a virtue. Talk to me about patience when it comes to people hiring remote teams and expecting immediate results and go, "oh, it's not working" or whatever else. We are a testament of building a great remote team and we have such great coaches and we get a lot of stuff done. I want you to elaborate on that topic of patience. Richard: It's hard to explain but I'll try and make it as simple as possible. You're working with people. It doesn't matter if you get there early or doesn't matter if they're sitting right next to you. Different people operate with different rhythms and pace. It's your job as a business owner to recognise that. Things take time. The worst thing that I get that happens is when a client says, "Richard, it usually take me 10 minutes to do this. It takes my VA 20 minutes for it." But, think about it, it's not about that 10 minutes, you're giving, you're letting go. It's about the extra 10 minutes before that when you're trying to prepare. It's the 10 minutes after that, where you have done that, and now you have to go back to what you were doing. So in essence, you're making up with more time. The big problem is most people think that people should get it. This is the problem. It's the 'should'. It's this expectation that you should be doing this, should should. We 'should' on people, okay. We 'should' on people and then that creates this huge, I guess disappointment when you don't hit the target. The honest thing is, even in this team here, it's comes down to constant communication. If there's a lack of constant communication to keep people informed of the progress. All people actually want to do and you as a business owner, understand that people just want to know things are moving. It might not move as fast as you want it to be all the time. At the same time, you have to understand that especially, if you get someone new in your team, a new VA or a new employee, it literally takes them probably three to six months to understand the role, the business and you. You can't get that in the first week. You can't get that in the first month. It takes time. On top of that, as a business owner, you are a leader. You need to be investing in that person. A lot of people who fail with VAs, just see it as just a resource, not a person. You have to commit the time to understand what's happening with your family. Spend that with them, and be, "Hey, I feel that you're not happy today or something's off. Let's have a quick chat and don't worry about what's going on." This links into the first part, it was just the busyness. I'm too busy to talk to the people, I'm too busy to figure out what's happening to them in their life. If you make yourself too busy, then people can't connect with you and if the people can't connect with you as a leader, they're not gonna follow you. This is one of the things I do a lot in this team and anywhere I go. I want to make it so that it's about whether they want to work for me as a boss, not for the work. The work is nice. But, eventually they're gonna do stuff that they don't like, and stuff that they don't want to do. But, you have to know how are you going to motivate them? The only way that happens is if you invest in that time given. Be patient and be showing that you care enough about them. So, that they go, you know w at? I'm going to do this! Even though I don't like it or hate it, but I want to do it so that Richard or whoever, makes it easy for them. If you want your employees to make your life easier, you also got to put in a lot of time to make their lives easier. If you don't do that, then they don't see that you care. This is literally what patience is about, it's not to just sit there and give them the time and saying I gave them six months, but, you can teach them. If you don't invest in that person, they're not going to come back. That's one of the big things I see, is people are in such a rush. The busyness that they don't give it that time, they don't give it the opportunity to grow. You don't grow and garden by just planting and watering and dumping a liter of water on it. You've got to come back to fostering and being cultivators. Linh: Yeah. The other point we will talk about earlier around patience, is the fact that a lot of business owners forget what their time worth is. If your time is worth $200 an hour, and yet, you say that thing only took me half an hour. That's worth 100 bucks of your time, if you spent half an hour doing that. Versus, that VA did it for two hours, and to her two hours is equivalent to $20, whatever, $30 -$40. So, we really need to think of the time that's being wasted and all the costs that's being wasted by you actually doing it. You forget that people are sometimes counting the hours, but the hours aren't equal each other. Richard: And the thing is, I think a lot of people often forget that it's short term. They are so fixated on the short term. Oh screw it. If I just do it now, it's only half an hour versus in maybe 45 minutes if I spend time with someone else, and hopefully they get it right. But, they're not willing to put that time and they don't see the long game. They don't play too long haul. People say that they see it, but it's whether you play to it. You suck it up and say, look, I'm gonna suck up his pain and his tireless effort right now, because later on down the track, it will pay off. This is the fruits of it, is when you do invest that time in, the fruits are going to come back and now you don't even have to think about. You don't even have to evolve into that, and jump in and help because they're not dependent on you. This is probably where we're going to go to next Linh, is about the evolution of the Virtual Assistant. What's actually happening is, you put in this time, you put in this effort, then they're gonna evolve and start to make decisions for you, the way you want it to happen. That doesn't happen just because you get in there and you tell them what to do all the time. It's about building that up, building that trust, putting up patience, and never making it so that you're too busy for them, but, you're always investing into them. Linh: Yeah, we will cover that very soon. So, the next step I want to talk about is letting go and empowering your team. You also have a case study for me. Right now, you're trying to let go of a task that you were doing and now you're getting one of our team member to take over and do that. So, I thought it'd be really interesting for you to share that real case study. People could see that and get that you need to have people and patience, but, letting go and actually training someone else to do something. Let's talk about that. Richard: Yeah. With this recent change, where you want me to pretty much look after some new areas - sales and marketing, not just operations. It meant that I went in. I did a deep dive and I looked at sales. I'm like, "why are you guys using this spreadsheet in your program?" Many other business owners are probably doing this too. Why use this spreadsheet, when you have a tool that has all the information. You're basically copying from that tool, by putting it into this spreadsheet, when you don't need to. That's killing one of your resources or one of your people's time a lot. I flagged this and I'm like, okay, cool. I'm gonna go fix this, because it's been a pet peeve, and I'm really frustrated when other people's time is eaten up into something that is not looked at by many other people. What I mean by that is, for example, this report will be built, but no one was looking at the report later. So, why are we building it? If we were used to get other data for little parts and other pieces, then we can do that in our tool. We use this as a CRM, we use HubSpot. What we were doing is this pipeline tracker, saying where leads are coming in. What are they doing? What stage they're at? Why are they buying? Who referred them? That type of information all is captured in HubSpot. But, for whatever reason, the sales team weren't adapt in HubSpot and its reports. I sat there and thought, "okay, cool." The person who everyone comes to for this Hubspot thing is me, because I put it in, but I'm not the expert at it. I probably know more because I just click around watching videos. Alright, so if I'm training these two extra teams, I can build this thing. But I got no time. As important as I know it is, I got no time to fix it. So I reached out, I reached out to help. I looked at our ops team. Is someone free? Fortunately, we had someone who is free. And most of all, they liked data and they wanted to do more about it. I said, cool, let's pull this guy in, let's call in the person using an existing report. Okay, guys, so this is what the report does. Let me do this. I need this person right here named Jan Alvin. I'm going to make you HubSpot champion. I want you to be to know HubSpot more than me. Even though he's never played with HubSpot as much, until recently with the work that he's doing. I don't care. I'm giving you the time, the space, the freedom to go and just experiment. Check things out, try things out. I don't care. Just go for it. When you empower people in your team to do that, it gives them a sense of ownership. Ownership is something new. It's a skill, it's an improvement, and they get to take it on, they take it on with both hands, then you can lose it. Who knows what's going to happen? I don't know. Hopefully, Jan Alvin becomes like a master and can start doing some more crazy stuff with HotSpot, but we don't know what's possible if we don't get an opportunity. The only way this opp rtunity happens is because the created that room. The space in awareness, where I need help. So, let me go get someone who can help, who has the time. It's not on the business owner to always find the solution and go do it and be the one that has to roll it out. You have to think about who's in your team here and who can help. You don't think in that way, otherwise you're always gonna think you, you, you, and you're not going to get further that way. You need to make a collaborative space so that people can pitch in, because ultimately, if you build a good team, everyone will want to pitch in. Everyone wants to help. They just don't know how to yet, without you telling them, "I need help here." Linh: Yeah! Everyone needs a challenge. I mean, even your team, virtual staff or local stuff, if you continue to challenge them in something new to do, then they will learn that and will take off something on your plate. Then, you get to do more things. Everyone starts to grow and scale. I mean, this is something you're currently doing. But, I already know that it's worked in the past, where you were doing some Slack and Zapier connection. One of our designer actually, he's really just a designer, but, because he likes technical stuff, you're like, I can see that you will be able to learn in this role. You don't sit there going, "Oh, you've never done that before. So I don't think you can do this." It's, "No, you have the potential to do this, so I'm going to start teaching you." Give me a little bit of that background of that, because I know that he's already doing all this stuff right now for us and he's he's amazing. Now, what was it at that time, and you had to come to this point now. Richard: Yeah, so that was a really good example of it. Where it's panned out really well in the sense that, if you don't know what Zapier is, it's basically an automation tool, where you can connect one app with another app, and you'll pass data through, and you set up a lot automations. That used to be me, around when I brought into the company, no one else really knew about it. This is what we can do and everyone was like, "oh, my gosh! Oh, my gosh!." It became to the point where, "Richard, it's not working!" "Richard is broken!", "Richard!", whatever. Because things change. I got really tired of having to do it all the time, because I'd have to stop what I'm doing and go do something else. It wasn't until the designer in our team named John. He was, "Richard, I'm interested in this tech stuff. Can you show me how I do it?" "Okay, we could show you how to do it, but let's sit down first." I literally sat down in person, and asked, "Why do you want to learn this?" "What makes you interested about it?" I got into the motivation of him. Is it true that he won't really have a love for this? Or is it some, BS, where I want to look good in front of a boss. If so, it's not the right motivation. If the person has the right motivation, then you can tap into it and use that, so that it keeps them wanting to keep growing. That's what I did. I sat down and he said, "I really just want to be more technical and help the team." I said, if you do this, right, you'll help me a lot. If I get hit by a bus, someone else can look off this. I said, "Look, I'm not gonna train you in. It's very straightforward. All you need to do is practice and play." I would say every time there was an opportunity for him to do something new, I'd say, "John, you need to have a go with it." He probably like spend like a day or something on it, which could take me half an hour, but then, in a day he learns a lot of things. I come in and I review the work and I'd ask, He'd say, "No." "Okay, you understand why this doesn't work?" It's because of this, this. It's that coaching mentality of not spoon feeding, and this is how you do it. It's show me, have a go. Go try it. If it doesn't work. What do you think, fix it. Go Google it. Google and YouTube saves us so much effort. It's only now that I come in for more advanced stuff. When I look at that, I can troubleshoot very quickly for him and he's still learned. This idea is now, he's become the automation guy. Everyone goes to him first, and they talk to him. "Can you change this?" "Can you change that?" "Sure." Then, I come in and I've helped tweak further with him. You can't do that immediately, it took him probably one or two months to get better at that. Eventually, he's now the person that ever knows to go to and that's great for him, because he feels recognised in the team now. He's bringing value in that sense and it's great for me, because now, I have another guy who can do 80% of it. If there's anything more complicated, I come in and try to work with him to fix it. Linh: I want to talk now about the whole decision-base versus task-based because I was guilty of that. So, when you were mentioning about spoon feeding, and when you came to work with me for the year and a half ago, you were like, "Oh, my gosh!." Then, you make it so hard for you for yourself, because you're like, "you have a problem." You solve the problem and then, you tell the team, exactly what to do with the problem. No wonder why you're so busy and I didn't realise that I could actually do less. By doing less meant that all I have to do is ask the question, "why do you think this has happened?" "What do you know?" "What solutions do you think?" I didn't realise that I could free myself from problem solving, because I have a really smart team, but, I wasn't able to see how smart they were until I gave him that opportunity. It has been so fun for me to play that new style of leadership where it's like, what would you kind of thing. Normally they're like, "Linh, this is what's happening, what do you want me to do?" Then, I'll be telling them I'll be picking my brain thinking of ideas. Now, it's just like freedom of mind. I have space in my mind now. It's like, "okay, what would you do?" and then they came up with the answers anyway. So, let's talk about that. Richard: Yeah. I love that you bring your example of it, because this is why a lot of entrepreneurs get stuck with is. You build a company from scratch, you're doing it all by yourself, you get one, maybe two extra people. Still, you're leading it right and charging forward, and you train your team to be dependent on you. That's what happened here. When I joined our way a year and a half ago, I'm like, "why is everyone going to Linh to get a decision made that they could make themselves?" I don't know because it's just the way it is. That doesn't make sense. You don't get more time and this is the thing, that a lot of clients come through with us is, "Alright, Richard, I got my VA to do a lot of tasks. But, I want to get more free time for myself. So I said, how are you gonna do that? I just got to give him more tasks, right? Then, I'm like, okay, I'll tell you the truth here. This is something that not many people get told is, that by giving someone else more tasks, doesn't create more time for you. Why? I'm gonna give you now it goes through social media graphics, right? They do the graphics. What's going to happen next when they come back and are like, "Hey Linh, are these okay?" Yeah, sure they're good, man. Okay, cool, cool, cool. You're not attached to the video now. Once you go edit, you're like, "Hey Linh, is this video okay?" "Yeah, it's good. Fun. No changes to that." Okay, cool, cool, cool. That's the thing that keeps happening. They keep coming back and asking you for your decisions. So, this is why I tell clients and this is what you experience When I train up the team is, I said, "look, if I get hit by a in here in business. bus, I still want the company to run." If Linh get hit by a bus, we should also be able to run the company. But, the problem right now is it's not dependent on key one person. So, we are going to train everyone up to understand how to make decisions. This is what you need to do with your team, your VA, it is t e same with an employee, right? They keep coming back. And it's like, "Hey Linh, this is the problem." "Hey, what about this?" The difference is you're not deploying patience and patience doesn't mean just waiting. It's doing the longer, doing the questioning, so that you understand what they're thinking. This is the thing I tell clients is, you've got to start giving them small decisions to make. As they get better, and continue to make the right decisions, that you would make, then give even bigger decisions. And so what does this look like? It looks like this and then I tell my girls, my team. So, my team is the operations team and I trained these girls up for six - eight months. Girls, the idea is eventually, if I'm gone, you can still run and do everything ad make decisions as I would. They were like, "I don't think that's possible, right?" The difference is, we spend our time to be like, okay, whenever there's a problem, this is what you experience. "you know the rule here in a company whereby there's no naked Some of my own partners s id, questions." What's a naked question? A naked question is if I come up to Linh, and i'm like, "Hey, Linh, here is my problem." That's a naked question. It's naked, because there's no answers to solution. There's no suggestions, right? So, let's say no naked question goes, go research to figure out what you want to do and tell me even if you have three approaches Tell me, I want to hear them. Then, if they found this, I'll say, cool, right? They specifically bring you three and so, you don't sa cool, so I like number one. You don't do that, it is still spoon feeding. You want to cut up the spoon feeding. So, you go in and you're like, all right out of the three, which one do you like most? I know i want that only, all three really good. "Yeah. So, what do you think?" I don't keep putting it back on to you. You're like, "No, tell me what you think." You push it. Then, I like number one. Oh, why? Then, they'll say, "Oh, I like number one because it's easy to do" You're like, "Okay, how abou  number two then? Why not number two?" "Good, but I think it'll cost us a lot of money." "Okay, number three?" "Number three is just a lot of effort. I think this thing doesn't mean that much time." See, you then understand how they're thinking and how they come to the answer. It's like math. You don't just look for the answer. A lot of people are just looking for the answer. So, you got to think about how they work towards the answer. So, then you're like, "Okay, that was the right work working method." Or you go, "look, can I help you?" This is what I would do. So you're ready. Yeah. You tell them, this is what I would do and that's how you start. By imparting your decision making and your thinking process, You keep doing this process so that the next time they come back, they're gonna be like, "Oh, I guess, you might want to do it like this" Then, they're like, "Yes, exactly. Good, good, good, go." Then, it's how you start empowering your decision making and only then you start giving away the control to make decisions. A lot of people hold on to control and how they hold up the control is by holding on to the decisions, right? If you are the decision maker, you have the control. If you want more time to do what you want to do, then you got to let go and give the decisions over. They can be like, "What would Linh do this situation?" and they would do it. Then, you can finally go on holiday and not worry so much. They're not gonna do everything exactly the way you want to do it. They're not gonna be making all the decisions for you, but you train them up, so that then they can start doing that. That's really why a company survive. When the original owner leaves when they die, they sell or whatever it is. Linh: Yes. Richard: When you get real freedom as a business owner, and then not only that you empower the person so that they feel even better about themselves. They feel like you've invested into them and they want to repay you, because you spent all this time coaching them, so that they become smarter and be able to make the decisions. Linh: Yeah, totally. I really do think, as a business owner, what fulfills me is being able to create other leaders. To create other people that feel empowered, feel like they kind of became leaders themselves, right. It's just kind of this ripple effect that I want to have in life and in the workplace. So now, let's talk about systemisation. We talked about, it not being very smart to have everything relying on certain key people. When you get hit by a bus or someone gets hit by the bus, everything goes down with them. This is in line with having systems as well, right? I have a kind of mindset around systems because sometimes people also think I can't hire help, until I have everything pan out and all my systems head out. But we've already gave some examples here where we're like, okay, we know that we are lacking time, we know that we can already foresee that we can't keep doing this. So, we're kind of getting help in and kind of evolve this process, and then start getting help. Along the way, we will develop the system, the process. So, that's my thoughts. What's your thoughts around systemisation to free ourselves from Richard: Yeah, I used to fall into that trap because you don't do anything unless you have an idea of exactly how to do it. It's perfectionism. Get it right the first time, it may be set for life, right? But the truth is, when you go and run your own business, you're adapting the time. The markets changing, the client's needs are changing, your team is changing. You're trying to figure out all these things out at once and you have to accept the reality. When I accepted that reality, it was no matter what process I put in, it will change. The idea is not to map out. This is what I used to do in the business, was not to map out. In 100 years time we're going to be doing the same process. That's not true anymore. The Japanese companies used to play for 100 years, right? But, you can't do that. It's technology evolving even faster, that even in the next 10 years, we don't know what that's gonna look like. What I realised was, gosh, bring back that plan to let's just map out how I kind of do life. You have a big end goal, but at the same time, you're only looking two to three steps ahead. You don't look the hundred steps ahead, because if you plan that far ahead, in the end, it gets crunched up and thrown in the bin because something happens that you didn't plan for. You could have all these different plans, but it doesn't matter. All you really need to focus on is where you want to go (the end goal) and then, the next two or three steps. So, when we plan for systems or processes, I'm thinking about not when we get a million people coming through. It's about what does the next hundred thousand look like? Can this process or system support that? When we get to that point, where there's a million clients on both that list, we're going to be looking at something completely different. We have to go and look at different systems, different tools, right? Even more like roles. The idea is, you need to just only think about planning for that next two to three steps. So, if you're putting a system in, think of it as maybe one that lasts maybe two to three years and be okay with it always iterating and changing based off the needs. Sometimes, I get pissed off. So, that's why I was running the marketing company before like, come on, why can't we just roll out a lead magnet, email sequence, and then turn it on, there is just a flood of leads coming in, right? Like that, but it's just like a process as well. It's like, even software now. Every day, new software's coming out with new updates to improve because it's the way the world works now, is you have to keep constantly improving. Otherwise, you're just just stagnating and you're you just fall apart and disappear. That's the idea here, is your business is always going to be following that one process, then, you only get lost in the times and you won't be relevant. Linh: Yeah. I totally get you. I think things just changed so, so fast. That is why I was motivated to start Outsourcing Angel, in the sense of the business model of recruiting dedicated staff. When I first started out, I was outsourcing tasks and project based. I could never kind of get the work back in time or that person isn't dedicated to keep changing with me. I was fully annoying them with all the changes, that I wanted for free. I feel bad in a sense. I shouldn't be painful at the time that they got back to me. The only model that I thought would work well is just having someone working in my business from 9 to 5, or whatever else. A dedicated time, because I know that I need them to adapt and evolve everyday as things change. So, that is why Outsourcing Angel is here. The other thing, that I want people to realise about us is that we're not like an outsourcing company where you're like, let's get some stuff outsourced? Well, what we are really is an outsourced HR department. Most smaller businesses don't have a dedicated HR team, where they can just go, find people and manage these people. We wanted to make that available for them. It's like, okay, I want to. I know I'm busy and I know my team is busy. So, we work with a lot of local people with local staff as well. Their local team should be focusing on high impact work and freeing themselves off of those mundane or things that can get done cheaper. We help to recruit the best people and I know lot of people recruit as well. I think the biggest difference that I see with ourselves in the market, is our ability to help business owners free themselves. So, this is exactly this talk today. It's all these kind of mindset change techniques that they need to do. A lot of software. I remember you introducing us to Slack. It's not just Slack, but it's how to automate in slack that has made our business transform into such an automated everything. It's just so time efficient. The other part is, it's a people business. It means that there's always going to be changes in people's lives. By having us, paying us a fixed fee, having us to manage the whole, if there's anything going on with the VA or how do we even keep the VA motivated? We all know people need motivation too. If you just hire people on your own and you're too busy to deal with them. They're gonna get unmotivated and they're not going to work with you. They're not going to be engaged. So, when I started, I was like, "How do I find them the people, but how do I keep them engaged on behalf of owners, so that the owners can actually enjoy having motivated stuff that they can count on?" So, I think thats our difference. What other differences can yo  note? Richard: Well Linh, I didn't mention this, but when I was running a marketing agency and I was already out there in the market for VA hiring. I did it for a year or two years. I'm like, I can't keep going this. I'm like, "Linh just do the recruitment for us." We hired two two people from you. Linh: Yeah, that is funny. Before you worked with me, you were our client. Richard: Yeah. Yeah. That's when you said to come with you and join with you. We were feeling this. The biggest thing with OA and the reason why I love it here so much and want us to grow further is there's nowhere else that's going to give you as much support, as what we give you here. Every client that comes in, they talk to me personally. Every moment there's a dispute or challenge, I always say to the clients, "Just grab a time with me for 15 minutes, even longer if we need too, it's fine." If you have an issue with your VA and you don't know how to voice it, we're here not to give you a VA, but we're here to help you with your people problems. You don't know how to talk to your VA and tell them, "this this item wasn't very good" and "I'm really annoyed." You come with me and I talk to you. I'm like, "This is how I would do it." You do it like this, say these words, because you don't want them to get triggered. A lot of people don't know how to talk to other people very well. This is what one of the things we're here to do, is to coach you through that process. We're not here to flog off other software. You tell me, Richard did my budget and I'm trying to do this. I'm like, "why are you paying x amount of dollars a month. There's a free solution that does the same thing here. This is what we use." It's about helping you grow your business, by being your business partner in operations. To grow that arm so that you can continue focusing on sales, marketing and expand in that sense, we expanded with your team, helping you expand and hire the right people. Even if they're not the right people, then we have this whole replacement policy, where you don't pay extra. Other places are like, "hey, after a month, you're going to have to pay the recruitment fee." For us, "No, I'm sorry they work out we're going to get you another person." Of course some people love that, but some people can't handle that because I spend a lot of time before. If you build your right systems, you work with us, then it makes it easy to get in another person and get them trained up quickly. Part of that process is we're here to support. The biggest thing that we're doing here is to support you. Not just getting a VA, but how to scale your business, look for the right systems, for the right position for your company. Having not screw up, it turns out the people team engagement is in learning how to talk to people and lead them in a way that isn't, "hey, listen to me!" It's getting them to invest in you, as a leader, so that they're like, "I'll follow you anywhere." If you set up another business, they would want to come. Linh: Yeah. Richard: If you do something else, they're there. They want to follow you, because of you. Not because of what your companies have gotten you to do. Linh: Yeah, yeah. Finally, with the recent Coronavirus situation, the biggest difference that I've realised about ourselves was the fact that we are specialists in working online. So the fact that I've started the business remotely working from home and then my principle is actually creating just home-based opportunities for people around the world. We have that advantage. So a lot of the BPO companies or outsourcing companies that were similar to us, but they have offices in in the Philippines and in places. They were kind of hip, but now they have to change the business model to working from home, which is not the big problem. The big problem is that they don't have the experience in the way that we have. 10 years ago when I was working online, I was probably very unproductive and inefficient. But, 10 years down the track, we know how to save time. Even within our team, we have structures the way we run meetings and how we use tools. We have the long term experience in working remotely, because everyone knows, "I'll jump on zoom or jump on slack." But, it's how you use these tools to better your remote working arrangement, is a difference with us. I think a lot of people are new to figure it out. Whereas we're like, there and done it. That's what we want to share with with customers. As soon as they contact us and they received like a loom video to welcome and some really cool little hacks that we're doing. They're like, "Wow! That's cool." That's the kind of experience we want people to have. How do you actually enjoy working remotely with your team? So, thank you so much, Richard. We've been speaking for a really long time, and this is our passionate topic that we love, anyway, so we could sit here all day. Anyone listening to this and you're interested to learn more about how this could be a solution for your business, we welcome you for a free discovery call with us. No obligation. It's really a chance for us to learn more about your business, understanding your needs, and then we'll figure it out for you, with what VA or how the VA will work for you. We want to welcome you and you'll get to talk to people like me and Richard. Thank you so much for watching. Any issues or questions, please contact us. 