 Alexa, what time is it? It's 14 hours, 15 minutes and 22 seconds PM. Siri, who is Benedict Cumberbatch? Benedict Cumberbatch is an English actor. Oh wait, before we move on and I forget, I need to  update my address for my insurance. Hey insurance chatbot, please update my address to 12  Wilmington Gardens London NW 2. Done! It’s amazing how we’ve gotten used to speaking or  chatting with a virtual assistant, isn’t it? Now first, we got used to finding all information we could  possibly want to look up online and now we don’t even have to search for the answer  ourselves. We can just ask an always friendly and polite assistant,  24/7. But just because we’ve gotten used to our assistants doesn’t mean that the technology behind them isn’t  something to marvel at. Currently, chatbots or digital assistants use natural  language processing to communicate with humans. Known as NLP, this technology focuses on understanding  how humans communicate with each other and how we can get a computer to understand and  replicate that behavior. For example, if we type ‘Hello’ to a Chatbot, it  understands that this is similar to ‘Hi’ or ‘Goodmorning’ because we taught the machine to do this. This is just a simple example. But sometimes the same  word can mean different things. There’s a big difference between “I’m doing fine” and  “I’m giving you a fine” Just like humans computers need the context to learn  what you mean. And they’re getting quite good at understanding you. In business settings, chatbots or assistants are quickly  finding their place in customer services. It is expected that, in a few years, chatbots will power  85% of all customer service interactions. Imagine asking a chatbot to change your T-shirt order  from a size Large to a Medium. Imagine asking a chatbot to change your T-shirt order  from a size Large to a Medium.  The bot uses your order history and account information  to understand what you need The bot uses your order history and account information  to understand what you need and it automatically makes the changes in the order  system for you. The better the chatbot or virtual assistant can understand  you, the better it will service your needs. In the future, chatbots will not just use language, but they  will also incorporate sight and tactile elements to interact on even more levels. OK, who is the real Simon here? Me, obviously. Human computer interaction is undergoing an enormous  evolution and the best is yet to come. 