 James Schramko here. Today, I want to do a shoutout for a service that helps find Filipino VAs. I get asked this a lot - where do you get team members from? Because if you're putting in 12-hour days and those hours consist of doing bookkeeping, sending emails, building websites, doing social media, editing podcasts, wrangling content, transcriptions and all of that, I just don't think you need to do that stuff at a certain point. Maybe when you start out, but after a while if your budget extends to spending around about $600 US per month to $1,000 US per month, you could actually have your own Filipino full-time worker who is helping you in your business. Now, I'm going to mention a service but it's very important that you understand how they work. There are places out there that are agencies who will rent you somebody and you can pay them a lot more than the amount that I mentioned, maybe 2,000 or 3,000 a month and they'll take care of all the stuff. But ultimately, you can't build your team culture and you can't have that special bond that you can get with your own team member, plus it costs a lot more. Now, you could go to the jobs boards and you could outsource tasks here and there but that's very time-consuming as well. And it's really not a long-term strategy and it's also not building a team culture. So if you want your own but you don't know where to go, then have a look at a service called VisionFind.com. I am a shareholder in this business. I want to disclose that upfront. It's run by people who have run business divisions of my own business over the last 10 years and they're very good. And what they will do is, they will find you someone. They'll do some interviews and tests, and skills and internet speeds and hardware, etc. And they'll listen to what sort of business you have and what you're looking for and they can find you a virtual assistant. They're going to find people who have been working in call centers or perhaps a multinational company, might even been doing nightshift or working in the city, but what they really want to do is work from home for you, for an online business. Now, you need to be a good employer if you take on this kind of service and that means you need to have training and standard operating procedures and need to pay on time or early. You need to look after your team, that's all I ask. Please be a good employer and don't expect these people to know how to run Facebook ads or to build websites straight out of the gate. They probably don't have those skills. They probably have good skills in other areas and they will be very, very hungry to learn and to follow your instructions. And when you bring them on board and spend some time with them they will be phenomenal. This is how I built my entire business with 65 team members from this one source. Okay, so it's a valuable source and I wanted to share it with you. And let me know how you go. If you need any help or support, they've got some materials that help guide you as to how to get your team member up and running, and how to work with them. They also have a replacement guarantee. If you hire someone and they don't work out, they'll get you someone else if this happens in the first 30 days so it's a pretty safe bet for you. They do charge a one-time fee which is split up into an application and then a success fee and then that's it. There's no override or extra commissions ongoing. It's you and your team member and good luck. 