BUSINESSGeneralFLEETCOR is a leading global provider of commercial payment solutions. We help businesses of all sizes control, simplify and secure payment of various domestic and cross-border payables using specialized payment products. We serve businesses, merchants and partners in North America, Latin America, Europe, and Australasia. FLEETCOR’s predecessor company was organized in the United States in 1986, and FLEETCOR had its initial public offering in 2010 (NYSE: FLT).FLEETCOR has two reportable segments, North America and International.  We report these two segments as they align with our senior executive organizational structure, reflect how we organize and manage our employees around the world, manage operating performance, contemplate the differing regulatory environments in North America versus other geographies, and help us isolate the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on our financial results.Our payment solutions provide our customers with a payment method designed to be superior to and more robust and effective than what they use currently, whether they use a competitor’s product or another alternative method such as cash or check. Our solutions are comprised of payment products, networks and associated services. FLEETCOR payment products function like a charge card or prepaid card, and tend to be specialized for specific spend categories, such as fuel or lodging, and/or specific customer groups, such as long haul transportation. FLEETCOR’s five primary product lines are Fuel, Lodging, Tolls, Corporate Payments and Gift. Additionally, we provide other payment products including fleet maintenance, employee benefits and long haul transportation-related services.  Our products are used in 56 countries around the world, with our primary geographies being the U.S., Brazil and the United Kingdom, which combined accounted for approximately 90% of our revenue in 2017.FLEETCOR uses both proprietary and third-party networks to deliver our payment solutions.  FLEETCOR owns and operates proprietary networks with well-established brands throughout the world, bringing incremental sales and loyalty to affiliated merchants.  Third-party networks are used to broaden payment product acceptance and use. In 2017, we processed approximately 3 billion transactions within these networks, of which approximately 1.4 billion were related to our Gift product line.FLEETCOR capitalizes on its products’ specialization with sales and marketing efforts by deploying product-dedicated sales forces to target specific customer segments. We market our products directly through multiple sales channels, including field sales, telesales and digital marketing, and indirectly through our partners, which include major oil companies, leasing companies, petroleum marketers, value-added resellers (VARs) and referral partners.We believe that our size and scale, product breadth and specialization, geographic reach, proprietary networks, robust distribution capabilities and advanced technology contribute to our industry leading position.Products and servicesWe offer specialized payment solutions predominately for commercial businesses.  Our payment solutions are intended to provide our customers with a payment method superior to that which they formerly used, whether they used a competitor’s product or another alternative method such as cash or check. Our solutions are comprised of payment products, networks and associated services. Our payment products typically function like a charge card or prepaid card.  FLEETCOR provides a variety of payment mechanisms such as a plastic card, electronic tag, or other form to the customer.  We issue credit to the customer (or accept prepaid funds from the customer) to allow for purchases using the payment product.  FLEETCOR then reports the purchases to the customer and invoices (or debits prepaid amounts) for payment of purchases made on the customer’s account. Payment networks are integral to our solutions, as they allow us to electronically connect to merchants and capture transaction data from the point of sale.  We use both proprietary and third-party networks to deliver our payment solutions.  For our proprietary networks, FLEETCOR provides merchant acquiring services, which may include affiliation, contract management, point-of-sale terminals, reporting and settlement. FLEETCOR owns and operates proprietary networks with well-established brands across 56 countries, bringing incremental sales and loyalty to affiliated merchants.  Third-party networks include MasterCard in the U.S. and Visa in the U.K. and continental Europe, the retail outlets of various partners, and proprietary 4Table of Contentsnetworks owned and operated by other partners. We use these third-party networks in order to broaden our payment product acceptance and use. Through our proprietary and third-party networks, we capture detailed transaction data and can often enable advanced purchase controls at the point-of-sale. We support our payment products with specialized issuing, processing and information services that enable us to manage customer accounts, facilitate the routing, authorization, clearing and settlement of transactions, and provide value-added functionality and data, including customizable user-level controls and productivity analysis tools. Our customers can use these data, controls and tools to lower their operating costs, and combat fraud and employee misuse and streamline expense administration.Depending on our customers’ and partners’ needs, we provide our products and services in a variety of combinations ranging from a comprehensive “end-to-end” solution (encompassing issuing, processing and network services) to limited back office processing services.Our solutions tend to be specialized for specific spend categories, such as fuel or lodging, and/or specific customer segments, such as long haul transportation.  This specialization is manifested in the purchase controls, merchant network, and reporting applicable to the spend category or customer segment. For example, a fuel card could provide controls on the type of fuel purchased, be accepted only at gas stations for fuel purchases, and provide fuel usage and efficiency reports for a customer’s fleet of vehicles.  The combination of these specialized attributes allows our payment products to compete well against less specialized products such as cash or general purpose credit cards when it comes to controlling purchases within certain spend categories.FLEETCOR’s five primary product lines are Fuel, Lodging, Tolls, Corporate Payments and Gift. Additionally, we provide other payment products including fleet maintenance, employee benefits and long haul transportation-related services. Fuel payment product lineOur fuel payment product line is our largest product category, representing approximately 49% of our revenue in 2017.FLEETCOR offers fuel payment solutions to businesses and government entities who operate vehicle fleets, as well as to major oil companies, leasing companies and fuel marketers.  Our fuel payment products are most often in the form of plastic cards, but also include other forms such as electronic RFID tags and paper vouchers. While predominately used to purchase fuel, many of our fuel payment products have additional purchasing capabilities to allow customers to purchase non-fuel items such as oil, vehicle maintenance supplies and services and building supplies.Our fuel payment products, excluding paper vouchers, provide customers with tools and information to control their fuel and other fleet-related operating costs. Our proprietary processing and card management systems provide customers with customizable user-level controls, detailed transaction reporting, programmable alerts, configurable networks, contracted fuel price validation and audit, and vehicle efficiency analyses. Our customers can use these data, controls and tools to combat fraud and employee misuse, streamline expense administration and lower their vehicle fleets’ operating costs. The combination of these specialized attributes allows our fuel payment products to compete well against less specialized products such as cash or general purpose credit cards when it comes to controlling fuel purchases.For major oil companies, leasing companies and petroleum marketers, we provide program management services which allow these partners to outsource the sales, marketing, credit, service, and system operations of their branded fuel card portfolios. Depending on our partners’ needs and internal capabilities, we provide our products and services in a variety of combinations ranging from a comprehensive “end-to-end” solution (encompassing issuing, processing and network services) to limited back office processing services. Our fuel payment product partners include British Petroleum (BP), its subsidiary Arco, Shell and Speedway, and over 775 fuel marketers of all sizes. While we refer to companies with whom we have strategic relationships as “partners,” our legal relationships with these companies are contractual, and do not constitute legal partnerships. Our contracts with our major oil company partners typically have initial terms of five to ten years with current remaining terms ranging from two to seven years. No single partner represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue in any year during the last four years.We use both proprietary and third-party networks to deliver our fuel payment solutions, including the following examples:5Table of ContentsNorth America proprietary networks for fuel payment products •Fuelman network—our primary proprietary fleet card network in the U.S. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with approximately 11,000 individual merchants, providing the Fuelman network with approximately 59,000 fueling sites and approximately 28,000 maintenance sites across the country.•Comdata network—our network of truck stops and fuel merchants for the over-the-road trucking industry. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms at over 8,100 truck stops and fuel merchants across the U.S. and Canada.•Commercial Fueling Network (CFN)—our “members only” fueling network in the U.S. and Canada composed of over 2,500 fueling sites owned by CFN members themselves. The majority of these fueling sites are unattended cardlock facilities located in commercial and industrial areas.•Pacific Pride Fueling network—our "franchise" fueling network in the U.S. composed of over 1,100 fueling sites owned by more than 240 franchisees. The majority of these fueling sites are unattended cardlock facilities located in commercial and industrial areas. International proprietary networks for fuel payment products •Allstar network—our proprietary fleet card network in the U.K. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with approximately 2,200 individual merchants, providing this network with over 7,300 fueling sites.•Keyfuels network—our proprietary fleet card network in the U.K. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with more than 500 individual merchants, providing the Keyfuels network with approximately 2,800 fueling sites.•CCS network—our primary proprietary fleet card network in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with several major oil companies on a brand-wide basis, including MOL, Benzina, OMV, Slovnaft and Shell, and with approximately 1,100 other merchants, providing the CCS network at over 2,600 fueling sites and 800 other sites accepting our cards.•Petrol Plus Region (PPR) network—our primary proprietary fleet card network in Russia, Poland, Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Moldova. We have negotiated card acceptance and settlement terms with over 700 individual merchants, providing the PPR network with approximately 13,500 fueling sites across the region.•Efectivale network—our proprietary fuel card and voucher network in Mexico. We have negotiated acceptance and settlement terms individual merchants, providing the network with over 6,300 fueling sites.•CTF network—our proprietary fuel controls network in Brazil, composed of over 1,700 highway fueling sites through our partners, BR Distribuidora (Petrobas) and Ipiranga Distribuidora. Third-Party networks for fuel payments productsIn addition to our proprietary “closed-loop” networks, we also utilize various third-party networks to deliver our payment programs and services. Examples of these networks include: •MasterCard network—In the U.S. and Canada, we issue co-branded MasterCard products which are accepted at over 175,000 fuel sites and 469,000 maintenance locations. These MasterCard products have additional purchasing capabilities which, when enabled, allow the cards to be accepted at approximately 10.9 million locations throughout the U.S. and Canada. •Visa network—In the U.K., we issue products that utilize the Visa payment network, which includes over 8,400 fuel sites and 1,100 maintenance locations. These Visa products have additional purchasing capabilities which, when enabled, allow the cards to be accepted throughout the Visa network.  •Major oil and fuel marketer networks—The proprietary networks of branded locations owned by our major oil and fuel marketer partners in both North America and internationally are generally utilized to support the proprietary, branded card programs of these partners.6Table of Contents•UTA network—UNION TANK Eckstein GmbH & Co. KG (UTA) operates a network of over 55,000 points of acceptance in 40 European countries, including more than 44,000 fueling sites. The UTA network is generally utilized by European transport companies that travel between multiple countries.•DKV network—DKV operates a network of over 65,000 fleet card-accepting locations across more than 40 countries throughout Europe. The DKV network is generally utilized by European transport companies that travel between multiple countries.•Carnet networks—A national debit network in Mexico, which includes over 11,500 fueling sites across the country.We distribute our fuel payment solutions through direct and indirect channels to businesses of all sizes. This includes businesses with small- to medium-sized fleets, which we believe represent an attractive segment of the global commercial fleet market given their relatively high use of less efficient payment products, such as cash and general purpose credit cards. We serve customers across numerous industry verticals and particularly those verticals with significant vehicle fueling needs such as trucking, construction, manufacturing, energy, and consumer products distribution.  Our indirect channel includes our partners, such as major oil companies, leasing companies and fuel marketers. We generally provide our fuel payments solutions to our partners who offer our services under their own brands on a “white-label” basis. In turn, we leverage our partners’ brands, retail outlets, websites, and sales forces to help distribute our fuel payment products.In Brazil, we have designed proprietary equipment which, when installed at the fueling site and on the vehicle and combined with our processing system, significantly reduces the likelihood of unauthorized and fraudulent transactions. We offer this product to over-the-road trucking fleets, shipping fleets and other operators of heavily industrialized equipment, including sea-going vessels, mining equipment, agricultural equipment, and locomotives. We generally co-brand this product with BR Distribuidora (Petrobas) or Ipiranga Distribuidora, depending on which fuel distributor provides fuel to our fleet clients via its retail and wholesale distribution operations.With regard to our fuel payment products, we compete with independent fuel card issuers, major oil companies and petroleum marketers. Excluding major oil companies, our most significant competitors in this product category include WEX, U.S. Bank Voyager Fleet Systems, World Fuel Services, Edenred, Sodexo, Alelo, DKV, and Radius Payment Solutions.Lodging payment product lineWe offer lodging payment solutions to businesses in North America that have employees who travel overnight for work purposes.  We offer two lodging payment products, a card-based solution for individual travelers and non-card based solution for crews.  Our solutions can be customized to meet the specific needs of our customers, including access to a deeply discount hotel network and  customer-specific rate negotiation,  the ability to customize the network to fit customers’ specific travel needs and policies, enhanced controls and reporting, and audit and tax management services.Our lodging payment products operate on our proprietary CLC Lodging network, which includes over 16,700 hotels across the U.S. and Canada. We also can secure hotel rooms outside our proprietary network if required by our customers. The size, scale and nature of our lodging customer base enable us to negotiate lodging nightly rates lower than the rates most companies could negotiate directly and far below the rates available to the general public. Our customers can secure room nights with our solutions through our website or mobile app, by phone or email, or by walking into participating lodging properties and presenting their FLEETCOR lodging payment product credentials.FLEETCOR has developed data management and payment processing systems to manage client billings and reports which, combined with our discounted hotel network, provide clients with savings and increased visibility into their lodging costs. We distribute our lodging payment solutions mostly through direct channels to businesses of all sizes and serve customers across a wide range of industries, including trucking, railroads, construction, telecom, energy, food service, retail distribution, and emergency response services such as FEMA and the American Red Cross. We provide our custom lodging solutions to large customers under contracts.Our lodging payment solutions compete with similar offerings from Travelliance, Egencia (Expedia), hotelengine.com, and in-house travel departments of large corporations.7Table of ContentsToll payment product lineIn Brazil, we offer an electronic toll and parking payments product to businesses and consumers in the form of RFID tags affixed to vehicles’ windshields. Our electronic toll and parking payments product operates on our proprietary Sem Parar network, which processed toll transactions for more than 3.2 million customers on 99% of the toll roads across Brazil. Our electronic tags may also be used to purchase fuel at select gas stations.Electronic tolling provides convenience and faster travel for customers, while also reducing manual labor and cash handling at merchants’ toll booths. At gas stations, payment via electronic tags is faster, safer and more secure for customers, which in turn increases loyalty and station throughput for merchants. Beyond these benefits, our electronic toll payment product also provides commercial customers with driver routing controls and fare auditing, mostly in the form of vehicle type and axle count configuration.For certain commercial customers, we also offer prepaid paper vouchers as a means of payment on toll roads.  We provide these vouchers to companies who contract with third-party drivers who do not have an electronic tag in their vehicles and for whom the companies are legally obligated to prepay tolls. Our paper toll vouchers are accepted for payment within our proprietary RODOCRED toll network, on behalf of more than 96,000 customers on all toll roads across Brazil.We distribute our toll payment products through direct and indirect channels to customers of all sizes and across a broad number of industry verticals. To reach commercial customers, we utilize the same set of direct channels as our other commercially-focused product lines including field sales, telesales and digital marketing.  To reach consumers, we also place proprietary manned kiosks and unmanned vending machines in areas with high consumer foot traffic, such as shopping malls.   Our indirect channel includes a range of resellers and referral partners, including retail establishments with high consumer foot traffic such as grocery stores, pharmacies and gas stations.  We provide our toll payment product to these partners under our brand and, in select cases, under the partner’s brand.Our electronic toll payment product competes with similar offerings such as Move Mais, ConectCar (Banco Itaú and Ipiranga), Veloe (Alelo), Repom (Edenred), and Visa Vale (Banco Bradesco).Corporate payments product lineWe offer a broad suite of corporate payments solutions with vertical-specific applications, which enable our customers to manage and control electronic payments across their enterprise, optimize corporate spending and offer innovative services that increase employee efficiency and customer loyalty. Our primary corporate payments products include virtual cards, purchasing cards, travel & entertainment (T&E) cards, payroll cards and cross-border payment facilitation.  These products are predominately marketed in North America, with cross-border payments also offered in the United Kingdom and Australia. This collection of comprehensive solutions positions us to enable automation and savings across a customer’s entire accounts payables (A/P) process, including both domestic and international payables. A virtual card provides a single-use card number for a specific amount within a defined timeframe and serves as a highly-effective replacement for check payments. Virtual cards provide enhanced security relative to checks while reducing payment costs for our customers. Full remittance data accompanies each virtual card payment, providing significant reconciliation advantages to ACH payments. We have integrated our virtual card offering into most leading ERP systems, providing a seamless experience for accounts payable personnel to select our virtual card as the payment mechanism of choice.  FLEETCOR’s virtual card product operates on the Mastercard payment network. We have built a network of approximately 700,000 merchants that accept our virtual card payments, which has been growing at an average rate of 12,500 merchants per month. This network is managed with proprietary technology that allows us to continuously expand virtual card acceptance and optimize the amount of virtual card spend we can capture. This network, coupled with a best-in-class, in-house vendor enrollment service, is a major competitive advantage. Our purchasing and T&E cards operate on the MasterCard payment network and are accepted at approximately 10.7 million locations throughout the United States and Canada. These card products are generally sold in conjunction with our virtual card offering to augment our customers’ purchasing capabilities.  FLEETCOR also provides full A/P outsourcing services for customers who send us their entire A/P file and allow us to execute payments across all modalities, including the aforementioned products as well as ACH, wires and checks. We also provide expense management software, which combines and leverages transaction data captured from our virtual, purchasing and T&E card products to help our customers analyze and control their corporate spending. 8Table of ContentsOur virtual, purchasing and T&E card products compete with similar offerings from large financial institutions such as Bank of America, Citibank, J.P. Morgan Chase, PNC Bank, U.S. Bank, Wells Fargo and American Express. FLEETCOR offers a payroll card product in the form of a reloadable stored value card, which operates on the MasterCard payment network and the All Point ATM network.  These cards are distributed to our customers’ employees and are funded by our customers with their employees’ earned wages. As cardholders, the employees may present the payroll card as a form of payment for personal purchases, transfer funds to their bank account or withdraw funds from participating ATMs.Our payroll card product competes with similar offerings from First Data Corporation, Fidelity National Information Services, Global Cash Card, Green Dot Financial, Total System Services, Automatic Data Processing, Paychex and Heartland Payment Systems.FLEETCOR’s cross-border payment services are offered predominantly to commercial customers, who range from small businesses to mid-cap corporate entities. Customers generally use our cross-border payment services to pay international suppliers, foreign office and personnel expenses, capital expenditures, and profit repatriation and dividends. We administer foreign exchange trades and payment settlement with recipients through a global network of banks, enabling us to send payments to recipients in over 200 countries and in over 140 currencies. We employ rigorous compliance standards in all geographies where we are licensed. By using transaction monitoring and watch list screening systems, we ensure payments are safe, secure, and meet all applicable regulatory requirements.  Our cross-border payment services compete with similar offerings from Western Union Business Solutions, Associated Foreign Exchange (AFEX), WorldFirst, Moneycorp, HiFX, Currencies Direct,  GPS Capital Markets and large financial institutions.FLEETCOR’s corporate payment solutions are enabled by our technology and operations. Our ERP integrations, API capabilities, strategic vendor enrollment, and transaction management tools enable us to optimize our customers’ electronic payables programs. We distribute our corporate payment solutions through direct and indirect channels to businesses of all sizes and types across a broad number of industry verticals. We serve customers across numerous industry verticals, such as retail, healthcare, construction, manufacturing, hospitality, energy, entertainment, insurance and trade finance.  As FLEETCOR both issues and processes its virtual cards and commercial cards, we have the control and flexibility to meet the unique needs of customers in different verticals. We generally provide our domestic corporate payment solutions under contracts with our customers. Pricing terms vary based on usage volumes, incentives and contract duration. When our corporate payment solutions include short term credit, our contracts for those solutions contain credit and collection terms.Our indirect channel includes a broad range of VARs and other referral partners that expand our reach into new customer segments, new industry verticals and new geographies faster and at a significantly lower cost. We provide our corporate payments solutions to these partners who offer our services under our brands or their own brands on a “white-label” basis. For example, we provide healthcare payment solutions through healthcare networks, corporate payment solutions through software and services providers and payroll card solutions through payroll service providers.Gift payment product lineWe provide fully integrated gift card product management and processing services in over 55 different countries around the world. These products come in the form of plastic and digital gift cards, carry our customers’ brands and are generally accepted exclusively within the retail network, websites, and mobile applications of each respective customer. Our services include card design, production and packaging, delivery and fulfillment, card and account management, transaction processing, promotion development and management, website design and hosting, program analytics, and card distribution channel management. The combination of our products and services provides a turnkey solution to our customers, who benefit in the form of brand promotion, cardholder loyalty, increased sales, interest income on prepaid balances, and breakage on abandoned card balances.We distribute our gift payment products and services directly through a specialized, dedicated field sales force. We serve our commercial customers in numerous industry verticals, with a focus in restaurants, supermarkets, drugstores, airlines, hotels, apparel and other retail categories. We help our commercial customers manage distribution with omni-channel strategies which include card sales through the customers’ retail outlets, websites and mobile applications, as well as through third party 9Table of Contentslocations, such as supermarkets and drug stores. This third party distribution is generally provided by other companies, such as Blackhawk and InComm, who are reliant on access to our systems to meet their distribution obligations.We compete with a number of national companies in providing gift cards, the largest of which include First Data Corporation and Vantiv. We also compete with businesses that rely on in-house solutions.Additional productsFLEETCOR provides several other payment products that, due to their nature or size, are not considered primary product lines.Fleet maintenanceWe provide a vehicle maintenance service offering that helps fleet customers to manage their vehicle maintenance, service, and repair needs in the U.K. This product is provided through our proprietary 1link maintenance and repair network which processes transactions for fleet customers through approximately 9,400 service centers across the U.K.  With regard to our fleet maintenance product, we compete with several companies including Ebbon-Dacs and Fleet on Demand.Employee benefit paymentsIn Mexico, we offer prepaid food vouchers and cards that may be used as a form of payment in restaurants and grocery stores. These payment products operate on one of the following networks:•Efectivale network—also our proprietary food card and voucher network in Mexico. We have negotiated acceptance and settlement terms with over 56,700 individual merchants, providing the network with over 44,600 food locations and 5,800 restaurants. •Carnet network—a national debit network in Mexico, which also includes over 47,400 food locations across the country.In Brazil, we offer prepaid transportation cards and vouchers that may be used as a form of payment on public transportation such as buses, subways and trains. Our proprietary VB Servicos, Comercio e Administracao LTDA (“VB”) distribution network distributes cards and vouchers to employees on behalf of approximately 26,000 customers and negotiates with more than 1,400 public transportation agencies across Brazil.We provide these various payment products to businesses of all sizes and industry verticals and the businesses in turn offer the products to their employees as a form of benefit.  With regard to our employee benefit payment products, we compete with numerous companies, the largest of which includes Edenred, Sodexo, Chèque Déjeuner, and Alelo.Long haul transportation servicesIn addition to, and often in conjunction with our fuel payment product, we provide trucking companies in North America with various products and services specifically relevant to their industry, including road tax compliance analysis and reporting, permit procurement, and cash movement and disbursement. We compete with several companies in providing these products and services, including EFS (WEX), Keller, and RTS Financial.CompetitionWe face considerable competition in our business. The most significant competitive factors in our business are the breadth of product and service features, credit extension, payment terms, customer service and account management, and price. For certain payment-related products, we also compete on the respective size or nature (i.e., open versus closed loop) of each product’s acceptance network. For certain payment processing services, systems and technology are also significant competitive factors. We believe that we generally compete favorably with respect to each of these factors. However, we may experience competitive disadvantages with respect to each of these factors from time to time as potential customers prioritize or value these competitive factors differently. As a result, a specific offering of our products and service features, networks and pricing may serve as a competitive advantage with respect to one customer and a disadvantage for another based on the customers’ preferences.  The companies with whom we compete often vary by product line and/or geography, and are therefore identified by name in the respective product line discussions.10Table of ContentsSales and marketingWe market our products and services to prospective customers in North America and internationally through multiple channels including field sales, telesales, direct marketing, point-of-sale marketing and the internet. We also lever