 Prof. Dr. Boris Otto is head of the Fraunhofer Institute for Software and Systems Engineering and Professor for Industrial Information Management at the Technical University of Dortmund. At the Fraunhofer ISST he and his colleagues are researching digital ecosystems for logistics, data management and health care. In his Data Researchers Vlog, Prof. Otto highlights current digitization topics. Today, Data Researchers is concerned with the digital twin as a central prerequisite for the success of Industry 4.0. The digital twin is the digital representation of real world objects. This sounds a bit abstract, so it's good to make it clearer with an example: Let's take an automobile. An automobile is described by the colour, the make, the model, the series, the motorisation, but also by the vehicle identification number, which we all know. These data are descriptive characteristics, which are then also part of the digital twin. But the digital twin also includes other information, for example construction drawings or pictures or films about this vehicle. The digital twin is created conceptually via data models and information models on the one hand and of course the data itself on the other. Data models in themselves are nothing new. We have known them for as long as we use IT to support business and production processes. We have also known information models for a long time because they are a basis for semantic integration, which in turn is important for ensuring interoperability between different actors in value-added networks or, as we also say today, ecosystems. The digital twin is therefore a basic prerequisite for the functioning of Industry 4.0. Production 4.0, i.e. digitised production, is actually also one of the main areas of application of the concept of the digital twin. It is particularly important here that the digital twin covers all the lifecycle phases of a product, for example, from the development and design of an automobile, through production, the use of all of us, to recycling. If we look at this and consider which phases we recognize in this product lifecycle, we see that the digital twin not only includes these descriptive characteristics, but also data generated during use. In the case of the automobile, for example, these are the routes, i.e. geocoordinates. On the other hand, there is also data generated by the vehicle's sensors: For example, we can also generate information about the weather by evaluating data from the rain sensors. Or we can draw conclusions about the quality of the infrastructure, i.e. the roads, by evaluating the vibrations acting on the chassis. At the same time, we have a whole range of other sensors in the production process itself, which we use to add status data from the production line to the digital twin of this individual vehicle. A very prominent example, which we have long been familiar with from the production environment, is the recording of torque data that is generated when we install the cockpit in the vehicle, for example. So we see that the Digital Twin is a central concept for the success of Industry 4.0, but on the other hand we also see that the Digital Twin is very important in other domains as well and is increasingly being used. On the one hand, this applies to areas that are very closely related to production, such as logistics. Here we can imagine the digital twin of an entire logistics network, in which all information about the structure of this logistics network can be recorded. For example, the location, characteristics and capacities of distribution centers to processing centers, but also event data from logistics itself, such as the status and times of transports and destinations between different actors in these value creation networks. We see the development that we can map entire supply chain networks within a digital twin. On the other hand, we also see this in completely different areas that affect us all as individuals, for example in medicine or generally as citizens in the field of eGovernment. We see the development that we have digital twins of ourselves, because we all have master data. Some of it is recorded on our identity cards. But we are also continuously generating other data, for example, by using credit cards or being under medical treatment. The sum of this information, this data, ultimately forms the Digital Twin of ourselves. We can also see the challenges that await us from this example. For which of us can really say how complete the digital twin of ourselves is, let alone have access to all this data. Perhaps it is a wish of all of us that we change this and ultimately bring our own digital twin more under our own control. So we see that this concept of the digital twin is not new because it uses a whole range of concepts that we have been using for the past decades in information management and computer science. However, the importance of this concept has increased very, very strongly because we simply have more and more data and because we are becoming increasingly networked as citizens, as individuals, but also as companies, and the question is all the more important: who actually defines, controls and monitors this digital twin? We can see that this is a very exciting topic, which is also very important for the economy. That is why we are researching it here at the Fraunhofer ISST. 