 When you stop to think about everything  it takes to build an immersive,   interactive experience, it can seem daunting.  And with hefty royalties or per seat fees,   it can be quite expensive, too. Not only do  you have to consider building out your team   to the appropriate size, but you also have to  decide on which technologies and tools to use.   Do you have an online or multi user component? How  do you sample different middlewares or systems?   How do you empower your developers with the tools  to hit the ground running and prototype quickly?   Developers have many choices to solve these  issues individually, but only one packages   these solutions up into a single service without  royalties or per seat fees. Amazon Lumberyard.   Lumberyard can be used to build high fidelity  cross platform games, digital twins, simulations,   and a AR VR experiences. You can develop,  deploy, and scale faster with Lumberyard's   AWS cloud integration, allowing you to  grow your project without inflating costs.   You can use the integrated AWS C++ SDK to  harness the power of the AWS cloud in a number   of different ways, such as utilizing Amazon  S3 to store and transfer content and updates,   building on Amazon DynamoDB to persist dynamic  data at scale, performing real time analytics   with Amazon Kinesis, and managing developer  identity with Amazon Cognito. Making your game   stream friendly can be as important as making  it immersive and physically fun to play. Within   the Lumberyard engine, you also have direct hooks  to let your audience trigger events in real time.   Gems allow you the flexibility to bolt on  different middleware, rendering, networking,   and physics solutions with a check of a box to  see what fits your project best, and leave out   what you don't need. This enables you to easily  take advantage of shared gems and benefit from   the growing lumberyard community. Keep development  costs low while you're building out systems and   trying to find the fun with the white box tool.  Using an intuitive click and drag interface,   you can rapidly build out an environment limited  only by your imagination. When you're done,   you can export your 3D proxy meshes, pass them  to your 3D artists to refine, then import them   back into your project, keeping development  momentum unhindered. It's no secret that the way   to produce a great experience is to empower your  content creators with the ability to experiment.   Lumberyard's visual scripting tool Script Canvas  let's anybody hook into all of the AWS services,   Twitch capabilities, gems and more, and wire  them together to respond to any user input,   construct menus, and interact with  the world in many different ways.   It extends the tools that engineers write  in such a way that empowers your entire team   to help build your experience. Download Lumberyard  for free today at aws.amazon.com/lumberyard   and bring your vision to life. 