 The digital twin is more than an industry buzz word. In fact, it can point to the future of decision making. Well, I am here now with Tommaso who can tell us a bit more about the digital twin. Tommaso, last year we talked about the digital twin with respect to a digital representation of an organ like the heart, for example. How do we think about the digital twin today? Hi Romy, so we think about it is a tool to support decision: at the right time, for the right patient, the right therapy. Last year we started with the organs as we move along with the organ systems for the heart, the liver and eventually to the complex models of the human body. But the idea is really to provide this advanced technology to integrate the data and support the decision making. We also would like to use this technology to expand beyond just what we see, not only the anatomy, the shape but also physiology. Because at the end of the day it’s how the organ works that will tell us how to fix it. Right. And how does this specifically help the patient? It can help the patient in many ways. First thing: as you integrate more data that comes from the different sensors we can devise new risk scores that will help to identify diseases early on. At the time of therapy, we can also use the digital twin to test, to tune, to optimize that therapy for this specific patient with the same goal of optimizing outcomes. The digital twin really is more like a platform that helps us gain a more comprehensive picture of the human then!? We at Siemens Healthineers are one of the leading companies in sensing, measuring the human body. And the idea of the digital twin is to transform that raw data into knowledge to support clinical decision. Not only that, it is also an opportunity to go beyond disease care. With the risk score that we just mentioned earlier, we actually could move towards more preventative care, into a more patient-centric, holistic view that would help us live healthier longer. So -- there you have it: The digital twin really is about the future of healthcare where it is less about treating sickness and more about making sure that people stay healthy in the first place. 