 [The age of 4th industrial revolution! a city evolving toward the future] The city is evolving. Smart city that utilizes advanced information and communication technology To solve various social problems that occur in everyday life of human. Digital Twin is the core technology in building future city. [Orhan Ercan / vice president of FIG] Digital Twin technology will change the course of work, business model, business process, and land information for infrastructure. [Richard Budden / ESRI's lead for smart city, Transport and Infrastructure for the Middle East and Africa region] Smart Korea has a smart city that is in the process of real growth along with its vision. I think it will go well. A virtual world that resembles the reality, like a twin. With the Digital Twin, the door to the new future has opened wide in front of us. [The key to smart city, Digital Twin] [City of Jeonju, Jeollabuk-do] The age of 4th industrial revolution. Global competition is heating up in building smart city which can solve urban problems more efficiently Through the convergence of information and communication technologies. What would Korea's smart city look like? [Smart city of Jeonju & Digital Twin conference] We were able to take a glimpse of it last July. [Junbeom Choi / The head of Jeonju city hall] Smart city of Jeonju & Digital Twin conference is a place of cooperation between the national and local governments. It's a venue where we discuss how to build and utilize smart city. Korea Land and Geospatial Informatix Corporation has announced the start of smart city in Jeonju, Which is the most representative city in Korea. [Changhak Choi / CEO of LX] Today, Korea Land and Geospatial Informatix Corporation and the city of Jeonju Will open up a new door called smart city which is based on Digital Twin. From now on, we will do our best to help all cities in Korea So that they can develop into more solid and polished smart city. With over 400 audiences, there was a meeting where people had a chance to easily understand the concept of smart city, Which is still new to some. Smart city is often known as the city that is in the process Of improving citizens' lives and solving urban problems By utilizing state-of-the-art digital technology. It is a city with a system that can solve traffic and environmental problems caused by urban life With high-tech information technology. I believe that smart city can solve problems on its own by using the urban problems as its data. We will now start our presentation on the story of our smart city. The most popular technological subject of the presentation was 'Digital Twin' Which refers to a digital replica of potential and actual physical assets, Processes, people, places, systems and devices It's an unknown area that we haven't tried in smart city yet. We can predict the future and control the reality based on the virtual world in the computer By sharing real-time information, administration, and the environment About the real life that we live in. Outdoor workers, the elderly and the infants are especially vulnerable to the heat. So we looked for blind spots where there was no heat shelter nearby. We can diagnose potential problems in the city and come up with solutions By collecting data in real time. It has been confirmed that citizens of Jeonju generate the highest annual amount of food waste in the country. Korea Land and Geospatial Informatix Corporation is conducting an experiment with city of Jeonju To build a smart city using administrative data. [Taewan Kim / Assistant deputy director of Jeonju city hall] I didn't know about the Digital Twin, but today's conferenced made me excited about the upcoming 4th Industrial Revolution Because I could see how the daily lives of Jeonju citizens will change. [Daeryong Choi] For software developers like us who work with ICT or related technologies, We're kind of envious. Because in order for this to work well, technical construction is important As well as the cooperative work from the public officials and administrative personnel. It seems like they're all working really hard so I kind of envy that as a person who lives in Daegu. [Gangnam, Seoul] The Smart Land Expo, which was held in Seoul, Was an opportunity to feel more familiar with the Digital Twin. [Smart Land Expo where you can have hands-on experience of Digital Twin] It was a festival where new future technologies, using spatial information gathered together. Such as smart city, self-driving cars, etc. What new business models have emerged through the Fourth Industrial Revolution? [Changhak Choi / CEO of LX] Navigation has been used only for the outside. We've got indoor navigation and entertainment Which are made by combining indoor location information and attribute information. Smart city is being used as multiple platforms. We believe that the business sector that utilizes spatial data Is in the process of tremendous expansion. Under the theme of "Convergence of Spatial Data, Opening a Smart Future," The participants exchanged views with foreign experts On policies and data utilization for smart city. [Seonho Park / Vice Minister for Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport] Listen to the future story of spatial data at this event, Which is designed to give you a quick look at new technologies related to spatial data And trends in the industry.ed to spatial data. The Smart Land Expo, which marks its 12th anniversary this year, Is the largest expo that's ever been held. Previously, it was mainly displayed with equipment for spatial data or measurement, But this event focused on new business models using spatial data. This is due to the rapid increase in the number of start-ups that utilizes spatial data. The participants were especially enthusiastic about the virtual reality content. Korea Land and Geospatial Informatix Corporation introduced The first innovative city in Korea with digital twin technology. The audience could understand and experience the Digital Twin more closely Through programs that solve social problems such as fine dust. [Hyeyoung Kwon / Manager of LX Incheon Land and Geospatial Informatrix Corporation] We are presenting you the recent Digital Twin construction experiment project Of Jeonju City, which is recently established by Korea Land and Geospatial Informatix Corporation. AR devices can be used to identify problems in Jeonju And to prepare city countermeasures. [Chaewon Lee / LX Busan Ulsan Ulju branch] I'm glad to hear about the Digital Twin and it seems that Land and Geospatial Informatrix Corporation is working hard For this meaningful project that'll improve our past, present, and future. [Changhak Choi / CEO of LX] By focusing on smart city based on the Digital Twin And introducing new interior navigation, We will show you how spatial data Can grow and improve day after day. Smart Land Expo was a place where we could easily experience Korea's Cutting-edge spatial information technology. [Cutting-edge technology that makes the imaginary future a reality] It was also an opportunity to experience the Digital Twin And urban simulation technologies that felt distant. [Narae Park / Manager of the one tech] We were short on budget since we are a start-up company. We didn't have much chance to meet with our clients. We decided to participate in this event Because we wanted to talk to our clients and show them the project we're working on. A total of 186 exhibition booths were introduced in 24 countries To identify new possibilities for smart city and Digital Twins. [Jihyun Choi] I think it was interesting to see various future technologies. [Geonhee Kim] It helped me to think about my own future career since I'm majored in related fields. High-technology hiding in smart cities also protects people's lives and ensure their safety. They are also building a fire safety platform to provide firefighters With the current status of dangerous installations and traffic information. [Jeongmin Lee / General manager of HANCOM LIFECARE] It is a service that allows firefighters to extinguish fires in safer environment and shorten the time to extinguish fires. By sharing the Digital Twin platform created by The Land and Geospatial Informatrix Corporation. I think smart city is a business that many companies come together to form an ecosystem. This is an exhibition that can serve as a good link to create such ecosystem. The key to the Fourth Industrial Revolution depends on how you use your data. High-tech spatial data is the key to the connectivity of data. Through Smart Land Expo, we were able to confirm once again our determination To foster new industries in the future with spatial information as a hub. [Richard Budden / ESRI's lead for smart city, Transport and Infrastructure for the Middle East and Africa region] Supporting the growth of GIS, spatial tools, and the use of this technology. But also with the vision you have for developing smarter Korea. And developing and progressing smart city. [A virtual twin city that captures the reality] Many digital twin technologies are pouring in, But Jeonju is the first innovation model to integrate facilities you encounter in everyday life, such as traffic lights and parking lots. [A new future guided by spatial data and advanced technology. Smart City and Digital Twin] Technology with spatial information will guide us into a new future. 