 Offshore structures such as platforms and wind farms are billion-dollar investments. But the investments do not stop after installation. In fact, now is the time when greater sums are at stake - - in the operation and maintenance phase. In an offshore environment - - waves, wind, soil conditions - - and other environmental factors put the structures to the test. Operators need to ensure that their structures have sufficient strength - - to carry these loads in a safe manner - - to avoid critical failure and reduced lifetime of the structures. The traditional way of doing this - - is to do on-site inspections in this high-risk environment - - at intervals specified by norms and best practice. Another and much more cost-effective way is to continuously monitor the structure - - in a digital model updated with real-time information - - about the loads affecting the structure. We call it a "True Digital Twin". The offshore industry has worked with digital twins - - a digital copy of a structure, for many years. Ramboll's True Digital Twin technology adds an extra layer to the digital twin - - by bringing in the real-life behaviour of the structure into the model. This is achieved by using an innovative structural health monitoring system - - combined with digitalisation. The comprehensive set of data is then analysed and the model updated - - to reflect the actual behaviour of the structure. Based on this knowledge, operators can make informed decisions - - on when to reinforce, upgrade or end the life of the structure. In the way the True Digital Twin may increase the lifetime of a structure - - to gain many more years of operation than the original design would suggest. It also reduces time and money spent on unnecessary inspections. The True Digital Twin technology has been developed over the last 25 years - - and was first used by Ramboll in 2006. Since then - - its validity has been verified on projects for many operators in the North Sea. Currently, it's being demonstrated for the first time - - on large-scale offshore wind farms. These tests are within an industry-driven, EU-backed initiative called ROMEO - - designed to reduce the operation and maintenance costs of offshore wind power. The Digital Twin developed for ROMEO  is going to put Ramboll and Iberdrola - - in the forefront of innovation when it  comes to asset and integrity management tools. The Digital Twin that was initially developed in oil and gas - - will now be applied in an offshore wind  farm, which is our offshore wind farm Wikinger. The main challenge of offshore wind operators is to deal - - with massive amounts of information from the assets that are in operation. The Digital Twin comes into play to bridge the gap - - that we have between design and the real conditions of the installed assets. The benefits that Digital Twin can provide are very clear to us. Firstly, improve our understanding of offshore wind assets - - lowering the costs of operation and maintenance - - and ultimately exploit the opportunities for lifetime extension. The technology can be transferred to other parts of the energy sector - - as well as to assets in other sectors where you can monitor their behaviour - - such as high-rises and bridges. 