 (upbeat music) Hi, Scott MacKenzie here from HomePlan New Zealand and in this short video, I'm going to show you a little bit more about our new Tag Import service that allows us to automatically export and import MatterTags from any Matterport digital twin 3D virtual tour model. Okay, here we go. The first example I'm going show you is exporting a set of MatterTags from one model, and then uploading them through into a identical version of the same model. Now this is useful when you've got duplicates that is that you've uploaded the model twice, maybe it's some issues to fix so we need to create two copies of it but you don't want to recreate the tags. So here we go, here's the first version of this model. You can see it's got a number of MatterTags in here some of them with some images or some URL links or the like dotted throughout. And then we've got a second version of the same model here which we want to import them into that currently has nothing in it. So I'm going to go ahead and grab the URL from that first model. I'm going to go across into the tool that we've got and I'm going to put the details in. So that model loads up within our tool, there's not a lot to see in this tool, we can grab the template that we use for upload, we can actually export labels as well. In this case, we're going to go ahead and get the MatterTags from the model. We hit the button generates a CSV or Excel file and that file there contains all of the Tag data. Now I'm not going to show you what's in that file just because of the screen grab software that we're using for this video but what we will do is we will return with that file and we're going to upload it into the second version. So here we are now in the same tool, this time, I have jumped across and loaded up the target model and I have gone ahead and linked the file that we exported from the source, and now we're preparing to upload it. So I've used the import MatterTag feature that we've got. From here, I'm going to jump over the mapping to Room Labels, we're not using that in this case, what we're doing is we're just quite simply importing the MatterTags as they were exported and imported into the same positions. Now, when you do this, you have to be cognizant that when Matterport processes models, that and change the grid of coordinates that sits underneath. In most cases, we find that if you upload a duplicate model, everything goes back to the same place, but it is possible for them to move slightly. So we're going to go ahead and import this now. Proceed with the import? Of course we do. And here we go, we're now looking at the target model and we've got those tags created in the model and you see it's brought through the images and all the other links as if we were looking at the first model. Now, right now, we haven't actually committed these changes to the model, we're just looking at them to make sure they're what we want and we want them, which they are. So we can go ahead now and save and publish the MatterTags permanently into the model. Go ahead and do that. Yes, I am sure. Now as it goes through often it can take a few minutes for them to do the uploads, it depends on how many MatterTags you're trying to add at one time. So now we've given that a minute to process and we're going to jump into the Target model, just to jump out of the Matterport portal, we'll grab the URL and put it into a refresh browser window and as you can see here, it's loaded in and the MatterTags are there, same as they are in the source model in their correct positions and pulling through all of their supporting data with that. Okay, we're going to move on now to our next use case. So then this scenario, we've got a brand new model that we want to import some tags into, or maybe it's a re-scan of the same property but because it's a re-scan, the coordinates don't line up with the old ones. So what we're going to do is drop these MatterTags into the model in place where you can easily grab them and drop them where you need to go and avoid the data entry side of MatterTag creation. So what we're looking at here, is we've still got the Target model up, you can see the tags that we imported in the previous use case is still currently there. Down here, though, I've changed to a slightly different version of the CSV file that we used before, this time I've told each MatterTag, what room it should go to. And then it connects that through to the room labels inside the MatterTag model. Now generally, it's good to have a like for like mapping here that you decide in the MatterTag file that these are the tags for the back office and you map it to the Room Label back office. But doing this mapping also allows you to deal with minor variations for example, here in our file, we've got tags for the kitchen, and we're going to map them through to the Kitchenette Label in our model. I've got some new options here that I'm using now, I'm going to ignore all the original positions that were in this file. I'm going to choose the offsets that we use here, which have just set here that tell you where it's going to go in relation to each other and I'm going to delete the existing MatterTags in the model. So let's go ahead and hit the Import button, it's going to ask me, are you sure, now remember, at this point, I'm not actually deleting them from the model, I'm just deleting them and what you can see. And here is the result, the tags that were there before are now gone but what it's done, it's dropped the tags that we have imported and it's put them in a nice line into the middle of each room. So we've got them here in the main room and if I go for a wander, you can see it's done the same in the other rooms. So now they're sitting in a nice central location, those XYZ coordinates that we changed, we can play with the height of them or the direction that they're going so they're easy to create and go through. So now that I'm sure that that's what I want to do, I can go ahead now and save and publish those MatterTags to the model. And same as before, we're going to go ahead and import them and that could take a few minutes to process. So here we go, we are looking at that Target model that we just imported into. I'm looking at now inside the Matterport portal because we need to move them around, if there needed to be an integer on that model. Here's those tags that we had floating there in space. So we're going to go ahead and edit, now the MatterTags, putting them up here as they were imported. Now, what we can do now is we can just basically click on each one of them and then we're going to grab its base and go and drop it where we want it to be. Now, this is a very quick process, sometimes you got to change your camera view around just a little bit to get them where they used to be or where you want them to be, but you can quite quickly move through and grab each one and drop them on the targets where they were before. So the great thing about this is, this process takes us just a few seconds to do. Whereas previously that would have been a manual data entry if that it would have taken us a few more minutes. There we go, so now that we've finished moving them around and then we will let them be, we will publish that model. And now as per your normal process, anyone who's looking at this model can see those MatterTags in their final position. Now we're going to move into our final use case in this short video, I'm going to show you bulk import, going up to a larger number of tags. Now I'm not going to show the entire import process, it's pretty much the same as what you've seen in the other two use cases, but we're just going to do a lot more tags this time. You're currently looking at a vacated commercial premises, let's say full indoor, outdoor scan, including all their roof lines and what we've done is we've used the space and big vacated area at the back to show you what a bulk import looks like. So here we are looking at this large room, you see that we have created a small number of room labels specifically for the purpose of lining up the tags and then we're told to go ahead and line up the data from there. And each one of these tags, as you can see, it's got its own description, and a few of them, we've thrown some images and things on just to demonstrate the capability. So let's jump down into that space now and there you go, that's just around 250 meta tags loaded into one area. How much time does it take? Well, it took us not too long at all to create the file, to load it in and then it took about an hour for it to process. Now, you might be asking, what's the purpose of all of this, Scott? Well, there are lots of applications out there for Matterport models that are held back a little bit by the amount of manual work that's required to create things like MatterTags. So using this tool, what we've done is we've allowed people to scale up the uses of these models. What was previously a manual task that would have taken hours and hours can now be done programmatically in a number of minutes. So that might be in a construction sense when you're doing quality monitoring, and you've got a lot of tags to put onto a site, that might be in a retail environment where you're tagging products on shelves and having them linking through to checkout type counters. Now then we can create these things programmatically and the work that is left for you to do is simply positioning them into their final place in the model, we've turned a job that would have taken hours and maybe not have been considered before can now take a few short minutes. Well, that's it really thank you for spending the time to have a look behind the scenes at the Tag Import service. To get a hold of us just jump onto our website which is www.homeplan.nz and click on that Inquire Now button and flicker some details of yourself and your project. We'll be more than happy to help. (soft music) 