  Hello, my name is Abel Henson and I am a Principal Solution Architect with SAS Institute. Today, I am showing you a 3D Digital Twin built on the SAS Platform and interfacing with the Autodesk Forge API. This is a 3D Digital Twin of a motherboard that has failed an electric test during final assembly in a high-tech manufacturing plant. High-Tech yield rates are often low and the scrap rates are high. High-Tech rework is traditionally an inefficient process because the quality engineer in the plant must manually test hundreds of components. Checking and adjusting all of the components takes a long time and introduces manual error that can cause different types of failures. The quality engineer is interested in using a root cause analysis to reduce the inefficiencies associated with the rework process. The SAS Platform provides the capability to interface with APIs, like Autodesk Forge, to create the 3D Digital Twin. The SAS Platform also provides the ability to built machine learning models for every single component on the motherboard. Here, you can see one predictive model for each of the components we are including in the root cause analysis. The root cause predictive model calculates the probability of contribution to the electric test failure for each component on the motherboard. You can no overlay these predictive probabilities directly onto the 3D Digital Twin. The machine learning model is deployed onto the SAS Platform and the probabilities are displayed in the Visual Analytics dashboard. Here they are listed under Problem Area. Now, the quality engineer can interact directly with the 3D Digital Twin and inspect the root cause of the electric test failure. Just double-click on the Problem Area here. The root cause problem area shows that the RAM Dock 3 has a high probability of contributing to the final assembly electric test failure and here is RAM Dock 3. Once the root cause has been pinpointed, an efficient rework process can begin. Even more inefficiencies can be eliminated during the rework process. The 3D Digital Twin provides the ability to explode the bill of materials and show the exact part removal steps and there is RAM Dock 3. The 3D Digital Twin also allows the quality engineer to query the 3D object’s data and search for other components within the same hierarchy. We are showing here the processor chip on the motherboard. You can see two material listed under the hierarchy: the first is the processor chip itself and the second is the solder paste adhering that chip to the motherboard. In summary, the SAS Platform can help you reduce inefficiencies by allowing you to create a 3D Digital Twin with machine learning models. While I have shown you an example from high-tech manufacturing, the same 3D Digital Twin approach can be used for any industry. To learn more please visit sas.com/manufacturing. 