 My name is Thomas Meyer. I'm working for the Siemens company in the business unit factory automation and therefore I'm located in Amberg where our first digital factory in Germany is. My first idea how to use or why I wanted to use NavVis software was the idea to have a point cloud of my factory so that I have a digital twin how it is fror my factory directly. That was my starting idea and with a point cloud I want to implement that in my NX CAD software to have my digital twin of my factory directly. But later on as a had the scan I also see the huge benefit of the virtual guided tours which I can do with my visitor groups. And if I go to other companies, to supplier companies I have my factory in my pocket I can take it out and I can show my factory on my cell phone to my suppliers. And with that they can have easily an understanding how my industry factory looks like and what kind of solutions I need. We have the need to bring in new machines in a very fast way and even if we have to react on our market we have to relocate some machines or some assembly equipment to our other factories and in the past when I didn't have that IndoorViewer the colleagues have to come to me to Amberg and see the production equipment too, so that they get an overview or an impression how it looks like. Now with the IndoorViewer they don't need to come to Amberg they just click on the virtual reality and they can go around the machines, they can see it, they can measure it and that saves especially travelling costs for us. We are doing our guided tours for our visitors from the balcony, so they can have a full overview of our production but in some cases is also necessary to go to the details if they have some interest how we produce in detail the products they are interested in. And for that we are using the Indoorviewer because we cannot go with our visitors to the shop floor directly and with the IndoorViewer I have the possibility to go to the assembly line, to the machines directly and then I can show them the details of our productions. I'm very happy about NavVis and the IndoorViewer because that gives me the possibility to have the digital twin of my factory overnight. 