  The fuel mass carried by a commercial aircraft can represent about half of its total mass at takeoff carrying and pumping this large amount of fuel in addition to safety regulations requires complex systems which must ensure uninterrupted fuel flow during flight. Predicting the fuel systems behavior early in the development cycle enables you to optimize the key performance indicators for different attributes such as fuel distribution and refuelling Tank inerting and coupling with vehicle dynamics. This mock-up is a replica of the fuel system in an aircraft wing it is composed of three tanks separated by ribs, vents, and drain holes as well as flap valves and features of balance pipe and vent pipe To simulate the aircraft's pitch and roll there are two electromechanical actuators Finally you find sensors which give information about the fuel rig operation such as the liquid level in the outboard tank. This fuel rig has been made using Simcenter solutions for subsystems and components sizing as well as architecture trade-off. With Simcenter Amesim we run multi-domain simulations early in the development process which allows us to validate the concept against the initial requirements. In parallel we size the actuators so that they can cover the desired pitch and roll amplitudes secondly we build a complete CAD model in Simcenter NX based on the earliest system simulation results. When required we can zoom in on the component level, for instance we can apply the actuation loads extracted from Simcenter Amesim to a finite element analysis model of a mechanical part within Simcenter 3D to find the best compromise between actuation speed and structure durability. In parallel the controller is modeled and simulated making the final integration and calibration straightforward At the end of this process we have the complete digital twin of the operating demonstrator in Simcenter Amesim. On the one hand, it co simulates the mechanical parts and the actuators in 3D and on the other it performs all the hydraulic calculations. The time to build this digital twin is greatly reduced thanks to the standard library of models available. A plugin automatically generates the geometrical description of the fuel tanks and ribs from the CAD model. From Simcenter Amesim we can interactively operate the physical bench. Both the physical and the digital versions react to changes in attitude of valve opening and closing. The liquid level measured by a sensor is fed back to the controller and can be compared to its virtual counterparts. The setup shows that the fuel system model has a good level of fidelity and is running fast enough to be operated live. In summary using Simcenter solutions enables you to accurately predict the performance of a complete system. Virtual prototyping is a reliable quick and time efficient way to analyze and predict system performance even before the aircraft wing is built  