 The Oil, Gas, and Chemicals industry is on the cusp of immense opportunity. Companies are leveraging disruptive technologies to transform operations and create more efficient, profitable, and safer facilities of the future. Let’s explore how linear supply chains are evolving into end-to-end integrated, digitally enabled supply networks and redefining work. Operations managers can remotely monitor plant health through a virtual, interactive, digital twin. And with predictive maintenance, anticipate and triage problems with real-time data driven by IoT and advanced analytics.&lt;/font Meanwhile Millwrights can conduct a virtual repair diagnosis to identify issues, request new parts, and schedule repairs. Minimizing disruption and improving efficiency. Digital Supply Networks are reshaping safety in the workplace as well. In the railyard, logistics operators can inspect shipments from a safe distance with overhead drones, sensors, and smart wearables. And during emergencies, such as a fire, smart wearables and real-time alerts can optimize safety, efficiency, and decision making. While digital-barrier management systems can trigger containment measures, and track employee safety. The customer experience can also elevate with the digital supply network. Sensors and machine-learning can predict transportation issues and artificial intelligence can adjust shipments automatically, alerting customers of changes. Personalized customer dashboards provide transparency and tools for managing on-time delivery. Disruptive tools can also influence executive-level decision making. With an operations control tower, supply chain executives can plan strategically. And address major disruptions utilizing data and analytics. The control tower can integrate data lake environments and business metrics with operational day-to-day transactions, allowing executives to focus on top-line strategy and the health of the business. Digital Supply Networks powered by disruptive technologies, can integrate manufacturing, operations, and customers to unlock the power of an end-to-end connected value chain. Companies implementing digital capabilities can reduce unplanned downtime and workplace incidents, improving operational efficiency by ten to twelve percent. Creating efficient, safe, and profitable, Oil, Gas, and Chemicals facilities of the future. 