 Although it took me 5 month finally 5G video has arrived. 5G technology has been one of the 2019 hottest topic, either because internet providers started to test it in some cities or because manufacturers smartphone launched their first mobile phones with the technology compatibility. 1st generation of broadband cellular network technology introduced calls, 2nd introduced SMS, 3rd introduced mobile internet and 4th increased power in 3G technology. In its turn 5G also arrived to improve what we already have nowadays but allowing to do it faster and without problems, it is going to facilitate that every single device be connected to internet, since traffic light and home electronic devices to self-driving car without connectivity and speed problems, speed that promise to be 10 times powerfull than 4G. We are going into the era that every device will be connected to the network, although there has been much talk about the technology there are still to much doubts and that's why even if 5G burnt my neurons, welcome to a new "Utilizando Pocas neuronas" video. Starting from 0, everything done with smartphone and iot devices is possibile because that devices emit and receive electromagnetic waves that allow a pulse that start from one point to arrive to another that is not physically connected. This waves has certain frequency that is measured in Hz. 4G reach 60GHz and providers use it depending on the country, the problem is that 4G wide spread created a saturation in that frecuencies, consenquently more interferences and slower speed newtwork for each User. 5G increase band frequency until 300 GHz, usiging waves named millimeter waves. This bandwith will allow more devices to be connect at the same time, responding to the growing users demands. You should know that higher frequencies are corresponding to smaller waves, lower frequencies are corresponding to bigger waves and is about that the wave capacity to cross trough the walls. Millimeter waves are part of non-ionizing radiation, while x-rays and gamma are part of ionizing radiation but what does it mean? Radiation is the trasporting waves phenomenon. X-rays are ionizing because has the athom size wich is why this waves can have interaction with its electrons and if not exposed for a long time can just cause heating while millimeter waves are non-ionizing for their size they can't have interaction with the matter this is why can cross through the object with easy and has limited penetration capacity to the skin, since they bounce back. Since 5G use higher frecuencies the capacity to penetrate object as trees and building is lower than 4G the solution for this problem is to install several box devices around the city that works as repeaters. Main 5G antennas will be Massive MIMO(Multiple input, multiple output) type that is corresponding to have hundred of ports across the antenna against the dozen used in the previous technology, so we wil have a greater number of ports that spread signal in a more orderly way. Normally a radio antenna spread signal in circle but thanks to beamforming instead of spread electromagnetic waves all around is possibile to direct them to specific interest point through algorithms. What makes 5G suitable for quick response applications, for example self-driving vehicle, if an accident happen, they should answer and communicate between them as soon as possible, is its latency that is the time that occurs between a request and the response to that request. In 4G technology was 20 milliseconds while 5G promise to have 1 millisecond latency Take into consideration that it's a very quick response speed, just imagine that we human beings are between 150 and 300 time slower (My neurons 600 times I think) In my opinion: I studied too much this topic and I have concluded being in a neutral situation about the risks of 5G for our health. On the one hand looks like we are exposed less to electromagnetic waves and this waves are smaller on the other and at the same time they could be dangerous for the human being There are not scientific studies that prove their are dangerous but at least with my explanations from this point forward you can see things with a more logic view. This is all for today for my neurons If you enjoyed the video do not forget to like it and share before 5G burn your neurons too and here you go more videos to enjoy with my channel, see you next video. 