 The fifth generation mobile network, better known as 5G, has arrived. And like all new technology, the arrival of 5G is accompanied by concerns. Especially its impact of 5G on the human body. Various conspiracy theories regarding 5G have started to spread around. But what exactly is 5G? And is 5G completely safe for the human body? We'll take a look in this video. Before we discuss the health impacts of 5G, it's important to understand what these 2G or 5G connections mean. If you see a signal icon in the corner of your cellphone, you'll also see which cellular network you're using. The network can be 2G, 3G, or 4G. But now there are new standards. Namely, 5G. Theoretically, 5G networks can reach a maximum speed of 10GB per second. Or 100 times faster than 4G! The 2G to 5G cellular networks can be categorized as radiation. However, before you panic, please note that this radiation is not the dangerous type of radiation. In general, radiation can be divided into 2 types. These are: ionizing radiation and non-ionizing radiation. The difference between these two types is the amount of energy contained in them. Ionizing radiation has so much energy that it can cause the ionization process. This ionization is the releasing of electrons from atoms. And this is what causes chemical changes in the body such as the destruction of biological structures. Ionizing radiation, among other things, includes ultraviolet radiation, x-ray radiation , and gamma radiation and is only harmful if the exposure is excessive. This is why we are always trying to reduce our exposure to ionizing radiation. While radio waves, microwaves and infrared waves are part of the non-ionizing radiation group. 2G to 5G waves are also part of this spectrum. In regards to the side effects of 5G on the human body, many studies have found that exposure to 5G can cause "warming" in our bodies. This is because non-ionizing radiation has enough energy to move the atoms and cause heating. However, this heating is not very dangerous. Now back to the first question: Is 5G safe? The World Health Organization (WHO) categorizes 5G in the 2B category, meaning it has carcinogenic potential, and that there's a possibility (though not definitive) that 5G can cause cancer. But hold on. We need to understand that this 2B category is considered to be very low risk. In fact, many things we use on a daily basis can be included in this category. Like coins. Coffee. And spices like cinnamon. So .... this means 5G is totally safe right? Not completely. The European Parliamentary Research Service (ERPS) states that electromagnetic waves between 10 GHz and 300 GHz must limit their energy densities to avoid heating up networks and infrastructure that are in close proximity to people. This is important because 5G cannot penetrate through certain objects and thus cover shorter distances than 4G. As such, the source of the 5G providers must always be close to its users. In the end, what is important for us to remember is that as with any new innovation, we have to consider whether 5G's benefits outweigh its possible risks. The truth is, we all use the internet. Therefore, a lightning fast internet connection would increase the performance of all sectors in society. Starting from you, who will be able to download movies in seconds, to large corporate projects such as data processing for self-driving cars. And while research into the risks of 5G is ongoing, at the moment the risks are not significant enough to reject 5G. What do you think? Are you impatiently waiting for 5G to arrive in Indonesia? Or are you still a bit concerned? No matter how you think, don't forget to like and share this video with your friends. And subscribe so that you never miss our new videos. If there is a topic you want us to discuss, you can write it in the comments below. Thank you and see you in the next video. 