 Fermi Laboratory What Would Happen In A World Of 5G? 2019 Boy: Haha! YouTube is so entertaining! Huh? (Wheel of death appears on screen) Data's limited again! Dammit! Wonder if this won't happen with 5G Girl: Yes, let me explain Boy: You were here? Girl: We'll get 100 times the speed with  5G compared to 4G Boy: 100 times!? Girl: Indeed. It'll only take a second to  download movies on our smartphones Boy: For real!? Girl: 4G and 8G videos will be the norm on YouTube Boy: Wow! Won't that lead to speed limits? Girl: Allow me to explain It is said users will be allowed to use as much data to prevent that from happening in 2020 Isn't this a great world? Kids won't have to worry about data speeds while watching videos at any time Boy: That's dope! But what about battery life? Girl: They'll last longer as it will  only take a second to download a movie Boy: Wow! Is 5G some kind of God? 1. 100 times the speed / 4K will become the norm Boy: What else? Girl: Let's see 5G will allow 100 times the amount of  simultaneous access Boy: Simultaneous access? Meaning we can play Battle Royale with 10,000 users? Girl: That will take half a day to complete, but yes, that will be possible Boy: Really? Wouldn't that lead to heavy lag? Girl: No worries There will only be a tenth of lags on 5G Boy: Almost nonexistent Girl: Meaning you won't be able to use lags as an excuse when you lose a game Boy: That's terrifying Girl: Commenting real time on YouTube Live or having live music sessions with people  from other locations will be available Boy: There's barely any lags! How Amazing! Girl: Exactly. Smartphones and computers are not  the only objects that will connect to 5G Boy: Okay? Girl: Things we use in everyday life will connect (IoT) Boy: Like? Sunglasses, air conditioners, cars,  eye glasses, walls, clocks, speakers, Refrigerators, medical equipment, cabs, dump cars... Anything can be controlled once connected Smart speakers are just the tip of the iceberg Boy: What a world we live in 2. Lags will decrease to about a tenth / Everything will connect online Boy: Why are you wearing VR headsets by the way? Girl: Oh, this? It is said that VR will grow with the introduction of 5G Boy: VR? (Virtual Reality) Girl: Yes. Users will be able to feel as if they are really at a stadium watching the Olympics or a football game  Boy: Really? Girl: Users will also be able to project holographic images of anyone in the world, anywhere Boy: Dope! Girl: That kind of world is at our fingertip Boy: I can't imagine I'm stoked! 3. Watching games or sight seeing on  VR sets will increase 2025 It's been 5 years since 5G has been introduced in 2020 Though our lives were not affected immediately, 5G has found its way into the city Cash will be automatically payed when we walk out the store with products in our hands (Bing!) (Beep beep beep...) 4K surveillance cameras and drones  help detect potential suspects Cabs are all automated cars and can watch 4K clips for free without  worrying about excessive data use Let's some watch Fermi content (The world has made gradual changes) But there is something that hasn't changed after 5G 4. Cityscapes will change drastically with the introduction of 5G (Opens door) Girl: You're still on that game? Boy: Hey! I'm in the middle of  10,000 people Battle Royale, don't talk to me! Girl: Don't you get bored? Boy: 342 people left, I'm going to win this! (Bombing sound) Nooooooooooooo! I lost again! It lagged for sure, I saw it! Girl: Lags are nonexistent in 5G Boy: Oh that's right 5G is amazing, just as you told me I'm so happy to live in this time of age! Gotta check out TikTok and Twitter on 5G We have not changed 5. Our lifestyles change, we don't. If you cannot take action right now this moment, you are not under pressure at all. -Fermi Lives of ones that are under pressure change. Our worst moments are our best turning points. That's it for today. See you in our next video! 