 peace be upon you guys welcom to SA Tuber Channel and Today we have the New HUAWEI 5G Cpe pro We took the modem with a Subscription from STC We gonna talk about this later on Guys we gonna do some Speed test and we gonna play Games we also gonna check the Ping is it helping or Not and you Guys Gonna Decide of you really need this 5G Modem At Home or NoT and as we promise you anything we Buy it online we gonna unboxit together and Becuse we moved out to a new place We need to have a better internet connection and i'm so excited to see what is the Device capable of So Enough talking Let's start unboxing so strating from the packing for the device the box does not have that Info just a regualr Box its a Box instruction manual and it must have the power Supply or Charger for it i'm looking for the Charger or powersupply ok this is it does anyone love the smell of new plastic bags or its just me and this is the Modem and this is is probably the Antenna ? No it's not the Antenna unfortunately they don't provide CAT6 Cable , or it might be this on ! no CAT6 Cable !! i'm disappointed i'm Really Disappointed ! in their Website they mentioned cat6 CABLE i don't see CAt6 Cable all i have is a normal phone CABLE (LOL) is it Here ! Nope!! anyway as we can see not cat6 they have not provide us with CAT 6 Cable which is Very important !! as we can see in the back Line 1 and Line 2 and that should be a phone line and power supply and here if you have Antenna you can put'em and at the buttom you will slide the sim card on it Nano Sim and here you Can Reset the Modem and in the front you will have the lights this modem Support 4G and 5G it the device is working on the 5G the light will indicate that and if its in the 4G the light will indicate that too and the last green light or indicator it's for the WIFI Weight: About 600 g (excluding the power adapter) Dimensions: 90 mm x 96.6 mm x 178 mm for example if you have a small corner you can measure that and now we gonna move to chech the internet Speed and gamplay cuz for us as a Gamer ! if you got lower ping ! the gameplay will be smooth so let's move and now as you guys can see were using speed test my subscreption i bought the device from STC it is two years Monthly contract 350SR and if you faild paying that you will have to pay the Modem price which is around 2500SR the Device price in Jarrir is 1999SR so what i'm going to do now is i have 2 sim Card Zain and STC and the nearest land Mark is Riyadh Khurais Road i'm not in Khobar is the spped test website showing and i know we are in RAMADAN so people just wokeup maybe the intenrte is overload with users i can't say that this is the perfect speed and just reminder for you guys this is a My personal experience you have to decide weither it is good or bad weither you need this Sim and Modem or not ok let us start the first test for STC 5G Me As a GAMER or any other gamer you need A staible internt connection as we can see now it very fast but we got 17 PING As A Gamer 17 PING won't be good for you the idea is 5G internet is coming from Towers ! this is why you will have a higher PING so 5G about 607Mbps is Bad TBH it will be on 3 parts from 600-700Mbps is Bad signal ! and from 700Mbps to 800-900 Mbps i would say Good ! signal and from 900 going up to .1200Mbps is a Great thisis the second TEST i don't know why it keep saying i'm in Khobar ? the ping still the same but if you compare it with the FTTH the fiber will give you 2 PING ! i did't provide Sim card from Mobily cuz nobody said anything Good About it so now the upload is 70mbps, kinf of Great if you now Do a speed test in your phone it won't give such upload speed and now i'm gonna change STC with Zain and now were back after i took of STC Sim card and change it with Zain Sim Card and for some reason i don't knw why it says i'm in qassim i've done this speed test cuz i'm living close to khurais Road and it's covered with 5G Towers just a Reminder i have STC Modem and using Zain 5G sim Card* cuz STC Modem is OPEN you can use any sim Card you have and this is the first TESTfor Zain the huge difference is having a 14 PING this is going to be good if your'e playing online Games - so STC17ping ,Zain 14PING and to see the diffrene. We gonna play COD and Fourtnite. to check the Servers Too wither the PING is going to Be high and laggy or Good so the upload and Download in Zain is way to Bad. i was expecting it to be way to good ! for the first speed test . let us test it again ok so now we have 11PING which is Awesome ! which means online gaming will be acceptable ! but the download speed 500Mbps for a 5G connection!! , that means we still in the Bad Spot and for the upload were are talking about 5G has a 7or8 upload that is way to BAD. comparing it with STC STC was 80Mbps so what is the upload for , the upload is everything in online gaming !! some people will say i need a faster donwload speed that it ok so what are you going to do with a fast download speed u can download movies pictures or in the phone you can see your friends Stories but the Upload is the higher data you upload to the server that means no lag , the upload need to be very fast ok so now let's go to Call of duty modern warfare and chech it , i'm not going to play , i just wanna show you guys the latency and i'm gonna do the same with Fourtine a quick look for Both STC and Zain and now i just started the game COD ,we gonna chech the internet and latency and i will quit the game u can see the movment of other player smooth as hell and now the Real deal is we click on options and then Account you will see it on the Right ! well i have from 100-90 wich is kinf of Good you can see now i killed the enemy player So quick ! lets go to STC Sim Card just a reminder this is STC Sim Card Woow not Bad at all !! but the latency was not the same as Zain we have here it is 100 plus you know what let's go to fortnite and now we are in the game , we gonna do the same OMG what is this !! that is so Cool 33 PING !! which means once you click the trigger !! the bullet gonna hit the enemy so a reminder this is STC Sim Card as we can see now the ping is 41 31-30 so i would say in general 5G good for fourtnite and using Zain Sim Card and STC So at the End , i would say the is a personal experince and it represent Me . YOU Got the option to chose wither to stick to FTTH or change it to 5G ! my personal opinion will be Fiber optic ,FTTH maybe some of you guys don't have an FTTH Box the great thing about the FTTH, you don't have lag at all , lower ping and Very fast and stable internet connection the best thing for me as a gamer i would stay with FTTH and you have the option to chose between those two as we showed you guys 5G for STC and Zain this was a quick and simple Review for Saudi Zain , and STC i hope that i covered everything for you guys and everyone got the chance to easily decide or choose what do he want ! this is Me Saleh from SA Tuber Channel please don't forget to smash that like button and Subscribe for more videos, and if you want share this video for your friends ! PEACE ! 