 Yo guys, Back again with me as Dhiar... This is Xiaomi Mi 10 5G This is what you've been waiting for, right? I bought the variant of this Xiaomi Mi 10 5G with the RAM capacity of 8 GB and internal storage of 256 GB The color that I took is Titanium Silver Black... That what it means... The box looks quite glowing... Somehow as if the box looks like that or the number "10" is just glowing... It says here "Mi 10" Mi 10 That's it... Okay, there's nothing else on the back, so let's just open it... So that you won't be curious about it... That’s great There is hi-res audio up here... We will try it later... How cool is the audio... Okay... Okay, that's great... Okay, this is it... Let's see the glance of the smartphone Later... Let’s peek what’s in this box... In this box, we got... There is a SIM tray ejector... For sure there is a soft case here... We got a dongle from USB type C to jack audio 3.5 mm... As usual, we got an instruction manual book here... And we got a hard case, it's not a soft case before... And this is clear, guys Let's dig again what's more in the box... And we got the head charger with the output of 5v and 3A... 9v and 3A... Okay, it means this is fast charging... And here's we got a... A charging cable for sure it's already using USB type C, guys... This is a flagship phone you know... Okay, there's nothing else here and let's just head straight towards the smartphone... Xiaomi Mi 10... These kinds of phones that are shining and glowing, it's hard to focus on it... It's titanium silver black... Wow, it looks a bit blue... The back body cover of this phone can be used as a mirror... It's reflecting and shining... The camera is visible here... Okay, let's see the design here, guys... There is an on/off power button and volume buttons on the right side... There is a speaker, port Infra-red, mic, and antenna lines up here... There are two antenna lines on the left side... Where is the SIM tray slot here? It's located down here... There are two speakers up and down here, it's cool, guys... Wow, that's great... There are speaker, mic, USB port type C, and slot SIM tray down here... There are two antenna lines here... The back part is the most terrifying... There are a total of 4 rear cameras and 1 LED flash... Wow, and it says here 108 MP... There is a logo of Xiaomi and it's 5G... Nowadays modern smartphones are now 5G... That's great... There is a camera with a punch hole model on the upper left... And the screen is now curved... We can see it once we have already turned it on... But before that, I am going to see what kind of SIM Tray model does this Xiaomi Mi 10 is using? Usually, the slot SIM tray is a sandwich model, right? Ohh it turns out that it is (a Hybrid slot model)? Ohh it only provides slots for 2 NANO SIMs only... And didn't provide a slot for Micro SD... Okay, let's just turn this on directly... The logo of Xiaomi showed up... While waiting for this thing to turn on Let's tidy the table to make it look neat... This is the appearance of the lock screen looks like... Wow... The layer of the left and right is so thin here... You can see that the screen is curving on the left and right side... Okay, let's go into the home screen... See that, guys... The screen is curving on the left and right side... And this is so cool... The camera cannot be seen so well because it's covered with a very dark wallpaper on the upper left... Okay, this is... Wow, it's like this... Let's go into the settings first... What's new in the settings? As we can see here that there's Always-on display and lock screen here... Ohh there is Always-on display, let's try to activate it... We can choose any kind of model here... Which one from these two? Let's try with this one... Just this one... Let's try to turn it off, see if it shows up... Ohh it shows up and it's so cool... And then there is a raise to wake... And Display... The refresh rate is 90 Hz, guys... Wow, it's going to be smooth for playing games... That's great (2x) Ohh there is a dark mode, let's try to activate it... Wow, cool... I really like the dark one Let's see here again... Ohh, it's just like that... Let see, how much is the score for Xiaomi Mi 10 at Antutu Benchmark? Here it is, guys... Don't get so surprised... The score is 562.887 Wow, this is crazy... This is an Android smartphone with the highest score on Antutu that I've ever tried... Why can be this high? Let's see the hardware here... The processor is using Qualcomm Snapdragon 865… Of course, it runs so fast... The GPU is Adreno (TM) 650 The resolution of the screen is 1080 x 2340 pixels There are a total of 4 rear cameras... Starting from 108 MP, 13 MP, 2 MP, and 2 MP... The RAM is 8 GB and the internal storage is 256 GB... And then... The camera is 20 MP... The battery life is 4780 mAh... The OS is Android 10 which is great... Okay, there is an NFC here... Okay, you can see for the complete specification of this Xiaomi Mi 10 at the column description box below this video or you can see the next slide is given… After, we see the specification and the score of the Antutu Benchmark... Let see, how much is the score for Xiaomi Mi 10 at GPU Mark Benchmark? How much is this? Wow, the score is 1.915.200 Almost reach 2 mils, guys Wow, I think nowadays the smartphone can reach the score to 2 mils... I think Dhiarcom should make a new title here... If the score reaches to 1 mil which is "Maknyelenseng" title = fastest If it reaches to 2 mils... It will held the title "Maknyolongsor" = the super-duper fastest I could say that Xiaomi Mi 10 could get a title of "Maknyolongsor" Because it almost reaches 2 mils, guys... Let's see here, guys... With that kind of score, it has to runs fast... This is "Maknyolongsor" not "Maknyelenseng" anymore... You see the frame rate there... Okay... That's great... Let's try to play games here and I've already set the refresh rate to 90 Hz... Let's try to play PUBGM first... We're already in the main menu of PUBG Mobile... But before I play, as usual, let's see the menu settings to see the graphic first... It can set the graphics into "HDR" and the frame rate is "ultra" It can't be set to extreme except you have to set the graphics to smooth to get the frame rate to extreme... Let's try with the HDR one first... The frame rate is ultra... Okay... The gyroscope is already activated... And the audio has a feature of hi-res... Then I set the volumes to ultra... Do you think the sounds are good? Wait for a minute... I want to test it using it with the earphone first... The sounds are a bit louder than usual, guys... Well, it's a bit bass here... Then I could feel its surround... Hmm, okay... The quality of the music, sound, voices are good, guys But it feels so good... It feels so good but not too the extreme here... I mean the quality of the music here... It's good but it's a little bit better with the surround and the bass... Yeah, it's not bad... So, hi-res audio functioning so well... Now I want to play it but without using this earphone... We're now in the battlefield... And currently, I am inside this building and just got my weapon here... Because there are speakers on the left and right side... So, we can hear the enemy steps corresponding to its field... If the enemy is approaching from the right, then the speakers from the right will make the sound... Let's try to change it... Just this one... So, we don't have to use this earphone actually... If the speakers already stereo like this... If you want to be more fun, it's better to use the earphone... So, it's a stereo... You can felt/heard from the steps of the sound from the left and right The frame rate is ultra and the graphic is... Wait a minute... The graphic is HDR and the frame rate is Ultra... You can see this is a bit detailing... The graphic is really detailing... Then if we change it... If we change the graphic to smooth and the frame rate to extreme... Playing this game is going to be smooth... For the gyroscope, this is so fast, guys... Of course, it's because the processor is already using Qualcomm Snapdragon 865... Can you feel it, guys? The shooting noises are so loud, right? It feels so really stereo here... Wow, it's so loud... That's great... Usually, after it's shooting... It's bursting... Wow... Wow, this is cool and great... Let's try to play CODM... This is it... We're already in the main menu of CODM... What can I feel here is this, guys... The speakers are stereo... The voices are echo here... Woah this is cool... It feels that my room's surround with this noise here... It's so cool actually Let's go into the menu settings... And see the graphics... The graphic quality can be set to a very high and frame rate set to high... It's so cool... Okay, let's see from here... Basic... I will activate the gyroscope and let's start playing... We're now in the battlefield at CODM... Wow, this is so smooth... Wait, the speakers are on here... Hmm, it's disturbing... Wow, it runs so fast... It's so fast... Hmm, the sounds, guys... Oh no, my ammo is finished, guys... The sounds are so cool... I was just playing this and the noises were so thunderous Woah, I have been sieged by 3 players here... Ohh okay (2x) I got boomed here... Woah, that's bad... I've just wanted to send out the drone and then I ended up getting boomed... See this... I send this... It's cool playing CODM with Xiaomi Mi 10 here... The sounds are so thunderous... Ohh, it's still red... Together, let's beat the enemy here... Ohh there's the enemy... Yes... Wow, it's cool playing a game using Xiaomi Mi 10... The speakers are 2 and it's stereo and hi-res audio... It's so thunderous, guys... You can hear the shooting noises everywhere... That's great (2x) Let's discussed the camera of Xiaomi Mi 10... Where this Xiaomi Mi 10 has a total of 4 rear cameras... Starting from 108 MP as the main camera, 13 MP, 2 MP, and 2 MP... And the front camera is 20 MP right here... This camera has to be the terrifying one... Next, Let's see the results of the photos taken and video recording using this Xiaomi Mi 10... Currently, I am recording using this Xiaomi Mi 10 5G I am at an apartment in the evening along with a very strong wind here... What do you think about this, guys? Is it smooth? As you can see from the screen, it looks smooth... When it comes to the color, it's cool you can see that... You can see its bokeh Woah this is cool... Let's try to focus it on the front... Woah, this is cool... It's so smooth even though I was walking... See that... Hopefully, my voices are clear enough because it's so windy here... But clearly, you can see the quality of the camera here... And recording a video using Xiaomi Mi 10 5G Okay, let's try to run here... Okay, walk slowly again... I will stop running and start shooting again... Okay, this is really cool... The color tho... The dimension is really good to see... Especially if you bring closer to the object like this... See... The back part looks bokeh and it's cool... That's great... While recording mode can I change it into wide lens here? Let's try to change into ultra-wide... Let's change it... Ohh, it can't change so I have to turn it off first... It's using ultra-wide... Woah... I always liked the wide lens It can capture it wider and many pictures here... Usually, the coolest smartphone has a wide camera... And the resolution is sharp and clear... Usually, if we want to change from the normal lens to ultra-wide lens The quality is dropping... But this isn't Even though I was walking here... Okay, let's try to run again... Let's walk slowly again... Okay... That's great because there is a sun over there... Let's see how strong is the camera... This is great... Currently, I am recording a video using the super stabilization mode on... Before I haven't turned on the super stabilization but the video is already smooth... Especially this, it's already super stabilization... This is cool and let's try to run... It's super stabilization while shaking... Okay, let's walk slowly again... What do you think, guys? Is it more stable? But it's cropped too much so the lens doesn't look wide... Currently, I am recording using this Xiaomi Mi 10 5G’s front camera… Okay... What do you think, guys? In terms of the colors, I really like it... The colors ain't bad, it looks thick... It's not too bright... Hmm, it's good... If I see it on the screen... It's a bit shaking here... Compared to the back camera which is so smooth... Woah, this is cool... Let's see the brightness here... If I crouch... Xiaomi Mi 10 5G is great... I am going to test the fingerprint sensor on the screen, guys... Wow, this is cool because the light is white... This is the process of registering the fingerprint and the effect color light is white... This is cool because the light is green usually... If the color is white looks cool actually Seriously... Or it's because I am getting bored with the green color... Let's try... It's so quick and that's great... Look it shows up... The animation is so cool... This is so cool... Now I am going to test the face unlock It's so quick... The process of registering the face... Btw you see that, guys? Although I just peek a while and it's recorded... This is so cool actually... When I peek it and the icon just unlocked... Let's try to swipe up and peek it... Peek it and open... Why it's a bit longer... Swipe up and it rejects... When I peek it... Okay, it opens... This time is quick before it's too slow... Maybe it's not the right time... Ohh yeah, it's not right because I got blocked by the camera here... If I do it like this, it works fast... Let's do it one more time... Let's peek it again... Yes, that's great... It's because that Xiaomi Mi 10 5G already supports fast charging... And the charging method is using the wireless charging... Let's try to use this... Let's stick it... Hmm, it works... The animation is cool... That's great... That's all for the unboxing of this Xiaomi Mi 10 5G... We've already tested and also reviewed the gaming performance... This is cool, especially it has two speakers here so it makes the sound to be stereo here... Playing games make even more alive... The camera is 108 MP... It makes me even wonder... When I took a picture using the 108 MP lens... I took a picture that is far away and when I zoom in, it still looks clear... The camera is so terrifying... Okay, just you wait for this full review of this Xiaomi Mi 10... I want to try to use it around 1 whole week... Is this smartphone is good to wear or not? Because you see that this curved screen is it good to be used for daily lives? And also the camera I want to use it in various kind of conditions... I want to try to take some pictures with it... And it's going to be complete Just you waited... Before I end this video, I want to place this soft case first... The default case that looks transparent... That's it... Okay, thanks for watching this video! Don't forget to subscribe to those who haven't Turn on the notification bell to know about the next update on this Don't forget to follow my Instagram @Dhiarcom for the updates about the newest gadgets See you in the next video... Bye-Bye, See you, Zai Jian, Annyeong, Sayonara, Daa Daa... Greetings Indonesia... Subs by: @Whitchai DM my IG for request subs for Youtube 