 What is 5G? 5G is the fifth generation of mobile and cellular telephone systems. Compared to 4G, which is the technology that we currently have in our smartphones, 5G introduces a series of improvements, particularly in terms of speed of transmitting information, which is up to 100 gigabit per second with 5G, 100 times faster than 4G technology. To give you an idea, downloading a two-hour film in HD using 3G technology took more or less a full day, with current 4G technology it takes about 10 minutes, while 5G allows you to download the same film in just a few seconds. This makes it possible to use and distribute high quality multimedia content to users on the go by enabling a range of applications, for example, in the world of virtual reality and augmented reality. In reality 5G is not just about speed of transmission; other distinctive features of this technology include the reliability of communications and the very fast network response time, from 50 milliseconds with 4G to one millisecond with 5G. Here too, for example: if you wanted to send a braking command to a vehicle travelling at 100 km/h, with 4G technology the command would reach the vehicle after it had already travelled approximately 1.5m. With 5G the same command would reach the vehicle when it had only travelled a few centimetres. This feature is fundamental to all applications that natively require reliability and low latency, first and foremost, all applications involving the control of self-driving or driver-assist vehicles and all applications involving industrial control and monitoring such as collaborative robotics and remote control applications for fleets of land or air drones. 5G also provides, or will provide, connectivity to a very large number of devices; we're talking about a target of 1 million devices per km2. This makes 5G an enabling technology to achieve the vision of the internet of things, i.e. the vision where everyday objects have or will have a presence on the internet and can therefore be accessed via the internet, with major implications for various fields including so-called Smart Cities, where sensors located throughout the urban environment will help us, interconnected by 5G, to keep our cities cleaner and safer by providing services for the public. But how does 5G manage to make all these, let's say, improvements? There's no magic: just a mix of advanced technologies and architectures. To name just a few, 5G uses different frequency bands for transmission than previous technologies, including so-called "millimeter waves", which make it possible to create pipes to transmit information at very high capacity. 5G devices, on both the user and network side, will basically be fitted with multiple antennas providing more efficient transmission of information, and on the network side 5G will widely use the so-called "software defined networks" paradigm which allows you to control via software, and in a very flexible manner, all network functionalities. In conclusion, therefore, 5G technology does not just aim to improve the services already offered by 4G technology, i.e. voice traffic, data traffic, video traffico and messaging, and paradoxically therefore, 5G is not only a mobile telephony standard, but is in fact a technology that also enables completely new services, with opportunities that, we can say, have never been seen before, both for the end users that can make use of these services, and for developing new businesses in widely diverse fields and applications. 