Business     OverviewWe provide high performance network security solutions that are designed to address the fundamental problems of an increasingly bandwidth-intensive network environment and a more sophisticated information technology (“IT”) threat landscape. Through our products and subscription services, we provide broad and integrated protection against dynamic security threats while simplifying the IT security infrastructure for enterprises, service providers and governmental entities worldwide. Our flagship integrated network security solution consists of our FortiGate physical and virtual appliance products that provide a broad array of security and networking functions to protect data, applications, and users from network- and content-level security threats. These functions provide Data Center Firewall (“DCFW”)/Unified Threat Management (“UTM”)/Next Generation Firewall (“NGFW”) technologies, including firewall, virtual private network ("VPN"), application control, anti-malware, intrusion prevention, Web filtering, vulnerability management, anti-spam, wireless controller, and wide area network ("WAN") acceleration. Our FortiGate appliances, from the FortiGate-20 for small businesses and branch offices to the FortiGate-5000 series for large enterprises and service providers, are based on our proprietary technology platform. This platform includes our FortiASICs, which are specifically designed for accelerated processing of security and networking functions, and our FortiOS operating system, which provides the foundation for all of our security functions. Our FortiGuard security subscription services provide end-customers with access to dynamic updates to our application control, anti-malware, intrusion prevention, Web filtering and anti-spam functionality based on intelligence gathered by our dedicated FortiGuard Labs team. By combining multiple proprietary security and networking functions with our purpose-built FortiASIC and FortiOS, our FortiGate DCFW/UTM/NGFW solution delivers broad protection against dynamic security threats while reducing the operational burden and costs associated with managing multiple point products.We complement our FortiGate product line with the FortiManager product family, which enables end-customers to manage the system configuration and security functions of multiple FortiGate devices from a centralized console, as well as the FortiAnalyzer product family, which enables collection, analysis and archiving of content and log data generated by our products. We also offer other product lines that provide additional protection, such as: (i) FortiAP, secure wireless access points, (ii) FortiWeb, security for Web-based applications, (iii) FortiMail, multi-featured, high performance messaging security, (iv) FortiDB, centrally managed database-specific security, (v) FortiClient, endpoint security for desktops, laptops and mobile devices and that is primarily used in conjunction with our FortiGate appliances, (vi) FortiScan, endpoint vulnerability assessment and remediation, (vii) FortiSwitch, Ethernet switches, (viii) FortiBridge, bypass appliances to help ensure network availability, (ix) FortiAuthenticator, scalable secure authentication for enterprise networks, (x) FortiADC, Application Delivery Controller ("ADC")optimizing the availability and performance of mobile, cloud, and enterprise applications, (xi) FortiSandbox, detecting and mitigating Advanced Persistent Threats (“APTs”), (xii) FortiCache, reducing the cost of and impact of cached internet content, (xiii) FortiDNS, providing secure Domain Name System ("DNS") caching, (xiv) FortiDDoS, protection against Distributed Denial of Service ("DDOS") attack, and (xv) FortiVoice, business telephone communication.Additionally, we offer virtual appliances for the FortiGate, FortiManager, FortiAnalyzer, FortiWeb, FortiMail, FortiCache, and FortiADC product lines. These virtual appliances help secure network infrastructures with the same functionality as the traditional physical appliances in their respective product lines. They can be used in conjunction with traditional Fortinet appliances (such as FortiGate, FortiManager, and FortiAnalyzer) to help ensure the visibility, management, and protection of physical and virtual environments.Since our inception through December 31, 2013, we have shipped over 1,400,000 appliances via more than 20,000 channel partners to more than 184,000 end-customers worldwide, including a majority of the 2013 Fortune Global 100. During our fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, we generated total revenue of $615.3 million and net income of $44.3 million. See Part II Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 and our consolidated statements of operations, consolidated statements of comprehensive income, consolidated statements of cash flows, and consolidated statements of stockholders' equity for each of the three years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011.We were incorporated in Delaware in November 2000. Our principal executive office is located at 1090 Kifer Road, Sunnyvale, California 94086 and our telephone number at that location is (408) 235-7700. In March 2014, we expect to move to our new corporate headquarters located at 899 Kifer Road, Sunnyvale, California 94086. 1Table of ContentsTechnology and ArchitectureOur proprietary FortiASIC hardware architecture, FortiOS operating system and associated security and networking functions combine to form a platform that integrates security features and enables our products to perform sophisticated security processing for networks with high throughput requirements.FortiASICOur FortiASIC family of Application-Specific Integrated Circuits (“ASICs”) is comprised of three lines of processors: the FortiASIC content processor (“CP”), the FortiASIC network processor (“NP”), and the FortiASIC system-on-a-chip (“SOC”). These custom ASICs are designed to enhance the sophisticated security processing capabilities implemented in software by accelerating the computation-intensive tasks such as firewall policy enforcement or intrusion prevention system ("IPS") anomaly detection. This architecture provides the flexibility of implementing accelerated processing of new threat detection without requiring a new ASIC release. The FortiASIC CP is currently included in most of our entry-level and all of our mid-range and high-end FortiGate appliances. The FortiASIC NP is currently included in some of our mid-range and high-end FortiGate appliances, delivering further accelerated firewall and VPN performance. During fiscal 2013, we introduced the latest version of our NP, the NP6 through our FGT 1500D and 3700D product lines providing enhanced firewall performance. The FortiASIC SOC2 is our second-generation processor that combines general purpose processing power with Fortinet's custom technology to provide hardware-accelerated network security performance for our smaller FortiGate appliances. It is currently included in our entry-level FortiGate-20, -30, -40, -60, and -90 product families.  FortiOSOur FortiOS operating system provides the foundation for the operation of all FortiGate appliances, from the core kernel functions to the security processing feature sets. FortiOS provides multiple layers of security including a hardened kernel layer providing protection for the FortiGate system, a network security layer providing security for end-customers’ network infrastructures, and application content protection providing security for end-customers’ workstations and applications. FortiOS directs the operations of processors and ASICs and provides system management functions such as command-line and graphical user interfaces. In the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we released an update to our FortiOS operating system, which offers advanced security, control, and intelligence designed to help protect organizations of all sizes from today’s sophisticated threats. These enhancements to FortiOS include:•Advanced modern anti-malware detection system for identifying and mitigating APTs.•Simplification of configurations and deployments by enabling enterprises to quickly and easily configure their FortiGate appliances based on their unique business and security requirements.•Contextual visibility for enhanced security reporting and management by providing detailed analytics for deeper insight into historic or real-time network activities.We make available updates to FortiOS through our FortiCare support services. FortiOS also enables advanced, integrated routing and switching, allowing end-customers to deploy FortiGate devices within a wide variety of networks, as well as providing a direct replacement solution option for legacy switching and routing equipment. FortiOS implements a suite of commonly used routing protocols as well as address translation technologies, allowing the FortiGate appliance to integrate and operate in a wide variety of network environments. Additional features include Virtual Domain (“VDOM”), capabilities and traffic queuing and shaping, enabling administrators to set the appropriate configurations and policies that meet their infrastructure needs. FortiOS also provides capabilities for logging of traffic for forensic analysis purposes which are particularly important for regulatory compliance initiatives like payment card industry data security standard ("PCI DSS"). FortiOS is designed to help control network traffic in order to optimize performance by including functionality such as packet classification, queue disciplines, policy enforcement and congestion management.Our FortiOS incorporates the following core security and networking technologies, including firewall, VPN, application control, anti-malware, intrusion prevention, Web filtering, vulnerability management, anti-spam, wireless controller, and WAN acceleration. 2Table of ContentsWe also incorporate additional technologies within FortiGate appliances that differentiate our DCFW/UTM/NGFW solution, including data leakage protection (DLP), traffic optimization, SSL inspection, threat vulnerability management, and wireless controller technology.ProductsOur core product offerings consist of our FortiGate product family, along with our FortiManager central management and FortiAnalyzer central logging and reporting product families, both of which are typically purchased to complement a large FortiGate deployment.FortiGateOur flagship FortiGate physical and virtual appliances offer a broad set of security and networking functions, including firewall, VPN, application control, antivirus, intrusion prevention, Web filtering, anti-spam and WAN acceleration. All FortiGate models are based on our proprietary operating system, FortiOS, and substantially all FortiGate physical appliances include our proprietary FortiASICs to accelerate content and network security features implemented within FortiOS. FortiGate platforms can be centrally managed through both embedded Web-based and command line interfaces, as well as through FortiManager which provides central management architecture for thousands of FortiGate physical and virtual appliances.By combining multiple network security functions in our purpose-built security platform, the FortiGate provides high quality protection capabilities and deployment flexibility while reducing the operational burden and costs associated with managing multiple point products. With over 30 models in the FortiGate product line, FortiGate is designed to address security requirements for small- to mid-sized businesses, remote offices, large enterprises, and service providers.Each FortiGate model runs our FortiOS operating system, and substantially all FortiGate physical appliances include our FortiASICs. The significant differences between each model are the performance and scalability targets each model is designed to meet, while the security features and associated services offered are common throughout all models. The FortiGate-20 through -100 series models are designed for perimeter protection for small- to mid-sized businesses. The FortiGate-200 through -800 series models are designed for perimeter deployment in mid-sized to large enterprise networks. And, the FortiGate-1000 through -5000 series models deliver high performance and scalable network security functionality for perimeter, data center and core deployment in large enterprise and service provider networks.Fortinet Management and Analysis ProductsOur FortiManager and FortiAnalyzer physical and virtual products are typically sold in conjunction with a large FortiGate deployment.FortiManager. Our FortiManager family of products provides a central management solution for our FortiGate products, including the wide variety of network and security features offered within FortiOS. One FortiManager product is capable of effectively managing thousands of FortiGate units, and also provides central management for FortiClient software. FortiManager facilitates the coordination of policy-based provisioning, device configuration and operating system revision management, as well as network security monitoring and device control.FortiAnalyzer. Our FortiAnalyzer family provides network logging, analyzing, and reporting products that securely aggregate content and log data from our FortiGate devices and other Fortinet products as well as third-party devices to enable network logging, analysis and reporting. We also offer other physical and virtual appliances and software that protect our end-customers from security threats to other critical areas in the enterprise, such as messaging, Web-based applications and databases, and employees’ computers or mobile devices as discussed above in the business overview.ServicesFortiGuard Security Subscription ServicesSecurity requirements are dynamic due to the constantly changing nature of threats. Our FortiGuard Labs global threat research team uses automated processes to identify emerging threats, collects threat samples, and replicates, reviews and characterizes attacks. Based on this research, we develop updates for virus signatures, attack definitions, scanning engines, and other security solution components to distribute to end-customers through our FortiGuard global distribution network. Our  3Table of ContentsFortiGuard security subscription services are designed to allow us to quickly deliver new threat detection capabilities to end-customers worldwide as new threats evolve. End-customers purchase FortiGuard security subscription services in advance, typically for a one-year term, to obtain coverage and access to regular updates for application control, antivirus, intrusion prevention, Web filtering, and anti-spam functions for our FortiGate products; antivirus, Web filtering and anti-spam functions for our FortiClient software; antivirus and anti-spam functions for our FortiMail products; vulnerability management for our FortiGate, FortiAnalyzer and FortiScan products, database functions for our FortiDB appliance, web functions for our FortiWeb appliances, and advanced threat protection for our FortiSandbox products. We provide FortiGuard services 24 hours a day, seven days a week. FortiCare Technical Support ServicesOur FortiCare services are our technical support services for the software, firmware and hardware in our products. In addition to our standard support service offering, we offer a premium service that offers faster response times and dedicated support oriented towards major accounts.For our standard technical support offering for our products, channel partners often provide first level support to the end-customer, especially for small and mid-sized end-customers, and we typically provide second and third level support to our end-customers. We also provide knowledge management tools and customer self-help portals to help augment our support capabilities in an efficient and scalable manner. We provide technical support to partners and end-customers 24 hours a day, seven days a week through regional technical support managers located worldwide. Training ServicesWe offer training services to our end-customers and channel partners through our training department and authorized training partners. We have also implemented a training certification program to ensure an understanding of our products and services. Professional ServicesWe offer professional services to end-customers primarily for large implementations where expert technical resources are required. Our professional services consultants help in the design of deployments of our products and work closely with end-customer engineers, managers and other project team members to implement our products according to design, utilizing network analysis tools, attack simulation software and scripts.CustomersWe sell our security solutions through channel partners to end-customers of various sizes—from small businesses to large enterprises and service providers—and across a variety of industries including telecommunications, government, financial services, retail, education, technology, healthcare and manufacturing. An end-customer deployment may involve one of our appliances or thousands, depending on our end-customers’ size and security requirements. Since our inception through December 31, 2013, we have shipped over 1,400,000 appliances via more than 20,000 channel partners to more than 184,000 end-customers worldwide, including a majority of the 2013 Fortune Global 100.  For additional information regarding our sales by customer location, see Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.During fiscal 2011, no single customer or distributor accounted for 10% or more of total revenue. During fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013, one distributor, Exclusive Networks Group, accounted for 11% and 12% of total revenue, respectively. Sales and MarketingWe primarily sell our products and services directly to distributors that sell to resellers and service providers, which, in turn, sell to our end-customers. In certain cases, we sell directly to government-focused resellers, very large service providers and major systems integrator partners who have large purchasing power and unique customer deployment demands. As of December 31, 2013, our distribution channel program had more than 20,000 channel partners worldwide. We work with many of the world’s leading technology distributors, including Arrow Electronics, Inc., Ingram Micro Inc. and Tech Data Corporation.We support our channel partners that include distributors and resellers with a team of experienced channel account managers, sales professionals and sales engineers who provide business planning, joint marketing strategy, and pre-sales and operational sales support. Additionally, our sales team often helps drive and support large enterprise and service provider sales through a direct touch model. Our sales professionals and engineers typically work alongside our channel partners and directly  4Table of Contentsengage with end-customers to address their unique security and deployment requirements. Our sales cycle for an initial end-customer purchase typically ranges from three to six months but can be longer especially for large enterprises, service providers and government customers. To support our broadly dispersed global channel and end-customer base, we have sales offices in over 30 countries around the world.Our marketing strategy is focused on building our brand and driving end-customer demand for our security solutions. We execute this strategy by leveraging a combination of internal marketing professionals and a network of regional and global channel partners. Our internal marketing organization is responsible for branding, product marketing, channel marketing and sales support programs. We focus our resources on programs, tools and activities that can be leveraged by partners worldwide to extend our marketing reach, such as sales tools and collateral, product awards and technical certifications, training, regional seminars and conferences, webinars and various other demand-generation activities. Manufacturing and SuppliersWe outsource the manufacturing of our security appliance products to a variety of contract manufacturers and original design manufacturers. Our current manufacturing partners include Flextronics International Ltd., Micro-Star International Co., Ltd., Adlink Technology, Inc., Senao Networks, Inc., and a number of Taiwan-based manufacturers. We submit purchase orders to our contract manufacturers that describe the type and quantities of our products to be manufactured, the delivery date and other delivery terms. Once our products are manufactured, they are sent to either our headquarters in Sunnyvale, California, or to our logistics partner in Taoyuan City, Taiwan, where accessory packaging and quality-control testing are performed. We believe that outsourcing our manufacturing and a substantial portion of our logistics enables us to conserve capital, better adjust manufacturing volumes to meet changes in demand and more quickly deliver products, while allowing us to focus resources on our core competencies. Our proprietary FortiASICs, which are the key to the performance of our appliances, are fabricated by contract manufacturers in foundries operated by United Microelectronics Corporation (“UMC”) and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited (“TSMC”). Faraday Technology Corporation (using UMC’s foundry), Kawasaki Microelectronics America, Inc. (“K-Micro”) (using TSMC’s foundry) and Renesas Electronics Corporation (“Renesas”) (using UMC’s foundry) manufacture our ASICs on a purchase order basis. Accordingly, they are not obligated to continue to fulfill our supply requirements, and the prices we are charged for the fabrication of our ASICs could be increased on short notice.The components included in our products are sourced from various suppliers by us or more frequently by our contract manufacturers. Some of the components important to our business, including specific types of central processing units from Intel Corporation (“Intel”), network chips from Broadcom Corporation (“Broadcom”), Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (“Marvell”) and Intel, and solid-state drives (silicon-based storage device) from OCZ Technology Group, Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., are available from a limited or sole source of supply.We have no long-term contracts related to the manufacturing of our ASICs or other components that guarantee any capacity or pricing terms.For information regarding the geographical disbursement of our long-lived assets, see Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Research and DevelopmentWe focus our research and development efforts on developing new products and systems, and adding new features to existing products and systems. Our development strategy is to identify features, products and systems for both software and hardware that are, or are expected to be, needed by our end-customers. Our success in designing, developing, manufacturing and selling new or enhanced products will depend on a variety of factors, including the identification of market demand for new products, product selection, timely implementation of product design and development, product performance, effective manufacturing and assembly processes and sales and marketing.As of December 31, 2013, our research and development organization had headcount of 702 people predominantly in Canada, the United States (“U.S.”) and China. Our research and development expense was $102.7 million in fiscal 2013, $81.1 million in fiscal 2012 and $63.6 million in fiscal 2011.Intellectual Property We rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology. As of December 31, 2013, we had 130 issued U.S. patents, 21 issued Chinese patents, 4 issued Taiwanese patents and 1 issued Japanese patent, which expire at various dates between 2019 and 2031, and 105 patent  5Table of Contentsapplications pending for examination in the United States, and 7 patent applications pending for examination in China. We also license software from third parties for inclusion in our products, including open source software and other software available on commercially reasonable terms.Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. However, we cannot provide assurance that the steps we take will prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the United States.Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Third parties have in the past asserted, and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against us, our channel partners or our end-customers. Successful claims of infringement by a third party could prevent us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or require us to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed patents or copyrights), royalties or other fees. Even if third parties may offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, operating results or financial condition to be materially and adversely affected. We typically indemnify our end-customers, distributors and certain resellers against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property of third parties.SeasonalityFor information regarding seasonality, see the section entitled “—Quarterly Results of Operations—Seasonality, Cyclicality and Quarterly Revenue Trends” in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Competition The markets for our products are extremely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change. The principal competitive factors in our markets include the following: •product performance, features, effectiveness, interoperability and reliability; •technological expertise; •price of products and services and total cost of ownership; •brand recognition; •customer service and support; •sales and distribution capabilities; •compliance with industry standards and certifications; •size and financial stability of operations; and •breadth of product line.Our competitors include networking companies such as Cisco Systems, Inc. (“Cisco”) and Juniper Networks, Inc. (“Juniper”), security vendors such as Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (“Check Point”), McAfee, Inc. (“McAfee”) (acquired by Intel), Sourcefire, Inc. (“Sourcefire”) (acquired by Cisco), Stonesoft Corporation  (“Stonesoft”)  (acquired by McAfee),  SonicWALL, Inc. (“SonicWALL”) (acquired by Dell Inc. (“Dell”)), BlueCoat Systems, Inc. ("BlueCoat"), FireEye, Inc. and Palo Alto Networks, Inc. (“Palo Alto Networks”), and other point solution security vendors.We believe we compete favorably based on our products’ performance, reliability and breadth, our ability to add and integrate new networking and security features and our technological expertise. Several competitors are significantly larger, have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, customer support and other resources, are more established than we are, and have significantly better brand recognition. Some of these larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings and  6Table of Contentsleverage their relationships based on other products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products. Based in part on these competitive pressures, we may lower prices or attempt to add incremental features and functionality.Conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or continuing market consolidation. The development and market acceptance of alternative technologies could decrease the demand for our products or render them obsolete. Our competitors may introduce products that are less costly, provide superior performance or achieve greater market acceptance than our products. In addition, our larger competitors often have broader product lines and market focus, are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by end-customers in these markets, and will therefore not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. The above competitive pressures are likely to continue to impact our business. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and competition may harm our business.Environment Our business and operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in various jurisdictions around the world including the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment and Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment regulations adopted by the European Union. Many of these laws and regulations are still evolving and being tested in courts, and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. We seek to operate our business in compliance with such laws. We are currently subject to laws relating to the materials and content of our products and certain requirements relating to product take back and recycling. Environmental regulation is increasing, particularly outside of the United States, and we expect that our international operations will be subject to additional environmental compliance requirements, which may expose us to additional costs. To date, our compliance costs relating to environmental regulations have not had a material impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. EmployeesAs of December 31, 2013, our total headcount was 2,308 people including contractors. We had 702 in research and development, 870 in sales and marketing, 540 in services and support, 49 in manufacturing operations, and 147 in a general and administrative capacity. As of December 31, 2013, our headcount was 595 people in the United States, 726 in Canada, 208 in China, 119 in France, and 660 in other countries.None of our U.S. employees are represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment with us; however, our employees in France, Spain and Italy are represented by collective bargaining agreements. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good.Available InformationOur web site is located at www.fortinet.com, and our investor relations web site is located at http://investor.fortinet.com. The information posted on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Act, are available free of charge on our investor relations web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may also access all of our public filings through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations web site. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, as part of our investor relations web site. The contents of these web sites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other repo