Business     OverviewFortinet is a global leader in cybersecurity solutions provided to a wide variety of organizations, such as enterprises, communication service providers, government organizations and small businesses. Our cybersecurity solutions are designed to provide broad visibility and segmentation of the digital attack surface through our integrated Fortinet Security Fabric platform, which features automated protection, detection and response.The focus areas of our business consist of:•Network Security—We derive a majority of product sales from our FortiGate network security appliances. Our FortiGate network security appliances include a broad set of built-in security and networking features and functionalities, including firewall, next-generation firewall, secure web gateway, secure sockets layer (“SSL”) inspection, software-defined wide-area network (“SD-WAN”), intrusion prevention, SSL data leak prevention, virtual private network (“VPN”), switch and wireless controller and wide area network edge. Our network security appliances are managed by our FortiOS network operating system, which provides the foundation for FortiGate security functions. We enhance the performance of our network security appliances from branch to data center by designing and implementing Security Processing Unit (“SPU”) technology within our appliances, enabling us to add security and network functionality with minimal impact to network throughput performance.•Infrastructure Security—The Fortinet Security Fabric platform is a broad, automated and integrated security platform that extends beyond the network to cover other attack vectors. Other infrastructure solutions covered include Secure Access (Wi-Fi and switch).•Cloud Security—We help customers connect securely to and across their hybrid, public and private cloud environments by offering security through our virtual firewall and other software products in public and private cloud environments. Our cloud security solutions, including virtual appliances and hosted solutions, extend the core capabilities of the Fortinet Security Fabric platform to provide businesses with the same level of cybersecurity and threat intelligence in and across cloud environments that they receive on their physical networks. Fortinet cloud security offerings are available across all major cloud providers, including Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, Oracle Cloud, Alibaba Cloud and IBM Cloud. Our Cloud Security portfolio also includes securing applications, including email and web.•Endpoint Protection, Internet of Things and Operational Technology Security—We protect end-customers from advanced threats that target their devices and the data that reside on them through our advanced endpoint solutions that provide core endpoint protection, advanced threat protection, incident monitoring, and response. Additionally, the proliferation of Internet of Things (“IoT”) and the digitization of Operational Technology (“OT”) devices has generated new opportunities for us to grow our business. We offer network access control solutions that provide visibility, control and automated event responses in order to secure IoT devices.We also develop and provide Artificial Intelligence (“AI”)-driven security operations solutions, including FortiGuard security services, that can be applied across the entire Fortinet Security Fabric platform. These solutions help customers better secure their environments by delivering deeper intelligence and insights and by reducing the gaps in security skills and resources that are present in many organizations.In addition to our security solutions, our customers, channel partners and end-customers may purchase FortiGuard and other security subscription services to receive threat intelligence updates, FortiCare technical support services across all of our products and the support of Technical Account Managers, Resident Engineers and professional service consultants for implementations or training services.During our year ended December 31, 2019, we generated total revenue of $2.16 billion and net income of $326.5 million. See Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 and our consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. 1Table of ContentsWe were incorporated in Delaware in November 2000. Our principal executive office is located at 899 Kifer Road, Sunnyvale, California 94086 and our telephone number at that location is (408) 235-7700. Technology and ArchitectureThe Fortinet Security Fabric platform helps organizations secure their environments and reduce their security and network complexities. The Fortinet Security Fabric platform has an open architecture designed to connect Fortinet solutions and third-party solutions into a single ecosystem.Our proprietary SPU hardware architecture, FortiOS operating system and associated security and networking functions are combined to form the Fortinet Security Fabric platform. This approach to security ties together discrete security solutions into an integrated whole, which enables our products to perform security processing for networks with high throughput requirements across a broad threat landscape.SPUOur proprietary SPUs are Application-Specific Integrated Circuits (“ASICs”) that include (i) the Content Processor (“SPU CP”), (ii) the Network Processor (“SPU NP”) and (iii) the System-on-a-Chip (“SPU SoC”). Each successive generation of SPU adds network speed and the capacity to perform security functions. Our SPUs are designed to enhance the security processing capabilities implemented in software by accelerating computationally intensive tasks such as firewall policy enforcement, SD-WAN, network address translation, Intrusion Prevention Systems (“IPS”) threat detection and encryption.The use of SPUs allows our appliances to deliver security functionality with minimal impact to network throughput performance, which we believe delivers a lower total cost of ownership (“TCO”) to our customers. As the security needs of our end-customers increase, we believe that our TCO and our SPUs will give our products a competitive advantage against other architectural approaches.Entry-level FortiGate products often use the SPU SoC to provide the necessary acceleration at this level. Mid-range FortiGate products use a central processing unit (“CPU”) and include the SPU NP and SPU CP hardware acceleration. The high-end FortiGate products use multiple CPUs, SPU CPs and SPU NPs.FortiOSOur proprietary FortiOS operating system provides the foundation for the operation of all FortiGate appliances, whether physical, virtual, private or public cloud based, and is at the heart of the Fortinet Security Fabric platform. We make regular updates to FortiOS available through our FortiCare support services.The security and networking capabilities of the Fortinet Security Fabric platform are controlled through FortiOS. The core kernel functions to the security processing feature sets work together to provide a highly integrated solution. FortiOS provides (i) multiple layers of security, including a hardened kernel layer providing protection for the FortiGate system, (ii) a network security layer, providing security for end-customers’ network infrastructures and (iii) application content protection, providing security for end-customers’ workstations and applications. FortiOS directs the operations of processors and SPUs and provides system management functions such as command line, graphical user interfaces, multiple network and security topology views.Key high-level functions and capabilities of FortiOS include:•key enablement for the Fortinet Security Fabric platform architecture;•optionality to configure FortiGate appliances into different security environments, such as our Internal Network Firewall, Next-Generation Firewall and Data Center Firewall;•configuration of the physical aspects of the appliance, such as ports, onboard Wi-Fi and switching;•extension of the Fortinet Security Fabric platform through direct management of FortiSwitch and FortiAP devices;•key network functions such as routing and deployment modes (network routing, transparent, sniffer, etc.);•the ability to deploy and orchestrate SD-WAN instances;•implementation of security updates from our FortiGuard distribution network, delivering FortiGuard security subscription services and intelligence, such as IPS, antivirus and application control;•native integrations with major cloud provider platforms; and•real-time reporting and logging. 2Table of ContentsFortiOS also enables advanced, integrated routing and switching, allowing end-customers to deploy FortiGate devices within a wide variety of networks, as well as providing a direct replacement solution option for legacy switching and routing equipment. FortiOS implements a suite of commonly used standards-based routing protocols as well as network address translation technologies, allowing the FortiGate appliance to integrate and operate in a wide variety of network environments. Additional features include virtual domain capabilities, which can provide support for multiple customers on a single device or FortiOS instance. FortiOS also provides capabilities for the logging of traffic for forensic analysis purposes, which are particularly important for regulatory compliance initiatives such as payment card industry data security standards. FortiOS is designed to help control network traffic in order to optimize performance by including functionality such as packet classification, queue disciplines, policy enforcement, congestion management, wide-area network (“WAN”) optimization and caching. These features enable administrators to set the appropriate configurations and policies that meet their infrastructure needs.ProductsOur core product offerings consist of our FortiGate product family and our non-FortiGate products, all of which may be purchased to complement commercial and enterprise deployments. Our FortiGate hardware and software licenses are sold with a set of broad security services. These security services are enabled by FortiGuard Labs, which provides extensive threat research and artificial intelligence capabilities from a global cloud network to deliver protection services to each FortiGate appliance that is registered by the end-customer. Our non-FortiGate products span the full range of our customers’ core security needs and include the Fortinet Security Fabric platform, email security, cloud security, endpoint protection and other products.FortiGateFortiGate offers a broad set of security and networking functions, including firewall, intrusion prevention, anti-malware, VPN, application control, web filtering, anti-spam and WAN acceleration. FortiGate is available as a hardware appliance or as a virtual appliance. All FortiGate appliances run on FortiOS. FortiGate platforms can be centrally managed through both embedded web-based and command line interfaces, as well as through FortiManager, which provides a central management architecture for FortiGate appliances and the Fortinet Security Fabric platform.By combining multiple network security functions in our purpose-built security platform, FortiGate appliances provide broad, high-quality protection capabilities and deployment flexibility while reducing the operational burden and costs associated with managing multiple point products. With over 40 models in the FortiGate product line, FortiGate is designed to address security requirements for small- to medium-sized businesses, large enterprises and government organizations worldwide.Typically, all FortiGate hardware appliances include our SPUs to accelerate content and network security features implemented within FortiOS. The significant differences between each model are the performance and scalability targets each model is designed to meet, while the security features and associated services offered are common throughout all models. The FortiGate-20 through -90 series models are designed for perimeter protection for small- to medium-sized businesses and enterprises with distributed offices. The FortiGate-100 through -900 series models are designed for perimeter deployment in medium-sized to large enterprise networks. The FortiGate-1000 through -7000 series models deliver high performance and scalable network security functionality for perimeter, data center and core deployment in large enterprises.We also incorporate additional technologies within FortiGate appliances that differentiate our solutions, including data leak protection, traffic optimization, SSL inspection, threat vulnerability management and wireless controller technology. In addition to these in-built features, we offer a full range of wireless access points and controllers, complementing FortiGate appliances with the flexibility of wireless local area network access.Fortinet Security Fabric Platform and Non-FortiGate ProductsAs part of the Fortinet Security Fabric platform, we offer products that provide network security, end point security, cloud security, web-based application security, identity and access management, sandbox protection and email security. The integration of devices using open standards, common operating systems, and unified management platforms enables the sharing and correlation of real-time threat intelligence. The following Fortinet products can operate as part of the Fortinet Security Fabric platform.•FortiSwitch—Our FortiSwitch product family provides secure switching solutions that can be deployed in traditional network switching designs with Layer 2 or Layer 3 access control features. FortiSwitch creates a scalable and secure access layer for customers to connect their end devices, such as computers and laptops, as well as to expand the field of IoT devices. 3Table of Contents•FortiAP—Our FortiAP product family provides secure wireless networking solutions. FortiAPs allow a variety of management options including from the cloud and directly from our FortiGate firewall product. FortiAPs create a scalable and secure access layer for connecting wireless devices such as computers, laptops, cell phones and tablets, as well as IoT devices.•FortiExtender—Our FortiExtender appliance provides a WAN connection to our FortiGate products using wireless broadband networks. End-customers that use multiple WAN connections, including SD-WAN, can use FortiExtender for one of those WAN links. FortiExtender can also be used as the primary connection for a location where wireless is the preferred broadband option.•FortiAnalyzer—Our FortiAnalyzer family of products provides centralized network logging, analyzing and reporting solutions that securely aggregate content and log data from our FortiGate devices, other Fortinet products and third-party devices to enable network logging, analysis and reporting.•FortiManager—Our FortiManager family of products provides a central and scalable management solution for our FortiGate products, including software updates, configuration, policy settings and security updates. FortiManager facilitates the coordination of policy-based provisioning, device configuration and operating system revision management, as well as network security monitoring and device control.•FortiWeb—Our FortiWeb product family provides web application firewall solutions, including internet protocol (“IP”) reputation and anti-botnet security, distributed denial-of-service protection, protocol validation, application attack signatures and deep learning AI to protect applications against a wide range of threats.•FortiMail—Our FortiMail product family provides secure email gateway solutions. FortiMail utilizes the technologies and security services from FortiGuard Labs to deliver protection against threats that use email as an attack vector. FortiMail also integrates data protection capabilities to avoid data loss.•FortiSandbox—Our FortiSandbox technology delivers proactive detection and mitigation with the ability to generate a directly actionable protection capability. Available in both hardware and cloud-based form, the FortiSandbox subjects suspicious code to a set of multi-layer protection techniques, culminating in execution within an operating system, allowing real-time behavioral analysis to be performed in a secure environment. When malicious code is identified, a signature can be generated locally for distribution across the Fortinet Security Fabric platform.•FortiSIEM—Our FortiSIEM family of software solutions provides a cloud-ready security information and event management (“SIEM”) solution. FortiSIEM unifies analytics that are traditionally monitored discretely, parses the information and then processes it in an event-based analytics engine for handling real-time searches, rules, dashboards and ad-hoc queries. This unification of diverse sources of data enables organizations to create comprehensive dashboards and reports to identify root causes of threats, and take the steps necessary to remediate and prevent them in the future.•FortiToken and FortiAuthenticator—Our FortiToken and FortiAuthenticator product families allow organizations to implement multi-factor authentication to better safeguard systems, assets and data.•FortiNAC—Our FortiNAC product family enables customers to implement zero trust network access strategies by gaining visibility into devices connecting into the network, including IoT devices, in order to meet minimum required security postures and to control access.All of the products listed above are available in multiple form factors, such as hardware, virtual machine, cloud or software-as-a-service (“SaaS”), except for FortiSwitch, FortiAP and FortiExtender, which are available as hardware appliances only.In the fourth quarter of 2019, we acquired enSilo Limited (“enSilo”), a provider of endpoint detection and response products and services, and CyberSponse, Inc. (“CyberSponse”), a provider of security orchestration, automation and response products and services. We expect that the enSilo acquisition will further enhance the Fortinet Security Fabric platform and strengthen endpoint and network security solutions by providing customers with advanced endpoint security. We expect that the CyberSponse acquisition will further extend the automation and incident response capabilities of our FortiAnalyzer, FortiSIEM and FortiGate solutions. 4Table of ContentsServicesFortiGuard Security Subscription ServicesSecurity requirements are dynamic due to the constantly changing nature of threats. Our FortiGuard security subscription services are designed to quickly deliver new threat detection and prevention capabilities to end-customers worldwide as new threats evolve. Our FortiGuard Labs global threat research team identifies emerging threats, collects threat samples, and replicates, reviews, characterizes and collates attack data through the use of AI, automation and original research. Based on this research, we develop updates for virus signatures, attack definitions, scanning engines and other security solution components to distribute to end-customers. FortiGuard functionality varies depending on which FortiGate and non-FortiGate products the end-customer is using, but will typically include one or more of the following functions: application control, antivirus, intrusion prevention, web filtering, anti-spam, VPN functions, email image analysis, vulnerability management, database functions, web functions, advanced threat protection, sandboxing and domain and IP reputation services.End-customers purchase FortiGuard security subscription services in advance, typically with terms of one to five years. We provide FortiGuard security subscription services 24 hours a day, seven days a week. FortiCare Technical Support ServicesOur FortiCare support services portfolio includes technical support and extended product warranty. For our standard technical support, our channel partners may provide first-level support to the end-customer. We also provide first-level support to our end-customers, as well as second- and third-level support as appropriate. We also provide knowledge management tools and customer self-help portals to help augment our support capabilities in an efficient and scalable manner. We deliver technical support to partners and end-customers 24 hours a day, seven days a week, through worldwide regional technical support centers. In addition to our technical support services, we offer a range of advanced services, including premium support, professional services and replacement parts delivery.Service BundlesWe also sell FortiGuard and FortiCare services as bundles, consolidating security services into packages that would be typical for certain types of end-customer.•Advanced Threat Protection—Our Advanced Threat Protection bundle includes application control, antivirus, IP reputation and anti-botnet security, mobile security, data sanitation, sandbox, intrusion prevention and virus outbreak protection, along with FortiCare support services.•Unified Threat Protection—Our Unified Threat Protection bundle includes antispam, antivirus, data sanitation, sandbox, application control, intrusion prevention, virus outbreak protection and web filtering, along with FortiCare support services.•Enterprise Protection—Our Enterprise Protection bundle includes application control, intrusion prevention, web filtering, sandbox, antivirus, mobile security, IP reputation and anti-botnet security, antispam, cloud access security broker (“CASB”), industrial control systems, security rating, virus outbreak protection and data sanitation, along with FortiCare support services.•360 Protection—Our 360 Protection bundle includes application control, intrusion prevention, web filtering, sandbox, antivirus, mobile security, IP reputation and anti-botnet security, antispam, CASB, industrial control systems, security rating, virus outbreak protection and data sanitation, along with enhanced FortiCare support services and operational services such as SD-WAN orchestration and cloud-based management and visibility of the Fortinet Security Fabric platform.Professional ServicesWe offer professional services to end-customers including technical account managers (“TAMs”), resident engineers (“REs”) and professional service consultants and security architects for implementations. 5Table of ContentsTAMs and REs are dedicated support engineers available to help identify and eliminate issues before problems arise. Each TAM and RE acts as a single point of contact and customer advocate within Fortinet, offering a deep understanding of our customers’ businesses and security requirements.Our professional services consultants and security architects help to formulate customer-specific security strategies, develop roadmaps for securing digital initiatives and design product deployments. They work closely with end-customers to implement our products according to design, utilizing network analysis tools, traffic simulation software and scripts.Training ServicesWe offer training services to our end-customers and channel partners through our training department and authorized training partners. We have also implemented a training certification program, Network Security Expert, to help ensure an understanding of our products and services. CustomersWe typically sell our security solutions to channel partners, who in turn sell to end-customers. At times, we also sell directly to end-customers. Our end-customers are located in over 80 countries and include small and medium-sized businesses, large enterprises and government organizations across a wide range of industries, including telecommunications, government, financial services, retail, technology, education, manufacturing and healthcare. An end-customer deployment may involve as few as one or as many as thousands of appliances and other Fortinet Security Fabric platform products, depending on the end-customer’s size and security requirements. Customers may also access our products via the cloud through certain cloud providers such as Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, Oracle Cloud, Alibaba Cloud and IBM Cloud. Typically, our customers also purchase our FortiGuard security subscription services and FortiCare technical support services.During 2019, Exclusive Networks Group (“Exclusive”) and Ingram Micro Inc. (“Ingram Micro”) accounted for 31% and 11% of total revenue, respectively. During 2018, Exclusive and Ingram Micro accounted for 30% and 10% of total revenue, respectively. During 2017, Exclusive accounted for 25% of total revenue. Sales and MarketingWe primarily sell our products and services through a two-tier distribution model. We sell to distributors that sell to networking security and enterprise-focused resellers and to service providers and managed security service providers (“MSSPs”), who, in turn, sell to our end-customers. In certain cases, we sell directly to large service providers and major systems integrators. We work with many technology distributors, including Exclusive, Ingram Micro, Synnex Corporation, Tech Data Corporation and Arrow Electronics, Inc.We support our channel partners with a dedicated team of experienced channel account managers, sales professionals and sales engineers who provide business planning, joint marketing strategy, and pre-sales and operational sales support. Additionally, our sales teams help drive and support large enterprise and service provider sales through a direct touch model. Our sales professionals and engineers typically work closely with our channel partners and directly engage with large end-customers to address their unique security and deployment requirements. To support our broadly dispersed global channel and end-customer base, we have sales professionals in over 80 countries around the world.Our marketing strategy is focused on building our brand and driving end-customer demand for our security solutions. We use a combination of internal marketing professionals and a network of regional and global channel partners. Our internal marketing organization is responsible for messaging, branding, demand generation, product marketing, packaging support and subscription services into service bundles, channel marketing, partner incentives and promotions, event marketing, digital marketing, communications, analyst relations, public relations and sales enablement. We focus our resources on campaigns, programs and activities that can be leveraged by partners worldwide to extend our marketing reach, such as sales tools and collateral, product awards and technical certifications, media engagement, training, regional seminars and conferences, webinars and various other demand-generation activities.In 2019, we continued to invest in sales and marketing resources, particularly in the enterprise market where we believe there is an opportunity to expand our business. We intend to continue to make investments in our sales resources and infrastructure and marketing strategy, which are critical to support our growth. 6Table of ContentsManufacturing and SuppliersWe outsource the manufacturing of our security appliance products to a variety of contract manufacturers and original design manufacturers. Our current manufacturing partners include ADLINK Technology, Inc. (“ADLINK”), IBASE Technology, Inc. (“IBASE”), Micro-Star International Co. (“Micro-Star”), Senao Networks, Inc. (“Senao”), Wistron Corporation (“Wistron”) and a number of other manufacturers. The majority of our hardware is manufactured in Taiwan. We submit purchase orders to our contract manufacturers that describe the type and quantities of our products to be manufactured, the delivery date and other delivery terms. Once our products are manufactured, they are sent to either our warehouse in California or to our logistics partner in Taoyuan City, Taiwan, where accessory packaging and quality-control testing are performed. We believe that outsourcing our manufacturing and a substantial portion of our logistics enables us to focus resources on our core competencies. Our proprietary SPUs, which are key to the performance of our appliances, are built by contract manufacturers including Toshiba America Electronic Components, Inc. (“Toshiba”) and Renesas Electronics America, Inc. (“Renesas”). These contract manufacturers use foundries in Taiwan and Japan operated by either Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited (“TSMC”) or by the contract manufacturer itself.The components included in our products are sourced from various suppliers by us or, more frequently, by our contract manufacturers. Some of the components important to our business, including certain CPUs from Intel Corporation (“Intel”); network chips from Broadcom Inc. (“Broadcom”), Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (“Marvell”) and Intel, and memory devices from Intel, ADATA Technology Co., Ltd. (“ADATA”), OCZ Technology Group, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (“Samsung”), and Western Digital Technologies, Inc. (“Western Digital”), are available from limited or sole sources of supply.We have no long-term contracts related to the manufacturing of our ASICs or other components that guarantee any capacity or pricing terms.Research and DevelopmentWe focus our research and development efforts on developing new hardware and software products and services, and adding new features to existing products and services. Our development strategy is to identify features, products and systems for both software and hardware that are, or are expected to be, important to our end-customers. Our success in designing, developing, manufacturing and selling new or enhanced products will depend on a variety of factors, including identification of market demand for new products, product selection, timely implementation of product design and development, product performance, costs of development, bills of materials, effective manufacturing and assembly processes and sales and marketing.Intellectual Property We rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology. We periodically have discussions with third parties regarding licensing Fortinet’s intellectual property and have sometimes taken legal action against competitors to protect our intellectual property, and as a result third parties have paid us fees in return for licenses or covenants-not-to-sue related to Fortinet intellectual property. As of December 31, 2019, we had 626 U.S. and foreign-issued patents and 175 pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. We also license software from third parties for inclusion in our products, including open source software and other software.Despite our efforts to protect our rights in our technology, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information and technology that we regard as proprietary. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. However, we cannot provide assurance that the steps we take will prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the United States.Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Third parties have asserted, are currently asserting and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights against us, our channel partners or our end-customers. Successful claims of infringement by a third party could prevent us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or require us to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed patents or copyrights), royalties or other fees. Even if third parties offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, operating results or financial condition to be materially and adversely affected. In certain instances, we indemn