Business     OverviewFortinet is a global leader and innovator in network security. We provide high performance cybersecurity solutions to a wide variety of enterprises, service providers and government organizations of all sizes across the globe, including a majority of the 2016 Fortune 100. We provide protection against cyberattacks and the technology to take on increasing security performance requirements of the network. We offer a broad range of security products and solutions, providing customers with an integrated network security architecture and a single source of threat intelligence to identify and minimize security gaps. The cyber threat environment is unprecedented both in terms of volume and sophistication of attacks. As a result, cybersecurity has increased in priority and management complexity for enterprises. The growing presence of the Internet of Things (“IoT”) and the move to the cloud necessitate increased levels of visibility and security orchestration across an expanding ecosystem of networks. Our common operating system, centralized management and open application program interfaces allow many of the solutions in our portfolio, along with those of our partner community, to be combined to create an Internet-based, integrated network security architecture (the “Fortinet Security Fabric”) designed to correlate threat intelligence, identify and respond to sophisticated threats and help protect complex next-generation environments. The Fortinet Security Fabric provides an intelligent architectural approach to security that enables enterprises to weave together their traditionally discrete security solutions into an integrated whole. This end-to-end designed solution ensures ongoing security efficacy through a single source of threat intelligence, and provides a unified management and orchestration platform designed to minimize complexity and risk. Our patented cybersecurity innovations provide organizations with a broad range of security products and services focused on the edge and segmentation firewall, advanced threat protection (“ATP”), data center security, cloud security, secure access, endpoint and IoT device protection and connected unified threat management (“UTM”). Our flagship integrated network security solution consists of our FortiGate physical, software and cloud solutions, which are deployable in the business environments of large enterprises, service providers and small and medium-sized businesses, as well as government organizations. These platforms provide a broad array of integrated security and networking functions to help protect data, applications and users from network- and content-level security threats. These functions, which can be integrated in a variety of ways, include firewall, intrusion prevention (“IPS”) anti-malware, application control, virtual private network (“VPN”), web-filtering, vulnerability management, anti-spam, mobile security, wireless controllers, access control and wide area network (“WAN”) acceleration. Our FortiGate appliance platform may be deployed as core firewalls, internal segmentation firewalls, next generation firewalls (“NGFW”), distributed firewalls, virtual firewalls, cloud firewalls, carrier class firewalls, data center firewalls (“DCFW”) and connected UTM systems. For access networks, we offer wireless access points and switch appliances, which integrate secure wireless and wired access capabilities into the FortiGate network security platform. FortiGate products integrate our high-performance Security Processing Unit (“SPU”), which is specifically designed for the accelerated processing of security and networking functions, and our FortiOS operating system, which provides a foundation for all FortiGate security functions. Our FortiGate, FortiManager, FortiAnalyzer and other related products work to provide deployment flexibility and visibility across physical and virtual networks and private, hybrid and public cloud infrastructure, as well as to endpoint and IoT devices. FortiManager provides customers with centralized management of multiple FortiGates, and FortiAnalyzer provides a single point of network log data collection. FortiSIEM provides organizations with a security intelligence solution covering the extended network from IoT to the cloud, with patented analytics that help manage network security, performance and compliance standards, all delivered through a single view. These products enable customers to implement security policies across large and increasingly distributed networks.The Fortinet Security Fabric also includes an array of products that further complement our FortiGate products to offer additional protection from security threats across networks. These products include our FortiMail email security, FortiSandbox ATP, FortiWeb web application firewall, FortiDDoS distributed denial of service attack mitigation appliances, FortiDB database security appliances, FortiClient endpoint security software, FortiAP secure wireless access points and FortiSwitch secure switch connectivity products.   Supporting virtual and cloud-based deployments, we offer software licenses for the FortiGate, FortiManager, FortiAnalyzer, FortiWeb, FortiMail and FortiSandbox product lines that can be used in conjunction with Fortinet’s physical and virtual appliances to help ensure the visibility, management and protection of physical and virtualized environments. We also offer on-demand cloud-based versions of FortiGate and FortiWeb. 1Table of ContentsWe complement our cybersecurity portfolio with FortiGuard security subscription and FortiCare technical support services, professional services and training services. Our FortiGuard security subscription uses global threat feeds and dedicated threat analysts to create real-time threat intelligence and security updates to complement and enhance Fortinet products. Our global FortiCare customer support team provides global technical support for all Fortinet products. We also provide a range of professional services to help organizations with the planning, design, implementation and optimization of their security infrastructures and technical training for customers and partners through our Network Security Expert Program.We typically sell our security solutions to channel partners, who in turn sell to end-customers. We also sell directly to end customers. Our end-customers are from a wide range of industries, including telecommunications, technology, government, financial services, education, retail, manufacturing and healthcare.During our year ended December 31, 2016, we generated total revenue of $1.28 billion and net income of $32.2 million. See Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 and our consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.We were incorporated in Delaware in November 2000. Our principal executive office is located at 899 Kifer Road, Sunnyvale, California 94086 and our telephone number at that location is (408) 235-7700. Technology and ArchitectureOur proprietary SPU hardware architecture, FortiOS operating system and associated security and networking functions combine to form the Fortinet Security Fabric. This approach to security ties together all discrete security solutions into an integrated whole, which enables our products to perform security processing for networks with high throughput requirements across a broad threat landscape.SPUOur proprietary SPU consists of Application-Specific Integrated Circuits (“ASICs”) consisting of three main lines of processors: (i) the Content Processor (“SPU CP”), (ii) the Network Processor (“SPU NP”) and (iii) the System-on-a-Chip (“SPU SOC”). Our proprietary ASICs are designed to enhance the security processing capabilities implemented in software by accelerating computationally intensive tasks such as firewall policy enforcement, network address translation, IPS threat detection and encryption. This architecture provides the flexibility of implementing accelerated processing of new threat detection without requiring a new ASIC. The SPU CP is currently included in most of our entry-level and all of our mid-range and high-end FortiGate appliances. The SPU NP is currently included in some of our mid-range and high-end FortiGate appliances, delivering additional accelerated firewall and VPN performance. Entry-level FortiGate products (FortiGate 20 to 100 series) often use the SPU SOC2 or SPU SOC3 to provide the necessary acceleration at this level. Mid-range FortiGate products (FortiGate 200 to 900 series) use a central processing unit (“CPU”) and include the SPU NP and SPU CP hardware acceleration. The high-end FortiGate products (FortiGate 1000 to 7000 series) use multiple CPUs, SPU CPs and SPU NPs. FortiOSOur proprietary FortiOS operating system provides the foundation for the operation of all FortiGate appliances, whether physical, virtual, private or public cloud or on-demand based, and is at the heart of our Security Fabric implementation. The core kernel functions to the security processing feature sets work together to provide a highly integrated solution. FortiOS provides (i) multiple layers of security, including a hardened kernel layer providing protection for the FortiGate system, (ii) a network security layer providing security for end-customers’ network infrastructures and (iii) application content protection providing security for end-customers’ workstations and applications. FortiOS directs the operations of processors and SPUs and provides system management functions such as command-line, graphical user interfaces, multiple network and security topology views. Key high-level functions and capabilities of FortiOS include:•key enabling for the Fortinet Security Fabric architecture;•helping enable FortiGate appliances to be configured into different security environments such as our Internal Network Firewall, NGFW and DCFW;•configuration of the physical aspects of the appliance such as ports, Wi-Fi and switching;•key network functions such as routing and deployment modes (network routing, transparent, sniffer, etc.);•implementation of security updates delivering ATP, such as IPS, antivirus and application control; 2Table of Contents•access to cloud-based web and email filtering databases;•direct integration with both cloud and on premises FortiSandbox technology;•security policy objects and enforcement; •data leak prevention and document finger printing; and•real-time reporting and logging.We make updates to FortiOS available through our FortiCare technical support services. FortiOS also enables advanced, integrated routing and switching, allowing end-customers to deploy FortiGate devices within a wide variety of networks, as well as providing a direct replacement solution option for legacy switching and routing equipment. FortiOS implements a suite of commonly used standards-based routing protocols as well as address translation technologies, allowing the FortiGate appliance to integrate and operate in a wide variety of network environments. Additional features include virtual domain capabilities, traffic queuing and shaping. These features enable administrators to set the appropriate configurations and policies that meet their infrastructure needs. FortiOS also provides capabilities for logging of traffic for forensic analysis purposes which are particularly important for regulatory compliance initiatives like payment card industry data security standard. FortiOS is designed to help control network traffic in order to optimize performance by including functionality such as packet classification, queue disciplines, policy enforcement, congestion management, WAN optimization and caching.ProductsOur core product offerings consist of our FortiGate product family, along with our FortiManager central management, FortiAnalyzer central logging and reporting product families, all of which are typically purchased to complement commercial and enterprise deployments. Our FortiGate physical and software licenses are sold with a set of broad security services. These security services are enabled by FortiGuard which provides extensive threat research and a global cloud network to deliver protection services to each FortiGate appliance.FortiGateOur flagship FortiGate physical and software licenses offer a broad set of security and networking functions, including firewall, intrusion prevention, anti-malware, VPN, application control, web filtering, anti-spam and WAN acceleration. All FortiGate models run on our FortiOS operating system. FortiGate platforms can be centrally managed through both embedded web-based and command line interfaces, as well as through FortiManager, which provides central management architecture for thousands of FortiGate physical and software licenses across a range of hypervisor platforms.By combining multiple network security functions in our purpose-built security platform, the FortiGate appliances provide broad, high quality protection capabilities and deployment flexibility while reducing the operational burden and costs associated with managing multiple point products. With over 30 models in the FortiGate product line, FortiGate is designed to address security requirements for small- to medium-sized businesses, large enterprises, service providers and government organizations worldwide.Typically, all FortiGate physical appliances include our SPUs to accelerate content and network security features implemented within FortiOS. The significant differences between each model are the performance and scalability targets each model is designed to meet, while the security features and associated services offered are common throughout all models. The FortiGate-20 through -100 series models are designed for perimeter protection for small- to medium-sized businesses. The FortiGate-200 through -900 series models are designed for perimeter deployment in medium-sized to large enterprise networks. The FortiGate-1000 through -7000 series models deliver high performance and scalable network security functionality for perimeter, data center and core deployment in large enterprise and service provider networks.We also incorporate additional technologies within FortiGate appliances that differentiate our solutions, including data leakage protection, traffic optimization, secure socket layer inspection, threat vulnerability management and wireless controller technology. In addition to these in-built features, we offer a full range of wireless access points and controllers, complementing FortiGate with the flexibility of wireless local area network access.FortiSandboxThe FortiSandbox technology delivers proactive detection and mitigation with the capability to generate a directly actionable protection capability. Available in both hardware and cloud-based form, the FortiSandbox technology has a dual-layer sandbox complemented by FortiGuard’s anti-malware intelligence. FortiSandbox allows suspicious code to be subject to a set of multi-layer protection techniques culminating in execution within an operating system to allow detailed real-time behavioral analysis to be performed. When malicious code is identified in this way, a signature can be generated locally for distribution across  3Table of Contentsthe Fortinet Security Fabric. Additional insight on the nature of the threat is provided through an intuitive dashboard showing threat information, including system activity, exploit efforts, web traffic and any related subsequent downloads. In addition to integrating within FortiOS, the FortiSandbox can also deliver its detection and local threat intelligence to registered FortiMail, FortiWeb appliances and FortiClient enabled end points. FortiSIEMOur FortiSIEM family of products provides a cloud-ready security information and event management (“SIEM”) solution for enterprises and service providers. FortiSIEM unifies analytics that are traditionally monitored discretely, parses the information and then processes it in an event-based analytics engine for handling real-time searches, rules, dashboards and ad-hoc queries. This unification of diverse sources of data enables organizations to create comprehensive dashboards and reports to identify root causes of threats, and take the steps necessary to remediate and prevent them in the future. Our FortiSIEM products are available either through subscription or perpetual licenses.  Fortinet Management and Analysis ProductsOur FortiManager and FortiAnalyzer physical and software products are typically sold in conjunction with most commercial and enterprise deployments.FortiManager. Our FortiManager family of products provides a central and scalable management solution for our FortiGate products, including software updates, configuration, policy settings and security updates. One FortiManager product is capable of managing thousands of FortiGate units. FortiManager facilitates the coordination of policy-based provisioning, device configuration and operating system revision management, as well as network security monitoring and device control.FortiAnalyzer. Our FortiAnalyzer family of products provides centralized network logging, analyzing and reporting solutions that securely aggregate content and log data from our FortiGate devices and other Fortinet products as well as third-party devices to enable network logging, analysis and reporting. ServicesFortiGuard Security Subscription ServicesSecurity requirements are dynamic due to the constantly changing nature of threats. Our FortiGuard Labs global threat research team uses automated and manual processes to identify emerging threats, collects threat samples, and replicates, reviews, characterizes and collates attack data. Based on this research, we develop updates for virus signatures, attack definitions, scanning engines and other security solution components to distribute to end-customers. Our FortiGuard security subscription services are designed to allow us to quickly deliver new threat detection capabilities to end-customers worldwide as new threats evolve. End-customers purchase FortiGuard security subscription services in advance, typically with terms of one to three years, to obtain access to regular updates for application control, antivirus, intrusion prevention, web filtering and anti-spam functions for our FortiGate products; antivirus, web filtering and VPN functions for our FortiClient software; antivirus and anti-spam functions for our FortiMail products; vulnerability management for our FortiGate, FortiAnalyzer and FortiMonitor products; database functions for our FortiDB appliance; web functions for our FortiWeb appliances; and ATP for our FortiSandbox on premise and cloud products. We provide FortiGuard security subscription services 24 hours a day, seven days a week. FortiCare Technical Support ServicesOur FortiCare services portfolio includes technical support and extended product warranty, as well as advanced services to assist customers with the implementation and maintenance of their security appliances. For our standard technical support, our channel partners may provide first level support to the end-customer, especially for small- and medium-sized end-customers. We also provide all levels of support to our end-customers, as well as second- and third-level support where appropriate. We also provide knowledge management tools and customer self-help portals to help augment our support capabilities in an efficient and scalable manner. We deliver technical support to partners and end-customers 24 hours a day, seven days a week through regional technical support centers located worldwide. In addition to our appliance technical support services, we offer a range of advanced services, including premium support and professional services.Professional ServicesWe offer professional services to end-customers including Technical Account Managers (“TAMs”), Resident Engineers (“REs”) and professional service consultants for implementations.  4Table of ContentsDedicated support engineers are available to help identify and eliminate issues before problems arise. These TAMs and REs are seasoned professionals with broad and deep experience in the security and networking field. Each TAM and RE acts as a single point of contact and customer advocate within Fortinet, and is focused on building and maintaining a deep understanding of our customers’ businesses and security requirements.Our professional services consultants help in the design of deployments of our products and work closely with end-customer engineers, managers and other project team members to implement our products according to design, utilizing network analysis tools, attack simulation software and scripts.Training ServicesWe offer training services to our end-customers and channel partners through our training department and authorized training partners. We have also implemented a training certification program, Network Security Expert, to help ensure an understanding of our products and services. CustomersWe typically sell our security solutions to channel partners, who in turn sell to end-customers of various sizes and, at times, we also sell directly to end-customers. Our end-customers include small and medium-sized businesses, large enterprises, government organizations, and service providers, across a wide range of industries, including telecommunications, technology, government, financial services, education, retail, manufacturing and healthcare. An end-customer deployment may involve one of our appliances or thousands, depending on our end-customer’s size and security requirements. We also offer access to our products via the cloud through certain cloud providers such as Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Azure. Many of our customers also purchase our FortiGuard security subscription services and FortiCare technical support services. For information regarding our geographic revenue based on billing address, see Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.One distributor, Exclusive Networks Group (“Exclusive”), which distributed our solutions to a large group of resellers and end-customers, accounted for 15%, 18% and 20% of total revenue during 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively. Sales and MarketingWe primarily sell our products and services through a distribution model. We sell to distributors that sell to networking security and enterprise-focused resellers and service providers, who, in turn, sell to our end-customers. In certain cases, we sell directly to government-focused resellers, as well as to large service providers and financial institutions who have large purchasing power and unique customer deployment demands. We work with many technology distributors, including Exclusive, Fine Tec Computer, Ingram Micro Inc. and Arrow Electronics, Inc., and enterprise security-focused resellers including Westcon and Tech Data.We support our channel partners with a dedicated team of experienced channel account managers, sales professionals and sales engineers who provide business planning, joint marketing strategy, and pre-sales and operational sales support. Additionally, our sales teams help drive and support large enterprise and service provider sales through a direct touch model. Our sales professionals and engineers typically work closely with our channel partners and directly engage with large end-customers to address their unique security and deployment requirements. To support our broadly dispersed global channel and end-customer base, we have sales professionals in over 80 countries around the world.Our marketing strategy is focused on building our brand and driving end-customer demand for our security solutions. We use a combination of internal marketing professionals and a network of regional and global channel partners. Our internal marketing organization is responsible for messaging, branding, demand generation, product marketing, channel marketing, event marketing, digital marketing, communications, analyst relations, public relations and sales enablement. We focus our resources on campaigns, programs and activities that can be leveraged by partners worldwide to extend our marketing reach, such as sales tools and collateral, product awards and technical certifications, media engagement, training, regional seminars and conferences, webinars and various other demand-generation activities.In 2016, we continued to invest in sales and marketing to capture market share, particularly in the enterprise market where enterprise customers tend to have a higher lifetime value, and to further improve our growth. We intend to continue to make investments in our sales resources and infrastructure and marketing strategy, which are critical to support our growth.  5Table of ContentsManufacturing and SuppliersWe outsource the manufacturing of our security appliance products to a variety of contract manufacturers and original design manufacturers. Our current manufacturing partners include Micro-Star International Co., Wistron Corporation, Flextronics International Ltd, Senao Networks, Inc., Adlink Technology, Inc. and a number of Taiwan-based manufacturers. We submit purchase orders to our contract manufacturers that describe the type and quantities of our products to be manufactured, the delivery date and other delivery terms. Once our products are manufactured, they are sent to either our warehouse in California, or to our logistics partner in Taoyuan City, Taiwan, where accessory packaging and quality-control testing are performed. We believe that outsourcing our manufacturing and a substantial portion of our logistics enables us to focus resources on our core competencies. Our proprietary SPUs, which are the key to the performance of our appliances, are built by contract manufacturers including Faraday Technology Corporation (“Faraday”), Kawasaki Microelectronics America, Inc. (“K-Micro”) and Renesas Electronics Corporation (“Renesas”). These contract manufacturers use foundries operated by either United Microelectronics Corporation (“UMC”) or Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited (“TSMC”), or their own foundry, such as Renesas’ fab.The components included in our products are sourced from various suppliers by us or more frequently by our contract manufacturers. Some of the components important to our business, including specific types of CPUs from Intel Corporation  (“Intel”), network chips from Broadcom Corporation (“Broadcom”), Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (“Marvell”) and Intel, and solid-state drives (silicon-based storage devices) from Intel, ADATA Technology Co., Ltd. (“ADATA”), OCZ Technology Group, Inc. (“OCZ”), Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (“Samsung”), and Western Digital Technologies, Inc. (“Western Digital”), are available from a limited or sole source of supply.We have no long-term contracts related to the manufacturing of our ASICs or other components that guarantee any capacity or pricing terms.Research and DevelopmentWe focus our research and development efforts on developing new products and systems, and adding new features to existing products and systems. Our development strategy is to identify features, products and systems for both software and hardware that are, or are expected to be, important to our end-customers. Our success in designing, developing, manufacturing and selling new or enhanced products will depend on a variety of factors, including the identification of market demand for new products, product selection, timely implementation of product design and development, product performance, effective manufacturing and assembly processes and sales and marketing.Intellectual Property We rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology. As of December 31, 2016, we had 358 issued United States (“U.S.”) and foreign patents and 292 pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. We also license software from third parties for inclusion in our products, including open source software and other software available on commercially reasonable terms.Despite our efforts to protect our rights in our technology, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. However, we cannot provide assurance that the steps we take will prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the U.S., and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the U.S.Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Third parties have asserted, are currently asserting and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights against us, our channel partners or our end-customers. Successful claims of infringement by a third party could prevent us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or require us to pay substantial damages (including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed patents or copyrights), royalties or other fees. Even if third parties may offer a license to their technology, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, operating results or financial condition to be materially and adversely affected. We typically indemnify our end-customers, distributors and certain resellers against claims that our products infringe the intellectual property of third parties. 6Table of ContentsSeasonalityFor information regarding seasonality in our sales, see the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Quarterly Results of Operations—Seasonality, Cyclicality and Quarterly Revenue Trends” in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Competition The markets for our products are extremely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change. The principal competitive factors in our markets include the following: •product performance, features, effectiveness, interoperability and reliability;•our ability to add and integrate new networking and security features and technological expertise;•compliance with industry standards and certifications;•price of products and services and total cost of ownership;•brand recognition;•customer service and support;•sales and distribution capabilities;•size and financial stability of operations; and•breadth of product line.Among others, our competitors include Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (“Check Point”), Cisco Systems, Inc. (“Cisco”), F5 Networks, Inc. (“F5 Networks”), FireEye, Inc. (“FireEye”), Intel, Juniper Networks, Inc. (“Juniper”), Palo Alto Networks, Inc. (“Palo Alto Networks”), SonicWALL, Inc. (“SonicWALL”), Sophos Group Plc (“Sophos”) and Symantec Corporation (“Symantec”).We believe we compete favorably based on our products’ performance, reliability and breadth, our ability to add and integrate new networking and security features and our technological expertise. Several competitors are significantly larger, have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, customer support and other resources, are more established than we are and have significantly better brand recognition. Some of these larger competitors have substantially broader product offerings and leverage their relationships based on other products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products. Based in part on these competitive pressures, we may lower prices or attempt to add incremental features and functionality.Conditions in our markets could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements or continuing market consolidation. The development and market acceptance of alternative technologies could decrease the demand for our products or render them obsolete. Our competitors may intro