 [Music] Automotive safety is something that we take extremely seriously. Our processes, our philosophy, how we go to market, how we implement our system solutions... they are all fundamentally about saving lives; and our technology goes directly to that. The challenge of ADAS systems and automobiles has evolved over the last, even the last few years. Moving to an overwhelmingly electronic system. Through this transition our technology has addressed protective safety, things such as our airbag sensors and gyroscopes for stability control, to predictive safety where we're bringing our radar and lidar technology to bear. Any advanced driver assistance system of tomorrow needs to perceive a 360-degree view around the automobile; and this will inform autonomous driving algorithms. This is what Drive360 means to us, it is representation of our full technology portfolio that we can bring to bear to create a 360 degree shield around the automobile for safety. We have a full portfolio of inertial MEMS products that will be able to address all aspects of the passive safety challenge; from airbag sensors to combo products for stability control applications. Today we are developing a complete RF to bits solution based on the twenty eight nanometer process node, bringing out products that will support 77 and 79 gigahertz radar spectrums that will support ultra short range applications such as automated parking all the way up to longer range applications such as adaptive cruise control. This gives us the greatest level of application level flexibility where we can integrate different functionalities within our products to satisfy the multitude of end applications, and allows our automotive customers to get to market much more quickly. We have a long history in radar and in fact our technology is in 50% of all radar modules in development today. [Music] Analog Devices has invested in technology that would allow customers to achieve a solid-state scanning lidar system in a very cost-effective manner, which is absolutely fundamental to autonomous driving. Analog Devices is involved in a variety of different market segments, things such as our RF transceivers and converter technology, in communications infrastructure, our photonics and optics capabilities in healthcare all being brought to bear into automotive to de-risk the overall product development for our customers. [Music] Automotive safety is all about saving lives and if you look at our portfolio of products and our airbag sensors, our gyroscope technology, our radar technology, Analog Devices has been fundamental to saving lives in automotive applications for over two decades; and that is something which we take extremely seriously. [Music] 