 Imagine you're riding in a car to the store ... and nobody is driving! As crazy as it might sound, there really are cars that can drive themselves. Hello my name is Justyna. I'm working as an engineer at NVIDIA on autonomous driving. Justyna knows all about self-driving cars because she helps make them! A self driving car is a car that can do all your tasks for you so you can focus on something else. It's going to enable you to be transported from place A to place B without you having to engage Justyna and engineers at NVIDIA are developing supercomputers using artificial intelligence that enable the cars to be self driving. The computers are what make the cars able to drive by themselves safely But how can a car do so much by itself? Self-driving cars can basically see and sense everything around them by using sensors, which are like eyes and ears for the car. The sensors collect all the information the car needs to know to drive safely. So on a typical self driving car today you have a variety of sensors and they include a camera, a Lidar sensor which is laser based, a Radar sensor, and a GPS that is going to help you out with geolocation. The cameras can see and hear, the Lidar can sense how far away objects are, and GPS tells the car where it is on Earth.There are a lot of sensors on these cars that enable them to see and sense 360 degrees. For example, if you were riding in a self-driving car and a dog ran in front of the car, the car would be able to sense the dog and any other cars or objects nearby. Then, the car's supercomputer would be able to process all of the information and make the safest decision on how to react as fast as possible! When you are driving in this car, there is so much information that the sensor is providing that the super computer needs to process all this information in real time otherwise it wouldn't drive you safely. So how exactly does AI help make this happen? a self driving car needs artificial intelligence because it is extremely complicated to process all the data that is coming in from the sensors in real time. Artificial intelligence is able to process a lot of information at once because it can multitask very well! The computer can process information in parallel, meaning it can understand all the information from the sensors at the same time. And, self-driving cars can share the information they gather with other cars. This means they can learn from each other. So the more self- driving cars on the road the smarter they can be. Self-driving cars are not just cool, they are helpful for the world and will make the roads safer and help people from all walks of life. everybody who now days can't drive by themselves do to various conditions they might have, For example, blind people, they wouldn't be able to drive in their own car today. But when they use an autonomous car, they just get in and the car is going to figure out everything Self-driving cars will be able to help anyone get where they need to go! Do you want to think like an engineer and prototype your own computer to process information from sensors like in self-driving cars? Check out the activity on Curiosity Machine! 