 (upbeat instrumental music) - Hi, Jeff Cote here with Pacific Yacht Systems. This video is about the Firefly battery, and specifically the L-15+ Firefly AGM battery. It's a foam-based core AGM battery. We've done another video on Firefly in general and they come in really two sizes. This is one of the two sizes. You'll notice the battery's taller than your average battery, it's a little similar to the L-16 battery that you can buy up in flooded or AGM as well in gel. But this battery, what's neat about it, it's about relatively the same sort of footprint, almost, but not identical to a golf cart battery. And you buy it in four volts or it can actually be a two volt, so it's either a four volt, 450 amp hour battery, or you can buy it as a two volt, 900 amp hour battery. What's really neat about this battery here is that you can actually wire three of those batteries in series or six of these batteries in series, and so you can have a literally 12 volt, 900 amp hour series battery. And as we know, thinking back, there's nothing better for a battery than a series battery. All batteries are effectively series batteries, like you're thinking about a golf cart. It's three cells one after the other to make maybe a 6.3 volt battery. Well this here you would basically build a battery, and we've done that for catamarans, we've done that for large boats, we've done that for even small boats, where an owner's saying, "I'm gonna have one bank, "and I'm gonna have the perfect battery." And the perfect battery is a series battery. This battery offers a crazy number of cycles. At 50 percent depth of discharge it's something like 47 or 49 hundred cycles. You can also obviously trade off those cycles for depth of discharge, you can bring the battery all the way down to 80 percent of DOD. DOD means depth of discharge. That means going from 100 percent all the way down to 20 percent, and you'll have something, I can't remember, but around 18 hundred cycles or 17 hundred cycles at that depth of discharge. It's really the best Firefly battery that you can buy. The only drawback is it's not an easy replacement for group 31 or golf cart battery that you might have on your boat. Because of the height and because you have to buy it in either threes or six to make a battery bank. Obviously, also possible, we've done a bunch of boats with 24. So you put six of those in four volt configurations and six of those batteries in 24 volt would be a 450 amp hour battery bank at 24 volts. If you've got further questions about Firefly batteries and wondering if it's the right battery for you, reach out to Pacific Yacht Systems. Thanks for watching. 