 Hey friends, welcome to the YouTube channel ALL ABOUT ELECTRONICS. Now, in the previous videos of the diode, we understood that what is a diode and we had also seen the V-I characteristics of the diode. Now suppose, if this diode is connected in a particular circuit then, first of all, we need to find that whether this diode is conducting or non-conducting. And if it is conducting then what is voltage and current in that particular circuit. So, in this video, let's learn that how to solve the diode circuits and how to find the voltage and current in circuits which contains these diodes. Now, there are two ways by which we can solve this diode circuits. The first is a graphical method in which using the load line we can find the voltage and current in the circuit. And the second method is the diode approximation. So, first let's see how we can solve this circuit using the graphical method. Now, like I said, in this graphical method using the load line we can find the voltage and current across the diode. But first of all. let's understand that what is load line. So, here we have a very simple circuit in which some DC voltage is applied to this circuit and some current limiting resistor R is connected in series with this diode. Noe, here let's assume that the applied voltage is sufficient that it will forward bias this diode. And let's assume that the voltage across this diode is equal to Vd and the current that is flowing through this circuit is equal to Id. So, now if we apply the KVL, then we can write this voltage V is equal to Vd+ ID*R. So, if you see this equation, we have two variables. The voltage across this diode Vd and the current that is flowing through this diode. That is equal to Id. So, from this expression, we can find the line on this Id Vs Vd curve and we can get the different possible values of Vd and Id. So, for example, if we put Vd is equal to zero, in that case, we will get the extreme value of this Id. That is equal to V divided by R. So, we will get one point on this Y- axis. That is equal to V/R. And similarly, if we put Id is equal to zero, in that case, we will get one point on this horizontal axis. And that will be equal to Vd is equal to V volt. So, we will get one more point on this X-axis. And by connecting these two points, we will get the load line for the given circuit. So, this intersection point will give us the operating voltage and current for the diode. So, in this way, using this load line we can find the operating voltage and current for the diode. Although this graphical method gives us very accurate values of voltage and current, it very time-consuming process. So, there is another way by which we can not only quickly solve the circuits but we can even troubleshoot the circuits. And this method is diode approximation method. Now, in the introductory video of this diode, we had seen the V-I characteristic of the ideal diode. So, if the diode is forward biased in that case it will simply act as a closed switch. On the other end, in the case of reverse bias, it will act as an open switch. Thereafter we had seen the second approximation in which we had assumed that the diode will start conducting only when the applied voltage crosses some threshold voltage. And if the applied voltage is less than this threshold voltage, in that case, it will act as an open switch. Thereafter we had also seen the third approximation. Where we have also included some series resistance of this diode. Now, in most of the circuits, the current limiting resistor which is connected in series with the diode used to be much larger than the diode resistance. So, in most of the cases, we can neglect this diode resistance. So, in our analysis, we will use the second approximation. Where we will assume that whenever the diode is forward biased, then the voltage across the diose will be equal to 0.7 V and whenever it is reversed biased then simply it will act as an open switch. So, using this approximation let's solve some diode circuits. And let's start with a very basic example. So, in this circuit, the 5V of voltage is connected to this diode. And here we also have 1Kilo-Ohm of a current limiting resistor. So, let's find out the voltage and current for the given circuit. Now, first of all, we need to identify that whether this diode is conducting or non-conducting. And that can be found by finding the Thevenin's equivalent voltage across this diode. Now here, if the applied voltage across this anode and cathode of the diode is more than 0.7 V, in that case, we can say that the diode is conducting. And here, we are assuming that the diode that is connected is silicon diode. In case of a germanium diode, the threshold voltage used to be around 0.3V. So, in the case of a germanium diode, the diode will start conducting whenever the applied voltage across the diode is more than 0.3 V. Now, here as the diode is conducting let's represent it by its equivalent circuit. And here let's assume that the current that is flowing through the circuit is equal to Id. So, this current Id will be equal to 5V minus 0.7 Volt divided by 1Kilo-Ohm. That is equal to 4.3 mA. So, this is the current which will flow through this particular circuit. And the voltage across the diode will be equal to 0.7 V. Now, in this circuit, if we assume that the diode that is connected is silicon diode, and the applied voltage is 0.5 V, in that case, it will not cross the barrier of this silicon diode. So, the circuit will act as an open circuit. And hence the current that is flowing through the circuit will be equal to 0. But instead of a silicon diode, suppose we have germanium diode, in that case, this diode will conduct. So, as you can see, in the case of a germanium diode, this circuit will conduct. While in the case of silicon diode this circuit will act as an open circuit. So, while solving the circuits we also need to see the type of diode which is connected in the circuit. Alright so now once again let's assume that the diode that is connected in the circuit is silicon diode. But now the direction of the diode has been reversed. Now, in this case, if you see, if you find the Thevenin's equivalent voltage then now across this anode and cathode the voltage will be equal to -5V. Because now the anode is on the right-hand side and the cathode is on the left-hand side. So, the equivalent voltage across this diode will be equal to -5V. And hence, this diode is reversed biased. So, there will not be any flow of current through this circuit. and simply we can say that this diode current Id will be equal to zero. So, as you can see, using this diode approximation we can easily analyze and solve the circuit problems. Now using this approximation the values of the voltage and current that we have got are not accurate values but they are quite close to the actual values. So, for analyzing or troubleshooting the circuits we can use this diode approximation. Alright, now let's see a few more examples based on this diode circuits. So, in this example, two silicon diodes are connected in series and we have asked to find the voltage and current across each diode. As well as we have asked to find the output voltage across this 1 Kilo-Ohm resistor. Now, for a moment let's assume that these two diodes are conducting and as they are silicon diodes, so in case of the forward bias the voltage across each diode will be equal to 0.7 V. So, turn ONthese two diodes the voltage across the two terminals of the diode pair should be more than 1.4V. And here as the applied voltage is 5V so these two diodes will turn ON. So, let's replace these two diodes with their equivalent circuit. And if you see the equivalent circuit then it will look like this. Now, here let's assume that current that is flowing through the circuit is equal to I. So, the current I can be given as 5 - 0.7-0.7. And that is divided by 1 Kilo-ohm resistor. So the value of this current I will be equal to 3.6 mA. Now, the output voltage Vout will be the drop across this 1 Kilo-Ohm resistor. So, the output voltage Vout will be equal to 3.6 mA, multiplied by 1Kilo-ohm resistor. So, the output voltage Vout across this 1 Kilo-ohm resistor will be equal to 3.6 V. So, in this way in case of the series connection of the diode the threshold voltage to turn on the diode will increase. So, instead of two silicon diodes if we three silicon diode which are connected in series, the threshold voltage to turn on this diode will increase to 2.1 V. Similarly, try to find the current and output voltage in the given circuit. Now, this circuit is similar to the previous circuit. But here the one silicon diode is replaced by this germanium diode. So, try to find the answer and do let me know your answer in the comment section. Alright so now let's move to the next example. So, in this example, we have been asked to find the value of these voltages V1, V2, and Vout. Now, if you see this circuit, the anode of this diode is connected to the 10V through this 4 Kilo-ohm resistor. While the cathode is connected to -5V through this 3Kilo-ohm resistor. So, intuitively you can say that this diode will turn on. So, here if we apply the KVL then we can write 10 minus V1, minus 0.7 V, that is drop across this silicon diode, minus V2 that is a drop across this 3 Kilo-ohm resistor, minus (-5V). and that will be equal to 0. So, if we simplify it then we will get 14.3V that is equal to V1+ V2. Now, here we have assumed that the current which is flowing through the circuit is equal to I. So, this V1 will be equal to 4 kilo-ohm times this current I. And this V2 will be equal to 3 kilo-ohm times this current I. So, if we simplify it then we can say that this current I will be equal to 14.3V divided by 7 Kilo-ohm. That is roughly equal to 2.04 mA. So, this is the current which will flow through this circuit. From this, we can say that this voltage V1 will be equal to 4 kilo-ohms multiplied by this current I. That is equal to 8.16 V. And similarly, V2 will be equal to 2.04 mA, multiplied by 3 kilo-ohms. That is equal to 6.12 V. So, these are the values of voltage V1 and V2. Now, here the output voltage Vout will be equal to V2- 5V. That is equal to 6.12V - 5V. And that is equal to 1.12 V. So, this is the actual value of the output voltage. Alright so now let's move to the next example. Now, here these two diodes are connected in the parallel connection. And we have been asked to find the value of the output voltage as well as the current I that is flowing in the given circuit. And we have been also asked to find the value of the diode currents Id1 and Id2. Now, if you see this circuit, here the two terminals of the diode are connected to the ground potential. And the anode of these two diodes is connected to the 10V through this 1 kilo-ohm resistor. It means that these two diodes will become forward biased. It means that the output voltage which we will get across these two diodes will be equal to 0.7 V. It means at this node the voltage is equal to 0.7 V. So, from this, we can easily find the current that is flowing in the circuit. So, the current I will be equal to 10V - 0.7 V, divided by 1 kilo-ohm resistor. And that is equal to 9.3 mA. So, this is the total current which will flow in the given circuit. Now, here we are assuming that these two diodes are identical. So, this current I will get equally divided between two diodes. It means that the current Id1 and Id2 will be equal to 4.65 mA. Now, in this example, as the two diodes which are connected in parallel are identical, it is easy to solve this particular problem. But if two diodes which are connected in parallel are made up of different materials then we need to see the threshold voltage of each diode. So, based on this we will see the next example. So, in this example, this silicon and the germanium diodes are connected in the parallel connection. Now, here for a moment let's assume that the two diodes are conducting simultaneously. And first of all, let's assume that this silicon diode is conducting. So, if this silicon diode is conducting then there will be a voltage drop of 0.7V across this diode. So, at this node, the voltage will be equal to 12- 0.7, that is equal to 11.3 V Similarly, let's assume that this germanium diode is also conducting. So, if this diode is conducting then the voltage drop across this diode should be equal to 0.3 V. And the voltage drop across this silicon diode should be equal to 0.7 V. Now, as these diodes are connected in parallel connection, the voltage drop in the parallel connection should remain constant. But here the one diode has a voltage drop of 0.7V, while the other diode has a voltage drop of 0.3 V. It means that only one diode should conduct and one diode should remain off. So, let's find out which diode will conduct and which diode will remain off. Now, in this circuit whenever the 12 V voltage is applied to the diodes, in reality, this voltage will take some time to reach from 0 to 12 V. Now, during the course of this transient, if you see first of all this germanium diode will turn on. Once this diode is turned on, it will try to maintain voltage across the two terminals. So, because of that, the voltage across the silicon diode will remain 0.3 V And hence this silicon diode will not be able to turn on. So, if you see actually the voltage across the two terminal will remain 0.3 V. So, the output voltage Vout, in reality, will be equal to 12- 0.3 V. That is equal to 11.7 V. So, in this way, whenever the two different types of diodes are connected in parallel then we need to see the threshold voltage or the cut- in voltage for each diode. So, the diode which has lower cut-in voltage will turn on first. Alright so based on this let's see the last example. Noe, in this example also we have been asked to find the output voltage. Now here, to find the output voltage let's assume that both diodes are conducting simultaneously. And first, let's talk about the first diode. So, if the first diode is conducting then the voltage at this node should be equal to 2V minus 0.7 V. That is equal to 1.3 V. Now, the same voltage will also appear at the cathode of this second diode. And the anode of the second diode is connected to the 4 V. It means that the second diode will also become forward biased. And if this diode is turned on then there will be a 0.7 V of the voltage drop across this diode. So, if w consider this second diode as a conducting diode then the voltage at this node should be equal to 4V minus 0.7 V. That is equal to 3.3 V. But here if both diodes are conducting simultaneously then you can see that there is a contradiction at this node. It means that both diodes can not conduct simultaneously. Now, suppose if we assume that this second diode is conducting only, in that case, the voltage at this node will be equal to 3.3 V. And at this node also the voltage should be equal to 3.3 V. So, if this is the case, then the first diode will turn off. And there will not be any contradiction of the voltage. So, it means that assumption that we have made is correct. That means the first diode will remain off and the second diode will remain on. And the actual voltage at this node will be equal to 4V minus 0.7V. That is equal to 3.3 V. So, this is the output voltage of the given circuit. So, I hope in this video, you understood how to solve the problems based on the diode. And we will solve some examples in the upcoming quiz. So, you can check the community tab section of the channel for the more information. So, if you have any question or suggestion, do let me know in the comment section below. If you like this video, hit the like button and subscribe to the channel for more such videos. 