 In this video, we are going to see the growth of Silicon nanowires, coating it with tin oxide using electrodeposition technique. Finally, we are going to observe the gas sensing mechanism of tin oxide over Silicon nanowires. For growing Silicon nanowires, we have prepared two solutions namely solution A and solution B. Solution A is prepared by mixture of silver nitrate and distilled water. Solution B is prepared by mixing distilled water and Hydroflouric acid. Finally the silicon wafer is exposed to solution A and solution B. The process of preparing Silicon nanowires from the above prepared solution is metal assisted chemical etching technique. Series of chemical reactions have taken place which had resulted in the growth of silicon nanowires as shown in the figure. This is the SEM image of the Silicon nanowires on silicon substrate. Next step is to observe how the electrodeposition technique was used to deposit tin oxide on silicon nanowires. The components required for this process are silicon nanowires on silicon substrate, source battery, platinum rods, electrolytic solution and distilled water. After turning "ON" the power supply, the tin oxide was started depositing on the surface of silicon nanowires. This is our final device architecture which we have used for sensing different gases. Finally, we are going to observe the gas sensing mechanism of our device architecture. First, the sensor is exposed to ambient environemnt. So, oxygen comes in contact with the surface of the device. Oxygen gets adsorbed on the surface of the device. This oxygen have taken away the electrons and increases the resistance of the device. This can be seen in the graph. Next, the reducing gas reacts and takes away the oxygen from the surface. Hence the number of electrons increases and resistance reduces as observed in the graph. As a consequence, we have studied and compared the gas sensing response of our device with respect to ammonia, ethanol and acetone. From this table, we can witness that our device is highly selective and sensitive to ammonia. Hence we have achieved the target. Thanks for watching. 