 It's now time for the poster awards. I'm going to introduce the ambassador who is going to bestow these awards upon five winners. Barbara Kates-Garnick is a professor of the practice at the Fletcher School at Tufts University. Most recently she served as the undersecretary for energy for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, where I had the pleasure of working with her when I was at the Massachusetts Clean Energy Center. She was responsible for guiding energy policy there and she has brought her experience to Tufts. I'm really pleased that she also brought some of her brightest students along with her to this conference because she is a true mentor and she's requested that. She served as co-chair of Massachusetts global warming solutions act implementation advisory committee, that oversaw the implementation of the Commonwealth's global warming solutions act. She's had an extensive career in energy, environment, and clean technology that has spanned the private and public sectors and included the creation of a clean technology incubator at New York University Polytechnic School of Engineering. I could go on but I will without further ado ask Barbara to come to the stage. Martha, thank you. Thanks to your team, thanks DOE, thanks Stanford. All I can say is this is the last award of the day, certainly not the least, and though this may be the final set of awards, this is really the beginning. These poster awards represent the next generation. We have been so focused in supporting women and really now these are the women on the verge of their future. For all the posters that were submitted, we have to tell you this was one of the most competitive poster situations that we have had since we have been doing C3E. We received 50 abstracts. The first round of the abstracts were reviewed by the very esteemed faculty experts at MIT. Then we invited 34 of the abstract submissions to send in a video and a draft of their poster. Twenty-nine of the 34 submitted a video and a poster. The C3E ambassadors went to work. All of us who are involved in this were totally overwhelmed by what we saw in the submissions. We spent hours looking at them and then sending back our selections. Of those 29, 17 were invited to present the poster. Fifty-eight ballots were cast. Before I read the awards, I want all of the poster submitters to understand what they have accomplished and for all of us to give a round of applause. What we're going to do is read the poster winners and I would like them to stay up here on the stage because we will get all of them up here. We will do a picture and I will give them their certificates. Our first awardee was the runner-up Krysten Minnici, power distribution and energy storage. She's at the Georgia Institute of Technology. She's a graduate student and her poster was "effect of surface chemistry and crystallite size on the performance of FE3O4 lion batteries anodes." Would you please come up? I had the opportunity to speak to her before. When you see the winners, you see the number of states and all around the country. We had a tie for third place. There are two of you. One of you was at Arizona State. Raksha, if you could come up. Raksha Ramakrishna, "energy-efficiency: a stochastic model for probabilistic forecast of solar photovoltaic power." Congratulations. The next number three, Allyson Miller from the Georgia Institute of Technology. "Human-centered biogas for small-scale Rwandan farmers." We have three. Wonderful. Now, second place. From Stanford University, Soh Young In, in the policy and economic group. "Is being green rewarded in the market? An empirical investigation of decarbonization risk and stock returns." Congratulations. Yet again to another from California, from Cal Polytechnic University in St Louis Obispo, Madison Fleming, number one in the developing world category, "10 efficient solar electric cook stoves for the developing world." Madison, where are you? Congratulations. I will give each of you the certificates. 