 Kevin Dressler: Good afternoon everyone and welcome to the most recent 2DCC webinar. Today we have Dr. Adri van Duin. He is a professor of mechanical engineering and chemical engineering. He is also the directior of the materials computation center. So without anything more, Adri please go ahead. Adri van Duin: Thank you very much, Kevin, for the introduction. So I will talk about synthesis and the reactive force field method which is the method that I personally have been working with for the last 20 years, and that my group has been extensively working in various directions. I will introduce my various group members in a second. In particular Im going to talk about how we will be using that the last couple of years to look at atomic-layer deposition and chemical vapor deposition in complex 2D materials and clearly define what 2D materials I am discussing with. Let me first introduce the members of my group that have been participating in this work. So a lot of work. So lets see, this is my group picture is a bit outdated but the names are up to date so we clearly are due for a new group picture. Lets see, so the main players here are a significant amount of work by Dr. -- the boron nitride -- also some of Dr. -- work, he is responsible for the potato stamp work that you will see up here, and he collaborated with Chowdhury Ashraf who is a doctor since the last four weeks or so. And lets see, yeah thats -- we are, essentially, as you see here there is a wide range of topics there, and what is central to the methods seen in my group is reactive force fields. And so I will give you little bit of brief introduction about the -- reactive force fields and so I will focus on two types of 2D materials, I will hit some highlights of our MXenes work, which is a 2D titanium metal carbide material that I work with in our -- projects with Oak Ridge. And then I will show a bit more detail about molybdenum disulfide growth, and so we -- these reactive force field, so to model atomistic scale simulations on relatively complex materials and interfaces. The idea is that it is significantly faster than --based tools so the simulation that you saw play, this is sort of char-combustion so -- hydrocarbons that can you oxidize. This was essentially a 101 process simulation that ran for about 2 days or so. If you look for ab initio -- of that in would probably be a very significant amount of processes that ran for a couple of months. This allows us to scale up from that initial, in a sense you still retain a lot of chemical details. This is for the very interesting simulation. This is nanoindentation case where we have a diamond nano-tip come to a nickel metal. This is a bare nickel so -- grabs a couple of nickel atoms and they can program to study how oxidation changes the nanoindentation behavior. If I can oxidize my nickel it becomes nickel oxide it becomes chemically far more inert, and then my nano-tip will actually not drag out any of the nickel atoms. So I have been the director of MCC Materials Computation Center at Penn State for roughly three years now. So MCC is a collaborative between various faculty at Penn State interested in simulation that are at a wide range of scale. And what we are trying to do is so the role of atomistic scale simulations for a long time has been so that when you see something interesting they call the atomistic scale person and tell them I see something interesting and can you kindly explain it to me. And then simulation goes and if things go well then the materials can be explained, and everybody is happy, you write a paper and you are good to go. So clearly there is a lot involved in that particular collaboration. Arguably, however, you may want to -- on this. One thing that simulation has in favor of experiments is that it is relatively inexpensive. Although computers dont come completely for free, they are still significantly cheaper than their experimental equivalents. Probably more important is, it is really easy for a computer simulation tool to rapidly investigate very very new concepts. If you have a CVD chamber and I call her up and say hey, if you are playing around with the molybdenum all the time, try doing something with bismuth for a change. And it will probably take you a couple of months to even make the change to where -- the chemicals for a computation. Then it is just a matter of taking the bismuth atoms, putting it in the simulation, you can clearly derive -- of force fields, so that may take a little while, but beyond that your preparation time is very very short. And so its a great environment to test out very very new ideas see whether they are viable and see whether they are worth the investing the experimental time in to say whether this is something -- will work or not. So Ill show you some examples that I think that -- can be debating these matters. So materials -- as well. If you are interested in any of the --fourier? tools presented here, my information exchange is the Materials Computation Center website. They have this form that people can fill in, they can tell Okay what sort of simulation they want to do, what method they want to interact with. So this -- since its installment in 2015, we have responded to with over 1000 requests in this -- website -- distribution linking people with the right type of -- tools. So my group is working in reactive force fields. I have grouped to show where that fits in over time-space domain in material computation. So we typically find ourselves in between the ab-initio people, so quantum mechanics, ferroelectrics, very very controllable, thats very computation-expensive, so that means 1000 atoms is pretty much- is a very large system for people working quantum mechanics. Also the time axis if you want to do dynamics of ab-initio methods, you are probably looking at at most a couple of picoseconds of time. So once you go from ab initio to empirical force fields, so they can grow significantly large, so now try -- nucleation, it has grown to a whole new empirical set of equations that ate far more easier to solve but are not typically as transferrable as the ab-initio based methods. And one thing that one typically gives off when you go from quantum mechanics to empirical force fields is reactivity. Traditional reactive force fields, it is kind of a broad- a general thing to say, especially with -- elements, traditional reactive force fields work well for the physical interactions between molecules, but you dont have the means to run the chemistry. So this is where reactive force fields have been sitting and I will show a little bit about the history of that particular concept. -- tend to be computationally more expensive than the non-reactive force fields, but significantly faster and -- at solving quantum mechanics so you can do large systems, you can go to a million atoms if necessary, and again to larger time scales, nanosecond, maybe if you push it in the microsecond domain to look at complex chemical interactions. So ReaxFF is essentially a bonding order-based potential. The concept is that to break and make bonds, and let me show you here so this is essentially, for lack of a better term, a central location ReaxFF. So every nucleation -- bond distances are ideal, and we turn them into --. So as you see here this is a nice continuous relationship, so I can actually calculate forces, and make a new estimate. So this goes back to a pretty straight-forward chemical concept. We all know about single, double, and triple bonds. We all understand that a triple bond has a shorter bond distance than a single bond. So all we essentially do here is just plot a continuous relationship between the bond distance and bond order relationship, so that we can actually do this in a continuous way. So now that means in reactive force field we ought to have a bond order of 1.5, a bond order 1.2, and a bond order 0.2. So subsequently, we update bond order with each iteration, and we like to use things like angular and dilute -- terms, these are three or four-value terms that worked very well in empirical non-reactive force fields. What we simply do is we repeat that bond order, thats a nice smooth function going, for carbon, from 3 to 0. -- that means that all our angle terms also become nice and smooth, so if the bond breaks, its -- terms and --. The big -- point in reactive force fields is what we will do with nonbonded interactions - I am sorry - what do we do with nonbonded interactions. Do we switch them off, and thats a choice that we will have to make, or do we keep them? And we accidentally made a choice to keep them, and for the Coulomb interaction it turned out to be a very good choice because that means that you got a lot of material transferability. Since we calculated -- Coulomb interaction, we can assume we make a transition from covalent materials which are reasonably well described by the -- concept, to ionic materials which are well described by -- interaction. Now, given that all materials, maybe bar some exceptions like methite maybe, and too are a mixture between covalent materials and ionic materials, that give you a lot of transferability, because I dont have to tell you that this is a -- material and the force was -- can figure out how much of a bond is covalent and how much is ionic in character. So I wont say too much about this. Charges are calculated by the method itself. -- doesnt provide them, and they are geometry-dependent, so -- is essentially configuration changes, the charges will also change. This -- is updated every step. This can be expensive. This is needed to compare any step that is computational costs you the most time. But it also can do polarization and that gives you a lot of potential to -- reactive fields and run that on your systems. I wont show today. So you have seen dissipation already. Now every -- field has its speciality. And that doesnt mean any exclusion be reached for that speciality, but thats really where it was founded from. So ReaxFF our target was trying to demonstrate with reasonable barriers. And that sort of separates ReaxFF from -- from the first generation of -- may have gone to -- presentation last week, he was on campus, he is taken as the founder of all ReaxFF concepts, and his -- potential 1990 is still used extensively and can make and break bonds. One thing it is not so great for is barriers because they use a much much sharper -- cutoff and so they are not very good at -- reactions. This is a very important reaction for any of the enzyme-based reactions. This is a -- so I have four water molecules. They essentially transfer four protons at the same time and go back to four water molecules, so clearly, energetically, nothing changes, but -- is astonishingly low. The O-H bond is a very strong bond, it is the second strongest single bond on the periodic table. Only the HF bond is stronger. And I take four of them, so thats about 500 kcal, or if you want to talk in joules its about 2000 kJ. I do this entire reaction its 20 k for barrier. Thats pretty impressive. Thats less than 5 percent of the actual- the bond strength. So this is why enzymes are so effective. When water -- enzymes, various -- water molecules in that combination so that they can do these type kind of -- reactions to break strong bonds like peptide bonds, is significantly stronger than 20 kcal, but still enzymes can break that bond and make new bonds at very very low -- expense. So this also plays a big role with this reaction quite important for low-temperature combustion. This is a small biomolecule and this reacrion has converted to formaldehyde, water, and ethylene hydroxide. And there this 69 kcal. The quantum barrier is roughly 65 kcal -- usually go. And this is weaker than any of the -- bonds in the molecule. And the reason it is weaker is we break bonds but at the same time we make new bonds, so the price that you pay for the chemical conversion is less than the product of every single -- molecule. ReaxFF is essentially a -- force field which means -- of anything provided you take small enough time step, so everything is continuous. One thing that is very useful about the method is the user doenst have to say where the reactions happen. There are reactive force field -- where only that iteration you just say iteration 25 --That may have uses, but clearly this allows you to be far more intuitive. The user provides the initial structure, sets the conditions, temperature, and pressure, and provided the force field is well trained, and that clearly is a big provision -- should be able to give you accurate chemistry. And one thing that is very nice for the user is the fact that each element only is one atom type. So that means that ReaxFf where there is a methane, carbon dioxide, or carbide, it is the same atom type, so you can very easily transition between materials and interfaces. This is pretty horrible for the developer, but since it is my group that is developing these things thats our problem and I have the problem of managing it. So to do this ReaxFF, I wont claim its accurate without ab-initio. We tried to get as close to ab-initio as we can but clearly ab-initio is more transferrable and the Schrodinger equation or however you solve it is a better basis for essentially calculating material properties than any empirical function is, this can be significantly faster, and so we can reach larger time scales, we can reach larger systems, and in many materials size is important, because if you go too small there are a lot of effects that essentially you cannot capture properly. Additionally, the non-reactive force fields, as I had mentioned the functional form is significantly more complex and especially charge calculations can be expensive. The scale is almost linear, and while most of the quantum methods are scaling to the power of three so if three atoms take you an hour then four atoms will take you - no sorry, if two atoms will take you two hours, then four atoms should take you eight hours in quantum, and in empirical force field you have almost linear relationship. And one thing thats been quite effective is that ReaxFF seems to have made a lot of transferability choices throughout its development, like, for example, the inclusion of the Coulomb interaction. We started in 2001 with hydrocarbons and we managed to drag the concept across the periodic table, so all these force fields essentially use the same functional form. -- unique in the -- domain. There are, for example, very good hydrocarbon force fields around, and very good nitrogen chloride force fields around, but these things typically dont communicate very well with each other because they have very different functional bases, so then you usually have to figure out how to get communication. ReaxFF theres no issue there. Sodium chloride uses the same functional form as methane. So apart from being quite popular as a reactive force field, it also has a lot of popularity as simply a force field to simulate interfaces between materials. So we have been fairly active in distributing this. One of the main distribution sources is LAMMPS. LAMMPS is an open source code that was released by Sandia National Labs. It contains far more than just ReaxFF but ReaxFF was incorporated. My group primarily is using the ADF/BAND graphical user interface. This is developed by --. This is a commercial code that the academic licensing are relatively generous. And by now this pretty much both code provides pretty good parallel scaling. so you can ---. So I will go over this slide relatively quickly to give more time for the -- material, but in this gives you sort of a feel of transferability here. These are just some areas that -- ReaxFF. the main -- is in chemical engineering though my Ph.D. is in chemistry, and the reason why -- myself into the chemical engineering department is so that -- combustion, and chemical engineers do a lot of combustion, and so this one way -- my group --. So this is typically how this project might look. So we first train ReaxFF -- against ab-initio data. So this is just one example, there is a lot more data --. But you take a small molecule and you --. This is an oxygen-carbon-oxygen angle, and so that gives us nice data to train the force constants of the field. Then we take our relatively small system, -- experimental data. This is JP-10, this is jet-fuel, it is a very highly strained hydrocarbon, that means that upon combustion -- all the straining -- so in a sense it creates a lot of heat so it is good for high flying aircraft. It is hugely expensive because it has to be all synthesized, that is clearly an expensive step. So what we did this pyrolysis, so pretty much -- this molecule as a function of temperature. And the ReaxFF we have to limit our growth to 2000 Kelvin because we only have a couple of nanoseconds of time. But we can do a range of temperatures, and then we can compare that with the experimental pyrolysis. This is for 1000 K and you see theyre pretty much on the same line. So we get --. Includes the activation energy. -- half a kcal which is a pretty nice level of agreement, arguably better than -- because the DFT methods that we use to train against typically they -- bigger than half a kcal. But more important -- these force fields work very well with different hydrocarbon classes, so alkanes, alkenes, our methods actually can pretty good activation --. And then -- involving -- probably our most complex catalysis systems to date. If you have coal the fuel is typically a lot of pyrite in there and if you want to use that fuel in contact with a catalyst, it is probably a bad idea because the pyrite deposits itself on the catalyst and the catalytic properties change. The catalyst essentially ages very quickly. So we attempted to do a simulation. The yellow stuff, a bit hard for you to see, is pyrite. The red crystals are carbon oxide, a relatively common oxidation catalyst. The butane in there you can see how over time the catalytic behavior changes. It still remains catalytic, but it changes essentially from an oxidation catalyst into a hydrogen exchange catalyst because thats pretty much what pyrite is -- good for. For materials, this is how we typically train our force fields. So these are equations of state. These are -- and energy relationships for different crystal mobilities. This is titania, so that would be rutile, anatase, and brucite. Then this was a nice side-by-side ab-initio reactive force field study. -- in Physics here was part of this work. So we did a side-by-side study of water on a small titanium oxide -- using a rutile surface. And we simply measured the water dissociation kinetics. And we found indeed that after -- ab-initio kinetics back on, and in the force field method we could increase this. And this was -- And then you look at titania nanoparticles that initially are clear oxides. Now if you -- the oxide reaction, the growth is pretty random; they hit each other, they stick, and they never come off. But if you put them in supercritical water, the water -- hydroxyl coating, and that means that these particles can slide across each other and find a good -- alignment, and then they can essentially reverse the reaction and pretty much sinter. -- there you get very nice sort of alignment growth. So the role of water in that is pretty essential. Overall -- working on extensively -- so this is small silica nanowires -- so its high strain in this side and low strain in the basal plane. If you put it in supercritical water it will hydrolyze in the high-strain area and the low-strain area is non-reactive. And that can then be applied - this 655 atom length simulation. We look at water diffusion for a clay/zeolite interface, see how the various diffusion conditions then could be reactive materials. High energy materials evolved -- for these types of materials because clearly the reaction kinetics is so fast it is hard to monitor experimentally. So we will demonstrate. This is RDX of a very insensitive explosive. We will check if the chemistry changes. We will also check some of the physics. This is essentially a sort of shock velocity of the material very important for initiation and other properties. And this is a large-scale simulation from my group and a group from University of Southern California. This is roughly 2 or 3 million atoms. And they essentially have a void in the high energy crystal, and this is temperature so when the molecules hit the voids, they will show quickly that there is -- molecules all one day -- with a huge exothermic energy release. So their speed gets to be so high that they can essentially cross that initiation barrier and --. And so this became very well experimental observable, that if you dont get good crystallinity in your high energy materials, the sensitivity becomes much much higher, and thats a problem because the material might go off before we want it to go off. There is a significant amount of battery work. I will not talk too much about that. One thing thats also -- chemistry. So this is a carbon nanotube. We see that typically theres enough material. There is some lithium straining the material, the lithiums can eat right through the carbon nanotube. And this is clearly a big deal for carbon anodes because the carbon anodes go through very significant expansion and compression, so significant strain, so its quite likely that theses carbon nanotubes have very significant chemical modifications through charge and discharge. So this will be what I talk about later on. So over the last couple of years we have started with molybdenum disulfides, and also I will just hit some highlights a bit, but another 2D materials that we have extensively been working on are the MXenes. These are- if you talk to certain people -- they like to make you think that these are the best 2D materials ever. I guess you might disagree with that, but still I will show you their arguments in a second. These are titanium carbides that can essentially get surface functionalized. So we worked on a model of diffusion inside these areas. I will also show you some of the chemical aspects. Over here you have -- also quite good at extreme chemistries. This is actually a silicon nanoparticle hitting graphene at about 10 km/s, and you actually see a mechanical shockwave, and you also can see how the chemistry reshapes. It forced a crack and then the energy sort of gets a little bit lower. We actually see how the crack propagates along the crystallographic domains. These types of extreme chemistry are a pretty good target for these type of force fields. I talked about the nanosecond, and the nanosecond is a pretty hard limit for us when you do --. Every time step is smaller than femtosecond, so ten to the power minus 15 seconds, so a nanosecond is a million steps, so ten nanoseconds is ten million steps, and if each step takes half a second then yes thats a pretty significant amount of time. And time is pretty tough to --. But what you can do, however, is abandon this partially molecular limit concept and integrate a little bit of Monte Carlo step in there. We found out, this was well done by Erik Neyts group in Antwerp, he has been spearheading this. So with molecular dynamics of I do plant the graphene growth so I can maybe if I am lucky I can get to stage E, where I have a little bit of a --, but clearly I dont see anything that looks like a carbon nanotube yet. -- So this is one disadvantage by Monte Carlo, you essentially lose track of time, molecular dynamics time is a pretty -- thing. You know what it is. Monte Carlo, since you have a Monte Carlo step in there its always hard how to say how much time a step you have actually taken. And arguably this is a microsecond-milisecond types of a structure. And one thing thats unique about it actually has really good crystallinity. If I use pure Monte Carlo, I typically get a much much more random structure with many more defects. So I have taken my Monte Carlo step in the direction of the forces indicated -- I can kind of get the best of both worlds. Here are some neat things we can do for example, reactive field-mitigated growth and -- and this was a nice piece of work where theory kind of led the way of experiment. We have indicated hey, if you could bombard with argon by -- graphene maybe I want to destroy the 5-membered rings and keep most of the 6-membered rings intact. because the 5-membered rings are a little bit less stable. So using theory tools to figure out what would be the right kinetic energy of the Argon then he needs to bribe the experimentalist to actually do this so thats -- group. And so this -- in 2014 where essentially theory kind of indicated the type of conditions experimentalists that should use. So I will show hopefully some examples of that later down. So MXenes have been part of my group for the last few years. These are part of the -- program thats by by Oak Ridge, and so the Gogotsi group at Drexel is part of it too and so they clearly have been leading the MXene area, so the idea is that this is a pretty versatile part of synthesis concepts. We have an early transition metal, we have essentially a group 13 or 14 metal, something that can easily, essentially, react with -- reactive agencies and we have carbon or nitrogen. So this might be my initial crystal structure, I can essentially etch out my A there, so the aluminum not high affinity to 3-M titanium so it can -- and some selectivity can etch out the aluminum, and you get this kind of 2D sort of layers and if you look you see they -- look very clay-like. And -- pretty much are like a clay. They essentially are a metal oxide just like a silicate that likes to organize itself in 2D layers. One thing thats however thats very different from clays is that they have very high electrical conductivity. Less attractive since the clays of aluminum silicates are pretty much insulators or at least at best semiconductors. Due to the high electrical conductivity and since you have a wide range of synthesis, so this can react with any transition metal if you use constraints, you can essentially dope them pretty easily. And so -- in electrocatalysis where you put dopants in there, different types of electric potentials and essentially drive the chemistry. So thats one of our tricks with these materials. So we have been working this as a paper that came out this year. The experimentalist was -- at Oak Ridge. We did a reactive force field group, so -- was a big part of these simulations, and then we connected with DFT data from -- group and his coworkers. So the idea was experiment decided, sort of can we really record it so we had a specialist-- and I already -- thats not a word that was used anywhere in publication but it sounds nice. So they call it the cannibalistic materials. The idea is that we make a defect, and the defect grows and grows and grows. And all the material -- get used further down to essentially grow an extra layer of titanium carbide. So thats very different clearly than, lets say, graphene where you would never see a sort of a separate -- because of the chemistry of graphene. We use titanium carbide simply grown extra layer and so we can essentially link the migration and the crystallization based on the defect growth. So -- They are involved for the last exactly four weeks. So MXenes are a potentially an interesting catalyst especially since the also have electrocatalytic concept, but we found using ReaxFF, so we essentially merged the MXene description with a protein force field which was a pretty easy merge because that took about ten minutes or so. We found -- usually active to ask essentially hydrolysis-based chemistry. So urea on a MXene site. Since the MXene has -- functional protons you can essentially push the proton across the molecule, and dissociate the MXene. So what we found here thats if this is a typical Reax-style simulation it goes to crazy high temperatures. This is just to sort of investigate the chemistry space. So if you just take urea by itself, it doesnt actually react very quickly. So we see that I start with 70 molecules at 2700 Kelvin. 50 of them will survive. Now experimentally to say, this is not correct. Meaning it doesnt survive at 2700 Kelvin that is correct, but on the nanosecond time scale a lot of them will survive in this time scale. If I mix them together, so this is hydrolysis chemistry so clearly water can accelerate the chemistry. But if I mix them with MXene, then my chemistry gets far far more accelerated. And so you see -- for this conversion -- chemicals. So that turns it into almost a room temperature event. So these are the types of simulation boxes we use. So we have some data yet. And they essentially demonstrated that these MXenes can be a catalyst for these types of conversion. So that actually went very well with a set of experimental data the Oak Ridge people already had in hand. So we added that to the landscape, and that eventually after lots of going back and forth to solve past the -- and so that got published probably about a month ago or so. Overall so MXenes are like lots of 2D materials they actually -- stable. So over time if you keep your MXene exposed to the outside air, essentially you get a nice sort of shiny 2D material, if you leave it too long it turns essentially into rutile and graphene because thermodynamically rutile and graphene are more stable than MXene. And so we wanted to see how the environmental effects are -- simulated conversion and it actually worked pretty well. We took a modified MXene force field and just simply exposed it to water, and we also exposed it to things like peroxide and oxygen-water mixtures, and we see that we can grow a titanium dioxide-type material. Now this was done in pure -- so we couldnt really get any crystallinity on the time scale, but we could essentially see in experiment then you see various signatures of rutile and anatase coming out of these structures. So this is quite important for long-term applications of MXenes. How do you keep your material stable so when you apply them they actually dont degrade back to their more thermodynamically stable 3D counterparts. So turning to molybdenum disulfide, or calcogenides in particular, so lets see I want to -- collaboration with --. We developed a quite accurate description on molybdenum disulfide. So this is a pretty interesting training set. This essentially is a comparison to the DFT that -- ReaxFF. While -- as a collaboration with -- we looked essentially at the effects of, essentially, curvature on the chemistry of these types of materials. And so this is kind of interesting. The blue curve is the simple pristine molybdenum disulfide. And as you might expect, if I compress the material it -- the curvature it actually reflects so I have to put --. Now this gets to be much more complex if I put vacancies in there. So if I put, for example, a 2 vacancy case you actually see that the material likes to compress because the vacancies essentially sort of force the curvature in there. Now thats kind of interesting from a chemistry perspective, you see also theres a gap between the vacancy structure and the pristine structure initially thats pretty huge. So taking two vacancies, sort of vacancies, requires lower energy without a sense of compression. Then if you manage to put the curvature in there that then the difference goes down to about 10 kcal. So at this stage if you can get 40 percent compression, only 10 kcal will allow you to make defects in molybdenum disulfide. Other things that we did, we obtained it against a wide range of vacancies and then show here that it works very well for the vacancy migration, so we actually do vacancy reconstruction and these types of things. I am sorry, I didnt update the slides, so this paper actually came out this is 2017 paper. So Choudhury Ashraf, also in this audience, collaborating with a former Ph.D. student from my group, hes now at USC working at -- 2D consortium. He expanded these results to molybdenum disulfide sulfur interfaces, so he did some expansion to sulfur interactions with graphene because we figured we dont really need the molybdenum-graphene interaction at this stage at least because molybdenum is relatively far away from the graphene area. So sulfur doesnt really bind very well to pristine graphene, so 50 kcal is still worth something, its a sulfur atom. But with a much much much lower- all these numbers are pretty low. These essentially show the physisorption. And whats got -- also worked pretty well. But what got interesting here is these numbers. So you see here, and this is a particularly interesting bond. This is 178 kcal. This is a silver bound to a graphene defect. So I just took out a single carbon. Clearly a single carbon is not chemically stable, but whats interesting here. this -- is higher than the carbon equivalent. So silver bonds better to graphene than the carbon itself. The carbon bonding energy is less than 178 kcal. So that pointed us to the idea that maybe we can use the graphene defects to selectively pick out silver atoms from, essentially, molybdenum disulfide. So we first checked out can we actually deposit sulfur in there, and that worked pretty well. So we put some defects you can grow pretty nice sulfur crystals, so that part worked pretty decently. Oh, sorry. There is a -- here before I continue with this. So I will show some force bias Monte Carlo in a second. So this is just to highlight the different material force -- from molecular MD. Once again this is for molybdenum disulfide, with MD this is the best you can do. With force-bias Monte Carlo we can -- time scale we actually can make sort of nice crystalline types of morphologies. So with force bias Monte Carlo we can essentially look at crystal growth. So this is molybdenum disulfide that some of you may have seen before. -- These I am going to show the boron nitride -- these simulations done about 2 years ago by -- in my group, and you see how we can use force-bias Monte Carlo to essentially expand the size of the molybdenum disulfide crystal. One thing I want to draw attention to, in this case, this is pristine graphene, is that there is no orientation bias in our simulation. You see that the molybdenum disulfide under our conditions can slide very easily -- and sort of reorganize or reorient itself. So if I use this as a growth medium I probably dont see any orientation bias in our molybdenum disulfide structure. So now having shown that graphene-molybdenum sulfide we now want to see if we could, for example, use graphene with defects to imprint a certain defect structure in molybdenum disulfide. So this is clearly- this is no experimental equivalent right now. This is a nice area for field experts, see that it was our --. So what we have here is graphene sheets. You dont see it right now but there are a couple of defects in there that will become more apparent when we start playing the movie. This is a pristine molybdenum disulfide. And so this was led by -- which came out just about two weeks ago. So what you do is you press it in, we put it back a little while, we heat it up around 7 Kelvin if I remember correctly, and then we pull it out. You see now the defects a little bit clearer from this angle. And what we can essentially do here is pull out, very selectively, sulfur atoms. See that all we pull out- this is not a 100% success rate, but a number of these graphene vacancies managed to pull out a sulfur. So the real science behind this was -- sulfur vacancies which are -- we also tried this for divacancies and other types of 2D vacancies, like sort of 5-types of the rings it turns out that divacancies work pretty well, but you do need a vacancy just to sort of destroy the ring structure, -- it doesnt have enough binding power to pull out a sulfur. And the next step can then be, for example, -- molybdenum disulfide we have able to link it up with something organic. For example if you want to make a sensor out of this you can get these sulfur defects to react with an organic, in this case we have an epoxide, and you see later in the movie that the epoxide finds one of the defects, to kind of guess which epoxide this -- here is one, and pretty much the epoxide opens and now it can react with hydrocarbon chemistry so it can pretty much link any type of larger organic entity to this. So clearly, I dont claim that this is a simple experiment to do, but you can essentially test out conditions to see if this is worth pursuing with an experimental method. Ok, so coming to my last item here, so we saw our work on the graphene and one thing was that no orientation bias in the molybdenum disulfide growth. So that can be a disadvantage because it can very clearly be attractive if all these molybdenum disulfide triangles grow essentially in the same direction. So it turned out, this was some experimental work indicated that HBN might essentially give you a much much higher amount of orientation. So we see essentially, these are some experimental images, that we get now 90% of the flakes growing in the same orientation. -- And so this was some work by Yuanxi Wang. He essentially did an extensive DFT study to figure out what defects are stable in boron nitride and how the molybdenum sulfide might be able to interact with that, and he found out that this is pretty much the most stable configuration. We essentially have a missing boron atom on the boron nitride and we essentially have a molybdenum adatom, and there the binding energy is very very substantial, so that, if you look at sort of defect-defect pair, this is probably the best defect-defect pair in the case of molybdenum disulfide-boron nitride systems. Now conveniently, they actually match pretty well. So we actually did this situation where we have my molybdenum adatom binding into that boron nitride defect. That actually, from a strain perspective is actually a pretty nice combination. The crystal parameters are relatively close, where boron nitride is actually close to molybdenum disulfide so you can actually grow with very little added strain. And whats left to be interesting then, though, so that doesnt distinguish that from graphene anyways, but this is really what boron nitride has to offer. Boron nitride, since you have boron and nitrogen, has essentially, dipoles. So there is charge transfer between boron and nitrogen. That means if I rotate my molybdenum disulfide, it essentially lowers in energy very significantly. -- If you do the same thing in graphene, its not completely identical, because the rotation you still have a slightly different bond to the graphene, but it only has an effect of 5 or maybe up to 10 -- in energy. So at any sort of temperature the rotation on graphene will be very low energy, but in the boron nitride -- to overcome the rotation. So usually -- done in my group. I am sorry for switching between energy units, but 12.4 kcal is roughly half eV so thats the half eV from the previous slide. We managed to train the force fields against that. We didnt get everything right, but in general we managed to get that orientation bias pretty well reproduced. And so now we can actually do a larger scale simulation. See here the growth orientation bias is maintained. So this is pretty much our simulation. Once again this is going to be force-biased Mote Carlo. We try to do this as low of temperature as we can. -- is pushing our resource a little bit, but we dont want to go too high in temperature because everything grows far more 3D-like. Now one thing, so I just want to, before I ask you, clearly our amount of molybdenum doping is way too high. This is just to sort of getting a sort of a feel for the system. So we put a lot of molybdenum there just to get our statistic better. And you will see in -- you will see in a second that this is a really bad -- to do, because all of your growth nuclei will actually come to communicate with each other, -- you can get no crystallinity out of it. But you can, at least, use this to statistically sample initial growth and see whether it essentially features the DFT picture. This is a pretty long movie so get yourself a comfy chair. See that -- The blue atoms are molybdenum. The yellow atoms are the sulfur. We could essentially already begin to see some pretty nice growth nuclei. And the main thing, if you remember that graphene movie, in the graphene movie you saw that the -- sort of sliding all over the graphene surface and then also the exciting rotations. These things are essentially rotation-inert. So -- that you make an initial nucleus, pretty much the rotational bias is there. Now later on in the simulation, clearly we get contact between the various growth nuclei. So thats something that doesnt have a real good experimental equivalent. But this at least gives you the confidence --. This is where being a much larger scale simulation that the related the initial molybdenum sites, and look at some details, what are initial steps, and how essentially the orientation bias is maintained in the simulation. So this is kind of what we were trying to get from there, and this is -- so this is early stage analysis. But we can essentially grow our initial type of crystallite, and we essentially can then see how that becomes formed into a few islands, and how essentially during that process if there is rotation in place, and then compare that with experimental observables. So this is all just relatively simple growth --. So we look at, every now and then, a molybdenum atom and a sulfur atom in the box. And thats kind of nice but it doesnt clearly show - its not the same as a real CVD growth. So in a different simulation project in my group, we --.Yuanxi Wang and Roghayyeh and Dundar again. We have been looking at more complex chemistry. In this case we look at tungsten hexacarbonyl with hydrogen selenide, and its difficult here to see this movie, but you can essentially see indeed that I can dissociate my carbon monoxide and functionalize it with selenium. So that kind of works. What is probably more interesting here, is that we managed to connect the reaction kinetics that we got from ReaxFF. We essentially see a -- computational fluid dynamics methods from Yuan Xuan-group. So this is attractive because these CFD simulations can directly do simulations of experimental time and size scales. And what you can get out of that are these types of pictures. Imagine this dark blue film is your growth stage. So the CFD simulation can tell you ok what type of species do I get in this growth stage. And how do I make my CVD growth reproducible. If I want to change something in my environmental growth chamber, I can model with a CFD simulation -- how do I tweak my chemistry to essentially get the same chemical profile so I can hopefully reproduce my growth. So just to show you some highlights of that. So this is for example, you can, as a function of time, you can see that, for the hexacarbonyl it doesnt survive very long it essentially dissociated very early in the chamber. And you see the various intermediates of growth. So you see that this diselenium has a significant amount of concentration especially toward the back end of the growth stage. And so you can see this is probably the main growth species. At least thermodynamically this is the best species that you can get in the gas environment. So if you limit yourself to simple tungsten, and you can predict the patterns. And also this is good for experiment because essentially get those patterns and see how that we should do these experiments. But also from a simulation perspective, this is really really really great feedback into the ReaxFF. So now, in the next stage where we do ReaxFF, now with not just molybdenum and sulfur atoms, we actually use proper molecular species, we can know ok what kind of reactive species distribution do I have to put in my simulation box. And theres other things. It is really easy, and I shouldnt say that, it is relatively straightforward to do a certain quantification of the CVD reactor. So I take my barriers that come out after ReaxFF or the DFT. I can change them and say that which ones are the really important ones. And then we go back. So DFT has amounted over --.But we can, in principle, do better than DFT. There are also a couple -- methods. If you find out this there is really key. -- together for chemical accuracy, and DFT typically is accuracy is not what we would call chemical accuracy, you can go beyond DFT and essentially get this type of data. -- thats critical for species distribution, you can get that further feedback out of the CFD. So this is kind of the idea, so this is going to be looking to work on in the next year or so. We now have a good gas phase composition, we can get these profiles. We can now go, instead of using molybdenum and sulfur atoms, we can put these species into a ReaxFF hyperdynamic simulation. Look at crystal seeds. We can then then link that to morphology recognitions, thats -- work, who has significant experience in that. And then maybe machine learning types. We can pick out long-term behavior. If you see a growth seed, any kind of -- come and look at it a little bit later we can maybe make some sort of fast time step to grow to much bigger seeds. And so from -- we essentially go to experiment. So this CFD can actually connect with experimental settings. So you can see how do I reproduce my growth patterns if I want to realign my growth chamber, and also by these means we can actually look at and connect up time scales and size scales, up from atomistic-scale simulation up to essentially experimental sizes and times. So thats the end of it. Just a very general summary slide. So this is a hugely transferrable concept. There are very few that then -- a couple of materials. This is certainly not a restriction that we have. You can develop properly- theres a couple of that are blacked out here. This is not because ReaxFF does not work, its simple because we did not get a project for them. So we are going to -- to gallium. Actually that project has started already. So we can develop this for a large range or materials, and it essentially allows you to significantly scale up from the quantum so you can actually get to experimental size and time ranges. So thank you very much and I will be very happy to discuss this further with you. Dressler: Any questions in the room while they are typing online? Volunteer 1: So for the simulation when you had orientation of the tungsten selenide -- so what are the MD or the Monte Carlo, so do you know what time it took to do that stuff or-? van Duin: No thats essentially one of the issues with force-biased Monte Carlo method that the time bias is gone. So I think theres especially something very interesting in just initial state as well, not necessarily because DFT --. We can use still the force-bias to say reactive -- form something that looks like a crystal but simply interested in the -- status. That would be good to -- sort of a time concept, and that we typically --. Mote Carlo can -- time concept if there is only a single chemistry that is accelerated by Monte Carlo. Unfortunately, this is such a complex growth mechanism that I dont think you can make that thing. So you have to resort back to molecular dynamics to actually get a time scale --. Dressler: There is a question online. Is it possible to functionalize molybdenum disulfide monolayer membranes with ethanol using ReaxFF? van Duin: Yes, so that not very similar to what we show here. Here we show with oxide clearly, and we picked an oxide because the barriers are really low. And oxide is essentially a -- molecule, so on our time scale we can assume that you can switch the vacancies for pretty much anything else. First of all the chemistry is a bit more complex because its a more stable molecule. So the -- is how you sample whatever barriers -- and we can certainly train ReaxFF for that. And then you may have to take some sort of accelerated dynamics tools to actually capture the chemistry. But the short answer is yes. Dressler: There are no more questions online. Any more questions in the room? Do we have one? Volunteer 2: I have a question. So you were showing that theres interlocking with HBN so that there is really no rotation. Those are with defects in the HBN, do you do the defects in the graphene as well and -- van Duin: Thats a good point. No we didnt, I dont expect we will see that but we have to do that. Volunteer 2: Because we have a lot of experimental evidence that there is commensurability between the TMDs and the graphene at, you know, 0 and 60 degrees in terms of the orientation vs. most of them being zero. van Duin: Well maybe we should certainly do the graphene -- as well. The one issue that we have there that we cannot solve is so far we cant ignore the molybdenum-carbon interaction -- so clearly for that type of simulation you have to worry about the molybdenum-carbon side of things as well. Volunteer 3: One more question from a different part of the slides. In the earlier chemical reactions when you explained that, so since you proved -- interactions, you should probably be able to do these reactions in --. van Duin: Yes, thats true. I have to bear in mind that -- electric field is essentially a charge field that doesnt, essentially, change the chemistry. So if you talk about something that actually transfers electrons -- 