 [    ] Most people are aware of batteries through personal devices. So you know that more functions your little  handheld device has, the more power it needs. And has to get that from its battery. So those devices have really led to  some significant advances. And they're now using that battery technology  in hybrid vehicles and electric cars. But, in terms of the bigger picture,  a very important area for electrical storage is that a lot of renewable resources,  such as wind and solar, are intermittent sources. And that's not really a good way to deliver electricity  to an energy hungry society So storage becomes a critical issue  in the success of renewable resources. The whole goal with batteries is that you want to store as many ions as possible  and release as many ions as possible. So there's all sorts of new materials that are being proposed going into batteries that have really high capacities.  Materials like silicon. And so what happens is that lots of ions  can go into the material. And, in the cycle of entering and leaving,  some of these new anode materials can actually, sort of, self-pulverize. They're expanding and contracting so much during the electrochemical cycle that they start to crack. Cracks lead to degradation in battery performance, which can cause the materials to fail. The other problem is, sometimes, if you just charge it too fast  or it's starting to run too hot, a battery can explode. Most commercial batteries, of course,  are designed not to do that. But, as you push towards putting banks and banks of batteries, and you want them to be more and more efficient,  this becomes a bigger problem. So two of the things that we are working on are  micro-encapsulated mechanisms for healing those cracks and maintaining the electrical capacity of the material. And then, second, we're working on ways of  shutting the battery down when it does get out-of-control and it gets too hot. So you prevent one from possibly exploding  and then triggering a short-circuit and then a bigger problem. It's been quite exciting working on small batteries that are running your handheld. Or even the batteries that are in a electric car; which are pretty powerful and have a lot of energy. But now you're talking about storing  and discharging on a very large scale And that is a huge challenge for the future. [    ] 