 Four billion people worldwide require furniture, doors, kitchens and windows made from wood. Hundreds of thousands of production companies and furniture manufacturers to apply these products worldwide. We as a market leader provide these manufacturers with machinery and industrial production systems. So for all our customers, be they small carpentry services or large furniture manufacturers, considerations such as 'future proof investment' and 'investment security' are of fundamental importance. And of course they want to be able to use the machines efficiently. Not seldom: 24/7, 365 days days per year. Our clients range from the local carpenter to the industrial furniture manufacturer. This creates significant requirements for us, and therefore, smart services and products. In ideal circumstances the machines notify the operator in case of glitches or if more production materials are needed. Anticipatory maintenance also needs to be facilitated. Under the name tapio we've developed a digital platform for the wood industry value chain. This allows us to leverage the benefits of networked machines and the Internet of Things for our customers. Transparency is very important to our customers and we are leading the wood industry with transparency, into the digital future. Digital. Wood. Works. We created our IoT platform with the help of Microsoft Azure. It was the prerequisite for us to make tapio available for our customers worldwide. We implemented all this with Microsoft's expertise. Service Board and Machine Board examples of the tapio products. Machine Board shows life statuses and notifications from the machine, so the operation always knows when and where he needs to get active. The secure B2B smart watch integrated by us is based on Windows 10 IoT and is speech and app controlled. Furthermore, the Service Board allows, in connection with the machines, anticipated maintenance. In the future we want to use tapios skills, for example, for machine learning. That way we can schedule service operations in perfect coordination with the clients and predict hold-ups. This increases availability and fulfills, therefore, a central customer wish. We've deliberately designed our Azure-based cloud platform to be open. We want to be able to connect machines from other manufacturers to our platform in the future. This will allow our customers to view all their machinery and the whole production process at a glance. You couldn't ask for much better protection for your investment. 