 Internet of Things is generating data at staggering speeds and levels. Machine data from sensors, usage data and context and even unstructured data from video and voice. The challenges associating value with the data thereby turning information into your biggest resource. In this course you will learn how to analyze IoT big data which is a manifestation of the 3 Vs: velocity - the speed the data is coming in from the sensors; variety - structured and unstructured data; and volume - the amount of data coming in. This analysis of big data will help you comprehend and strategically steer the system you observe. We will address those 3 Vs and in this is a practical hands-on course with a complete end-to-end feedback loop from data capture to massive parallel data processing and how to extract valuable insights that will help you to make informed decisions. These are all skills necessary for a data analyst professional. I've been visiting a development eight organization in a small Indian village where we saw how farmers are struggling with changing weather, proper water and marketplace conditions. We are currently implementing a prototype of an app helping those farmers to make optimal decisions, such as watering intervals, choice of harvest or fertilizers using data from IoT sensors, weather forecast, satellite, and hyperspectral imaging. Together with crop insurance and improved market access we really believe that IoT informed data will provide more examples of how the Internet of Things can transform public and community services as well as big business for the better. This course is an entry-level introduction to IoT big data analytics and how state-of-the-art open-source technology can help you handle the big data challenges. Some challenges big data introduces is how to work with data that is arriving at high volume and high speed, how to transform and pre aggregate this multi-dimensional data quickly, displayed visually in a way that hidden patterns and trends can be revered leading to value. This course will focus on exploratory data analysis that data is analyzed and reported on. You learn how to use basic statistical measures, advanced cloud technology, charting libraries, data cleansing and dimensions reduction to visually depict the data. You also learn to interpret the visualizations and device inferences about that such as interesting characteristics, patterns, trends, deviations or inconsistencies and potential outliers. This way insight can be derived by the worlds best pattern and recognition system - the human brain. By the end of the course you are able to implement end-to-end analytical process from data acquisition to actionable insights. Such an end-to-end massive parallel data analytics workflow can be automated to be part of a bigger IoT solution bringing in additional insights. This course is the first step to become a data analyst expert. I want to say thank you to 1 person Yianna. Yianna is the guardian angel behind this project. Not only has she created most of the video lectures she also ensured that the experience you will have in the course will be fantastic. Thank You Yianna for all your hard work. In addition to Yianna there will be a couple of other teaching assistants helping you throughout the course. So let's have some fun. 