 Good morning everyone! If you remember last year NVIDIA published research on an AI that could make photorealistic images of faces called StyleGAN, and it was absolutely incredible. StyleGANs seemed to become a big trend in early 2019 making news headlines around the world and giving birth to websites like thispersondoesnotexist.com it set the standard for generative adversarial networks and was the state of the art for a long time. Well, on December 3rd, almost exactly one year after the release of StyleGAN, NVIDIA has released StyleGAN 2. This new version of StyleGAN comes with various improvements to image quality, efficiency, diversity, and disentanglement, and the results are incredible. The faces you are looking at are not real but have been generated by StyleGAN - the way that it learns to generate these faces is by using a deep learning method called the Generative Adversarial Network or GAN for short. The coolness doesn't stop there with StyleGAN 2, though. Not only can it generate faces it can be trained to generate almost anything, as long as there are enough pictures of that thing kicking around. For example one thing that there're a lot of pictures of is cats. All of these images of cats have been generated by StyleGAN 2, from absolutely nothing. These images are beautiful and I can't even tell if some of them are real or fake. It can also generate pictures of cars which is pretty gnarly. Latent codes for two images can be combined with one images codes on some layers and another images codes on some other layers. This way you can combine the faces of two generated people where the resulting images will have features like skin, color, eye color, etc. of the one and the face shape, pose, gender, etc. of the other one. The images you see here are a combination of low-level features from the left image such as skin color, hair color, and lighting, with the high level features of the top such as gender, pose, and in the case on the left, even glasses. Here are some examples from the creators of StyleGAN 2 This work is absolutely incredible and I can just imagine combining the faces of many different people who look particularly different just to see what they would look like if they were the same. If that wasn't cool enough already StyleGAN 2 can also be helpful in detecting whether an image was generated or not. Since the conception of deep fakes people have been very concerned with making sure that fake AI generated content isn't being faked, or it can be detected as being faked. Using an optimization process images can be reconstructed back to the latent codes I mentioned earlier. If the image can almost perfectly be reconstructed then it's obviously been generated, otherwise it's safe to assume that the image is real, as can be shown here. So StyleGAN 2 is absolutely mind-blowing and there's no doubt about that. For anyone who's seen my github, you'll know that I'm particularly interested in generating images of landscapes. I had a day off when I first found out about StyleGAN 2 so I went ahead and implemented it myself using Tensorflow 2.0 and Keras. I'll make another video on this shortly. After I've implemented it, I trained it on my forever growing data set of images of landscapes from the subreddit r/EarthPorn. Here are some of the results from that. If you're interested in the code you can find that in the description of the video. If you enjoyed the video, please leave a like and subscribe because I will definitely be making more videos about StyleGAN 2, Tensorflow and diving deeper into the models behind the images. Don't forget to check out the original paper and code for StyleGAN 2. Also check out thispersondoesnotexist.com if you want to generate your own faces with StyleGAN 2 as their website has also updated to using StyleGAN 2. Thanks for watching! 