 This video was made in response to the challenge set by the Film Prompt Society Day X with the lockdown and you've done just about everything imaginable to fill your time. Stir crazy don't got nothing on you. It certainly doesn't help that the only contact you've had during this time has been over the Internet Or if you're lucky your housemates. You're getting desperate for more social interaction. And sometimes you're friends and housemates need a little bit of alone time. So what can you do? Well.. Play some more Animal Crossing of coruse! But again, after seeing the same villagers day in and day out.. You need a little bit of variety. And sure you can go about evicting some villagers, and sending others to move in. But eventually, you'll run out of new villagers. So, we do the next best thing. [ record scratch ] We build some new friends! I stumbled across a blog article discussing Generative Adversarial Networks And how to generate pictures of cats using AIs. Generative Adversarial Networks; or GANs are made up of two parts. The generator, and the discriminator. The generator "generates" data with the goal of tricking the discriminator into believing that the generated data is the real deal. The discriminator evaluates the generated data Trying to figure out which data is real and which is generated. The two of them compete and improve over time with the idea being the generator will eventually produce something very close to the real data. After X amount of competitions. This can be used to generate anything from sentences, to music, to images. Which is where our interest lies. Naturally, I knew exactly what I was going to do with this newfound knowledge. Introducing the Animal Crossing villager generator. [ patent pending ] To trian our GAN, I downloaded an image of every Animal Crossing Villager Then edited all these images to fit in a 128 by 128 square And then I fed these into the GAN. Here began the slow process of training our GAN. We set it to run for about 1000 epochs; or 1000 iterations of the generator and discriminator trying to catch each other out. The only issue here is that this takes, at least on my PC, days. So be right back! Oh! Okay. Now we have an issue here. If we look at some of the images generated They all look kind of like a villager and also kind of like Hellspawn... The generator gets pretty close to creating something resembling a villager friend but then struggles with the fine details. The issue we have here is that there is so much variation in the shape of each villager And the details on their faces It's hard to create a general image of one. And whilst I love all these Eldritch horrors generated I don't think we can get away with calling them villagers. And I think we can get something a little clearer I created a very basic image processor Which was used to test the similarity of the villager images. This processor highlights the villagers that are vaguely similar to one another. This makes it actually possible for our generator to figure out what it should be creating. Without having everything too similar that it just draws an image of the barstool cat, Raymond. And what do you know! This method yielded some positive results. So! Without further ado. Here is a timelapse of our GAN slowly figuring stuff out. [ some funky hot bass run ] [ ding ding ] And there we have it! Our new villager friends. Arent they mag-nificent!? Now we can produce an infinite amount of new Animal Crossing friends! And, with the knowledge from my previous video, we're actually able to talk to them! Finally, riding out the rest of this lockdown is going to be a simple task printing out new friends and annoying the silt out of them! [ you cant escape ] So er, that last video did pretty well as it turns out! I just wanted to leave a little "Thank You" at the end of this video because, HOLY SILT, you guys have been supportive! I'd also like to do a couple of shout-outs if that is okay! One to SharruM, who has used the Animalese translator program I made to create a cover of Kanye West's "Wolves". Which is, honestly, really funking good! The other shout-out goes to MattAttack, who I couldn't actually find the social media accounts for. That is using the speech program I created to make a Tom Nook Discord chat bot! Which, again, I thought was really funking cool! If you wanna check out the code that I used for this video, I've linked the article where I found it all, and learned everything, in the description. So please do check that out! This video was made as a response to the prompt set out by the Film Prompt Society A channel that does monthly prompts to get your video making creative juices flowing. So, do give them a check-out. Again links in the description! I noticed some comments in the last video asking if there were ways of supporting me. And there is! I've linked my Ko-Fi account, and other social medial links in the description if you want to donate. Please don't feel any pressure to, it's just if you want to. And finally, if you enjoyed this video, please make sure you leave a like. And if you //really// enjoyed it, maybe consider subscribing to see more garbage like this. That's pretty much it. Again, thanks a tonne! And I'll see you next time. 