 Today we're going to learn how to take a flat two dimensional texture and convert that to real 3D with Photoshop. This will allow you to do two things. First, have the surface interact with other 3d objects. And number two, most importantly, you can add lights from any direction and go as complex as possible. With that, we will also learn how to use the 3D features to create realistic shadows and composites. So without any further ado, let's get started. So here we are back in the brilliant world of Photoshop. And before we begin, let's take a moment to understand and accept the fact that Photoshop 3D is slow as hell. Now, all you need is a smile on your face, and a little bit of patience sorry, a lot of patience to work with Photoshop 3D. Let's begin! So here we have a simple wall in the background. And on top of that, we have the subject cutout. Very simple composite, now, we're going to convert this wall into 3D we're going to add some actual bumps. It and here's how to do that. Now for the process, I've turned off the subject layer because we don't want that to disturb it at the moment, we will turn that on later. With the "Wall" layer selected, press Control or Command J. And now let's name this wall bump. All right, because we're going to use this layer to create a bump map. Now, with the one bump selected, let's go to Filter, 3D, and choose generate bump map. Now how do you want the texture to be in 3d? It's going to give you a live preview of that. Have a look at this, the sphere is giving you a live preview of how your texture will be when you convert that to 3D. Now if you want to see it in an actual wall format, there are lots of objects that you can try here. So, right now sphere is selected. Let's choose Cube. So that that's this will give you a more realistic view of how your texture is going to look like right here. You see that? Now you can change the blur and the detail scale the lesser the Blur, the more the details you have, the more the little details are enhanced. Detail scale is how much enhancement is there. I usually leave it at 0.5 and 80%. What we're going to do is change it back to sphere because I think it's an easier way to look at it. Now here's an important setting roof right here, contrast details, so, you can play with the highs. If you take it up, you see more details show up if you take it down, lesser detail show up, you can play with the high medium and low contrast details to see what looks good for your texture. So let's take the medium a little up and let's take it down to see what looks good to us. Once you're happy with the texture once you think that it's looking okay, just hit okay right there. Now this is the bump map. Now we need to use this to generate a three dimensional surface. With the wall bump selected, we will go to 3D and then new mesh from layer and then depth map to plane because that's what a wall is right? plane! So let's choose plane right there. Now do you want to switch to a 3d workspace? Yes, of course that would be convenient. Now have a look at the 3d surface! isn't that amazing? But I think there's too much bump right there, we need to just decrease it a little bit, but look at it, we just generated it out of a two dimensional surface. This is amazing! So to adjust the bump, you can actually click on the surface, and then see that second square right there, second cube, just have to click and drag, take it in, and probably take it out. I think this much is fine. You can use these tools to rotate and see what looks best to you. So I can move it around and see what looks good to me. Now, the wall in the background is disturbing me. So I'm just going to go down, scroll down and turn off the original wall so that it's clear. All right, let's come back to the wall bump right there. You can also increase the bump decrease the bump only have to do again is just click on it and use the square to just drag it out and drag it in. Now let's open the 3D properties to get more options. So let's go to Window and make sure 3D is checked. This will open up the 3D properties. We can just stick it in here. Now you can click on default camera to set it to the default camera view. Also, let's make it narrower so that you can see more of it. All right, that's pretty cool. Click on this tool, which is slide the camera and then, just make sure nothing is selected, and then click and drag and hold the shift key to bring it closer uniformly. Once you're happy with the view, you can create a new view out of it. So you can choose View right here inside of the properties if you cannot see the properties Go to Window and then make sure Properties is checked, click on the drop down and choose Save. And we can name this anything you want. So I'm going to name this Unmesh View. Hit Okay. Now, we can come back to this view anytime by clicking on this view. Anytime you are rotating and checking stuff, you want to come back to that view, just click on that view, it will get you back to that now if you click on the wall bump that the material symbol, let's click on that there are a lot of things that you can do here. Now, if we just covered this that's going to be a whole new different tutorial. But for now, we're going to do with just a few things. All right. Now you can control how much shiny you want how much reflection you want. Of course, we don't want any reflection on the wall. If you want it, you can play with the settings. Here, I want to change the specular. Let's click on that I don't want any specular highlights, so I'm going to change it to absolutely black. Now the other thing that we can do here is play with the light. So click on Infinite Light, you can play with the direction of the light. And also once we have the light selected, you can control the intensity of the light by taking the slider to the right look at the intensity, right there. You can also control the color of the light. Right now the texture is just the bump map if you want to have the original wall show up, the original texture, all you have to do is to replace the texture to that. So let's go down in the Layers panel. And let's just select the wall let's turn it on if you want to. And just for your reference, I'm going to turn off the wall bump. So this is the original one. You can press Control or Command A to select all of it, Control or Command C. Now that we have copied it we can press Control or Command D, to deselect that, we can turn on the wall bump, select that layer. And now we can choose the material right there, inside of the material right beside Diffuse, click on this icon right there, and then choose Edit Texture. Hit Okay. Now here, we can actually place it, Control or Command V, you don't have to delete the original one, just paste it. Now once you have pasted it, this is just like smart objects, press Control or Command S to save it. Now as soon as you save it, if you come back to that you see that update to the original texture. Now let's get back to the Infinite Light and you can control the intensity of the light as well. If you don't want this texture, you can replace it to whatever you want. If you don't want this texture, that is fine too. Now we have another light here if you go to the environment, we have this image based light as well. Now I don't want that light. So I'm just going to turn it off. And also I'm going to set the global ambient, I don't need any ambient light, to black. That's fine. Let's come back to Infinite Light and control it accordingly. Now it's time for us to bring in the subject and create a composite using Photoshop 3D. So let's go ahead and turn on the subject layer. Of course, we need to convert this into 3D as well. Not as a bump, but just as a postcard, just as a plane. So with the subject selected, let's go to 3D, new mesh from layer, and then postcard. All right, now this is a plane, but the subject is not interacting with the wall. Why? Because they are not merged. Here's the thing, if you can work two 3D layers, and if you merge them, they don't Rasterize, you can still edit them separately. So the subject were selected, hold the control or command select the wall bump. Both of them are now selected. Now press Control or Command E. Now I know it looks crazy because the positions are just not okay. The subject is huge and just on the place of the wall, we need to adjust that. So, with the subject mesh selected, you can click on this button to adjust the size and the coordinates of it. So let's click on this button. Now, click on this button again and choose scale. Alright, and we're going to make the subject smaller, click and drag on the X and take it to the left. Now, the subject is smaller. Now we need to bring forward, right? we need to bring the subject forward. So you can use this arrow or let me rotate and show that to you. So subject is at the same place as the wall, we need to use this arrow right there and bring her forward just like this. Let's click on Unmesh View. And now we can bring it even forward if we wanted to. Now this is huge, right? So we need to just adjust the size and make it smaller. Alright, that looks good. Let's make her even smaller. I just wanted to bring her a little downwards. With the green arrow selected. Let's bring her down and it looks fantastic. So with the Infinite Light selected, we can of course control the direction of light. Secondly, we can also control how soft it is, if you click on the light right there, we can increase the softness. Of course, it doesn't look good now, but when you render it, it's going to look okay, so let's try rendering it and let's see how this looks at the moment. Now, if you want to stop the rendering process, press the Escape key. This is looking pretty okay, but I guess we can bring the subject even forward. So let's bring her forward so that we can have longer shadows. And now, let's make her a little smaller. For this subject mesh selected, let's just take the X and drag it to the left- hand side. Alright, that looks better. Now to make it even more dramatic, instead of adding an infinite light. How about we add a spotlight? Wouldn't that be amazing? So let's just go ahead and you can actually click on this "eye" to turn off the Infinite Light right now. There is no light. That's why it's absolutely black. We're going to click on the light button right there and choose, New Spotlight. Now this is a spotlight right at the front. All right, we don't want that we need to adjust it. So with the spotlight selected, first, let us adjust the position according to the front view. So I'm going to rotate it just a little bit. So with this to selected, and just rotate it so that the transformations are at 90 degrees. This is OK. Now with the third to selected, I'm just going to drag the spotlight right here. I think it should be right here at the top. Let's zoom out just a little bit. All right, I think this is a good place for, let's say, a soft box or something like that. If I were to just place a soft box, it would be right here probably. Now let us adjust the position according to the side view. So with this tool, orbiting tool right there, let's turn it to the side. Let's zoom out to see how far this is. Now this is actually very, very far in my opinion. Let's turn it side to see how far this is. So here's the subject as you can see, and this is the wall. So what I would do, I would bring it even closer, just like this. This is how I would Place a soft box. Now let's look at the top view, click on this orbit tool. The top view seems to be fine. Probably I'll move it a little bit to that side. Ok. Now let's click on Unmesh View and let's get back to the original view. Now we need to change the direction we just need to rotate the light in the same position. And the way to do that is having the lights selected first and choose the first tool right there. Now you can just adjust it in the same location. I think this would be a good direction for the light. I like it. Now, you can actually make the inner cone and the outer cone bigger or smaller. How do you want the hotspot to be? How small or big you want the hotspot to be? So I want to keep the hotspot really really small. You can choose the third tool if you want to. You can easily work with that. So very small hotspot and the outside, a bigger, a softer light. Now, with the soft light still selected, you can go to the properties right there, click on the soft light icon and choose how soft you want the shadows to be. I want them to be really really soft, just like this. Now once you're happy with your settings and the placement, just click on render just have a look already it's creating such a dramatic light. So here is my final render, I just tweaked the settings just a little bit, adjusted the bump and the intensity and the position of light. Apart from that, I also adjusted the mask. I thought it was not very proper, but you get the general idea of how you can use 3D with composites and you can convert any 2D texture which is flat enough to a 3d surface. All you have to do is to first duplicate the texture and then simply go to Filter, 3D and inside of 3D you will see, generate bump map. Now after you have generated the bump map to your liking. You can then go to 3d, new mesh from layer, and then, depth map to you can choose, right now it's actually grayed out because nothing is selected. However, let's say this is selected you would go to 3D, new mesh from layer, depth map to, plane and that will convert that into a three dimensional surface. And from there you can control the bump, the lighting, or add some more 3d elements to it. The possibilities are limitless! I hope this video helped you and if it did, make sure to give us a like and also don't forget to subscribe and not just subscribe, ring the bell so that you my friend don't miss any other future tips, tricks or tutorials. I would like to take this moment to thank all these nice and amazing people for supporting this channel on Patreon and helping keep PiXimperfect free for everybody forever. Thanks so much for all your support. Thank you for watching. I'll see you guys in my next one. Till then, stay tuned and make sure that you Keep Creating! 