 [Music] Hi I’m Jiri. Here’s a quick overview of search and other great features of Workspace in your sales application. You start by selecting the object you want to work on and the saved search. When Lisa Jones selects My Accounts, for example, she sees the list of accounts she owns. Notice the count telling her how many that is. If you don’t see the account you’re looking for you can search for it. The saved search Lisa selected, restricts searches to those she owns. If you want to search all accounts, select All Accounts as your starting point instead. Clicking in the search box, displays the most recent accounts I viewed. As I start typing, the list narrows. If you see the account you’re looking for, you can open it directly. If none of the recent items match, you type one of the words in the account name and click search. You can narrow down my search by entering related information, such as the city where the account is located. Here’s a great feature for forgetful folks like me. If you can’t remember the account name, you can enter the contact name instead. Entering the city where the account is located, gets you all the accounts in that city. I can also use operators. Star for missing letters. There’s OR and NOT to narrow down my search. Let’s explore accounts some more. Clicking Show Filters displays the filters configured for this saved search. I can see how many accounts are in the top industries and I can see how many accounts each salesperson owns. Selecting High Technology filters my results just to that industry. Selecting Lisa Jones narrows down the results to the high tech industry accounts she owns. You can save any of the searches. Just give it a name and it shows up in the list along with the others. You can even make this your default search when you open Workspace. If you’re an administrator, you can create saved searches for the entire team or for a specific role. Such as a Sales Representative, for example. Clicking Create creates the saved search and shares it automatically. Salespeople who like Excel spreadsheets, can click Export List to download the list generated by a saved search. One more great feature that saves clicks. You can take actions on items listed on your screen without opening them. On an account I can log a call, create an appointment, a task, or a note. I can even create a new opportunity. Thank you! [Music] 