 Photoshop 2021 is here. Let me show you my favorite new feature in this document. I have a photo of a house. The sky is very gloomy, but I can easily replace the sky by going into edit and selecting sky replacement. This will bring up the sky replacement window. And from here, Photoshop will use Adobe Sensei, which is artificial intelligence, machine-learning technology, to find the skies in the image and automatically select it and replace it using one of the presets in these categories, blue skies. Sunsets or Spectacula You can even upload your own if you like, but I'll stick with the Sunset group and select this sky, then you can use the sliders in this panel to control how the sky affects the image and how the foreground color is affected by the sky. In this case, I'll leave the default settings. I'll make sure that Output to New Layer is selected and I'll press OK Photoshop will then generate this group that contains all the layers that apply my sky replacement. As you can see, is very easy to do with not a whole lot of work and all the layers are there. Everything is editable. Also, in this new version of Photoshop, there is a new option under the Select menu called Sky. If you click on that, Photoshop will make a selection out of the sky in your image This Select Sky feature also uses Adobe Sensei the artificial intelligence found in many of the new features of Photoshop 2021. Before we start, I would like to mention that this video is sponsored by MSI. I'll be using my Creator 15 laptop. I'll talk a little more about it later on in the tutorial. For now, I just want to mention that if you want to skip to any of the new features, I will place a time code into the description that will allow you to skip to any new feature. If you want to learn about a specific one or you want to come back and rewatch one of the sections. Again, the time codes are in the description. This next new feature is for designers who want to create patterns or textures. I'm going to start with this document that is 1080 x 1080 And to show you how this new feature works I'm going to create a very simple rock pattern. I'm going to go into Filter Render Clouds then Filter Stylized Emboss and press OK. Then I'll go into Image Adjustment Hue and Saturation and I'll colorize the pattern and press OK. Now let me show you this new feature and show you how it will help us create seamless patterns. You can go into View and enable Pattern Preview. When you'll enable that, you can press OK and you will see this preview that will show you what is design would look like as a pattern in no matter how much you zoom out, you'll continue to see the pattern. And the best part is that what the Move Tool enabled and an unlocked layer you can click-and-drag and you can see where the seams of the pattern are. So you can now hide those seams anywhere that you like. One quick way is by using the Spot Healing Brush Tool and I'm just going to quickly hide. These seem so that we have a seamless pattern. I'll enable the Move Tool by pressing the V key and just move it a bit more to make sure that we don't have any seams. Everything looks great. The great thing about this feature is that you can also drag-and-drop elements onto here and see how those elements affect the pattern and I can adjust it accordingly like so. And I can also hold Alt (Windows) or Option (macOS) and duplicate that leaf and rotate it as well. And you can see that every adjustment that I make is instantly updated in my pattern preview. And like I said before, you can zoom out and see what your seamless pattern will look like when you're ready to save the pattern. All you need to do is go into Edit  Define Pattern. You'll see the pattern preview here, then you can name it. And once you save this pattern, you'll be able to use it with the patterns panel or with a Layer Style. Next, let's talk about the brand new Neural Filters. These are Adobe Sensei-driven filters. They, of course, use artificial intelligence to create some amazing things. We don't have time to go through all the filters, but I will focus on three filters that stand out. Let's start with a Skin Smoothing filter. We'll use this portrait of myself. It's probably not the best portrait I've ever taken, but it will definitely help us showcase some of the features of these neural filters. Start by selecting your image and go into Filter Neural Filters. This will bring up the Neural Filter gallery and from here we can select the featured filters and the Beta Filters. Let's start with Skin Smoothing. I'm going to enable this and right away you can see that Photoshop will smooth my skin and I can increase the blur in the smoothness and it will affect my portrait. I can also click on this icon to see the before and the after. What I would recommend that you do is that you make adjustments so that everything is smooth out. But I know it's going to look unrealistic and that's OK. When you Output, make sure that you select new layer and press OK and Photoshop would generate this new layer that will create those smooth pixels. What I recommend that you do is hold Alt on Windows or Option on the Mac and click on this Layer Mask icon that will create this black Layer Mask that will hide all the pixels that were generated by the new filter. Then with the Layer Mask selected, you can enable the Brush Tool and you can paint with white to reveal pixels from that layer so you can selectively decide what areas you're going to apply the smoothing effect so that the portrait looks more natural. And as you can see, this is fairly easy to do. This is before and after. So I think that this could be a beneficial tool if you're doing portrait retouching, let me delete this layer and I'm going to go back into the Neural Filters. Filter Neural Filters. And now let's talk a little bit about some of the Beta filters. So I'm going to click on beta filters. Next, we're going to look at the Smart Portrait filter, which will allow you to completely distort a face in ways you can't even imagine. Select the Smart Portrait and enable it. One thing to note is that this filter processes image data in the cloud. So a faster Internet connection will, of course, give you faster results and you can start by enabling any one of these sliders. Let's look at the Happiness slider I'll enable it by clicking the checkbox and I'll increase the happiness. Slider and Photoshop would send the image information into the cloud so that it can process the information. This will take just a few moments and it will return whatever the artificial intelligence thinks that I would look like when I'm happy. And you can see the result even generated here for me. And do you think that looks like my real smile? I don't think so, but I guess it's not bad considering that Photoshop generated it in a few seconds. Let me know your thoughts in the comments. I can also reduce the Happiness to look a little sad and also note as one thing. Now that I process the data in the cloud, that second adjustment happened much quicker. I can also use the Facial Age slider. I can drag it all the way to the left to make myself look a lot younger. And actually I think this does a very good job. I have photos of when I was younger and I look a lot like this, so I think it did a good job. It also generated hair and it is pretty good. I know that some areas are not good like here by my neck, but that's OK. You can use the same technique I used a moment ago. Output to a New Layer, use Layer Mask and just reveal the pixels that will make the image work. I can also go the other way. I can increase the facial age, which will make me look a lot older. The artificial intelligence, I think, does a good job in placing wrinkles over my face and also adding gray hair that matches my hairstyle. It doesn't do that good of a job up here, but I still think that it's pretty good. I can go with a brush in a Layer Mask and mask out the top. But again, very good for just the clicking-and-dragging a slider. There's also other things that you can adjust, for example, the light direction and let me disable that Facial AGe so that we can see that I can add light to the right side of my face or light to the left side of my face. In this, of course, will be good for compositing. You can also adjust the head direction, I can make it seem like my head is tilting to the right or to the left. Again, this is a Beta Filter, so you won't get perfect results, but you might be able to use the pixels that it generates in your projects. Also, we have another image here that I'm going to show you a really cool Neur filter. We have this black and white photo and I'm going to go into filter Neural filters and I'm going to go into the Beta filters right here. And we have a brand new Colorized filter, which is really, really cool. All I'm going to do is click on this button Adobe Sensei, which is the artificial intelligence, will look at the image and it will colorize it with one click is not going to be perfect by any means, but it's really, really good for just one click. You can always come back and adjust it. So one of the ways that you can adjust that is by using the color here you can just select the color. For example, if we wanted to give him a tan suit, we can do that. I can just select the color from this color picker. And I think that for a tan suit, maybe we need something that looks more like this whole press OK. And now I can click over the image and Photoshop will apply that color to the areas that I click on. In this case, I don't think that changing the color makes it better. I actually like the original colors that Photoshop selected for this colorization. I can now Output to a New Layer by pressing OK, and I can just adjust this composite accordingly. And AI I didn't do that bad of a job considering we got this with just one click. Next, let's talk about a powerful feature with Smart Objects to showcase this new feature. I'll start by selecting this layer Right-clicking and converting it into a Smart Object. As you know, a Smart Object is a container that allows you to hold one or more layers and you can apply editable adjustments, distortions filters and transformations. So you can always come back and edit it and let me just press Ctrl T (Windows) or Command T (macOS) to transform Right-click ad select distort and I'm going to make a distortion. And the new feature in Photoshop 2021 is that you can reset distortions on a Smart Object all you need to do is right-click on a Smart Object and select Reset Transform This will remove any transformations that you've applied to your Smart Object and although this wasn't a big change, it's definitely one we needed. Next, let's talk about the new features inside of the Select and Mask workspace in Photoshop 2021 They will allow you to create better and faster selections to showcase this next new feature. We're going to work with this image of this woman standing up against a very busy background. You can see that her hair is flowing in the air and it's definitely not an easy image to mask In Photoshop 2021 there's several new features in the Select and Mask workspace. So let me bring it up. If you go into Select Select and Mask, you'll bring up the Select and Mask workspace. I'm currently working in the Onion Skin mode and is set to 100, which is why everything looks invisible, but by default it is set to 50%. And I'm going to click on the select subject button, which will use Adobe Sensei, which is artificial intelligence machine-learning technology to find the main subject and select it The algorithm has improved. Photoshop does a much better job selecting the hair even from busy backgrounds. And we have two modes. This is one of the new features. We have the Color-Aware mode, which is basically the algorithm that Photoshop had in the past and the new Object Aware algorithm. And you can select between the two. The Color Aware algorithm is better suited for simple contrasting backgrounds and the Object Aware algorithm is best-suited for hair or fur on busy backgrounds, which is exactly what we have here. And we have a brand new button up here called Refine Hair This button will do essentially the same thing as the Refine Edge Brush Tool with the Refine Edge Brush Tool you can click and drag along the side of the edge to refine the adjustments on the hair. You don't have to do that by hand anymore. If you don't want to, you can simply click on Refine Hair and Photoshop will automatically find the hair and apply that same refinement. You can, of course, still use the brush if you like, in case Photoshop misses an area, you can still click-and-drag and paint to further refine those edges. Next, there's a brand new Remember Settings checkbox, if you enable this checkbox, Photoshop will remember the settings that you apply in the Global Refinements area. For example, if I move the Smooth slider to 6, the Contrast slider to 6 as well, and shift the edge inwards to -10 and press OK when I come back into the Select and Mask workspace, you'll notice that Photoshop will remember those previous settings. So this is what that checkbox does. It just remembers the last settings that you applied. And we also have a preset dropdown now. So whatever settings you have on this panel, you can save them as a preset all you need to do is click on, say, Preset and give your preset a name on a mine. Custom Select and Mask Click on Save. I'll cancel to exit the Select menu workspace and I'll go back into the Select and Mask workspace, and right now we have the sliders set to 0, but I can use that preset we just created to bring back those adjustments we applied a moment ago. So this is a great way of saving the adjustments that you often make when you use the Select and Mask workspace. And obviously when you press OK Photoshop will apply those adjustments. And I would like to point out the fantastic job that the artificial intelligence does on this busy background is not perfect, but not bad for just one click. Next, let me show you how Photoshop 2021 handles plug-ins. This is another interesting change in Photoshop. We now have this plugins menu which is replacing the extension's menu here. And basically what this plugins menu allows you to do is select the plugins panel and that will come up and you can click on Discover plug ins and that will take you into the Creative Cloud app. And from here you can install free or paid plugins and Photoshop. You can also go into the old plug ins tab and look at all the available plug ins for Photoshop 2021. One plugin that I often use for compositing is Pixel Squid so I can click on Get press OK and I can install that into Photoshop. The green notice here in the bottom is letting me know that my plug in has been installed and I can now see the pixel squid plug in here under my plugins tab. And this is what the panel looks like. If it's closed, I can just double-click on this and it brings it back up. I think that this is a much better way of handling plug ins inside of Photoshop. Next, let's look at live shapes in Photoshop 2021 I think that these are fantastic for any designer. I've been waiting for some of these updates for a long time now and I'm glad they've been implemented into Photoshop 2021 The first thing I want to show you something that I've been waiting for for many years. If you click on the Rectangle Tool, nested that under it you'll see the line tool And the line tool is completely different now. Now you really do get a single line with two points and you can control the width and the stroke options from the Properties panel so you no longer get a line with four points like before. This is a true line. Much like in Adobe Illustrator. We also have the polygon tool and I'm going to click-and-drag to create a polygon. And we can adjust the roundness of the corners, though, like you see there, and we can push the inside points in to create a star effect and you can add more sides to your polygon by dragging this slider to the right. There are fully customizable, so make sure that you take advantage of the new live shapes in Photoshop. Next, let me show you the new Discover panel in Photoshop twenty twenty one and what it's all about to bring up this new tool you can control f Alt on Windows Command f Unsharp Mask. Or you can click on this icon to bring up the Discover panel. The Discover panel replaces the old search feature in Photoshop. And let me show you a couple of things that you can do in the Discover panel. First of all, you can type the name of a tool or menu in Photoshop, for example, the Move Tool, and you can hover over the tool and Photoshop will highlight it. And if I click on it, Photoshop will highlight it and select that particular tool. I'll bring that back up. And I could also type in a subject like retouching and Photoshop, HSL, Move Tool that I can use for that particular workflow. Also in the home menu, we have the new hands on tutorials. You can click on that to open up these new tutorials. If you go into the photo editing tutorials, you'll see this one here adjust lighting in a photo with levels. And if you click on View All, you'll also see control, photo brightness and contrast with curves. These two hands on tutorials are my tutorials. So if you open one up, you'll see that this is in fact my tutorial. And you can click on Start Tutorial and you'll go through a step by step process on how to adjust an image using the Curves Adjustment Layer you can see the on screen overlays of what to do. Obviously I'm not going to go through that, but if you're interested, check them out. I think that these stories are fantastic. There's a lot of different categories. Check them all out. But I am pretty proud to have two tutorials in here in Photoshop twenty twenty one. And at the time of this recording, I'm the only non Adobe employee to have tutorials inside of Photoshop everyone else there is either an Adobe employee or an Adobe contractor. Let me know in the comments what you think if you decide to try them out. Next, I'm going to show you one of the most useful features in Photoshop twenty twenty one. Let me show how it works. I'm going to work with this composite. As you can see, it has a whole lot of layers. And the important thing is that this is a cloud document. If you remember, they were neum in Photoshop 20-20 and. You can see this cloud icon here, and in case you don't know, you have this cloud document tab here that shows all the documents that you've saved to the Creative Cloud, when you open up a cloud document, it will open up in Photoshop, just like a normal document that you have saved in your computer. But notice that this is a copy as the C a Photoshop cloud document. So it's not saved. My computer is saved in the cloud. And one of the new features is really, really cool. If you're in windows, you can go into a file. Version history, but if you're UniMac, you're going to have to go in window and find the version history menu item, but I'm on Windows, so I'm going to go back into file and select version history and that will open up the version history panel. And you can see the different versions of this particular document. So I have two versions basically said one minute apart, but they could have been saved days or weeks or even months apart. The point is, is that I have two versions of my document. One of them has the color gray that you're seeing now and the second one has a different color. Great. So maybe you apply a color gray to an image and you save the image. You go to sleep, you come back the next day and you kind of miss the old color grid. With this new feature, you can come back and it's still there just because a Creative Cloud is now keeping old versions of your document. And the cool thing is that you can rename each version. So, for example, I can name this version and I can call it. Warm because this is a warmer color, great. See that and I can rename this one into Cool, because this is a cooler color grade and I could also open it up in a new tab. So now I have both versions open. At the same time, of course, is downloading it from the cloud. But there it is. This is a brand new document. It's not the same document. Notice that it doesn't have a cloud icon like this one here, but all my layers are still here. So essentially, I have two documents of the same thing, but with the different color grades. And if I scroll down, you'll notice that the history expires after 30 days unless you bookmark them. But these are already bookmark. If I go into the marked sections, you can see them here. So if you wanted to delete any one of these after 30 days, you can just bookmark. So if I am bookmark the blue one, notice that it's still here in the history, but it will no longer appear in the marked versions. So this is a really powerful way to work. I really hope that you take advantage of the Photoshop cloud documents. Now we're going to look at technology previews. These are not necessarily updates to Photoshop. They're more like beta releases. So we have to enable them in order for us to use them. But before we get into that, I would like to talk a little bit about our sponsor, which is MSRA. I'm currently using B creator 15 laptop. This is a very powerful computer that uses a two point three gigahertz internal core A7 processor with eight cores. It also has a powerful video card, AgForce Artex 2080 super, with eight gigabytes of video memory and 32 gigabytes of RAM. The Mouse, creator of 15 laptop, is primarily designed for content creators. However, it's also a well-rounded system for everyday users and even gamers. But if you're Photoshop user like me, then one of the most important features in this laptop is a true pixel display. It has a four K monitor that is capable of displaying one hundred percent Adobe RGB, which will give you a great color representation and color accuracy. Each laptop is calibrated at factory and it takes optimization to the next level with a creator center which allows you to optimize your computer for different scenarios and to meet the demanding needs of creative professionals. The most content creation laptops are tested and optimized to run Adobe software, including Photoshop, Premiere Pro Illustrator and all the Creative Cloud apps, giving you peace of mind that the laptop will work with the Creative Cloud suite and deliver efficient and seamless use of key applications. This is the perfect laptop to run Photoshop twenty twenty one. If you're interested in it, check out the link below in the description. But anyway, now let's talk about the two technology previews that I think are worth looking at in Photoshop twenty twenty one. Let's start with a technology preview that will take advantage of the cloud documents. I think you're really going to like this one is a very useful one. I'm going to press control. Can Windows Command can the Mac and go into my technology previous and make sure that invite in is selected? You will have to restart Photoshop in order for this to work. Once you bring Photoshop back up, you'll see this icon here, which is the invite icon, or you could also go into file and select invite. They will both bring up this invite window and you can type another users, a Dovid to invite them and work with you on this document a lot like you would with a Google doc or a Dropbox folder where multiple people could work on the same document, same idea here. Keep in mind that this is a technology preview, almost like a beta, really. So it may have some issues. I haven't found any yet. Hopefully you don't come across any. Next, let me show you another technology preview. This is the Content-Aware Fill. Eraser Tool is a new tool that you can add into your toolbar to create paths and Vector Mask. Let's check it out. Start by enabling it. Press Control Chaon Windows Command. Can the back then click on technology previews and make sure that you enable the Content-Aware Fill tracing tool press OK then restart Photoshop. When it comes back up under the Pentel, you should see the content, the word tracing tool. If it's not there, what you can do is click on the three that icon go into edit toolbar and make sure that it's not hiding under the extra tools. If it is, just click and drag it into the pen to a group or anywhere else you would like in Layers Panel. But anyway, once you select the content, the word tracing tool, you will see all these controls in the options bar. First, select the tracing option. By default you'll see normal. And those blue lines represent the edges that Photoshop is going to trace. You can click-and-drag on the detail slider to control the different areas at Photoshop will select. If I select detailed, you'll see that you'll get a little more detail on those lines or simplified will be less detail. So what I recommend that you do is that you work with the smallest detail as possible and still get the lines that you'll need. Two trays over the object that you want to select. So in this case, we can start with something low, like five percent, and you can just click with the Content-Aware Fill tracing tool to add that Vector Mask. Also, notice that this Option is selected and this will allow me to create these vectors around my objects. I'll click and add them to my selection. If you get to an area and nothing appears, you may need to increase the detail to add more detail and you can just create those better paths. Then you can select this plus icon to join the different paths that are not connected and you can just hover over the path to see where they connect. Let me zoom in so that you can see what I'm talking about. See that pink line in between the two paths? When I click Photoshop would join the paths using that line. And you can just hold the space bar at Click-and-drag and look for areas that need to be connected like so. And I'm just clicking in between those two points, using this tool with the plus I can select it. So I'm just making sure that I have a complete path all around. And in this case it looks like I do. I'll double-clicking the Hand Tool to fit the image, the screen, and it looks like I managed to connect all the points and that looks pretty good. Now I can hold control and when those Command in the back and click on the Layer Mask icon to create a Vector Mask. So this tool was designed to create vector paths and Vector Mask much faster. Let me know in the comments what you think about this technology preview. This was a quick rundown of all the new features instead of Photoshop twenty twenty one, I'm going to come out with full length tutorials on a lot of these individual features. I'll place a link to my Photoshop twenty twenty one playlist below in the description. I will also released a video on Camera Raw and the new features in the Camera Raw update. And of course I would like to thank our sponsor, MSF, for sponsoring this tutorial. And if you're new to the Photoshop Training Channel, don't forget to click on that subscribe and notification button so that you don't miss any new Photoshop tutorials. Thank you so much for watching. I'll talk to you again in the next video. 