 In this lesson we're going to continue to discuss preferences if you'd like to follow along go under the file menu to open and in the sample files folder select 020 for Dash 0 2 0 5. What's your preference. And just click open one or we get right back into preferences on a Mac hit command K on a PC control. OK. And we're going to go down to the composition section the default preferences in this particular section are absolutely fine. Most of the time unless you're trying to solve a particular problem like let's say I was working on a brochure that was created a long time ago and I was doing some editing in my layout and I realized that there was some inconsistent tracking. Well we haven't talked about tracking yet. If you don't know what tracking is it's how tight or loose the spacing is between the characters in your type. Well to find the inconsistent work custom tracking what I would do is highlight it in the composition section. So if now I click OK and I scroll down to another page you can see that all of the custom tracking is actually highlighted in a color. Let me go back into my preferences and go to the composition section and just uncheck that probably the preference that has changed the most is units in increments. Let me go into units in increments and you'll see why by default horizontal and vertical Rulli units are in pikas. That is the default for InDesign. Now if I'm here in the United States chances are pretty good that I may want to use inches instead of pikas. If I'm outside of the United States I may want to use centimeters if I wanted these to be my default settings in my preferences. I would close all documents go into preferences to unicity increments and change it to the Rulli units that I want to use for both horizontal and vertical rulers. Then when I open any new documents they'll always be using inches. Let's go to the next section which is grid's. Not much here that I normally would want to change if I go down to the document grid section. You can see that the way the grid is set up both horizontally and vertically is there is a major grid line every inch and eight subdivisions. What if I was using tenths of an inch I could make it 10 subdivisions so I can more easily see where a tenth of an inch is but another part of the preferences Ingrid's and document grid is grids in back. If I had my grid on right now my document grid any object that is in my layout is going to be in front of the grid because by default grids are in back. Well let me click OK and show you what might be an issue with that that I may want to change it temporarily. I'm going to go to View grids and guides show document grid. If I was trying to line up these pictures with my grid I can't see the grid because of this background green object. So in order to be able to line up objects with my grid I would change my preferences temporarily so that the grid is in front of all the objects. Let me do that. I'm going to go back into my preferences to grids an unchecked grid's in back well now I can very easily select these objects and line them up with a grid. But it makes it impossible to look at my layout which is why they're in the background by default. Let me go back into my preferences to grids and make sure to check grids and back. Let's go into the guide section once again not much here I would ever want to change. Here's an example of when you may want to change something with your guides preferences. I got a call from one of my ex-students who trained quite a few versions ago when in design and she said my smart guides are not working and I asked if we could share her screen so I could see what was happening in her layout. And as soon as I saw her layout I knew exactly what was going on. She was working on a catalog for golf equipment and all of the backgrounds in the entire layout were green. Almost exactly the same as her smart guides so her smart guys were actually working she just couldn't see them over the green background so I told her to temporarily change the color of her smart guides to some color that she's going to be able to see more easily over Green such as brick red. Why don't we go down to display performance by default in design uses a display performance that is called typical. Which is fine. It's a high enough resolution for most layouts but let's say I was using the defaults down here in the typical section and for vector graphics the default is something called proxy let me click OK. I'm going to get rid of my grid by going under the View menu to hide document grid and I'm going to go to my zoom all the way the zoom tool works one of the ways is if you click and drag with your zoom tool over a certain area it will fit that area in the screen. The best it can. Not too attractive in typical view. It using a proxy image a low resolution highly pixellated image for my logos for my vector graphics. So if I was working on this I might temporarily change my preferences and go back into preferences to display performance. I may change vector graphics to high resolution and click OK. Now it's not only much easier to look at my logo but to position it correctly because I can actually see what it looks like in high resolution. If I didn't want to change my preferences let me undo that. I'm going to go to preferences display performance and drag it back to the default of proxy and just click OK. I could also do this go to my view menu display performance high quality this temporarily changes the view on my display to high resolution. Now another reason why you may think twice before changing your default preferences so that vector graphics are in high resolution. If you are using some very complex vector graphics in your layout such as an illustration with lots and lots of effects it could take forever to preview on your screen. So rather than change your preferences you may want to go under your view menu to display performance and choose typical display on those particular pages instead of changing your preferences. Why don't we go back into preferences and go to file handling one of the things in file handling that sometimes people like to change is snippet inport position add cursor location. Now we haven't talked about snippet yet so let me tell you what they are. If you have a selection of objects you can save that selection as something called a snippet and then place those objects on another page or another document. Well the way they're working by default is wherever you click with your cursor is where it's going to place those objects. Well one of the uses of snippets is let's say I have a brochure with all of the signed off information for that brochure on the back page. Well if it's a campaign of brochures I may want to have exactly that same sign off information my logo my address my website any information that I need on that back panel of my brochure. I may want to save that as a snippet and then place it in exactly the same position in another brochure in their campaign. So instead of cursor location I may want to choose original location but there's really no reason to change this default. Let me go back to cursing location. You can keep it at cursor location and then when you're placing your snippet as you click hold down your shift key. This will actually position the snippet exactly in the same position as the original objects from when you made the snippet we're going to continue talking about the basics of Indesign in the next lesson. 