 With Smartsheet, you can easily collaborate with colleagues, clients, and others by sharing your work. When you share in Smartsheet, the latest version of your work is available in real-time to all collaborators. Sharing is simple. You can either share to an individual person's email address, or you can share to a Smartsheet group that's been created. Both individual emails and Smartsheet groups that have already been added to your Contacts list will display automatically. When you share your work, you can choose from three different permission levels: Viewer, Editor, or Admin. Viewers can see all the information in a sheet, but can't make any edits or changes. Editors can edit the sheet and add files and comments, but can't modify the column layout. There are two different editor permissions: editors with the ability to share the sheet to others, and editors without sharing capabilities. Admins with their own Smartsheet license can add or remove collaborators, change permissions, and modify the content and structure of the sheet. Once you've entered the email addresses, it's a best practice to add an optional message to the invite details explaining what you're sharing with others. You can also update the subject line of your sharing message, which is especially helpful if you're sharing with team members brand new to Smartsheet. You can change the default view of the sheet and include a shared filter. The person receiving the invitation will get an email with a link to the shared sheet, and can go directly to the sheet if they have a Smartsheet account. People who are new to Smartsheet will be asked to pick a password and create a free user account in order to view your work. The "Sharing Indicator" shows who is viewing your sheet and lets you know when changes have been made. If you'd like to inform people about selected items without sharing the entire sheet, use the "Send" option to send a row or multiple rows to anyone via email. To send specific columns in the row rather than the entire row, use the "Edit" option and select the columns to include in your email. Share a static view of your entire sheet by sending it as a PDF or Excel file attachment. You can also publish your sheet and share it in real-time with viewers without requiring them to log in. To share collections of sheets, reports, templates, and dashboards with the same group of people, use a Workspace. As new items are added to the Workspace, they'll automatically inherit the sharing permissions, color scheme, and branding applied to that Workspace. You also have the option to share individual sheets within a Workspace. And that's how Smartsheet makes it easy to collaborate in real time so your team can achieve more together 