 (light music) - [Scott] You probably spend an awful lot of time right here in Gmail. But are you aware of all of the Gmail settings and how they can affect your email experience? In today's video, I wanna share with you seven Gmail settings, clarify what they do, and see if you wanna make some changes to your own account. To get started off, we wanna get into settings. We wanna hover over the gearbox icon. We also want to select settings. That's gonna bring us here to the general tab. All the settings that we're looking at here are found within that general tab. Now the first one I wanna highlight is maximum page size. By default, Gmail usually has this set at 50 conversations, meaning 50 emails per page. But you can actually expand that to 100 if you like. But you can also go in the other direction. I find for some of my clients, they actually like it if there's only maybe 20 or 25 because they have fewer emails staring back at them at any given time. This will also help your page to load faster depending on your Internet connection. So, make sure you take a look at your maximum page size. Now the second one on our list is undo send. I know a lot of Gmail users that are not familiar with this setting at all. Let me show you how it works. I'm gonna go back over here. I'm gonna compose a new message. Let me just send it to a test email that I have here. I don't even need a subject line. I'm just gonna say Scott, you are an idiot. I'm so mad with you right now. I'm gonna hit send. Down below on the left-hand corner, you can see there's an undo. You know what, ah let's undo that. You know what, I was a little hot and bothered. Scott isn't an idiot. I better not send that. Let me rethink what I want to send to him. But as you may have noticed in the previous screen, I have it set for five seconds. So, if I do hit send again, we're gonna see this happen again. Five, four, three, two, one. That undo, it's gone. Now the email has been sent. Now I can't take it back. I better be ready for what Scott replies to me with that particular email. If you'd like a little bit of extra time, what you can do with the undo send is you can increase this all the way out to 30 seconds. It will just last that much longer in the lower left-hand side if you do want to retract that particular email. Now the third one on my list today has to do with sending a reply to a message and automatically archiving it. It's called send and archive. Now by default, this is turned to hide the send and archive button. But I've turned it on to show how it looks like and how it works. When you're replying to a message within Gmail, in many cases, you probably want to go ahead and archive that message immediately afterwards. You don't want it to cloud out your inbox. It'll be sent to the all mail section here within Gmail. So, you can always find it. You can always search for it. But here is that message that I just sent, this test message. When I hit reply, you'll notice down below my buttons look a little bit different. Instead of just having the blue send button, I've got a send plus reply or send plus archive icon. I can also just hit this white one, which would be the traditional send. But what's gonna happen is that this email is in my inbox right now. You said what did you say to me. I'm gonna hit and reply. When I hit this, it's gonna send the email as usual. But now it returns me to my inbox, and it is now in the archive folder. Again, I can search for it, I can go find it, but it's no longer here in my inbox. This isn't something that a lot of people use, but it can be really handy, really helpful especially so you can go back to your inbox immediately after hitting the send. You're not remaining on that page, you're not remaining on that email. You can get onto the next message in your inbox. All right. The next one in our list, I'm sort of combining two here. It has to do with smart compose. You can see that there's two labels here: smart compose personalization and then smart compose. I'm not exactly sure why they didn't group these together and maybe put them in a different order. I'm gonna start with the bottom one first. Smart compose has to do with giving you writing suggestions. You may have noticed this on the mobile version of your Gmail account. Maybe it's turned off. Maybe you have to go in here and turn it on. But writing suggestions will do is that when you are writing a message, I'm gonna open up this sample email here, I'm gonna hit reply, and I'm gonna say yes, I can meet, oh I can do that. Even after hitting the N in can, you can see I've got some gray text that says do that. It's suggesting. Is that what you meant to say? Is that the type of thing that you were going to say? If I want to accept it, all I have to do is hit the Tab key on my keyboard, and now the cursor goes all the way to the end. I mean, it's helping me to write my email. But maybe I don't want to use that. So, I can just keep typing. I don't have to look at it. I don't have to acknowledge it. I can meet on. And again, it's giving me another suggestion here. I can meet on Thursday. It can see that that was the question for this email. Again, I can hit Tab, I can hit Period. See you. Look at that. I haven't even finished the word you. See you then. So, it's helping me to craft and write my email in a faster way. So, that is smart compose. But now up above, we have smart compose personalization. You can either have this on or off. What this means, and it gives us a brief description down below, is that it will start to learn your own writing style. So, it's gonna take a look at the way that you've written other emails, the way you've replied to other emails, and are there certain phrases, are there certain words, are there certain ways that you write an email, and it will start to suggest those as a part of smart compose. For example, do you start your emails with hi or hello or hey? (laughs) However you start it out, Gmail is going to learn what you typically use and then it's gonna suggest it. It's gonna personalize it for your use. So, smart compose personalization and also smart compose. All right. Moving on to the next one in our list has to do with nudges. I think this is a really important one. This has to do with giving your suggestions to emails that you should maybe reply to or emails that you should be following up on. So, we've got both of those suggestions here. The first one, suggest emails to reply to, so maybe these are emails that have a question in them. Like the sample one that we just used there, when someone is asking me if I can meet this week, if I leave that for a couple of days and I don't reply to it, Gmail may bring that email back to my inbox and say uh do you wanna reply to this, should you reply to this. Maybe you already had a phone conversation, maybe you already spoke to this individual, but Gmail is trying to be helpful if you have this on saying hey, here's one or two emails that maybe you should take a second look at. Now the one below, suggest emails to follow up on, this has to do with emails that you have sent. Maybe you've sent a question to someone else, and Gmail notices that that person has not replied. There's been no response to that question or that email. So, after a couple of days, I'm not exactly sure the timeframe or the algorithm associated with this, but Gmail is gonna start to learn and pick up on things and it might bring back a few emails to make that suggestion for you. So, nudges, I think it can't hurt to just leave these on. I keep them on. I don't use them very often. I actually use some other tools such as Boomerang to help me with these types of emails, but it doesn't hurt to just leave these on. You don't wanna leave anything behind or forget something in your inbox. All right. And the last one on our list today has to do with button labels. This is the one found a little bit lower down on the screen. We've got either icons or we have text. Now by default, what you're going to see for most users is that you're gonna see the icons within your inbox. What that means is that up here, you are usually gonna see things like the archive icon, the spam icon, the delete, which is like a trash can, but I've already turned these two labels. Here you can see I've got the actual text-based labels. You can actually make that change. If you're not familiar with the icons themselves or maybe you just wanna get more familiar for a short period of time, you can get the text-based labels instead of, here's a good example. This is what the archive icon looks like. Otherwise that's what's going to appear up here at the top of your screen. Well, I would love to hear from you next. Are there some other settings here within Gmail that you think are really, really valuable and others should know about? Make sure to share them with all of us in the comments down below. Remember, being productive does not need to be difficult. In fact, it's very simple. 