 What we see about trends right now there's a lot about flexibility. Everybody's talking about activity-based working. We think it's more than that. It's about people being able to make their own decisions to find a workspace where they can actually work efficiently. It's about people being enabled to own their own time. And we really think that you need to create a workspace which makes people happy because when they're happy, they're productive and that's what you that's kind of the people you want in your workspace of course. There are pilot projects which we are launching right now to start improving and developing the workspace. It was very important for us to start from the bottom and work up. So we have been initiating a lot of surveys with the employees. We're doing focus groups, and we're trying as much as we can to involve the users to really see, ok, what does our employee, what does our user actually need? What do they want? How can we make their working day better? And that's kind of like a part of the core of everything we do when it comes to our offices. It all kind of spins out of the values for our building, which is about innovation and of course sustainability, but also transparency. We want to be transparent in the way we communicate with our users. We want to be transparent in the type of solutions we want to add. We want to be transparent in the type of technology we want the employees to use, because it's important for us also that there's some acceptance, because if the users on the orient the employees don't use it, then it doesn't have any value and for us it's. We don't want to implement something that doesn't add any value for the users. We believe that it's going to be very human-centric. That the employer will be under focus. It will be about sustainability. It will be about a human wellbeing in the office; to create workspaces that can also kind of encourage healthy living; encourage an efficient way of working. And we think that more people will move from like a fixed-time type of working schedule to more of a result-oriented, kind of be-in-charge of your own time. And we need technologies, we need solutions that are enabling this, enabling people to do this. I believe that in the future, the focus on work-life balance will be much more important. And the people being able to work from actually where they want to work, not having to go to one office every day. At the same time, you need to be able to create this team spirit, to create a kind of company culture. And so that means like some kind of technology where you can have kind of a VR-type meeting solution or holographic meetings or something where you are able to literally discuss in a meeting but still be in separate locations… That would be pretty awesome. 