 Dealing with content chaos? De-stress the process in Socialbakers. Using content collections, it’s easy to organize the ultimate content command center. Let’s dive into a few key use cases that top brands and agencies are handling with collections right now. Working across departments can be an absolute nightmare if there’s no central hub of activity. Fashion retailers, universities, and even large scale FMCG brands are just a few clients who currently use collections as go-to   moodboards. One brand has set up a global collection to drop in ideas and inspiring content from the industry, along with suggestions on what aspects they like and maybe would want to adopt. They share creative direction using the in-platform chat with their designers. Containing this flurry of activity in one place ensures that nothing gets lost across workspaces. A retail bakery uses collections to upload all of their photos from recent photoshoots for upcoming campaigns. This is huge for fashion brands too. Here, teams can evaluate the assets together and discuss the collection as a whole, rating individual pieces and then coming to a final decision. A number of B2B brands in Socialbakers take a data-driven approach. Saving all of their top performing posts from Content Hub, they can continue to draw inspiration from their own pool of engaging content, and then do more of what’s working in terms of of design, messaging, and themes. Content governance is another major hurdle for many global brands. Collections are the one place where they can organize content into categories and get them ready for distribution. Financial brands, large hospitality groups, and franchises rely on collections to keep a complex process as simple and as smooth as possible. For one banking brand, headquarters actually handles content creation. Then, they upload the assets to collections from cloud storage, leave instructions per asset, and alert the right teams that the assets are ready for use. From there, publishing for these teams is really seamless. The integrated workflow from Collections to Publisher helps teams bring the best ideas to market, faster. Once all content is published, HQ also has complete visibility over content performance in Content Hub and in dashboards. Another win for workflows - complete synergy between data and creative. Without the right solutions in place to support your people and processes, the stress of content creation will continue to impact not only how you feel, but the results you can achieve. We’ve just shared a few creative examples to spark inspiration. Dive into content collections now and see what you can do. 