 Welcome to BricsCAD Mechanical. Let's explore the Mechanical user interface. This is BricsCAD's start screen. Here you change between the various workspaces, depending on your licensing level. Currently the Mechanical workspace is active. You can see the files you have recently worked on and you can quickly re-open them. You have the option to quickly start a new drawing. You can open a sub-menu allowing you to choose from several drawing templates and units to use for the new drawing. You can also click the Open drawing button, to open an existing drawing through the file browser. On the left side of the screen there are tabs for more content. The Learn tab has sample files that you can download, as well as links to tutorials on the Bricsys Help Center. In the applications tab you can find 3rd party extensions to BricsCAD to help you customize and optimize your workflow. Click the BricsCAD logo in the top left corner to open a drop-down menu. Here you can access several options for your drawing. Use the New Wizard option to start a more customized drawing. Here you can browse for any template files you have created. The Ribbon, located on the top of the screen, gives you access to the various mechanical modeling tools. There are several tabs for different sets of tools. Left-Click on any tool to activate it. Many of the top level tools offer sub-menus, left click on the arrow to expand the selection. The middle of the screen is your modeling space where you create, edit and view your models. In the top right of the modeling space is the "Look From" tool. Use this to orient and navigate the model space. On the left side of your screen you will see the Mechanical browser panel where you can find things such as solids, assemblies, constraints and parameters. On the right side of the screen you can see the Properties panel where you can alter various details and settings regarding your model. To find all the other panels available in BricsCAD Mechanical, simply Right-Click anywhere on the ribbon and hover over "Panels". Here you can see any active panels and open more. On the bottom of your screen you will see the Command line. Here you can type in commands and select any available options for an active command. All panels in BricsCAD are movable and you are able to dock them in several locations of the user interface. Here the command line is used as an example. Through the settings it is possible to enable a floating frame for the command line. To enable Clean Screen right-click the ribbon and select it from the drop-down menu, enter CLEANSCREEN into the command line or use the Ctrl + zero keyboard shortcut. This will remove parts of the user interface and give you more drawing space. Through the settings you can toggle what parts of the interface you want to be removed as a part of the clean screen command. To toggle between the Dark and Light User Interface, right-click on the Ribbon and select it from the drop-down menu, or enter COLORTHEME into the Command line. Be sure to check out our other tutorials. 