 Alright, brilliant. Welcome! So, I'm so happy to see so many of you here tonight This is really a huge treat. I am the Koch Institute's executive director and as those of you who have been here before on this night you probably already know this is one of my favorite nights of the year-- days of the year actually because of the excitement of the winning awardees sitting here on the front row and their passion for research, the opportunity to celebrate where science meets art, the diversity and scope of MIT research that is on display. Yes? Louder, yes. This is much louder, much better. Okay, thank you. I won't start again though-- the diversity in scope of MIT researchers on display, and finally the promise of these images, and the solutions that they represent, all combined to make this a very special night as well as tonight's MC, the Koch Institute Communications and Public Outreach guru who hosts school groups by day and is in charge of our galleries as well as our image collection and who has an extraordinary talent for puns as some of you already know, Ms Erika Reinfeld. I want to take this opportunity to congratulate all of you Image Award winners. As most of you know, I actually have a conflict tonight, so I'm going to disappear in the next five minutes. I'm sorry to miss it. I will be watching every video, for sure, once it's posted on our website. I want to thank Erika for all that she has done in her many roles at the Koch Institute especially leading up to this evening. As well as the rest of our fabulous team who have worked hard to put this event together for you all, and I want to thank our sponsors, especially Nikon, and finally all of you for coming. And without further delay here's Erika. Alright, hello everyone, happy spring! I am so excited that this is the first day of spring because nothing says spring at the Koch Institute like brand-new images. It's like flowers bursting into bloom in some cases actually literally. Alright, so I echo Anne's thanks for all the people who made tonight possible. And a particular group of people that I'd like to thank are our judges. They had the very difficult task of sorting through 166 images, which is a record number of for submissions, to choose the 10 images that you see tonight. They were looking very carefully for a balance of science stories of visual appeal and they had very difficult decisions. There were some very heated discussions. I'm happy to report that all of that -- all save a few that researchers wanted to keep under wraps still -- are posted at the KI gallery's web site. So if you'd like to see many of the other images those are all on display. One other thing that I do want to point out is our hashtag. So if you're on Twitter, we definitely encourage tweeting of this event. Our hashtag is KI images. But what I really want to do tonight is celebrate the images that you see in the gallery in front of you. I always tell people that, when I give tours, that I could talk for any of the images for hours on end but luckily tonight that's not going to happen. You're going to hear from the presenters and from the people who created these images-- one representative from every image -- in a series of lightning talks, where I've challenged them, in five minutes or less, tell us the story of your image. So, you're gonna hear from them in their own words what makes these things so exciting. So, to move things forward, we're going to hit the ground running with our first image and in a couple of minutes you'll see why "hit the ground running" was actually a very clever thing for me to say. This is actually an image that builds on some images that were submitted last year. Jared told me while we were installing them that he's very glad he didn't win last year because he likes this image even better and I would like to think that that gives him hope to some the people in the audience who also submitted images that didn't make it into the light boxes this year, keep -- keep trying, which as it turns out is also a theme of this image. Hi, everyone, it's really exciting to kick things off. Can everybody hear me? I just want to test this microphone. We good. Alright, thank you my name is Jared. I'm in Paul Blainey's lab, which is actually across the street at the Broad Institute but we definitely have a lot of collaboration here at the Koch Institute as well. So as many of you are probably aware, biology is very complex and when we think about biological systems, we think about a lot of different interacting parts that give rise to some whole. And trying to understand these complex systems is very, very challenging, and requires us to think critically about how each of these parts contributes to the larger whole. And this is an omnipresent problem across biology whether we're talking about cellular metabolism or drug interactions or cancer biology. But the example I'm gonna take us through today is actually one of microbial ecology. And thinking about this idea of a microbial community. So a microbial community is the set of interacting microbial species-- and microbial communities exist everywhere. They exist in the soil and in the oceans, and they live in association with macroscopic host species like this tree or like this human being. And many of you are probably familiar, for example, with the gut microbiome which comes up a lot in the press. This is the collection of the trillions of microbes that live inside our colon. And understanding these systems remains a huge challenge because of all the different parts involved. And one of the things that's sort of emerged in the research lately is that there are certain microbial species that have a very strong association with host health, with human health. This is thing-- these are microbes that you've probably heard of that cause disease, staph, E. coli, strep... And it also includes microbes that are actually beneficial to human health. So we're gonna collectively refer to these organisms as microbes of interest. And we're interested in understanding how we could make these microbes of interest grow, or, in some cases, kill them. And what we're learning to appreciate is that the ability for these microbes to survive in, in a community depends in large part on the other microbes present in the community. But we don't understand the rules of engagement here. How does the presence or absence of certain probes in a given community influence or dictate the ability of another microbe to survive? So this is the platform that we've worked on in the Blainey Lab, to actually start to address some of these complex questions. And I'm going to use the microbial community one as an example. And this is how we're going to address this particular problem. We're gonna take a set of single microbial species and we're gonna put them in these tiny droplets and each of these droplets is also going to get a single color barcode Thank you, Erika. And that barcode is going to uniquely map to the resident species within each-- within each droplet. So, for example, if a droplet is red, it means it contains drop -- microbe A; if the droplet is yellow, it means it contains microbe B, and so forth. What we do is we load these droplets into a small chip, which I'm holding here in my hand. It's about the size of a credit card. And this credit card-sized chip has about 30- to 40,000 distinct so-called microwells. And these microwells are designed to capture a very specific number of droplets from our input library. What we then do, is we merge the droplets inside each of these microwells. And this is what constructs various combinations of microbes from our library. But to come back to the original problem of that microbe of interest, we're also going to put a microwell of interest in each droplet and we're gonna label this microbe is green. And the question we're gonna ask is how much green do we ultimately see in each of these microwells that we can then trace back to the microbes that went into each microwell and make conclusions, like, this certain combination of microbes promoted the growth of our microbe of interest, or this certain combination of microbes suppressed the growth of our microbe of interest. So, the picture that you're seeing today is actually a composite image composed of the merged droplet color codes along with the green -- that we -- from our microbe of interest. And indeed, this is what we see. The purples and the pink shades come from the mixture of the droplet dyes that color code the droplets, and the green is our microbe of interest. So, when we're actually looking at data like this: it looks something like this. We're looking at these -- this huge array of different microwells and we track the amount of green in time in each one to ascertain how much our microwell of interest is growing. So, we're excited to explore all the different applications with this technology, in addition to these basic questions in microbial ecology, where we are excited to develop and explore the idea of probiotics which many of you are probably familiar with. But I don't mean probiotics the way that you might yet at the grocery store. I mean probiotic therapeutics which means specific combinations of microbes that can actually be developed into therapeutics to treat human disease. And then more generally, we can apply this combinatorial approach to ask questions about drug interactions as on both infectious disease agents as well as cancer cells. I have a number of people to thank both on the engineering and biology ends. I'd like to thank my advisor Paul Blainey as well as a couple students in the Blainey Lab, Anthony Kuhlesa. He recently graduated. And Sherry Ackerman, a postdoc in the lab on the biology end. Jeff Gore, Anthony Ortiz, and Jonathan. Jonathan Friedman is a professor now at Israel. He recently graduated from MIT as well. So thank you all very very much for listening. Actually, Jared, don't sit down quite yet. Because along with the, the honorific of image awards winner we also have physical award. So, congratulations! Alright, So, I'd say that was a hit. To transition into our next image, I'm gonna call the attention to this idea of screening for different combinations of drugs, for development. And our next image looks at what happens next. So this is of course the image that is on your programs. And I would say it very much captures the spirit of both this event as well as the Koch Institute in general. So, if you've been here before, you know that the Koch Institute combines life sciences and biology with physical sciences and engineering to develop new insights, tools, and technologies for understanding, detecting, and defeating cancer. And if you haven't been here before now, you know that. So this is an image that brings together biology, chemistry, data science, and more. And as Daniel will tell you, there's definitely an art to balancing so many different aspects of this research. Can everybody hear me? Test... can you guys hear me okay? That's much better. I love it. I can hear myself. I can tell you guys can hear me. Yeah. Thank you so much, Erika, for the introduction. As she said, you know, it's really a balance to be able, you know, to juggle all these different aspects of different research fields, but luckily, you know, it's been a passion that uh for me already for quite a while actually. So, this is the first photographic evidence of me, you know, I could be making some polymers on the right and on the left, I am trying to hack into my dad's computer, probably on the lookout for more video games. And, you know, as they say, find something that you love and you'll work every single day of your life. So, clearly, I had no other chance than pursuing a PhD in Switzerland, working at the interface of data science and  machine learning as well as drug discovery. What we're in essence trying to do, in simple terms, is use the computer to make new medications. How this look like in reality was, we predicted the biological activities of small molecules seeking out to find new inhibitors of proteins that were of interest to treat a various disease. Now we are very excited, very happy with these results. We said, look like I have all these compounds potentially treating all these important diseases. Can we put them in humans yet? So I came here to the Koch Institute to better understand what would be necessary to take such compounds that are computational design and develop them further so that we can actually improve the life of a human being. As it turns out, you don't only need to be good at your job, you also need to get to the office. And so basically what I realized as soon as I started working with these tremendous people here at the Koch Institute, is, that if a patient swallows a drug, it goes on this -- what I think it embarks on this tremendous journey through the body if you want to think about it like that-- facing all these different challenges, all those checkpoints where potentially the drug actually would never make it into the target tissue -- into the target cell-- to exert its biological activity, but it's stopped before. Metabolism could make it inactive, you know. It could be eliminated too quickly; a wrong bio distribution could really prevent it from being in the target tissue where it needs to be. So my postdoc here is committed to using machine learning and data science not only to understand what one of these challenges a medication would face but also to develop solutions to overcome these challenges. And the one that I want to talk about today is one of the very first ones actually: if a drug colloidially aggregates and that prevents it from permeating the gut wall and the intestinal membrane. If that's a lot of words that not necessarily mean something to you, you can think of it as if -- too many people trying to push through the same door. So if the gut really, if the drug really aggregates, you can see nobody's coming through anymore, right? And so we were trying to understand how can we model this in the computer and how can we understand whether a drug would have this aggregation behavior and not being able to cross the door. We use molecular dynamics simulations to simulate these dynamic behaviors, and then use machine learning to interpret the dynamics, the shapes that are formed, the complex, complexes that are formed in these simulations, as well as the interaction between those individual molecules. The image that you can see outside is actually such a simulation of the anti-cancer drug sorafenib which was proposed by the simulation to aggregate dramatically and we were able to validate this behavior using transition electron microscopy. So this is the actual drug in solution having a similar behavior as we had anticipated and we're hoping that such computational systems can really help us to better understand what drugs should will be making, which one should we maybe avoid because they would never make it through the door. But, also, what are possible adjuvants that we can add and what are other things we can do to make sure that the drug gets to the place it needs to be and can actually treat and help a human being? And with that, it reminds me to thank a bunch of people. Most and foremost my postdoc advisors, Bob and Gio. I mean not less important my team of students. Especially the three musketeers you can see on the lower right: Crystal, Jee, and Natsuda,  who've been extremely tremendous, of tremendous help, amazing uprising scientists, and have contributed dramatically to his work. Yun, who helps the artists behind the actual microscopy image. And then my PhD advisor Gisbert Schneider, and team members at ETH Zurich. And there's a big list here of people at the Koch Institute and across Boston that have, you know, significantly impacted my journey and my postdoc here in the last three years, so I want to thank them as well. The Swiss National Science Foundation, IBM, and the SensetTime Coalition for Funding, and you all for your attention. Alright, so, I'm gonna use the right side of your image to transition into our next image. As it turns out, this year we have had the most electron microscopy that we have ever had in the image awards exhibition. And of course transition electron, uh, transmitting electron microscopy is a little different than scanning but if our next presentation I'm going to bring up a specialist in electron microscopy who's going to tell you a little bit more about this imaging technique. And while she's at it, she's also going to plant the seeds for some of the other themes that were gonna be seeing throughout the evening. So, Nicki, why don't you come up, and let the wild rumpus start. Thank you, so my name is Nicky Watson, and I am the core facility manager at the Keck Facility at the Whitehead Institute and the electron microscopy specialist. This image was generated with work done with Mary Gehring's lab and she works on the effects of fertilization and seed development. The molecular effects of fertilization, seed development, on Arabidopsis. Arabidopsis is from the family of brassicaceae, is related to the mustard plant that you see in California on the white -- on the yellow hills. It was discovered in the 8th-- in the 17th century-- in Harz mountains of Germany. Earliest reported mutant was created in 1873; chromosome number was first determined in 1907 and became a model organism in 1943. So this little plant has been around for a very long time and has sponsored a lot of great careers of science. So, the Gehring lab studies how plants make seeds. So, let's review our bio-- botany 101 and remember how plants make seeds. So, the basic common flower parts: we have petals to attract the insect; we have the stamen and the anther, where the pollen is generated; we have the stigma, the pistil, and the ovary where the seed is developed. So the anther releases the pollen; it gets placed on top of the stigma by wind, by bugs, by whatever means; travels down the style, meets with the eggs and develops in the ovary into a seed pod or into a fruit. So, Mary's lab works with Arabidopsis lyrata and Arabidopsis thaliana. And these species are very closely related to each other, but they were reproduce in very very different ways. In particular, Arabidopsis lyrata cannot self pollinate and Arabidopsis thaliana can self pollinate which sounds like a small difference but it's a big deal when you're one of these plants. So, we imaged the flowers of both these plants, and compared their morphology and their anatomy. And that's where we came up with this picture that was then submitted for this, this great event today. This is Arabidopsis Lyrata. You can see these stamens here have not yet matured enough to release their pollen. However, the stigma here is mature enough to receive the pollen so if this plant is going to produce seeds, the pollen must come from some other plant from some other place. Also, it has the capacity to kill its own pollen. if that happens to get on here. While Arabidopsis thaliana, if you can see the purple dots on here, the-- the pollen grains have matured, They've exploded, they've come out. They're actually landing on top of, the the top of the plant here. So, this plant can in fact -- both parts of the -- both sexual parts of the plant mature at the same time, so it can self pollinate. So that was sort of the take home message of this image. We can take advantage of these observe differences to make evolutionary comparisons about the process of fertilization of seed development. So since I'm an electron microscopy specialist, I can't leave the stage without talking about producing these images. Scanning, again is not a difficult process to master but it does have to be done particularly-- in a particular way. So, first we collect our material. We chemically fix it, fully dehydrate it-- that is, replace all the waters in the cell with ethanol -- then we mount that into a critical point dryer which allows us to air dry the sample without causing any air drying artifacts. Air drying artifacts would be shrinkage, cracking, breaking, turning to dust. Then we mount that on a stub, coat it with a heavy metal -- gold or gold palladium-- that then can go into the high vacuum of the electron microscope and be imaged. The goal here is that we want this picture-- when it's in the high vacuum of an electron microscope and being bombarded with an electron beam-- to look exactly as it did when it was alive and happy. So, what motivated me to produce a signature, submit this image, was the the natural high contrast images of SEM. I just always love the silky and and lush overall look of them. They remind me of the, the the paintings of the Golden Age, of the Dutch masters of the 17th century. And when I was playing around with Photoshop, the coloring of this, it just produced an image that, to me, just looked like something that was painted by-- ages and ages ago. So back to showing the image again, and on today, the first day of spring, I think we just say a little nod to our friendly Arabidopsis, the humble little plant with a noble noble contribution to science. Thank you. Thank you and thank you for your contributions to science as well. And I agree, the Photoshop, definitely adds a nice Vermeer of elegance to the raw data. Yeah, this one's really fertile ground for jokes. Yeah, alright, so, so there were a lot of, as I said we were planting the seeds for a lot of different themes. The one I'd like to talk about next is that of the model organism. This, which is of course, a non-living human, sorry, a non-human living system -- there we go-- that can be studied to understand biological phenomena. And this next image is a new model organism for the KI Public Galleries. This is, yes, "Using Sea Urchins to Understand Cell Migration." I would even say, looking at the contrast of this particular image, it is definitely, it is um, a kind of dramatic. OK. Echinoderms, or sea urchins are echinoderms. There you go. Alright, yeah, I know what are you gonna do with me. Alright, so, but we're gonna hear about this model organism. And what it can tell us about cancer as well as the development of-- of cells in an organism. So it is my great pleasure to introduce Genevieve to the stage. Okay, Can you hear me? Thank you very much, Erika. So, as a biologist, I've always been particularly interested in understanding how cells move. And this is a very critical part of disease because as many of you may know, most cancer deaths actually happen when the cancer cells leave the original tumor and travel to other organs in the body. And what I'll show you here in this movie on the right is a tumor with all the cancer cells shown in green. And what you might notice about this image is that most of the cancer cells are actually going to remain stationary in the tumor. And that's where they'll stay. Oops ... But sometimes some of the cancer cells can undergo a transition from a stationary to a mobile cell type. And this is a process we call EMT. And you can see that here with these two cells that have become -- become mobile and are able to escape the tumor. And once they start moving they can find and enter a blood vessel shown here in red and then travel through circulation to other parts of the body. So, cell migration is really an important and deadly aspect of cancer. But it's also a really difficult thing to study because normally we can't see through humans or mice to be able to watch these cells moving. Our microscopy techniques are getting better, and we're able to take these short little movies by making a little window in the skin of an animal. But there's a lot of technical challenges with doing these type of experiments, a lot of limitations to this method. Another way would be to take these cancer cells out of an animal and put them in a petri dish and watch them move, but we know now that cells migrating on a flat surface just does not well represent how they migrate in a complex three-dimensional environment of the body. So an alternative approach to study cell migration is to turn to a model organism. And it turns out that sea urchins, that you can see here, actually a really fantastic model system to study cell migration. They make these beautiful embryos -- that you see here in the top-- images and they develop outside of the adult animal so we can watch them develop and they're completely transparent. So we can just watch them under the microscope developing over time, just like you see in these images. And what's also interesting about the sea urchin embryos, that you can see in this bottom images, is that they have a group of cells here that are shown in green that are very similar to cancer cells, and that they undergo the same process of EMT that makes them transition from a stationary to a more mobile cell type. And so they start out as a pool of cells at the bottom of the embryo and as the embryo is developing, they migrate up the inner wall of the embryo to form this ring structure. And once they're in the correct location, they start to synthesize components of the skeleton. And you can see that here in this older embryo, where the skeleton is shown in white. And if these cells don't get to the right spot, then the skeleton won't form properly. Now, we know that these cells do not inherently know where to go on their own and they're actually receiving some type of directional cues from the rest of the embryo that help them navigate and figure out where they're supposed to go, but what these cues are that help them navigate, is unknown and that's what we're trying to figure out. So, something else that we know is, it's not just cells that are migrating on the inside of these embryos. If we use a special type of microscopy, you can see the inside of the embryo and find that just like tumors, these embryos are actually filled with a network of long and thick protein fibers. And in other instances these types of protein fibers are known to act as tracts for cells to migrate along. But, our question here is, what proteins are these fibers actually made of? And, are any of these proteins in this fibrous network providing the directional cues that help these cells figure out where they're supposed to go? So, to answer these questions, we treat normal embryos, that you can see here up in the right hand corner, we treat them with a special detergent that can remove all of the cells from the embryo. And after we treat with the detergent what we're left with is what you see here in my image that's in the gallery. These, they appear as these glassy membranes that are surrounding the inner skeletons. And these glassy membranes are made up of this whole fibrous network. So once we've isolated these fibrous membranes, we can study them and figure out what the proteins actually are and once we have that information we can go back to the embryo and do some cool experiments where we genetically remove some of the proteins from this fibrous network, and then ask: can the cells still move without that protein there? And if so, have they lost the ability to navigate to the correct locations? So what I'd like you to take away from this talk tonight is that even though sea urchins are evolutionarily very distant from humans, they're still a really powerful model organism that we can use to study the biology of cell movement. And this can give us really important information about how cells move in order to form an embryo, and also how cells might be moving during cancer metastasis. And so with that, I'll thank you for listening. Thank my advisor, Richard Hynes, and our collaborators both at MIT and the Broad and BU. And our funding sources. Thank you. Alright. Thank you. I think this is really on track for some important discoveries. But as I look on the clock, it seems that there's some urchin sea to move along to our next presenter. So we're gonna take a look at another project that is in fact about more than the cells. Matt is doing a different sort of experiment to understand why cells behave the way they do. He's engineering and recreating signals. He's using a technique known as optogenetics, which is exciting, because it means he came to me with the pun for the subtitle, and we had to work out the main title but I didn't encounter too much resistance. And in the end, I think the exercise was worth it. Alright. Can you guys hear me okay? yeah, alright, great. My name is Matt Victor. I'm a postdoctoral fellow in Li-Huei Tsai's lab at the Picower Institute for Learning and Memory. And today i'm excited to share with you a little bit of my work in building an artificial circuit made of engineered stem cells to understand how patterns of activity that are normally found in the developing brain can shape the final properties of that adult circuit. An easy way to think about neural circuits and how they're arranged in the brain is to imagine that individual light bulbs in a set of a string, Christmas string lights, are individual neurons in our brain and much like these cells neurons are electrically coupled to one another. And, I'm not only interested in how these circuits are formed and how they're maintained throughout adulthood, but collectively with members in the Tsai lab we're interested in how this circuit might falter in Alzheimer's disease. And to do this, I'm taking an unconventional approach to study circuits by using a technique that has revolutionized the field of stem cell biology called cellular reprogramming. And what that means is, that we can take a small skin biopsy from a healthy individual or a patient from a neurologic-- from a neurological disease -- and culture them in lab in petri dishes. And these are skin fibroblasts, they're sturdy, they proliferate fast. And what we can do is coax the cells to go back and become stem cells. And these are induced pluripotent stem cells or iPSs. And then we can use these IPS to differentiate them into virtually any cell type in the body including our own favorite neurons, the brain cells. And so, these are my reprogrammed neurons. They came from a healthy individual 22 year old female and there were skin biopsy that was reprogrammed into neurons. And what I did here is, that I tagged the cells with a protein that allows me to use light to either activate them to turn them on or off. So, that means that flashing lights control the activity of the cells. And this is work that was pioneered by our own Ed Boyden in the Media Lab. And so these cells were seeded into a multi electrode array. So, a single dot of cell suspension was made into this micro well that has electrodes that can read the electrical activity of the cells. And this is the image that's been installed outside tonight. And I'm using it so that I can use light to trigger patterns of neuronal activity. And then by having the cells growing into these multi array electrodes, I can record their activity in response to my stimulus to define the parameters in which I want to define them as. So, let me tell you a little bit about my actual experiment. So what I'm doing is, actually, I'm growing this reprogrammed neurons in the lab, and I'm trying to mimic neural development. And I'm trying to do, is activate them with patterns. Sorry... that's sad ... okay, okay, well so this is supposed to just flash. But the idea is that I'm using the patterns of its -- so I'm using patterns of light activation to mimic patterns of activity that's naturally found in the developing brain to figure out how-- to assess, how the impact of neural activity shapes the properties of the circuits. So what we're hoping to do, is to begin to untangle some of these properties of neurons by studying a more simplified version of a neural circuit which is extremely intricate, where individual cells can make thousands of connections. So with that, this is still very early stages of my project, but I'd like to thank my lab, and I encourage you all to visit our lab website to learn a bit more about what my amazing colleagues in the Tsai lab are doing in our efforts to develop new therapies to treat neural generation. And I'm also actively on Twitter if you want to see more images of my reprogrammed cells. I encourage you to follow me and to continue this chat via email or later on. Thank you. Alright, thank you, I'm sorry about the movie... Is it a cliche to say that was very illuminating? I do think there is a lot of potential for discovery here. But so now according to my calculations we're halfway through. So I'm gonna keep the momentum glowing by inviting Yuelin up to talk about her image "Epigenetics Express." With this image we're gonna look at another tool for understanding how cells develop. In this case the use of fluorescent reporters. The clusters of cells in this image are quite small but Yuelin's trying to answer one of the biggest questions out there, which is what makes us unique? So this is a 3d image, as you'll see soon, and so she's looking at this question really from literally multiple angles. So, I think you're gonna have a ball with this and see some things in a new dimension. Hello everyone, you hear me well? So, thank you all, all for coming to the... Sorry, I don't have the laser, but I'll be standing here, for the -- for my image. So, I think the science today, I'm going to talk about, all centers around the question of how did we develop from a fertilized egg to a complex multicellular organism, a human. Well, genetics can't hardly explain this problem, because most of us have two copies of genomes: one inherited from mom, the other one inherited from dad. And, they're all identical across all the cell types. So the answer actually lies in the different gene activities that these two different cell types-- which ultimately build up to a multicellular organism like us. And the central mechanism underlying the specification of various cell types is epigenetics. And epigenetics refers to chemical modifications happening on the genome, changing gene activities without changing the DNA sequence. And is essential to regulate gene activity and also build up a whole profile of gene expression to specify a certain cell type. And this process is not only different in different cell types but also dynamic during aging and development. When the specific process goes wrong, disease can occur, such as a lot of developmental diseases, cancer, and neurodegenerative diseases. So to be able to study this particular process in detail in high resolution in real-time, we developed a mouse model using a reporter to track a specific epigenetic mark which is DNA methylation in single cells in a live mouse embryo. And here we are looking at, is a two-and-half-day-old-- uh, this is two-and-half-day-old mouse embryos that are developing and the color of red, green, and yellow represents the level of DNA methylation in itself. So, as you can see, at this early stage of development there is already a huge degree of heterogeneity among different embryos as well as among cells within one embryo. And this process is also very dynamic as embryos mature into four and a half days. you see more heterogeneity in the entire embryo. And cells start to cluster, and cell types that have unique signatures of DNA methylation start to form different sulfates. So we are very excited to apply this tool not only to study normal development but also in complex biological processes such as disease progression or aging. And the interaction between environmental factors and how how does that affect the epigenome. With that, I'd like to thank my lab, and my mentor especially, the collaborator, Yonatan, who originally had this idea of this reporter. And special thanks to the genetic engineer mouse model team at the Whitehead who helped me tremendously to generate these mice. And also thanks to Wendy, at tech-- in tech facility at Whitehead, who taught me how to use confocal microscopes. So, thank you. That was pretty epic genetic. Alright. So, the last few images we've seen um have allowed us to watch cells as they develop, as they move, but often we don't have the opportunity to watch things from the beginning. And particularly in the clinic we'll often come across the end result of many of these processes. And then we need to make sense of that to find the answer. So, our next presenter is a clinician. And he's going to share with you one such mystery that he encountered and we call this "Nothing to Sneeze at." You guys hear me? Okay? Take two... Any better? Great... ok ...great. So, thank you, Erika and thank you the judges for recognizing our work this way. As says up here, I am a postdoc at David Sabatini's lab at the Whitehead. But as Erika alluded to, my other job's across the river at Mass General, l where I'm a fellow in pulmonary and critical care medicine. And it was in that context a little over a year ago that I was asked to see a young woman who unfortunately suffered for many years with breathing problems. And I think even the non-physicians the audience can appreciate that something very wrong is going on with her lungs. And I'm just orient you guys. This is what a normal CT scan should look like; this is a heart; this is your right lung, your left lung. And what you can see is that this young woman unfortunately had an enormous amount of destruction of her lung. And this is at an age really with no good explanation for why this should be the case. And we were pretty sure from a lot of testing that we had done that she didn't have some of the more common things that might do this-- cystic fibrosis, immune deficiencies, and other kind of rare -- but things that you've heard of. And unfortunately she was sick enough that she needed a lung transplant -- two lung transplants actually. And we took advantage of that opportunity, though, because this was such a mystery to do a couple of things. The first was to do whole exome sequencing on her. And that just means we got a full DNA sequence of the entire genome. And the second, was at the time of her transplant, I took her lungs from the operating room and we did a couple of interesting things with them. And the first is, what we were able to do using an in vitro system-- so this is in a dish: we could take normal human airway cells and we can ask them to become an airway. And we do that by growing them in a pretty special media. And in a special interface where they're exposed to the air just like in your airway. And when we do that, normal cells look like this. And these things that are moving are cilia. And cilia are pretty critical actors. They're these tiny little filamentous structures. And their job is to keep the mucus moving. And without them you end up with a lot of problems. And what we saw in the patient is this. And you may not be able to see it, but there is movement here, but it's clearly not normal. And what that made us worry about, was that something was wrong with these cilia, although we didn't know what it was. And we struggled for quite a while-- the better part of a year -- to figure out what exactly might be the problem here. And I'll suffice to say that we were quite surprised to find some months later that in fact what seems to be the wrong is that these cilia are too short. They're stumpy. And not surprisingly, if your job as a cilium is to move things around -- to move mucus around -- and you're too short that's not going to cut it. And so what you can see here is that -- this is the top of an airway, of a group of airway cells-- these cilia, many of them are being cut in cross-section are long, so long in fact, that they're kind of thinning out on the plan of the image, whereas these guys are pretty much coming to an end right here. But as you can see, this kind of imaging -- which is electron microscopy-- doesn't give us sort of the kind of top-down view we'd like to see, to see the entire region at a glance. And it also doesn't tell us why this might be bad for the patient. And so we took advantage of some really amazing imaging facilities at the Koch to generate some of these images. And these are scanning electron microscopy images. And on the left is what a normal airway should look like. These are bundles of cilia. They stick up nice and tall, and you can imagine that these-- all moving at 8 or 9 times a second-- are pretty effective at clearing out mucus. And in fact, you can see there's not much mucus here. These are identically prepared, again in a culture dish, but from the patient. And when we do that, what you can see is a couple of things. Number one, these are stumpy cilia. They're too short to be very effective. And you can see the consequences of that quite readily, where there's a ton of mucus here. And so we believe, it's sort of analogous to something like cystic fibrosis where the problem is the mucus. In this case the problem really is that cilia don't work right. We've gone on to show, just in the last couple of months, that this in fact represents a new human disease caused by a genetic mutation, a special protein that is important for keeping these cilia the right length. I'd like to thank Dr. Sabatini, David, who's been my mentor through this project. Marty Taylor, who's a -- co-postdoc in the lab with me, who helped me to make these images as pretty as they are. The Koch Nanotechnology Materials Core, David, in particular who sat with me through a lot of imaging. He was very patient with my lack of knowledge about ECM. And of course, the patients themselves who volunteered their time and tissues for, for this work. My funding source is here, and I'm happy to chat afterwards about any questions. Yes, hearing our science, that science can help patients, really just is mucus to our ears. Sorry, guys, my puns are just gonna get cilia and cilia. Alright, I'm actually very glad that Raghu included the comparison images in his presentation, not just because it gave you a chance to see another beautiful image, but because it brings up a very important aspect of scientific research, which is the control. And that's what our next image is going to be about. And, I'm told that when things start to get out of control, visualization can be very helpful. So, Carly, why don't you come up and tell us what you've been visualizing. Thank you. Alright, hi, everyone, my name is Carly Ziegler. I'm a member of the Shalek lab and generally we're interested in using genomic technologies and computational science to understand how cells differ within health and disease. And so my image is also obviously a little bit different from everyone else's in that it actually represents the mathematical relationships between individual cells, and didn't actually use a camera at any point. And so, I'll explain that in a little bit. So, shown here are two complex multicellular organisms, because my parents are in the audience. And for us to function as happy and healthy, it requires an amazing coordination between distinct but interacting systems. A complex organism can be divided into different parts, so it can be progressively teased apart to organs and tissues. And the fundamental unit of all of us is the single cell. And so trillions of individual single cells dynamically work together to keep us healthy and can malfunction and cause disease. Critically, all of the cells in, say, your gut --which is pictured here -- are not the same generic gut cell, but they actually are comprised of a huge diversity of cells each performing unique roles to enable the emergent function of the tissue. And so, one of the greatest puzzles in modern biology and genetics, is how does all of this diverse behavior arise when every single organism originates from a single cell and has the same DNA. And so, one of my favorite, very cheesy analogies for this is to consider a piano. And so, it, although it has a defined set of keys, the keys that it's played with and when they're played, gives immensely diverse chords and melodies. And actually, in principle, this is how complex multicellular organisms work. Each cell in your body may have the same set of DNA and genes-- pictured here -- instead of 88 there are 20,000 of them -- and that set of genes can be played or interpreted in different ways and combinations and they do this through a critical step which is the creation of messenger RNA; which is aptly named -- or mRNA here-- It's aptly named in that it serves as a molecular language that cells use to instruct their appearance and behavior. By analogy to melodies or pieces of music, unique cells will express different combinations of mRNA at different times. And so our lab works to under-- to create technologies to measure the mRNA of individual cells as it provides a window into the cell's current role within the organism as well as its trajectory and its past. And so, finally, we're interested in studying the changes that occur in single cells in different diseases and, as Erika mentioned, the most important part of any experiment is having a really good control. And so, it's impossible to understand how changes may occur in disease without understanding how the system behaves when it's healthy. And so, we quickly realized that our field was missing this critical component and a very comprehensive catalog of what mRNA look like in single sort-- single cells and healthy organisms. And so our first step was to create as holistic and comprehensive a picture of health as we could. We isolated cells from different organs and many different healthy systems. And we analyzed them using a technology that was developed between our lab and the Love lab here at the Koch where single cells are trapped with individual beads that are engineered to record the mRNA of each single cell, yielding measurements from thousands of cells at once. And so from our first draft we've already created data from over a 100,000 cells in 20,000 genes. And what this amounts is to an incredible abundance of information. And so the next-- next major challenge in our field is how do you even start to make sense of that much information in that, and even visualize it. And so that brings me to my image outside. So what we did was we took all of this data, represented --each little point here-- if you can squint and see them -- are individual single cells. Each point is colored by the tissue of origin. So, gray for your brain, pink for your lungs, and so on. And what we do next is we apply some complex math to instruct the cells to do something quite simple, which is just to organize themselves in space according to the similarities in their transcriptome, so their gene expression. So cells that are placed --that are more similar -- place closer together -- and cells that are more dissimilar place close-- further apart. And so I actually took snapshots of this as it iterated along. So, and you see slowly, as this progresses, some order begins to kind of emerge out of this chaos. Each of these individual clusters of cells-- clusters of points represent cells that are expressing a common repertoire of genes. And so flash forward, a couple of days later after running that until steady state is my image, that is presented outside. And so currently we're really excited by what we're uncovering just by understanding this healthy foundational data set on its own. And if I had more time, you can come ask me about each of these little clusters outside. But next what we're doing is we're utilizing this as a critical control to understand how this picture may shift in disease. And so we hope that these approaches to understand how cells battle or succumb to infectious diseases and cancer, we can achieve a deeper understanding of the mechanisms of disease and motivate better ways to engineer healing. So with that, I'd like to thank Alex Shalek, because my been an awesome mentor, and Shaina Carroll who was instrumental to a lot of this work with me. As well as our wonderful collaborators in the Keen and the Love labs, and also this awesome forum for art and science. Thanks. So, I think what you're saying is, in order to understand the melodies you both need the notes and the algorithms. Alright. We are actually gonna take a -- now that you've seen this more global view-- we're gonna take a deep dive into one very specific organ and one specific type of immune cell. So this is gonna be a very interactive presentation by which I mean you're gonna get a very good picture of what happens when this particular cell -- this natural born killer-- interacts with something that does not belong in the body. Right. Thanks. My name is Allison Demas and I'm a postdoc in the Bhatia and Alter labs. And I'm actually a parasitologist by training. And I'm going to share a little bit of my work with you guys and tell you how I came to be here in the Koch Institute, a Cancer Research Institute, working with a bunch of bioengineers. Right. So, our bodies are these complicated landscapes of many different types of cells that interact in different ways on different scales. And as scientists, our job is to learn how cells make choices, both good and bad, about what to do in our bodies. But asking these types of questions is actually quite challenging. It would be a bit like looking down at a video of all of the fans streaming out of Fenway Park after a game and trying to zoom in on one particular person, and ask why they went one way instead of another, what motivated that choice, and can we understand how to motivate them to make a different choice. It turns out that asking these questions is actually quite hard. Where would you start? How would you do that? And in the Bhatia lab we're known for harnessing engineering tools, oh sorry, sorry... there we go... Okay, in the Bhatia lab we're known for harnessing engineering tools to create deconstructed models of micro environments in order to ask exactly these types of questions. It's one of the exciting aspects of being here at the Koch where we have all of the materials and different people we need to use our bioengineering know-how to build systems to solve biological problems. So in our case, we use these tools to learn how cells make and repair complicated tissues like the liver, shown here, from the organ all the way on the left, deconstructed down to individual cells on the right. We can ask questions about how different kinds of cells become tumors, and how other cells, like those of our immune system, work together to fight them. So, the biological question that I'm interested in is how our body is able to fight off an infection by an invading pathogen, the malaria parasite, that's transmitted by a mosquito, and then invades and grows and develops inside the liver before bursting out, invading our red blood cells and making us sick. We want to learn more about this process so we can design new therapies such as antibodies or vaccines to help fight that infection more efficiently. And the way I've tackled this project -- this problem is to use one of the tools that we've developed that can grow human liver cells in a dish. It turns out that these cells only grow if you combine them in just the right arrangement and pattern shown here with other cells that are normally found in the liver. Our team has learned how to get malaria parasites to invade these experimental liver tissues and now my job is to add in even more cell types, those of the immune system, so we can understand how immune cells and antibodies work together to fight malaria infection. Because if we understand how this process works, we can learn how to make it even better. And taking images, as we've seen tonight, is one way we can understand how cells work in systems like the liver tissues that I just described. And electron microscopy is a really powerful imaging tool that we can use to look at individual cells in exquisite detail. So I'm going to show you some of the images that we've taken here at the Koch Institute in collaboration with David Mankus and the Nano Core. This one right here is an example of a malaria parasite. And just to give you a sense of scale-- well it looks rather big up there on the screen-- the width of this parasite is actually almost a hundred times smaller than the width of a single human hair. So this guy-- even though it's that small-- is actually quite deadly. And here's one of the immune cells that I've been working with. This is a natural killer cell or an NK cell. It's one of the-- one of our immune system's first line of defense and they're highly cytotoxic, which means that they too are excellent killers. They're also highly abundant in the liver. And what you're seeing here is a series of snapshots of these NK cells as they become activated by different signals such as malaria parasites or antibodies. And what you can see is that the surface of the cell changes. You get these protrusions that emerge. And it becomes quite bumpy. This is the image that you may have seen outside of one of these activated NK cells in particular. And these cells can be found in all of us. They're working around the clock to protect us from different invaders, pathogens like malaria, parasites, or malignancies like tumors. So, I want to end with these images here that I'm particularly excited about, that show these interactions between NK cells and parasites. The NK cells are also quite excited to see the malaria parasites while the parasites look decidedly less excited by these interactions. So we're excited to use the tools that are here at our disposal at the Koch Institute to better understand these interactions, what's going on with the NK cells and the parasites, and why, and hopefully harness the ability of these cells to protect us from malaria and other diseases. So with that, I have a lot of people to thank: Sangeeta Bhatia and Galit Alter for their mentorship as well as the members of both labs with the special thanks to the malaria teams. Also a big thank you to the-- to the nanotechnology core facility here at the Koch Institute I mentioned David Mankus, who helped me take all these images, but also to Abigail and Peggy for their help, and our additional collaborators and our funding sources. Thanks. Alright, I would say that is a parasite for sore eyes! Alright, our final presentation of the evening is actually going to flip this around and ask the question.. So in this last image, right, we, the immune cells were definitely the good guys, but like I said, we're gonna flip that around, and ask the question what happens when the immune cell, the immune system, actually becomes an obstacle to overcome to improve health. So, this is our next image, "Living Drug Factories" and this image actually made quite an impression on the judges, to the point as they said it literally reminded them of an impressionist painting. So, let's see. Suman and Amanda are gonna come up here for the final presentation of the evening and make sure you get your Monet's worth. Hello, hi , thanks for the introduction, Erika. You know, we are excited about the closing top of the evening. Thanks for staying out so late. I am Suman, a postdoc in the Anderson lab, and I have with me my partner in crime, Amanda, who is a graduate student. And together we are very interested in cell based therapies. So what we're going to tell you is a very short and sweet story about what is cell based therapy, why are we are excited, what did what it can do for us, and how we are actually in the lab solving the problem of translating this to the clinic. So, you know, we are built of billions of cells and these, all cells are programmed to do a specific function at different locations. One can be a kidney cell, one can be a liver cell, but with the advent of genetic engineering now we have the power to transform and reprogram these cells to give it additional powers, to make them like super cells. And now these super cells can be in your body and, you know, do a number of functions like, look-- find diseases, look for biomarkers in your blood. It can-- if it finds a biomarker, it can then produce the drugs right there. Like, now, we spend billions of dollars doing it in factories. And, if you put the cells strategically right at the tissue where needs to be, it can give the drug at the tissue, no need to give injections, right. So, now, you will ask the question, well, if this is so great why can't we just take the cells, inject in us, and solve the problem, right? So there is a big problem there. Say you take our super cell and introduce you-- it with a bunch of cells in the body. It looks very different because now we have reprogrammed it. And there the immune system comes in, because the immune system has been designed to recognize what is not us. So, these immune cells get called in. They're not happy about this issue, so they start launching an attack on this super cell and actually kills it. So there goes all your plan. So that's where we come in. So we are engineers. So, we were like, what could we do about this problem? And, our solution was actually very simple: Why don't we build a house for this guy, where it is safe and it can do his work? So this is a very simple concept of a device where, if you notice, there is a porous membrane. And that's really the key engineering component. Now, what the membrane does, it prevents the immune cells from getting to the cell that you have transplanted. So now, even if they try very hard, these cells, even the sneakier cells, cannot get in and our supercell can stay what it is and produce drugs when they might find something is fishy going on in our body. So now we'll switch gears from Cartoon Network to Discovery Channel where Amanda will tell you the science behind how we are doing this in the lab. Alright, thanks, Suman. So, I'm just going to tell you a little bit about how we actually make these devices. So as Suman mentioned, we have these porous membranes and we're able to fuse them to basically what is the plastic chip. So we assemble it and then we have a loading port through which we're able to load whatever our therapeutic cell type is. And then we can seal it. And here's an initial image showing the overall device. It's a top-down view. And here you can see we've loaded our therapeutic cells. So if we zoom in on the device, and we take a view from the side, you can see that once it's assembled, you're able to load the cells, which are shown here in orange, into these channels. And some of the engineering aspects that we had here. The first is the pore size. So as Suman mentioned, this is really important for allowing a diffusion of oxygen nutrients in and also of the therapy out, but also for protecting it from immune cells. Another big thing that our lab has been looking at, is different surface coatings. And so we've developed some coatings which basically protect our device so that the immune system doesn't recognize it as being foreign. And so the way that we took our images is that we are able to use confocal microscopy to look at a slice through the image. So, basically a top-down view where we're able to see what the cells inside look like. So you'll see in the image on the right, which is similar to the one outside, that in black you can see the walls of the channel or the walls of the channels and then the cells are within the channels. So in our final image, we'll see that we again have our therapeutic cells that are shown in blue. And with microscopy, we're able to monitor the cell behavior over time. And so in this particular case, we have-- after the cells are able to mature,-- then they're shown in green, and then the mature cells are able to secrete therapeutic proteins, which are shown here in red, out of our device and into the body. And so we're hopeful that devices like this will be applicable to a number of diseases. So we're particularly interested in things like, for example, diabetes where you have to do constant monitoring of your blood glucose level and injections with insulin, and also things that are chronic treatments and have systemic side effects. So things like cancer therapeutics. And so we're hopeful that the long term goal could be that by looking at different kinds of patients, we're able to implant devices like these, and we can have these living drug factories for a variety of disease applications. And so with that we want to thank our advisors Bob and Dan, the Langer/Anderson labs, and a special thank you to the Microscopy Core in the Koch that we used to take this image. And thanks to all of you for listening tonight. Alright, thank you. I am very glad that the judges "did not vote give her an A on that one" or in fact all of the images. Alright, so as I, so before we go, I just want to say, do a final roundup of the things that we've done. This has been a wonderful tour de force of our images. And I've been really struck this year, especially listening to the presentations, about the ways that the image, the individual images, have brought out interesting features of the other images around them, and seeing the themes that we've heard throughout the evening. So I always challenge myself to send us out with a few last puns. So this is where I want to thank you all for stick figuring around with us. It has been an absolutely killer evening and we are so glad that you decided to explore this vast body of knowledge with us here tonight. I certainly hope it's not the end of your learning, so please join me in expressing thanks to all of our presenters. Our time together has gone by in a flash, but you you have been a model audience. I know we'd be happy to answer any last questions. It has truly been a dynamic evening and I want to thank you for an evening well spent. 