 So we have 86 people already on board. I believe there is a, uh. Liz, I don't know if you want to. I know there was a discussion around. There were many different people who appropriately wanted to introduce you and I don't know how we decided to pursue it. Is 100 emails already behind this morning so, but do you want to introduce the introducer for me? I believe the Doctor, Dzhokhar, will be giving the introductions. I think that's Manila. OK Joe, are you on Joe? You have to unmute your screen. Can you guys hear me? Uh, yes we can. Right, right it it is. It is my pleasure to to do the introduction and we are very fortunate because we really have someone with us who needs no introduction. Certainly not to anyone in Cardiology, and certainly not to anyone at Yale. Dr Marvin actually is a Yale graduate. She completed his MD and PhD degrees at Yale and he says post doctoral work at Yale before he subsequently went to Johns Hopkins. For his medicine and Cardiology training um state at Johns Hopkins as a faculty member ultimately received an endowed chair with the chief of Cardiology, and he founded the Hopkins Institute of cardio biology and was there for awhile till 2007 when he subsequently transition to the West coast and went to Cedar Sinai. As the executive director of the Institute, and that's where he is now again, he is someone who needs no introduction. He's authored more than 400 peer reviewed articles. He was the editor in chief of circulation research for over 10 years. He really has been on the forefront of stem cell therapy, cardiac regeneration, and heart failure is also done. A lot of work on gene therapy and the creation of biological pacemakers. And when we approached Eduardo last year to talk to what you thought that those were going to be, the topic that we were gonna hear about, you know, biological pacemakers and stem cell therapy. And we envision that he would give two thoughts, one more for the basic scientists. And one more for the and one more clinically oriented coffee if you will. Unfortunately, the prover pandemic kind of got in the way and we are not able to have them physically with us. But what this does present is an opportunity to discuss a very timely topic, which is the topic of COVID-19 and the heart, and that's of interest to both basic scientists and. And conditions alive and we are really looking forward to hearing from you at war though and will come back to your on my mother. Thank you very much, Joe and Eric and Jeff and all my other friends. And colleagues at Yale as Joe said, Yale holds a special place in my heart. I spent Seven years there and look back on those days very fondly. And berries Erin, among others, were great mentors who helped me in my career. Well after the Yale years ended, and I'm very grateful to everybody into that experience. In this case, I really feel a little bit like the butt of the joke that. Mark Twain made about the definition of an expert. He said an expert is. Someone who doesn't know anymore than you do, but it's from out of town in this particular topic. You know which is so new it's easy to fall into that. That trap And. Basically the. Reason that this is true is that the field is so new. The first publication on pub Med. If you do the double search on covet and heart appeared on February 18th. And as of a few days ago, this was up to 251 and as you can see it's an exponential rise if you just look at at Cove in a recognizing that the term wasn't coined until the very end of January. There's already thousands, many thousands of citations, and this doesn't even include. The many papers that are deposited on preprint archives, like men, archives, and bio archive. Where the papers have been yet been peer reviewed. This conceptually depicts the progression of the disease. I think in a helpful heuristic way, although in any given patient there's substantial overlap among these phases, but certainly there's the concept that initially the viral response is somewhat generic in the sense of the host response to viral infection. This can be asymptomatic. In the laboratory there's a lymphocytopenia, but the patients that go on to become symptomatic. Develop bilateral pneumonia is very abnormal chest image Ng often profound hypoxemia. And eventually this becomes dominated by friendly fire from the immune system and a host responds characterized by elevated inflammatory and cardiac biomarkers and it's this hyper inflammation that itself might be a helpful therapeutic target above and beyond. They sort of supported measures that we can do for the pulmonary phase as well as anything therapeutically that we might be able to do to target the infection itself. This paper, which appeared in nature Medison, gives you a somewhat different perspective from the kinds of statistics that you used to seeing on. New York Times and CNN etc. In the sense that it dives a little deeper into what the biology of the epidemic is like and what underlies the unique clinical presentation of this SARS cough to infection. On the left hand panel, here is a on. The X axis is are not, which is the number of infections that can be produced by any given index case. If it's less than one, the epidemic self extinguishes. If it's more than one, it perpetuates. For covet, that number varies, obviously regionally, but in general it's been above 2 and. On the Y axis, here is the case fatality rate. So for something like Ebola where the case fatality rate is 50%. Public health measures, such as extreme isolation, Suffice to extinguish that epidemic. And because it's so rapidly fatal and so uniformly symptomatic, it's in some ways easier to control, even though it's immediately deadlier. Likewise, stories about 10% and 800 some people died and then epidemic in 2000, two 2003. Cobra 19 appears to have a case fatality rate of somewhere in the single digits, and we now recognize the many cases or asymptomatic, and so it's a perfect recipe for a pandemic, something to which the population has no immunity that has a high or not value, but a sufficiently low case fatality that it can perpetuate throughout the population. If you look now at the inference from the public health data. As to what the symptomatic case fatality was would be of those cases that are symptomatic? How many die? There are basically very few deaths until the six decade of life, and then there's a monotonic increase. On the other hand, if you just look at how many patients with the infection are symptomatic. The asymptomatic rate is much higher. Basically, almost all patients are asymptomatic in the first two decades of life and then progressively monotonically increase, and this is of course normalized to the fourth decade of life here. So if you use all these insights and try to get at a real risk of dying after developing symptoms, it's about 1.4%, which is much lower than the crude confirmed fatality rate. But if you now concede that maybe 20 to 90% of cases are asymptomatic, which is the range that we're talking about right now and then? In the epidemiological literature, the overall probability of dying of SARS Cup to infection maybe no higher than that of influenza. I'm going to get I'm going to tell you if you sort of points today that include the fact that immune overreaction kills people. That nation sensing converting enzyme two binds the stars cop two virus, but nevertheless it's rolling cover 19 remains otherwise vague cardiac involvement is prominent in terms of Therapeutics. There's an overabundance of pseudoscience, hyphen, wishful thinking relative to evidence based Madison and. Finally, just a brief review of what the long-term sick well I might be. In Point number one immune overreaction, one of the Cardinal signs. Of cover 19 is lymphocytopenia in the lymphocytopenia appears to be predominantly due to T cell depletion in this recent series reported just a couple of days ago from New York, one can see that the reference range here for absolute lymphocyte counts is 1 to 3.3 and you can see that in the young patients there was fairly normal. Count, but as you get older, even older than 18, there's lymphocytopenia and those who died had profound lymphocytopenia. And this is very similar to the conclusions reached earlier from the Wuhan data. Overall, white count in this sorts in retrospective assignment. In this case survivors versus non survivors. Overall, white count is not high at the beginning, which is typical of a viral infection but then stays low in the individuals who going to survive but spikes due to a granulocytosis in the patients were non survivors Meanwhile. Lymphocytes actually are depressed early on in both survivors and non survivors. But in the non survivors they progressively decline whereas in the survivors they tend to recover and this is seen in a separate cohort here in terms of recovery from Lymphocytopenia in survivors and progressive lymphocytopenia in non survivors. Now going back to the SARS, COV epidemic of 2002 and 2003, where there's a little more science than basic signs than there is as of now in the. Cover 19 epidemic. They went back and I looked at pathological specimens collected from patients who had severe SARS or who had died of SARS and found that by electron microscopy that could identify a viral inclusion particles in different kinds of white blood cells, granulocytes, monocytes, and lymphocytes. But really very few of the granular sites had apparent infection by electron microscopy. Monocytes more so, but just over half of lymphocytes had these typical inclusion bodies, and perhaps that accounted clinically for the fact that there was T cell depletion, which seems to be mostly due to helper T cell depletion, although there was a small a decrease, its non significant inside of toxic T cells as well. And just to reiterate, this is actually a fairly old paper now from the SARS. Epidemic of 2003, but very recently in patients from China. Very similar findings have been reported with a decrease in total? T lymphocytes. No change in B lymphocytes, interesting Lee and statistically significant decreases both in CD4 and CD8 cells, but not in NK cells. And this is distinguishing between severe and moderate cases. Now, what about this concept of systemic inflammation inside a kind storm? Well, it's prominent in a COVID-19 patients. Again, the New York experience shows that if you look at all hospitals. All patients hospitalized with COVID-19 from this series from JAMA. A number of these someone non specific markers of inflammation and notably ferritin and C reactive protein or elevated and look at C reactive protein. Here the reference ranges up to 0.4 in the but the values ranged from 6.4 to 26.9 so every patient had these are. Confidence intervals, of course, but most of the patients with fell well within an abnormal range for C reactive protein, those less discriminatory value for pro calcitonin. And as I'll show you later, D dimer is specifically elevated in a very severely ill subset of patients. So this is one indication of another side of kind. I'll 6 and it's prognostic value, at least when viewed retrospectively. I'll six is elevated in non survivors and becomes progressively more elevated overtime, whereas it remains low in patients who survive. Likewise ferritin, although ferritin is somewhat less discriminate Tori, then I'll six another cohort from China. Survivors versus non survivors, both Interleukin 6 and C reactive protein had strong and discriminate Tori value. What about the whole thing about and it ends in converting enzyme two? Well, there's certainly a theoretical basis of for susceptibility differences in infection and in patterns of infection, but there's very little data that demonstrate the benefits or detriments are Rena Ninja tense in aldosterone system antagonist, which has been a major controversy in the field. So ace two happens to bind, happens to mind it is the functional receptor for. The spike protein of Cyrus Cough the from the SARS epidemic and now also SARS, cough two and the interaction between the spike protein and the H2 molecules has been resolved at atomic scale. 1 interesting thing that may explain why nasal swabs? Uh, can detect patients who are otherwise somewhat asymptomatic. Is that the goblet cells in the ciliated cells? The nasal epithelium are extremely rich in H2 receptors is from a recent paper in nature medison, whereas as you go lower in the airway there are receptors, but they're less expressed, less richly expressed, so it's quite possible just on the basis of this, to rationalize why you might have flowerhead viral infection in the nose. And yet, um, no lung symptoms. What about the implications for the heart now? Here the the reasoning is somewhat tangential and at the level plausibility, but just bear with me as I go through this somewhat belabored argument. The first piece of evidence is that if you knockout phase to an otherwise normal mice, they develop a cardiomyopathy with poor left ventricular function, and this is work this now 18 years old, that has nothing per say to do with covenant. Is an extreme because these are knockout mice. But if you also recognize that saw risk of infection anyway, lowers ace 2 gene expression, those emerging data with SARS COV to that that shows us to be likewise true. In that case, there's a depression in the transcript levels, and so it's conceivable if you put this together with this that SARS common fraction decreases as two and would thereby depressed cardiac function. But there's really no corollary data in humans, or with SARS cop 2. And in fact, predict this function is not that prominent a feature of Cove, it as far as we know, from the limited echocardiography that's available, certainly cardiac involvement is common, but cardiac dysfunction is less common. What about the whole controversy of whether patients of Ace Inhibitors or a Arby's, or maybe more susceptible to the disease with anything? This happens. This appears to be. The reverse, insofar as hospitalised patients in this very recently published series who were on a size or arms, had a lower overall mortality in patients who weren't. And this is an observation. Ull study is not an interventional study, so this may or may not reflect differences in underlying a confounding factors. Um cardiac involvement. Well, it's touted as a major cause of death. Tripping and I and BNP elevations are very common and associated with poor outcome. Just anticipate at least one of the conclusions. The extent of Genuine Mayer Carditis is unclear. So what is the prevalence of biomarker elevations? It appears to be somewhere between 20 and 30%. But if you look at this series from China, which was relatively large, at least 40% of the cases were attributed of mortality were attributed exclusively to heart, and 33% of the cases and another 7% were cardiorespiratory. So to me it's a little bit surprising that biomarker elevations would be less common than the underlying cause of mortality, but these are two different. These are three different studies actually so. What about the Association, at least of cardiac injury with increased mortality? Here from one case series, there's a big increase in tripping, and I in patients who died as opposed to those who were discharged healthy, and this is not only an increase in Trenton, but progressive increase in those who go on to die versus a flat line in those who survive. It's also true that a RDS is common. Of course, at and cardiac injury, as as witnessed by cardiac biomarkers is common, and this is a Cox regression analysis is putatively prognostic, and in this case. Potential mechanisms of cardiac injury include secondary effects of the immediate pathology in the hyper inflammation. Direct myocardial injury by infection by the virus or affect secondary to the systemic hypoxemia in the Sequoia. Have any of these can be increased biomarkers, arrhythmias in principle, acute coronary syndromes, and different kinds of heart failure, either with preserved or reduced ejection fraction. In terms of whether the damage to the heart is direct or indirect, there are several case studies of fulminant Mayer Carditis. Here are two, for example, that showed inflammatory infiltrates. And it's possible that sub clonal subclinical microdose may be common but the true incidence is not known. But fulminant myocarditis is quite rare and these two cases there was no evidence. In fact there was evidence against direct viral infection but in this end of my accuradio biopsy specimen of a patient who went on to die not of myocarditis but of complex multi system failure from Italy. The endomyocardial biopsy electron microscopy revealed. Evidence of fire fire particles. So this is not that different from what was known from the SARS COV from the SARS epidemic, in which about 1/3 of the patients were associated with who went to autopsy. Anywhere associated with direct evidence of viral infection in the heart, as opposed to 2/3 who were not who had implement inflammatory lesions in the heart but did not have evidence of direct infection. In this recent New England Journal Paper, which looked at 18 patients in the New York area pulled from various centers that went on to have St elevations, they divided and were taken to the Catholic. They divided these into patients. We actually had my cardio infarction. And those who had none coronary myocardial injury and what's notable here. Is if you're presented with such a patient in the emergency room, what can you do to sort of try to guess whether this is a genuine acute coronary syndrome or or just hyper inflammation? The ejection fraction was normal in most of the cases with. Who had non coronary injury whereas it was abnormal in most of the cases. Who did and the mortality was exceptionally high in both of these groups. What about the Association with blood pressure? There certainly seems to be a growing body of literature that background hypertension is a risk factor along with diabetes and obesity and perhaps other chronic illnesses. But there was this early report in The Lancet that was somewhat confusing in the sense that on presentation, patients who ended up being in the ICU were actually hypertensive. In this series, which is not what we associate with the usual viral, basically Gia in acutely ill patient, and indeed in most subsequent series. Find all the subsequent series of which I'm aware, and certainly those from the United States. Most of the patients who are critically ill are Presser dependent and have a low blood pressure is one might expect whether or not they had baseline hypertension. There certainly at least a theoretical basis were conjecture that maybe the risk of acute myocardial infarction acute coronary syndromes may be elevated in COVID-19, but very little data to actually support the idea that there's an increased incidence. There's a thrombotic proclivity in COVID-19. I've already told you that there's a General Association of elevated D dimer and that is associated with poor outcomes. Massive elevations in D dimers, non survivors relative to survivors. And the D dimer levels appear appear to be higher. This is again that small case series from New York of 18 patients with acute coronary syndrome does seem to be the D dimer. Elevations did seem to be associated somewhat with the patients who went on to have true myocardial infraction, as opposed to those to have non coronary McArdle. Injury, again an Association but consistent at least with the idea that there may be a causal relationship between the systemic. Somebody next day and the acute myocardial infraction. And there's a long literature which I won't belabor on. The interface between inflammation and thrombosis, but certainly among the contributing factors are in death illness with muscle cell activation, macrophage activation of tissue factor expression, which is known to be increased in the atheromatous plaque and the proclivity towards platelet activation with additional production of pro inflammatory mediators. In previous epidemics of influenza RSVP and other viruses, there has been a significant Association between those respiratory infections in acute MI with an incidence ratio ranging from 2 to 11, but the true incidence of acute coronary syndrome an acute MI in cover 19, is currently unknown and given how many patients have code 19 and how static. In fact, decreasing the volumes have been in our Cath Labs. What makes you wonder if, um, is some paradox going on here? This is all comers too. Present with acute coronary syndromes, but recent data in the United States have shown plummeting use of Cath Labs for primary PCI. The same thing is it's been seen in Spain and if you look at the United Kingdom this is not the Dow Jones average. It's the number of cardiac patients visiting emergency rooms in. This plummeted in the height of the coded crisis in the UK. This is to say that fewer patients are coming. To be seen, our impression is that there. I'm very late after the president after the onset of chest pain in Extremis rather than early on, as they might ordinarily have and how many occult demise there are going on in the general population is unknown, it's. Possible of course, to that behavioral factors related to social isolation or age or reduced reduced air pollution or reduce physical stress may be also contributory factors to a genuine decline in the incidence of acute coronary syndromes. With me as I said to be common, but are very poorly characterized in this study. For example, they were as the description of palpitations and no more description in this admission, EKG from a 31 year old patient in on with the multi system failure who went on to recover. There was an admission. Sinus Tachycardia And certainly there is a general Association with tachycardia and presentation in presentation vitals of the patients were hospitalized with COVID-19 in the American the most in the largest American series. This is a somewhat. Deviant data point in the sense that it's isolated at this point, but in this study was claimed in these studies. It was claimed that BT in BF were relatively common. These were small series and we haven't seen this, at least in the 300 plus patients that we've created at Cedars Sinai. Be curious to hear what the DL experiences, but arrhythmias are said to be more common in patients who are in the ICU, not surprisingly, than those who are. Not in the ICU with this is just an ascertainment difference because of continuous monitoring remains to be seen. What about therapeutics? Well, uhm. There is the possibility of using antibodies against I'll 6 or out of six receptors and other than to note that there have been some isolated case studies with dramatic resolution of illness. Or do anything other than to acknowledge the fact that if. Al sex is not just the biomarker of disease, but is actually contributing to the illness. This might be a very logical approach to use. Tackle is a map or related compounds. You all know about the controversies regarding hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine, plus or minus a zip throw myson, but let me just give you my own perspective on that. The best placebo controlled study so far. Therapeutics in. In COVID-19 was a paper published on this anti HIV cocktail opinion Baron return. If it's just some in vitro evidence of Efficacy against SARS Cup 2 infection, but clinically had no benefit in a placebo controlled trial, looking at least at cumulative improvement rate. Rap disappear, which has been very hyped and as a ghillie, add compound and compassionate case series seem to indicate benefit without any controls, at least in a randomized clinical trial from China that was leaked and then prematurely released to the World Health Organization and then withdrawn pending. Curation, presumably. Showed no benefit of room disappear. Sending the ghillie, add stock down sharply in terms of hydroxy korakuen, despite a lot of initial height and some in vitro evidence against for efficacy in a largely be a study that's been posted on metal archives only. There's no benefit to hydroxy chloroquine, where hydroxychloroquine plus aids it through Myson, and likewise in a recent French cohort, but there's no high quality peer reviewed. Ark data available, yet certainly there's nothing. In the literature right now that can defend the wholesale use of these compounds either prophylactically or in patients. But one thing we know for sure is that the combination of a zip through Myson and hydroxy corken agents with individual each individually, are known to increase the cutie interval and lead to trust God. That plant is certainly the case and this is CNN met Archive series both from and why you lying going and from our institution. So one has the balance. The theoretical risk benefit versus the known risk of side effects. Steroids are used somewhat empirically in COVID-19, but at least this meta analysis not only a Saurus have two experience, but also lumping in some data from Mears in this art from the Mediterranean respiratory syndrome in the SARS epidemic. All coronaviruses tend to favor control over corticosteroids in terms of overall outcomes. So there's no. Solid data in favor of using corticosteroids in any subset of Cogan. 19 patients. What about the concept of cell therapy? And this is one where I can add some some personal experience. The first type of cell to be used in covered where mesenchymal stem cells which had been tried without much success, but at least with the safety profile in different kinds of a RDS. The musical stem cells can be derived from various tissues, but the ones you've used here were from the bone marrow, and these are said to be able to differentiate at least in vitro, to different lineages relevant to the musculoskeletal system. But the interesting feature of the cells with regard to Coven. Is the fact that there in a modular Tori and anti inflammatory and therefore there's some rationale and this figure from a paper that was. From uh from China. In which compared 3 controls to 7 non critically I'll patients treated with MSC's. Curiously only three and three work were compared, so I don't know what happened to the other four patients were treated, Batman sees, but there was supposedly an increase in beneficial cytokine Idol 10 in the MSC treated patients an increase in value in a decrease in TF Alpha. But no. Significant evidence of clinical improvement in a subset of patients that, in a set of patients who were not critically low to begin with. The the cell type that I've been working on for the last. 14 years or so is the card issuer drive cell and this is a cardiac stromal cell that can be derived from human hearts by a straightforward culture method which. Starts with bits of human heart. Tissue goes through a cardio sphere stage in which it adhesion in vitro is repelled and they sell stuff. Assemble into a spherical clusters called cardio serves, and then replaying those clusters on planar culture media yields the cell product with Curtis for derived cells, and these cells work by secreting extracellular vesicles called exosomes and these extracellular vesicles produce. Cutting my Genesis Angiogenesis an antibiotic effects, but of particular relevance to coveted. They promote cardio, myocyte survival, their anti inflammatory and immunomodulatory. And these cells have been now in over 200 patients in various clinical trials. The clinical development efforts are most advanced or Duchene muscular dystrophy? Or there's not only the published hope trial, but an interim analysis is a placebo controlled double blind. A randomized clinical trial, CO2, which followed show extremely interesting. Data in turn in favor of the cell therapy group. In this case, having gotten intravenous therapy in hope to and likewise intravenous therapy for pulmonary hypertension in the on going Alpha trial. The other cases were all intracoronary delivery. So why you see he sees over mesenchymal stem cells? Well, at least in a head to head comparison. In this case of antibiotic effects, CC's were more efficacious in vitro than either bone marrow derived or adipose tissue derived mesenchymal stem cells, and likewise into my cardio infraction model, the recovery from myocardial infraction functionally was highest in the CDC group relative to the other compared or cell types. On a more mechanistic level, if you look at the exerciser vesicle contents that are secreted from either card issuer, derived cells, or MSCS, there is a significantly higher proportion that's apparently bio active in CDC's versus MSMSMSC. Exosomes contain a lot of what we might describe as starch transfer rnas and other molecules that don't have plausable. Uh. Disease modifying by our activity, whereas CDC's are much richer. CC exercise so much richer in those and the micro RNA payloads, not the the. And. Determinants of bioactivity are limited to my current day with Inivis, but they're quite different in the eaves that come from CDC's versus Ms season is just one example. Micro RNA 140 six a, which has been associated previously with disease modifying bioactivity of CDC exosomes is, and this is on a log scale is much higher by orders of magnitude in the different. These are different sources from different donors. Have CD CBS than in MSC. So there. Even though it's tempting to think of cell therapy, is all one bucket, there may be reason to believe that CDC's are different from an superior to Ms, at least theoretically. So if you look at cover 19 pathogenesis and you take lessons from both the stars cough epidemic and SARS, cough too and look at the known about what's going on with T cells and what's conjecturally plausable in terms of macro Fage involvement, production of cytokinins, systemic inflammation and different disease processes. And every one of these hinge points is indicated by these numbers. There are there is evidence of disease modifying bioactivity of CDC's or their exosomes and a different models relevant to cardiac inflammation, lung inflammation, cartoon porn site death, cardiac dysfunction, skeletal muscle, injured tissue fibrosis. We have ample pre clinical evidence for efficacy. And as I mentioned before in terms of clinical development, the disease for which. Problem is most advanced and this is a. This is work of biotechnology company Capricorn, which I was a founder. Uh is most advanced for Duchene. Muscular dystrophy, which as you know, has both cardiac and skeletal myopathy. What about other evidence to specific to covad? Well, this isn't covered, but in an aging model of half past. Administration of CDC's was associated with decreases in aisle 6 and then I owe one be both of which are elevated in code. But in an unpublished work from my lab, we now know that CDC access systems increase the proliferation of regulatory T cells which are. Depressed as I mentioned in patients with cover 19. And not only are is proliferation of regulatory T cells increased, but also they are activated to produce tremendously higher levels of I'll Ted. So both of these effects would tend to be in the right direction to antagonize what's known about the cytokine storm and the hyper information state of Cobit, and then finally in a model of experimental autoimmune myocarditis where CD Caesar previously been shown to be affected by cost of millionaires and colleagues. In in Athens we find CDC exosomes to improve functional recovery, decrease cutie prolongation and decrease inflammation severity. Again, unpublished work. So this has led to the CSS cubed studies CDC's recital kind storm in covert syndrome. Um, the inclusion criteria are confirmed COVID-19 so far. The patients we've created, our critic Leo almost all into baited and another one most recently treated on high flow nasal oxygen. They all have lymphocytopenia and some subset of elevated I'll six propane in my globin or CRP levels. The experience to date is is all compassionate use and is limited to six cases the intervention. Is intravenous Kaplan 1002, which is the formulation of Algonac. CDC is made by cab. Rick Warren used to date in Duchene muscular dystrophy, another clinical studies administration is up to two doses weekly, depending on clinical courses to whether they get the second dose and the outcomes are exploratory, including mortality, length of ICU stay, escalation of support, and all the biomarkers that we can. We can gather that are clinically. Indicated from a regulatory viewpoint is that I said the first 6 patients have been treated by emergency use. I and ES, but very recently and expanded use Ind was awarded to Capricorn that will permit the study of another additional 20 patients in an open label fashion. So far, here's the experience. We've recruited six patients ranging in age from. 1975, which significant comorbidities. The major comorbidity and the young patient was obesity. All of the patients at a RDS. All five of these patients were intimated. The most recent one is on half life and nasal cannula and I can't. Tell you that this is anything but Natural History of the disease, but were Fortunately so far that all the patients have survived. 3 have been discharged to home tour on the floor, and one it remains into baited critically all. Are there long term sequelae? Well, it's the code epidemic is too young to know that for sure, but the lessons learned from SARS COV infection may be instructive here, and Conceptually we think of it as an acute phase, which is really the the hospitalization and then convalescent. Perhaps as patients are waiting in the hospital to have two negative. Uh, swabs or recently discharged from home, and this might be arbitrarily. Classified as the weeks to months phase and then of course, there's months to years, which is where we don't have any data for kovid. In the acute phase I've already reviewed what happens clinically. There's some evidence, and this is mostly at the level of hearsay. Are case reports that in the convalescent phase there may be a delayed myocarditis and this is like the case, report phase or cases of asystole or cardiac arrest? When we think the patient is getting better all of a sudden they die. Not very common, but common enough that it's been remarked upon and then chronically it's all speculation for cover 19, but at least for SARS. Survivors, many of them develop hyperlipidemia, pulmonary fibrosis and hypertension. So we have to be vigilant to these long-term to qualify. That may not yet be apparent after having survived a SARS cough to infection. So, just to reiterate what I've told you, immune overreaction kills people. The role of H2 in terms of being receptor as well established, but the for infection, but the overall role in the clinical course of COVID-19 is otherwise vague. Cardiac involvement is prominent, but perhaps mostly at the level of Biomarkers, and it's not yet clear with the clinical impact. Is a cardiac involvement is the therapeutics still marked by a positive evidence based medicine? Much for us is cardiologist is very frustrating since so much of our practices evidence guided and then. Reviewed for you briefly what the possibilities are in terms of long-term sick well I I'd like to conclude by acknowledging a few key individuals here at Cedar Sinai shock. More off is a surgical resident who's in my laboratory has done the unpublished work on T cells and an experimental acute myocarditis. You also help me put together this talk, and he's part of a think tank in the lab that includes Ahmed. Abraham, just a cooter and Russell Rogers for novel ways of dealing with covad using the tools that we know how to use. Rajma car. Who is the director of intervention at Cedars Sinai and vice president are institution is the principle investigator for the appropriate CSS cubed studies and of course they. We benefited from product. And regulatory product provision and regulatory guidance in collaboration from Capricorn. Funding for my lab includes funding from the NIH, California, super. Gender, Madison. The DOD from coalition, do shed and. This is where we are. 300 days of the year tend to be very sunny and nice here today is no exception and sometimes this. Natural beauty is jarring when juxtaposed with the reality of the ANCOVA, social isolation, etc. Anyway, um, it's been a pleasure updating your, at least on my own perspectives. On carbon 19, I'd be happy to take any questions according to what your policy would be for that. Thank you in order. That was a wonderful talk. Yeah, maybe we'll ask people to kind of just jump in with questions, but maybe I'll start with one which is you shared with us. This exciting foray into the cardio sphere treatment of code 19, and I'm just curious if you could share with us your experience and. And thoughts behind the progression from, you know experiment, lion dies. True to kind of more. Concrete RC T type comparisons and what do you see to pathway for that kind of activity in the midst of our panda? Yeah, I know I am. I think, given the urgency of the situation and the fact that we could. Waste a lot of time doing open label studies that ultimately or anecdotal, we are on a very fast track to an RCT we've already come up with a protocol that we're going to present the FDA, and we're actively looking for funding sources, peer reviewed, funding sources for trials that would range in size from 100 to 300 patients with an adaptive design. Looking really at hard clinical endpoints to see if there's any. Justification for this kind of therapy. I think the sooner we get real Ark data, the better we are in. The shorter the height period in the longer the evidence based period, the better off will be as a society. This isn't true. This result therapy, but also for all these other things that have been touted. Eduardo this is Jeff Bender welcome welcome back. That's a real welcome back even if a virtual virtual visit. Uh, I'll remind everyone at Eduardo was one of our illustrious Calabrisi lecturer some years back. And so this is also return visit. My question is a little bit about timing, and that's what's obviously complicated therapy of this illness so much because they're obviously one needs an effective immune response early to the virus. And then we all talk about inflammatory cytokine storm later. And I think regulatory T cells are a good example of where you would want a minimal T Reg. You wouldn't want to be overwhelmed with TI rags early because you need a factor T cell response early, but then late it's probably a good idea to modulate in, dampen the immune response. Even that said, tea bags or great producers of TGF beta. So the pulmonary fibrosis issue is is kind of complicated, so I wonder if you could comment on. Timing, I mean your trial. You said your CSS3 trial is a compassionate use. Critically ill patient trial. Is that the right time point to be intervening at this level? Should it be earlier? Shouldn't even be early. Yeah, that's a great question Jeff, and conceptually that. First slide that I showed which distinguishes the acute infection from the. ARDS from the hyper inflammation is, I think, heuristically informative Inwood. If that were true, it would support the general notion that. We want to use antivirals early or at least things that will suppress the infection, but won't suppressed immunity. And then as the clinical course progressives, it's more logical to use things that would target the lymphocytopenia in the hyper inflammation inside a kind storm. And I don't want to be such a. Um? Victim of dogma that that. Premise, which is really a concept guides the whole therapeutic principles, but it certainly makes a lot of sense and everything you said is correct, so that's certainly guided. Our use of cell therapy. Not trying to mess with anything that might involve the primary infection, but really going after the manifestations of advanced disease where there's every reason to believe that reversing the TI rag depletion and the hyper inflammation might be therapeutically valuable. But you know, I think it's important to acknowledge the fact that. Patients who are generally. Immuno suppressed in a colloquial way. At least you know pregnant women patients who are. Being treated by various chronic immunosuppressive regimens for rheumatoid diseases, patients who were being treated for cancer, there hasn't been exactly an explosion of Epidemiology signifying that there is a heightened risk of severe infection in these subsets of patients who are not exactly where subsets. So there, and you know when you think about why are bats? The reservoirs of so many of these diseases. There's some thought that. Bats are intrinsically immunosuppressed because their wing beating frequency is so high that they're constantly chewing up their own tissues and and thence enhance their their already primed, immunologically, not to react itself. And then there's also this amazing reservoir for these viruses, but they don't get sick from the viruses, so it's. I'm acknowledging that everything You said, I think is true, but I also think maybe the plot thickens a little bit when you actually look at the biology of this unique corn friend of ours. Thanks. Marvin, this is being from risky center. Thank you for this exciting talk, so I'm wondering, has your lab tested weather Saskatoon directly for the? In fact, the CDC cells? We haven't. We haven't looked at whether size can, in fact. See these days, but we have been trying to do is to rule out and this is in collaboration with a DSL three facility. At UCLA, to rule out the theoretical possibility that. By using these therapies to my potentiates the infection, which I think would be a a. You know? Kind of side effect that we want to know about before we use the therapy. We don't have any data on that yet, but I think it's sufficiently compelling that we're trying to explain question. If you would like to CDC which stage of joining the patient that infection do you want to apply this wonderful reagent? Early stage, left stage or mid stage? Well, this is restating of. Uh, of Jeff's question, but I certainly can't advocate at the base of anything we know they use in mildly sick patients or in asymptomatic patients, there has to be some evidence of the whole rationale is immunomodulatory and anti inflammatory and therefore. I think. We would biased towards the sicker patients now weather. We are missing an opportunity by focusing only uncritically. Oh, patients is quite theoretically possible, so we're going to if we do an RCT or I should say when we do in our city because it's already in the advanced planning stages were not going to limit it to patients on Ventilators and. Who are already critically ill, but we probably will be limited to patients who require supplemental oxygen and at least moderately sick. Thank you. And this is only a very nice talking. Enjoyed it a lot. You mentioned initial, uh, uh? Episode of hypertension in some patients and. Anna down regulation of H2, which kind of raises the question whether they angiotensin 2 actually plays a role in the initial hypertension, especially is very intriguing that hypertensive patients at very high risk and then you mentioned about the role of H2 and Cardiomyopathy, and you know the loss of it in my scars and cardiomyopathy. I wonder, can you say anything? Effect of the treatment of this valuable ace? 2 where is that going and would that be beneficial by obviously lowering the virus itself some other place than that? If your sales as well as actually using a stool for a treatment maybe contract ING and that ends in 2, maybe also helping with heart failure. Right, so there is. Using that. Line of reasoning. There is a clinical trial. Uh, or at least take a clinical intervention ongoing. Using recombinant ace, two infusion and the rationale is to have this service of decoy receptor that would tie up virus and and cause it from infecting work prevented from infecting cells or prevent or perpetuating the cycle of infection. But other than to note that that's being done, I have no knowledge of any clinical data yet using that approach. So Joseph I. I acknowledge that it's very near the end of the hour. I'll let you come you or Eric or Jeff decide when to want to end the Q&A period. I'm happy to keep going. So we're so I dropped off. First of all, thank you on behalf of the entire section and all of Yale for going back to your home of sorts and for remotely educating us. This afternoon I would say I hope you're OK if people reach out to you directly if they have additional questions and. And I really again want to thank you for taking the time for the work you're doing and an I. I hope to hear the the what we've learned from the car is here at work. When you come here in person next time. So with that I'll close today's grand rounds and I'll be happy. Will thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you darling, thank you. 