 To say that your therapy has the potential to be curative is huge. This is a particularly exciting time for Gene Therapy, because the promise and the potential, that has existed for 30 years in the field, is now starting to finally bare fruit. AAVs will allow us to address a number of different diseases because of their ability to deliver genes to a number of different tissues inside the body. With real estate, it's about location, location, location. With Gene Therapy, it's about delivery to a specific location where you need to restore the function of that gene. Adeno-associated viruses or AAVs or small microscopic virus particles, that can deliver DNA into cells. They have a protective outer shell on them which consists of viral proteins. Those proteins contain the molecular addresses to target certain cell types and tissues for delivery of your therapy to construct. There are some advantages for using AAV over other types of viruses. One is that they are not known to cause any human disease, and that improves the safety profile. The second which is that they can be directed to, in fact a variety of different organs in the body, which makes them more broadly amenable to gene therapy applications. Typically, AAV vectors are used to replace a defective gene that's found in a genetic disorder. The real promise of Gene Therapy is to actually correct, at the genomic level, the cause of disease which could in fact result in a life long cure without the need to take pills everyday, to have painful injections everyday. Within Novartis, we are currently developing local applications for AAV vector medicines, primarily in neuroscience as well as in ophthalmology. Novartis is building its AAV capabilities by using a combination of internal innovation as well as external partnerships. We've built teams internally, that are now making AAV vectors. We are also looking externally by finding partners that may have been able to innovate the biology outside of our walls, and bringing that internally to be able to really drive the innovation in this space. We've invested in the infrastructure needed for research, for preclinical development, for clinical development, and most importantly manufacturing, in order to provide these innovative medicines to patients. This is a very exciting time for Gene Therapy. 