 - Hello, good morning, afternoon, and evening. Thank you for attending and participating. I am Paul Crooker, a graduate of the Booth Executive MBA program and a member of the Booth San Francisco Bay Area Alumni's board of directors. Today's event, UChicago Re-Engineers Engineering: Quantum, Immunoengineering and Materials for Sustainability is jointly sponsored by the University of Chicago's Pritzker School of Molecular Engineering, or PME, and the Booth School of Business. PME's mission reminds me of the Nobel prize winning physicist Richard Feinman's visionary idea and lecture on there's plenty of room at the bottom to discover, invent, design, and engineer devices, materials, processes, machines, and products, take advantage of the physics at atomic, molecular, and cellular scales. The research and know-how created by the PME are needed to transform vision into reality. Building on research, engineering, and business innovations are needed to scale breakthroughs practically and economically. The goal of today's program, goals of today's program, are to introduce the PME's leaders, research, and facilitate engagement between the PME and the San Francisco Bay Area entrepreneurship and innovation ecosystem. Today we are fortunate to have three distinguished speakers and PME research leaders. They are Dr. Matthew Tirrell, Matt Tirrell is the dean of the Pritzker School of Molecular Engineering, which was established by the University of Chicago in 2011 with Matt as a founding director. Matt's own research is in polymer science and biomolecular materials. Dr. David Awschalom, the Liew Family Professor of Molecular Engineering and the Deputy Dean for Space, Infrastructure, and Facilities. The third speaker is Dr. Jeffrey Hubbell, the Eugene Bell Professor of Tissue Engineering and Deputy Dean for Development. Please refer to the event announcements for our speaker's bios and other background information. Please place your questions into the chat QA at any time so it can be addressed immediately or during the Q & A session. So with that, my introductory remarks are complete. Let's get started. Matt, the floor is yours. - Oops, sorry. Thank you very much. It's really an honor to be invited to address this group and to tell you what we've been doing for the last nine years in building a really distinctive new kind of engineering program at the University of Chicago, which as many of you may know, has never had an engineering in its now almost 130 year history. This is an overview of our campus, looking north toward Chicago, and we are situated largely in this building toward the upper right at the corner of 57th and Ellis across from the Regenstein and Mansueto Library, and we have grown so quickly that we are now occupying several other buildings and planning to expand our territory to the north and to the northwest. As I said, this was the first, this is the first engineering program ever at the University of Chicago, but a couple of my friends from the Ivy League found this in the Brown Engineering Library from 1903. This "Technology Quarterly" is the forerunner of the "MIT Technology Review," where a professor named Corthell had suggested back in 1903 that the University of Chicago start an engineering program. He said that he thought, if you look at the top of the right hand column, it ought to be called the University College of Engineering and Architecture. We focused on much smaller scale things in starting a, first an institute and now a school of molecular engineering. It's really incumbent on us in doing something new like this to lead in new directions and to make sure that we are doing something that traditional engineering schools can't do, and what that is is to operate explicitly very close to small scale molecular level science in physics, chemistry, biology, computation, and it's also an explicit, or at least an implicit, statement of what we're not doing. We're not doing large scale civil engineering or architectural engineering or aerospace engineering. We are focusing ourselves at the interface between science and engineering and focusing on translating scientific advances into useful technologies. We differ from traditional engineering schools because of an inherently multidisciplinary organization. We do not have traditional departments, and we're not focused on what the so called engineering disciplines have been. By that I mean chemical engineering, mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, bioengineering. Those distinctions actually, while they're useful for some things in organizing curricula, they kind of put artificial divides between engineering activities. PME, which is what we call the Pritzker School of Molecular Engineering for short, is focused on what the engineering disciplines can do, and that's the unique University of Chicago approach to engineering research and education. We believe that engineering is the discipline, the entire spectrum of translating science into technology, and so we're focused on themes, not departments. We're focused on big problems and training our students how to tackle them, and by saying we're not reproducing a traditional engineering school, we don't mean to be putting them down. There's a lot of good ones, but the world didn't need us to start an engineering school at Chicago if what we were going to do was to copy MIT or Stanford or Berkeley. We are striking out in new directions. I like to say that we go beyond interdisciplinary to a convergent approach, and by that the thing that's different from interdisciplinary is it's not just a cooperation among different disciplines, but it's research driven by a specific, compelling problem, and you're going to hear some things about this when we talk about quantum information, when David talks about quantum information, or Jeff talks about immunoengineering. And this requires really deep integration across disciplines, not just cooperation, but adding new tools to tackle big problems. We do have a nice new building. This is an artist's sketch of what I showed you from an aerial photograph in which we have the laboratories for the, many of the laboratories for which we're going to describe the work that's going on today. There's David looking into a very powerful facility that's in the lower level of this building called the Pritzker Nanofabrication Facility, which is a 10 thousand square foot clean room which I believe is comparable to the state of the art in any academic institution in the United States right now. I came to the University of Chicago most immediately from Berkeley, where I was the chair of the bioengineering department with the authority to hire 25 new faculty members, and if your multiplication of rows and columns is good, we blew right past that. We now have 39 faculty members, some of whom are joint appointments with physics or biology or chemistry, but David and Jeff and I are among the really first founding faculty members that have created the technical pillars of the Pritzker School of Molecular Engineering. So anyway, that's the spectrum of names and I just like to spread it out there so people can see some kind of concrete image of the capacity that we now have in the men and women on our faculty. As I said, there's three technical research themes that you're gonna hear about, in this case from right to left today, and each of them have about a dozen people affiliated with them in some way. But these are thematic research directions, not departments. You'll see numerous names listed in more than one column, and that's great. While we do want to have strong themes, we want to have interconnections among the themes, so we don't label people, it's just that, this is just a kind of rough sketch of where different people contribute. And if I put disciplinary backgrounds behind these people, you will see that we have faculty members whose training is in biology, chemistry, physics, material science, chemical engineering, mechanical engineering, bioengineering, and electrical engineering and computer science, so we are one group of 30 some faculty members with a great diversity of intellectual and academic backgrounds. I also put a web link down at the bottom of this page to point out that one of our faculty members who was pictured but is not in one of these lists is Nancy Kawalek, who leads a program in the dramatic arts focused on science and technology within the PME and the program is called Stage. If you go to the PME website and look for Stage, you won't have any trouble finding the kinds of activities and interesting programs that Stage does both performance and research in. So I said, we have 39 faculty members, we have 14 assistant professors, 15 full professors, and three of the mid-career variety, oh, no, David and Jeff and I consider ourselves mid-career as well. We have seven secondary appointments, meaning people whose primary appointment is in physics or chemistry or biology. A very important aspect of the PME is that it has been the agent of greatly enhancing the cooperation between the campus and the Argonne National Laboratory, which has been managed by the University of Chicago, but at a distance since the Manhattan Project, and we now have a lot more joint appointments. David may say something about a major project that he's pursuing there, and the polymer group is pursuing things, so you see some facts and figures here. Now, we already have over 200 graduate students, and we have 32 PhD alumni, most of whom, not all of whom, have gone into industrial jobs, some in the Bay Area. We have about 80 post docs. 21 of our post doctoral alumni so far, at least, that may not be a totally up to date figure, and we have placed our post docs on the faculties of several California universities and other universities around the country. Our undergraduate program is growing, and we actually teach a lot of non majors in various things, and the number of undergraduates indicating that they intend to study engineering at the university of Chicago is growing. Jeff may say something, or certainly could say something in the Q & A about new venture creation, and patents and other things that are really societal outgrowths of the Pritzker School for Molecular Engineering. That's a very fast overview of what's going on, but the principal thing I want you to remember is that we've built very rapidly, but in the process have created three strong, important technical themes of molecular engineering. I should probably close by saying that molecular engineering is our branding for small scale engineering. We don't literally mean engineering molecules. We mean engineering systems from the molecular level up, and that's what we've created at the University of Chicago. With the Pritzker gift naming our school a little over a year ago, the university has said that we can double in size over the next decade, so you see some images of what we are with immunoengineering, material system quantum engineering, and stage being our principal pillars in 2020, but we are thinking about several kinds of new thematic concentrations, and fortifying our cross-cutting capabilities for 2030. We're thinking very seriously about launching a new program in molecular engineering for space science and engineering. We're thinking about expanding our efforts in biological engineering into biological systems design, and then as it says at the very bottom, enhancing our cross-cutting capabilities in computation, artificial intelligence, material synthesis, and instrument development. So that's a thumbnail sketch of the evolution and the future of PME, and I will now turn the floor over to David Awschalom to talk about quantum engineering. - Thank you, Matt. - David and I are not actually in the same place, but we're using similar versions of the same virtual background. - That's right. So thank you, thank you very much. It's fun for me to talk about quantum science and technology to the Booth alumni, who we view as the users of this technology down the road, so thank you very much for listening to me this afternoon. So just to get everybody on the same page, as Matt pointed out, one of the fun things about being at the Pritzker School of Molecular Engineering is an opportunity to build something from the ground up that's very new, a new type of technology that's hitting the country and the world, and just so we're clear to all of you, although I'm guessing many of you in the Bay Area have been hearing about quantum computing, what is quantum engineering? So apologies for spending a minute on this one, but at the very smallest scales of individual electrons, and individual atoms, these properties of nature at that scale behave in ways that we don't see today that are driven by the laws of quantum physics, and these laws provide a fundamentally new way of creating and controlling information, and this is the genesis of quantum technology, the fact that it's actually been easier and easier over time to actually do this in the lab, and people discovered ways to actually produce technologies that are scalable. And these quantum technologies were based on two unusual properties of nature. One is the fact that, unlike our technologies today, say in computing, where a bit can be zero or a one, information can be in two states, a quantum bit, one atom or one electron, can exist simultaneously in an infinite number of zeroes and one states, an influent number of combinations. The second property is just entanglement. You can create information in multiple quantum bits, or multiple transistors, if you like, that are connected, even if they're not physically connected. These entanglements or these connections can take place even over long distances on a trip across a state, across a country, or even across a galaxy. And these combinations have really launched this really different way of thinking about information, and in Chicago in the PME, we've tried to build up a community of people who think about engineering the science in new directions. So in the Bay Area you probably heard about one of the three big areas of this field, which is quantum computing. Through this entanglement you can begin to make machines with a pretty small number of quantum transistors, if you like, but because they're entangled, they can acquire properties that well surpass super computers, even future extrapolations we can think of super computers in the next 10 or 20 years. But in addition to computing, we can create new technologies based on communications and sensing. And I'm gonna talk a little bit about these communications, but that in the short term has generated a lot of excitement right now in the country, ways to build unhackable networks, use the entangled links to teleport information over millions of locations instantly, and also build centers at the atomic scale that can go into biological systems, probe gravity, take MRI down to the level of single molecules, and even control information one bond at a time. So it's a pretty exciting direction right now for the field, and we'll talk just a little bit about that. So what about business? I appreciate that I'm speaking to Booth alumni here, and where does all this fit in the business world, and oddly enough, a couple of the big drivers in this field right now are the business communities where many large businesses have launched quantum technology groups. JP Morgan has a large group in New York, for example. Credit Suisse has a large group. They're growing all over the world, and they're interested in finance, how algorithms with quantum computers can be used for very secure transactions, high speed trading and delocalizing information, including finances, transportation logistics, distribute energy grids and smart grids can take advantage of unusual quantum computing schemes, but even optimization algorithms. One of our partners here at the PME is Boeing. They talk about the millions of parts that are needed to assemble a plane. How do you know which order to do them in efficiently? They claim after about 100 planes, they're pretty good at building an airplane, say a triple seven. But if you knew in day one what you knew after 100 airplanes it would have an enormous impact financially. And the pharmaceutical healthcare industry, pharmaceutical companies have formed their own quantum consortia now to look at precision sensing in molecules and interactions, how quantum machines could do quantum chemistry to try and determine the role of pharmaceuticals as they're synthesized, and how you can control cellular dynamics at the level of individual cells. So it's exciting to think about where this is going, and maybe one of the most exciting things is we don't really know where these will, biggest applications will take place, but we know they'll happen. So I wanna say one thing quickly about the communication security map. Brought it up because this area has helped us tie very closely to Argonne National Labs. I'm sorry, you're seeing the sunlight come through my window here, which I appreciate being in Chicago, as I moved from California, so like a plant, I'm absorbing as much as I can. But for communication security, we were interested in trying to build these entangled states, build a test bed for quantum communication, a real world environment, where in Chicago, and in the suburbs, there could be big temperature changes, big environmental changes, and Argonne has launched a project, the quantum loop, which is a 52 mile optical fiber network to create entangled pairs across the network as a test bed for both industry and academia. It'll extend another 30 miles to Fermi National Lab in the coming year, and it's the foundations what we believe will be a national quantum internet program where banks, telecommunications company, security information companies can come and start using this test bed with different technologies and a plug and play assembly technique to try their technology and see how robust it is in the real world. So I wanna say a little bit about quantum computing, because that's something people are most familiar about, and it is very exciting, it's very challenging, and at the PME, we're taking both a short-term and a longer term approach. Taking approaches that we believe are now scalable using super conducting materials to build quantum bits, but also working with companies such as Intel and HRL and others to build scalable solid state quantum bits to think about next generation technologies, maybe the next decade. So why is all this interesting? Just so you appreciate this, today, if you want to double the speed of, say, the laptops we're all using right now, and a Pentium chip typically now has maybe 700 million transistors in it. To double the speed of our laptop computers, we take a second chip, and we double the number of transistors, and that roughly doubles the computation power. But in quantum technology, because everything is entangled, to double the number of quantum transistors, you just add one. Just one transistor will double the computation power. So you can see where this is going. Even if you had a small number of quantum transistors, say 10 thousand, tiny compared to what you have today, say, on your phone, you'd have 10 thousand quantum transistors that are entangled. Adding one more quantum transistor increases your computational power to two to the ten thousandfold. So these are enormous numbers, and this is why people are excited about the potential of quantum computing. So today, even if you build a 200 quantum bit computer, which is really incredibly small, it's hard to even find something like that today with our existing technology, that computer could contain more memory states than atoms in the observable universe. So having this immense power of computation is really exciting in thinking about what problems you could solve down the line. And in the PME, we've hired theorists and experimentalists, as Matt pointed out, across the different disciplines using inorganic and organic assembly techniques to try and build these quantum bit machines, control the entanglement, and using for sensing and biological systems, quantum memories for communication, and also superconducting systems for computation. Sensors are very important, and we're pushing very hard the limits of sensing to think about placing individual quantum sensors inside living entities. There are projects within the PME and across the biological sciences that put these quantum sensors in living cells. There's one that you can see on the bottom, the human endothelial cell. That's sitting in those little red dots, or individual quantum states, probing the electric and magnetic fields at the interface of these cells. These techniques can look at single nuclei now at room temperature, and to put them in perspective, traditional MRI scans that some of you might have experienced in a hospital might look at 10 to the 20th to 10 to the 22 nuclei. These quantum centers look at one over 20 orders of magnitude improvement in resolution. And think about in fact using individual nuclei to store information, not just probe things biologically. People are exploring quantum technologies as early warning systems for tremors around the earth, for volcanic sensing and earthquake detection. Look at the dynamics of living cells, how you can image things with unprecedented resolution. And also in high energy science and astrophysics deploy these quantum sensors as ways to look at dark matter and look at the origins of the universe. So people are looking all over the place at what the applications might be for this area. Not surprisingly, this field is now a global entity, and there's competition across the globe. Virtually every country has launched a national quantum technology program, major programs in China, the EU, Australia, Japan, Canada, Singapore, they've all launched national programs. A few years ago Japan launched one of the first satellites used to generate entangle states from space to earth platforms for communication. That helped generate a response from the United States and helped launch the national quantum initiative right before Christmas in 2018, which was a 1.2 billion dollar allocation to launch quantum information science over the next five years in the US through building national centers through the Department of Energy, the National Science Foundation, and NIST. Over 600 million has been designed to the Department of Energy to build national centers in the United States, and there's a national competition taking place right now, and PME is heavily engaged in leading one of them with Argonne National Labs, and collaboration is really critical in this field, and one of the nice things of doing this in an enterprise like the PME, as Matt pointed out, collaboration is built in from the bottom up. It's not something we have to force. It's the way we're designed, and that's an enormous advantage in this particular field. So University of Chicago's always had very strong science programs, particularly in the areas of quantum science through physics and chemistry, computer science, astronomy and astrophysics, but the PME has created a quantum engineering program, one of the first in the country, already with 14 new faculty and growing, and as Matt mentioned, the strength of this field is to think about it as a new discipline that cuts across traditional boundaries to identify and grab opportunities as they appear. And we're really lucky to have the resources Matt mentioned, like the nanofabrication facility, this 10 thousand square foot nanofab, which is one of the best in the country. It also helps us launch a strong graduate program, which is one of the big challenges in quantum engineering. How do we create a quantum-ready workforce for the United States? Where will these employees come from, both for existing companies and start-up activities that will need trained scientists and engineers in quantum technology? And if we have an undergraduate quantum track in molecular engineering, there's a graduate track, and working closely with the Polsky Center on campus, we have a Venture Fellows program, an innovation fund, and working with Argonne, their Chain Reaction Innovations program to help drive companies in this area. And the students are really excited about all of these and working quite hard on them. A few years ago the PME launched the Chicago Quantum Exchange. It's a new idea based on the PME at the University of Chicago to foster collaborations and joint projects between industry, national laboratories and academia. It was formed with the University of Chicago, the University of Illinois, Argonne and Fermi Lab as a cornerstones, and then later brought in University of Wisconsin and Northwestern University as academic partners. It launched in 2017, and now we have over 65 million dollars in federal funding happening to our members with almost 150 researchers across these institutions in the Chicago area. It's allowed us to attack opportunities with companies that we couldn't do individually. We have seven corporate partners with IBM and Boeing, HRL and Rigetti, ColdQuanta, Quantum Opus and Applied Materials working very closely with us and actually funding programs in the PME at the University of Chicago, and we have six more partners that we'll be announcing at the end of the month. We work with a quantum economic development consortium, which is an industrial organization formed as part of a national initiative to get American companies sharing information to deal with some of these challenges. There's 75 companies in the QED-C. P33 is a Chicago-based organization to help build these technology platforms for companies in Chicago. We have two international members now in Delft in the Netherlands and at the University of New South Wales in Australia to tie into both the EU Programs and the programs in Australia, and finally, I wanna say that we're working very hard in training the engineering people of tomorrow in the quantum area. We've launched a pilot program with the National Science Foundation called the QISE-NET program to create a new way to train students who do their PhDs in concert with industrial scientists, and the NSF actually augments their salary to do this for three years. IBM has contributed five post-doctoral fellows to spend time working jointly between universities and their laboratories on areas of quantum technology. We've launched a certificate programs to retrain industrial scientists to get them to pivot into the areas of quantum science and engineering, and we've used a CQE to offer a spotlight series where students can learn what goes in in these companies and what the opportunities are. So thank you very much, this gives you a snapshot of what's happening here in the PME in quantum engineering, and I will stop sharing my screen to turn it over to Jeff. - Thanks, David. - All right, thank you David. So I'd like to give you an overview of what we're doing in the PME in the area of immunoengineering. When we founded the Pritzker School for Molecular Engineering, we wanted to address key issues in biology and biotechnology, biomedical sciences, and we chose to focus on immunology, cancer biology, and also the interface of immunology and cancer biology, rather than address a wider areas of biology. So what do we mean by immunoengineering? So we're taking engineering approaches and applying them toward, actually both basic as well translational immunology. So I've got an overview in these slides on what we mean by translational immunology and immunoengineering. And then with a few vignettes. One of the vignettes comes from Melody Swartz's laboratory in the PME and then two from my laboratory in the PME. So immunology is key to many diseases, and a key to many therapeutics. Many therapeutic approaches are driven on immunology. So more chronic diseases are known to involve immune dysfunction, so cancer involves immune dysfunction. So for example, cancer cells are rising all the time in the organism, but they're being killed most of the time, and the successful cancers are the ones that escape immune detection to proliferate and go on to cause a tumor. Autoimmune disease is obvious, we have immune dysfunction where one has an exuberant immune responses to recognize self and try to attack self. The incidence of autoimmune diseases is increasing, especially asthma and allergy, so if you went back to my childhood, for example, I never heard of the idea of a peanut allergy. Now it's like one out of 13 children are allergic to peanuts. So these are incidents of type one diabetes is increasing. And moreover there are therapeutic drugs that are developed by biotechnology industry that have an Achilles heel of being immunogenic such that the patient receiving those drugs develops immunity and then rejects them, as it were, thus rejecting the therapy that's available to treat them. There are also immune modulating therapeutics, so one sees advertised on television a variety of therapeutics to treat osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, a variety of immune dysfunctions. So the immune regulation system is highly complex, and that means that it lends itself to engineering analysis, we're accustomed to analyzing networks of information, systems of reaction networks, and that's what we're doing here. So on the one hand, one thinks of, say, cancer. You would like to engineer the system to recognize mutated proteins in cancer and reject it. You'd like to reject infectious diseases, for example, key right now, thinking of COVID-19. But on the other hand, one does not want to reject oneself. So we're not only self proteins and autoimmunity, but also the various proteins in your gut, so we have to be tolerized to those proteins in our gut. Otherwise it's like you have Montezuma's revenge every day of the week. And then environmental allergens as well. As you know from reading about the microbiota in the newspapers, we're more than half microbial, non-human, and we have to maintain immunological tolerance to that. So these areas of translational immunology, we seek to monitor the immune system, to control the immune system, and even to predict the immune system in the course of diagnosis ranging to therapy. In cancer, infectious disease, autoimmunity, allergy, asthma, which are somehow related. In the PME, then, we have several programs underway. Engineering, as Matt said in the beginning, from the molecular level up, so molecular therapeutics, material therapeutics in immunology, engineering cellular systems as well. Perhaps you've read in the newspapers about car-t cells, genetically engineered t cells, immune cells, t cells that are taken out of the body, engineered, and reintroduced in the body to kill a tumor, so their active programs in both cellular engineering for immune system and then tissue engineering, and I'll come to a vignette on that. In terms of microdevices, there's extensive work in the PME on engineering microdevices for high throughput bioanalytics. One reads about instruments being able to analyze 10 thousand patients a day or subjects a day for COVID-19 positivity. It's possible to do things that are much more complex and much more sophisticated than that using microdevices, and then as well, computation. So mathematical modeling and computational modeling and machine learning approaches to analyze the immune system. So I wanted to give you three vignettes of work going on in the PME in different areas of immunoengineering. The first one from Melody Swartz's laboratory being in tissue engineering approaches. Tissue engineering is an area that's been mainly used in regenerative medicine, in bone repair and skin repair, for example. Using for immunotherapy screening in this first vignette. So she has developed in vitro avatars, she calls ivitars, of the tumor immune response for personalized immunotherapy. Wouldn't it be nice if you could be a cancer patient and be screened beforehand to predict response to therapy before you actually undergo that therapy. In fact, there could be many therapies that would be appropriate for you, some more effective than others, and it'd be great to not have to test them one at a time, wait until one fails to try another. But if one could take a sample, a biopsy from a tumor and culture it in a laboratory in an engineered system to allow exposure to different therapies before you actually start therapy as a patient, just therapy of your biopsy of your tissue sample. So she's developed in vitro systems that allow the full physiological, we call it organitypiculture, the full physiological characteristics of the culture system to be at play. So just as an image-- So here these are tumor cells in green that are co-cultured with immune cells in red, and one can follow many aspects of tumor immune responses, so as I play this movie, so the immune cells are killing the tumor cells, so they don't just disappear, they're being destroyed, they're being lysed. So one can use these in vitro systems to study even complex effects of like an immune cell killing a tumor cell, but all in vitro, all without subjecting the patient to the therapy itself. So one can go to different levels of complexity, so for example here, looking at car T cell therapy, adopted cell therapy, which is effective in reducing tumor volume, so tumors in animals respond to this. Some tumors respond poorly, some tumors respond better, and in animals, some animals survive for long periods of time, but others for short periods of time. There are also vaccine approaches that are being developed against cancer, not to vaccinate to prevent you from developing an infectious disease, but to vaccinate to treat a disease like cancer that have been developed. So where some tumors don't respond well at all to vaccination therapy, and other tumors, like tumor B, respond quite well, such that most animals are completely cured by the vaccine response. So what Melody Swartz has been able to do is use these in vitro systems to say, let's not just vaccinate the subject and see what happens. Let's vaccinate a biopsy in the laboratory and see what happens, and then predict based on that what therapy would be most effective for use in the patient. With strong correlation between in vitro response and in vivo response. So in terms of cancer immunotherapy, there are also molecular therapies that are being explored. So I'm sure you've read about checkpoint blockade immunotherapy, or sometimes it's just called immunotherapy. There was a Nobel prize won on this topic recently, where one identifies mechanisms by which tumor cells fool the immune system to prevent the immune system from killing the tumor cells. Molecules with names like Program Death One, Program Death Ligand One. So these molecules prevent the immune response from killing a tumor that would otherwise kill it. So this has been the basis of developing drugs that inhibit these pathways. The drugs that have their names shown here, drugs that are billion dollar drugs, even many billion dollar drugs, but that are still, for all those billions, effective in like a third of the patients. So there exists a great deal of room for improvement, and value to be gained, as well. So is it a vignette of an approach that we're exploring, so one of the features of these tumors that don't respond well to tumors is that they're not very inflamed, and if a tumor is not very inflamed, then the tumor is not subject to these checkpoint blockade immunotherapies, so in our laboratory we're developing approaches to engineer molecules that would be pro inflammatory molecules. But you might say, well gosh, those pro inflammatory molecules would be really toxic, so if you induce inflammation throughout the body, so in an approach that we're carrying out with another professor in PME, Juan Mendoza, we've made such a molecule that's masked, that's masked and inactive until it enters the tumor and becomes unmasked by presence of a tumor. So if we take tumors that are unresponsive to checkpoint blockades, so billion dollar drugs that lead to 100% death in the animal, and don't prevent 100% death in the animal models, now checkpoint blockade, with these engineered molecules which are called cytokines, can lead to complete survival, so instead of complete non-survival, complete survival by making cold tumors hot. I wanted to introduce one last vignette, that being related to vaccines. Vaccines are totally on our minds these days, thinking about a COVID-19 or SARS COV-2 vaccine. There are other approaches that we're exploring. We're exploring that in full throttle, but other approaches that I wanna mention that you probably never heard of before. The idea of an inverse vaccine. The idea of a vaccine to prevent something like an autoimmune reaction, to turn off an immune reaction. So I mentioned already that the incidence of autoimmune diseases is increasing over time in all of these autoimmune indications, rheumatoid arthritis, type one diabetes, wouldn't it be cool if you could have a vaccine that would prevent those autoimmune diseases in patients that are at risk, or could turn around those autoimmune diseases in patients that have already begun to show symptoms of autoimmunity. So multiple sclerosis is one such autoimmune disease, a disease that leads to defects in the nervous system, central nervous system and the brain and the spinal cord that leads to a variety of pathologies, including loss of mobility. So in this case, we've developed an inverse vaccine, something that can turn off multiple sclerosis, and are using it in mouse models of multiple sclerosis. So these mice, shown in black, that are not treated at all, are treated with a non-engineered vaccine in red, become quite paralyzed. They can't move their hind limbs at all, their tail is flaccid, they sort of drag themselves around a cage on their front legs. By contrast, though, if we treat in blue with an engineered vaccine, an inverse vaccine, we can completely avoid the symptomology of multiple sclerosis in these mouse models of this important disease, much better than the state of the art drug is, so black is the drug, it's a clinical standard of care. We can outperform this clinical standard of care. So this is applicable to a number of autoimmune diseases, and in fact we've started with this technology, a clinical trial recently, in celiac disease, which is sort of a semi-autoimmune disease, it's attached to food, to gluten, and that clinical trial was started just before the COVID crisis, and University of Chicago is a trial site for that. So lastly, could one extend those inverse vaccines to food allergies? I mentioned that like one out of 13 kids has a peanut allergy. Wouldn't it be cool if you could vaccinate to prevent food allergies with an inverse vaccine? In this case, that's what we've done here in collaboration with another PME immunology professor, Cathryn Nagler, so we've taken animals that are prone to develop, because of our model, prone to develop allergy against cow's milk, the second most prominent food allergy after peanut allergy, and if we vaccinate these animals, they don't develop cow's milk allergy at all, whereas if we don't vaccinate the animals, they develop cow's milk allergy and enter anaphylaxis just like a human patient would. So with that, I wanna close off, and say thank you very much for your attention. So tried to show you some of the problems that we're solving, or working on at least, in immunoengineering in the Pritzker School for Molecular Engineering. I'll turn the floor over to Matt Tirrell now. - Thank you, Jeff. I'm gonna conclude this, oh, I'm sorry. I'm gonna conclude this technical discussion by talking about things that we're doing in a variety of material systems, largely aimed at questions of sustainability and health. The central theme of a lot of the organic materials research in PME is a spontaneous process known as self assembly, which means just what it says. You put the molecules together in a solution, and they organize themselves into some interesting or useful structure, maybe the simplest version of a self assembled structure are the micelles that form in your kitchen sink or in your washing machine, or in your dishwasher that are molecules that have ionic head groups and very hydrophobic tails. These want to come together to get the hydrophobic tails out of water, so that's the driving force for self assembly with the water soluble head groups sticking out, but this creates a very hydrophobic environment that dissolves the oil and grease that's on your hands or in your clothing or on your dishes, and so that's a simple kind of self assembly process. A more sophisticated one, also reversible under the right conditions, is the folding of a protein. A particular sequence of amino acids that might have hydrophilic and hydrophobic amino acids, positively and negatively charged amino acids, has an information content in it that causes it to form spontaneously into a three dimensional structure that may give it enzyme activity because of a particular shape of the molecule, or antibody activity for the same reason. One can build synthetic mimics of proteins, and that's something that we work on in my lab quite a bit where you combine the hydrophobic tail idea with a short sequence of amino acids, and get the tail to bring these short peptides together in some kind of globular or fibrous structure that mimics the natural structures formed by proteins and biology. A simpler version that's a little bit like the surfactant version is block copolymers, where you have two chemically dissimilar polymers that thermodynamically hate one another, but they're tied together by a strong bond in the middle, and the best they can do to get away from one another is form an organized periodic structure, and I'm gonna say more about that. One aspect of sustainability is sort of financial sustainability, and as many of you in the Bay Area may know, the drive to make smaller and smaller transistors, down to 10 nanometer feature size and below, is creating enormous costs for microelectronics fabrication lines which themselves cost hundreds of millions of dollars and the whole plant may have 10 or more of these things, so for example, Taiwan Semi-Conductor Manufacturing Corporation spent almost 10 billion dollars on a very recent 30 centimeter wafer manufacturing facility in Taiwan. Paul Nealey and Juan de Pablo in the PME hold a whole series of patents on using atomic level chemical patterns to drive block copolymer assembly in useful ways to drastically reduce the cost and improve the efficiency of making these small scale features, and I'm not sure how this is gonna work, but I'm gonna try to play a short video here, which is from, I'm gonna start in the middle, from a guy named Carlos Standemon who works for Merck, which is a gigantic German conglomerate, and he's going to explain how this works. - [Narrator] Of doing this partening have become so complex-- - Can you hear that, Jeff? - [Narrator] That they reportedly cost more than one hundred-- - We can hear it, we can't see it. - Oh, sorry. - [Narrator] Contain dozens of these machines. - You can't see it. - No, we cannot see it. - [Narrator] This approach long term viable. - [David] No, but we can hear it. - [Narrator] We can do this chip manufacturing. - Okay, sorry. - [Narrator] Different and much more cost effective way using molecular engineering, and making nature down to the nanoscale dimensions of our-- - Can you see it now? - No. - [Matt] Yes? - No. - [Narrator] Every tiny feature of the circuit and projects it-- - Okay. - [Narrator] But if you look at the structure of an integrated circuit, the transistor-- - Bad experiment. This is a fellow who's working for a major electronics conglomerate in Germany, who is touting the work that Paul Nealey and Juan de Pablo have done in using this self assembly process to create the patterns needed for integrated circuits, and this has been adopted by the semi conductor industry road map to really start to play out in practice, so much so that the semi conductor companies are no longer funding Paul and Juan's research because they've taken all the work in house for technical development. The layered structures that I was telling you about can be as small as 10 nanometers, so they're ideal for spontaneously forming the structures that you want, but you have to add a little extra ingredient, that's what this and about a dozen other patents that Paul have because if you just allow these things to self assemble on their own, you get this kind of wiggly fingerprint pattern that you see on the left. So you have to do something to direct the self assembly to get the kind of very regular pattern that you see on the right. And what you do is you create a pattern like this on the surface so that the lamellae will stand up perpendicular to the surface, but in fact the pattern that you have to write can be three to five times bigger than the actual lamellar thickness, and so you get what they call a density multiplication, a three X density multiplication, so you could write 90 nanometer stripes here with easier with a graphic methods and get 30 nanometer features, and they've devised ways working with the European semi-conductor organization, IMEC, to do high throughput screening of the various conditions of lithography, both of the focus of the lithography and the dose of the radiation to determine the optimum conditions to get to small scale features like this 28 nanometer, and frankly they're moving to much smaller feature size with this technique. I also wanna point out that one of the researchers at IMEC in Belgium is Paulina Rincon Delgadillo, who is the first PhD alum of the PME, graduating in 2014. So they're working on this, and as you can imagine, it's not all as simple as you might guess. There's all kinds of things that have to do not only with the feature size and the processing conditions, but the regularity and the roughness and the waviness of the features, but this is a very industry relevant project going on within the PME. Another area of polymer science that the PME is working on, and this is in my lab in collaboration with a couple of others, is polyelectrolyte complexation. The kind of materials that you get spontaneously by pouring oppositely charged polymers together and having the positively charged polymer and the negatively charged polymer form a complex fluid as you've seen here. These kind of materials have been known for a long time. They were used in the early e-readers to keep the particles in a fine state of dispersion. I first became interested when we were in Santa Barbara, because there's a whole range of marine organisms that use this kind of polyelectrolyte complex formation to glue habitat together, and there's an increasing interest in these complexes in fundamental biology, because it turns out that within cells there are many, many subcellular organelles that don't have any membrane around them and are held together by these electrostatic forces. You can also make block copolymers out of these, so you can have a piece of the block copolymer that's charged and a piece that isn't, and as you might guess, when you bring these together, you get micelle-like objects with the ionic species in the center and the nonionic species in the outside. These are x-ray defraction diagrams, and as you make these things more and more concentrated, that is you squeeze these micelles together, just like in the earlier case, these things form ordered phases. Spheres, cylinders, and lamellae, and we have used these to create hydrogels that may be useful for tissue engineering and other kinds of encapsulation applications. The final thing that I wanna say along these lines is that we've started to use these things to create small, therapeutic nanoparticles where we have a positively charged polymer that complexes in the interior with a therapeutic nucleic acid, and one gets a so-called polyelectrolyte complex micelle with a peptide, a small piece of protein, I'm sorry, I've got something doing this automatically. With a small piece of protein that targets inflamed tissue. These, as you can see on the right, are small sort of 10 nanometer particles, and we have shown that delivering a therapeutic nucleic acid can inhibit the inflammation that leads to the development of atherosclerosis in mice and hopefully in humans, so we have something where a therapeutic agent that reduces the inflammation leading to atherosclerosis does not have to be, can be delivered systemically, but can be localized by the targeting peptide to the pathological tissue, and what the data on the right show is if you deliver this therapeutic agent naked without our micellar complex, it's a potent agent. It produces a 57% reduction in the size of atherosclerotic lesions in this mouse model, but if you deliver it with our packaging, you get an 80% reduction, and we've found that this technique of delivering these therapeutic nucleic acids works for other situations of inflamed blood vessels, and the most interesting one recently is that in delivering these things to inflamed lung tissue, which might be a model for the acute respiratory distress syndrome, which causes a fatality, seems to reduce the inflammation in lung tissue by delivering this anti-inflammatory agent to the lung tissue of mice that have been artificially induced inflammation. So I'm going to stop sharing my screen. We've tried very hard to give you an informative and comprehensive overview of work going on in the Pritzker School for Molecular Engineering, and we are here for as long as anybody would like to make comments or ask questions about our presentations. Thank you very much. - Thank you Matt, Jeff, and David, and as you just mentioned, now the floor is open to the participants to ask questions of the panelists. It's a lot of, it's a fascinating and incredible institute and school they have, an approach to tackling big problems, but I think it's complex as well, but the Booth graduates are smart, so what questions do you have for the panelists? Okay, I'll ask a question then to get it going. You talked about energy, and as one of the legs or focuses in the school's research portfolio and focus, what specifically, because it's a lot of, it's an area that I've spent a lot of my career in different energy systems, more at the macro scale, but what are you working on in that area? - Well, we have a really good platform to do a variety of energy related research because of our connection with Argonne, but specifically I would say the principal areas of energy related research have to do with energy storage. New battery materials, new electrodes and electrolytes for enhanced energy storage. The Argonne is the site of the Department of Energy's battery hub, so about 25 million dollars a year in one grant called the Joint Center for Energy Storage Research comes in to Argonne, and there's three, maybe four PME faculty members doing research on batteries connected with Argonne. That's the main thing. And it is mainly focused around new materials for various battery components. - And David mentioned grid, I think, applications potentially, so I think, my understanding going forward if we were considering a transformation of power generation and supply of renewables together with storage together with natural gas, maybe in the short term, it requires a much higher level of grid, different level of grid control. Are you doing anything in the computational space, or do you see anything in that computational space that might be applied in that area, or not needed? - Well, it's an interesting question, Paul. I mean, we are not doing anything in that space. We are working with partner companies that are thinking quite a bit about that as a way to deploy broad sets of centers to monitor energy use and distribute very, very quickly and simultaneously, so I think it'll be more efficient distribution system through quantum sensing, but we're not doing that ourselves. - Okay. - There's a couple of questions there. The first one's for David. Have you looked at it, David, or should I read it to you? - Maybe you could read it? I don't see that for some reason. - Okay, it says, how is quantum engineering different from nanoscience and technology? Where spent a lot of time over the last couple of decades. - Yeah, that's a great question. So you're right, I mean, nanoscience and technology is a really thriving field where people largely are looking at classical electronic properties that happen when you make materials at the micron or submicron scale. Quantum technologies tend to appear when you get down to the level of single atoms, single electrons, single photons. And I think previously people thought this would be a really hard area to work in, and that how could you control one electron, or one atom, it's hard to even buy a single electron transistor today. And then there's some changes in both materials development, control technologies, and some science. It became clear you could actually manipulate individual quanta in nature, and that's launched this area of quantum engineering, which really focuses on the quantum mechanical properties of matter, not what happens when you make matter small. - There's a couple of questions coming here about translation and commercialization. Jeff, would you say a few words about it? I'll read the specific questions, unless you can see them yourself. - Yeah, I was reading them myself. - About commercialization a little, and to the extent that you can, connections with Booth. - Absolutely. So one of the instruments that Booth has been involved in helping create at the University of Chicago is the Polsky Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship, which exists not just as a technology transfer office, meaning not just in responsive mode to negotiate license agreements and out license, rather to also be proactive in company foundation, so several of the PME faculty are involved with Booth NEN through Polsky Center in company foundation, so the Polsky Center can essentially assign or second some of their staff to individual faculty collaborations for company creation. So for example, in this cancer immunoengineering area that I was mentioning as one of the vignettes from my lab, we started a company from that technology by licensing from the university, and Polsky Center is very active in helping the founders, myself included, raise capital from venture sources to drive that forward. That works very well, because Polsky is really very, the center is very proactive, as I mentioned, in seeing that happen. - I should just add that even in the quantum area, which is, I would say, significantly farther away than what Jeff has been talking about, the PME has been filing an extraordinarily large number of patents working with Polsky, and quantum exchange has just hired an industrial director to help direct the evolution of these discoveries into companies that's been very, very successful, so. - Okay. - I see there's a question about how one might use quantum communication or entanglement to the financial industry. So actually that's something we've been speaking with some financial companies about in the last six months alone in the Chicago area, and I would say-- - And with Booth directly, I mean-- - Yeah, right, with faculty at Booth, exactly. And there are a lot of things that are emerging, so in the next 10 years, the financial industry is obviously very interested in secure communication, whereas I mentioned, one of the basic properties of quantum data is looking at it destroys it, right, the act of observing something changes it, and while that's normally thought as a liability, for a quantum network, that's fantastic, because one of the most common ways of taking information without you knowing is to extract the information, copy it, put it back in the channel, and let you receive it. And how do you know anyone's looked at your information? So with quantum information, it's built into the physics of the system. There is no way to take it and replace it. So that's one thing that we believe, probably in the next five years, in metropolitan networks will be happening with the financial industry, and the second is, and I'll just say this one last example, something called blind computing. But one of the interesting properties of a quantum computer is it can be designed in a way that the owner of the machine has no way of knowing what the machine is doing. So it's another level of built in security. And these are two areas that we see emerging in the financial industry. - There's a general question about time frames for seeing real solutions. You know, I think Jeff is producing real solutions all the time, at least to the point of clinical trials, in terms of time scale, by that I mean, as David alluded to, some of the biomedical things are closer to realization than some of the quantum things. It's even true of some of our work. I think we could move some of this targeted inflammation therapy for cardiovascular and possibly lung inflammation. There it's a question of money. So some of the biomedical things, I think, one will see the outcomes in three to five years. The quantum stuff is maybe more five to 10 years or something like that. I think that's a typical time scale. There's another-- Go ahead, Jeff. - For example, with the celiac inverse vaccine that we just introduced into clinical trials, the time scale there from conception to first patient treated was about five years. The product is gonna be longer than that, but the first patient treated, five years. - Right, right. There's an interesting question about federal funding. Actually, the federal funding environment has been very good, and even because of the public health situation and infusion of money for certain kinds of research has made federal funding even more available. So right now, lack of funding isn't the principal issue that we're struggling with. The big issue is actually being able to get into our laboratories, which we stared to do again this week. The long range implications of the government having borrowed a couple of trillion dollars and whether it'll be able to pay its debts in the future might affect the federal funding situation down the road, but that's not an immediate concern. - Yeah, but I think the other thing that's interesting about some of the federal funding, because I'm from the quantum areas, it's changing the way the work is done. So I think quite a few people realize you need to blur the interface between academia and industry in a way that translates some of the science and technology far more efficiently, and that's being baked into some of the federal calls right now. So that's actually quite interesting and very attractive to students. - There's a couple of questions here that I'll try to tackle, and then there's one back on quantum applications, David, that you might think about while I'm talkin'. - I see it, yeah. - Do you think other traditional engineering programs will move to a more interdisciplinary problem focused approach like PME? And then another question, while I understand the research from a PhD post doc point of view, how's the undergraduate curriculum designed? You know, it's hard to say. There are a couple of other places that have now adopted the name molecular engineering, although we were there first. The two principal ones, and we've started to form a little bit of a club, is the University of Washington in Seattle, which has an institute for molecular science and engineering, or molecular engineering and science, and then Imperial College in London that has started interdisciplinary molecular engineering program. None of them have the really firm foundation in the university administration that we have with our own tenured faculty lines, you know, control of our own destiny moving forward now that we're a school. It's clear that we're here to stay. The undergraduate program has been the most challenging thing that we've done, and I'd say it's still a work in progress. With PhD students and post docs, if you give them good problems to work on, the course work education is a less important part of their overall experience. I'm not saying it's not important, but compared to the good research environment, it's not so important. The undergrads, you have to teach them something. And we have some ideas about, of what we think constitutes a good core fundamentals that every engineer should know. I was dean of engineering at UC Santa Barbara for 10 years, and we had chemical engineering, mechanical engineering and so on, and you find that many of the traditional engineering departments teach the same stuff. They teach thermodynamics and they teach fluid mechanics and they teach things about mechanics and so on. We can teach our students that. If you're in chemical engineering department, you tend to use chemical engineering examples. If you're in a bioengineering department, you tend to use bioengineering examples. We're trying to expose our students to the fundamental topics in engineering with a kind of discipline agnostic point of view, to realize that the principles they're learning apply across a wide range of engineering problems. But after the fundamentals, we're giving our students more and more opportunities to pursue more specialized directions along the lines of the tracks of research that we talked about in quantum engineering, in bioengineering, and in material science and engineering. So that's pretty much how we're doing it. Why don't you say something about this privacy and civil liberties thing for quantum applications, David. - Well, I can speak a bit to privacy, which is how do things change when data is prepared in a way that, without knowing exactly how to observe it, you destroy it. So that offers extraordinary opportunities for privacy, and people have been thinking about how that could change society in interesting ways, like voting. For example, got their studies that suggest that there would be a large turnout for voting if you could do it reliably from your home, and there's absolutely no way that somebody could know how you voted. The only thing they would know is that you did vote, but they wouldn't know how, and there's no way to know how. So being able to handle data in a very secure and private way could affect civil interactions in unusual directions. The same with medical information is something that I always need to talk to Jeff about. There's a lot of interest in the pharmaceutical companies and how you secure information and data in a way that's just, there's just no way to extract it, and in fact it changes the way you even think about encrypting or using firewalls. Can you just leave your data exposed because there's no way to actually interpret it. It's just not possible. So I can't speak to the civil liberties aspect, but I think it will change the way people think about the freedom of exposing data when they know it's ultimately very secure. - Thanks. So there's a, not necessarily a final question, but one so far remaining question about Argonne and UChicago and accomplishments in the area of transportation and energy. Maybe the best way to say what's going on at Argonne is that there are basically four projects at Argonne where UChicago faculty members in PME are either the principal investigators or active participants. David leads a project at Argonne that is directed toward a particular aspect of quantum engineering that he didn't emphasize, but it was really the first thing that has to do with how do you switch quantum information with fidelity between different modes of action, sort of quantum transducers between different modes of the signal, and that's what's called an FWP in DOE language, meaning a field work project, so DOE has given money to David at Argonne so that Argonne has a project in this area. The work I talked about with ionic polymers is another project at Argonne with Paul Nealey as the principal investigator. Giulia Galli, one of our colleagues, leads a project on computational science methods at Argonne, and then finally there's the battery research that I mentioned to Paul early on. So there's quite a few areas now where PME is actively participating with Argonne scientists at Argonne. - It's probably worth saying to the topics that Matt just talked about, there's an enormous advantage of being able to work with Argonne, because many of these properties require understanding matter at the level of individual atoms or below, and tools like the syncratron at Argonne and the advanced computational facilities are unparalleled, and it gives us an opportunity to study things in ways that would be difficult or almost impossible to do elsewhere. - We probably don't have time to give this last question justice, but give it a shot, Jeff, about-- - I can give it a couple minutes, at least. So there's actually quite a bit of work on COVID-19 going on in the PME. When the university shut down, it allowed essential research to continue, which included COVID-19 oriented research, so there are three investigators in PME who are working on vaccine technology, a collaboration between my lab and Melody Swartz in one approach and Aaron Esser-Kahn in another approach involving also technology from our lab, so these technologies in vaccines, they won't be the first ones off the block. There are already several clinical trials that are running, but they're all focused at patients who will be more at risk and poorly served, or less well served, by current vaccine technology, which includes the elderly, so even to the flu vaccine that you get every season, the elderly respond quite poorly to the flu vaccine, and so we're trying to come up with approaches that would be more appropriate for those at risk patients. There's work on acute respiratory distress syndrome that Matt mentioned that leads to the pulmonary failure in patients. Matt has a project there, Tirrell, so my laboratory has a project there, and there's work in characterizing antibodies that are produced by patients that respond well by analyzing those antibodies and asking what can we learn about the vaccine response that Juan Mendoza is carrying out. Finally, going back to the microdevices that I mentioned, Savas Tay in our institute is working on microdevice-based diagnostic approaches, both for testing for the virus, as well as testing for pre-existing immunity based on infection. So those are some of the projects that are going on, and have been going on throughout the shutdown since we've been able to keep our research efforts up. - I think we're coming up against the end here. We could go on forever, because just fascinating talks, and you can just feel it, how great a school and program you have at the PME. I wanna congratulate you, and we all do, on the work you've done for a decade, and will continue to do, so thank you. I think we have a slide that shows for the participants who would like to engage with PME and reach out, so that's the purpose and one of the key goals of this event today is to promote engagement in people who are alumni and enterprises that are interested in the work and continue a dialogue. So these are the primary contacts at PME. I'm sure you can find ways also to reach the panelists today, and I wanna thank everyone for their participation and muscling through a lot of difficult material, but I know we're all up to it. So again, I wanna thank the panelists and everyone who participated, and I think that we'll call it end of the discussion for now. - Well thank you very much. We were honored by the invitation, and really appreciate the collaboration that we have with Booth and all of our University of Chicago colleagues, so thank you very much again. - Thank you as well. Bye bye. - Bye. - [David] Thank you. 