 Hello, everyone. Today I will present to you artificial axons, a novel biofidelic drug screening platform that will change how we develop therapeutics for neurological diseases. So here is the problem that keeps me up at night. There is a billion people affected by some sort of neurological disorder. These disorders often lead to neural degeneration, loss of neurons, and disabilities. Unfortunately, today there are no cures for neurodegeneration. In fact, more than 90 percent of neurological drugs fail in clinical trials. Neurodegenerative diseases such as multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer’s, and Parkinson’s are very complex, but they have one feature in common. They cause damage of myelin. And myelin is this very important membrane wrapped by cells called oligodendrocytes around axons to protect them. So when myelin is damaged, axons die, leading to neurological problems. So to protect from neural degeneration, we have to teach oligodendrocytes how to repair myelin. And this process is called remyelination. Unfortunately, today there is zero drugs available for remyelination. And when we started working on this problem in the lab, we quickly found out that there are no good tools to study myelination. So when you zoom in into human brain, you see those oligodendrocytes wrapping with myelin thin axons. So there are two key features of myelination. First, it is a three dimensional process that requires 3D axon structure. And second, axons have very low stiffness (like a Jell-O), and this is critical for correct myelination. So you have to provide those two elements in your system to correct [inaudible] myelination. So what is available today to study myelination? There are tissue and co-culture based assays, which provide environments similar to the in vivo, but these are inadequate for drug screening because they are too complex, slow, and have poor reproducibility. On the other end of the spectrum, there are cell culture plates, which are scalable and reproducible, but these are biologically irrelevant because they are two dimensional. So you can’t even study myelination in this system. In addition, they are six orders of magnitude stiffer than neural tissue. So there is a strong need in the neuroscience community for solutions that will combine biological relevance and scalability. So what if we engineered an artificial axon, a synthetic fiber that will mimic biological axons geometry and mechanical properties, but at the same time would be fully scalable and reproducible? Something that looks like this. In this system, each fiber represents biological axon. So now we can take real cells such as oligodendrocytes, put them in the platform, and watch them myelinate. It turns out that making structure like this is actually very challenging. And that is because making something thin with very low stiffness is very difficult. In fact, we have to make fibers with diameters less than 5 microns. And this is 20 times less than the diameter of human hair. So to meet the challenge, we assembled a great team of researchers with expertise in neural cells, biomaterials, and 3D printing. We also have on our team successful innovators and entrepreneurs in biotech space. And here is the solution that we created together. We used next generation specialized 3D printing to create artificial axons with axon-like geometry and stiffness, reproducible and drug target agnostic. We developed a platform with tunable properties where you can change the geometry or properties of the material. And this tunability allows us to mimic different disease conditions, making our platform very versatile. We have also demonstrated that artificial axons are compatible with neural cells, and that you can observe myelin wrapping directly on those fibers. The platform is scalable and compatible with standard laboratory techniques such as microscopy. So here you see live imaging of myelin wrapping around artificial axons. To achieve our solution, we have developed a proprietary process to manufacture axon mimics. We have also developed a new class of biocompatible materials that mimic axons. And we filed two patents to protect our IP. As the first application that we plan to commercialize, we chose a myelination assay. And that is because it is critical for successful remyelination therapies, and there is also significant market for this application. And there is no remyelination drugs currently available. So our myelination assay allows for direct quantifiable readout of myelin wrapping. And you see here in red artificial axons in their vertical format, and in green, rings of myelin wrapped around those axons. So you can quantify this wrapping as a function of different drugs. And we have demonstrated that our platform is sensitive enough to differentiate drug and dose responses. In addition, our platform is five times faster and 80 times cheaper than the current standard of co-culture. It is also reproducible and compatible with high throughput format. So our key value proposition is a biofidelic platform for more accurate in vitro research and drug screening. And when you use artificial axons early in the drug development pipeline, you can reduce cost and time of drug development by selecting better drug candidates, eliminating false positives early, and reducing in vivo testing. We plan to start a company in the end of 2021, and we will start by offering pharmaceutical services, and gradually evolve into drug discovery alliance model. The key stakeholders in that process are research, pharma, and financing. I would like to acknowledge our collaborators in funding, and finish by saying, let's keep minds healthy with artificial axons technology. Thank you. 