 Good evening, I'd like to welcome all of you to the Johns Hopkins Medical and Surgical Association meeting. I know many of you have special reunions, landmark reunions this weekend and thankfully we've had rain in Baltimore for pretty much the last 12 months and we finally have a break in the rain. And I'm John Thompson, the President of the Medical and Surgical Association for another two days and then I'll be turning it over. But it's my pleasure now to welcome the President of Johns Hopkins University, who really needs no introduction whatsoever and so we'll go ahead and get started. (audience applauding)  Good afternoon all, and thank you John. To all our alums here today, welcome back. It's a pleasure to be able to celebrate this year's Reunion Symposium with you and to be joined by colleagues and leadership from across the institution. So as you all well know better than anyone, medical school has never been a breeze and especially not at Johns Hopkins. And especially not in 1896, just three years after the School of Medicine opened its doors and forever changed medical education and research in this country. I usually am accompanied by this orchestration that anytime, there it is. That year, 1896, one of our first-year students was Dorothy Reed. Now Ms. Reed would secure her place in history several years later when she discovered the Reed-Sternberg cell, the key to understanding Hodgkin's disease. But that was years in the future. First she had to get through day one of medical school when she, like all incoming students was scheduled to be examined by the entire medical faculty including then Dean William Welsh. This is a practice Paul, that I understand you have still maintained and see that there's great value in trying to recruit students in the school then scaring the bejesus out of 'em on the first day with the full faculty being there. The precise value of this technique isn't quite apparent to me but it was the approach taken in Dean Welsh's time. Now like so many of her fellows at Hopkins before and since, she was undaunted as she contemplated the test. In fact she seemed to take it as a welcome challenge. The evening before the test she copied down in her diary the following line from Marcus Aurelius that seemed to capture the spirit of that moment and a spirit that she and her new academic community would share in spades. And that quote was the following. "All conditions are subject to revolution "so you need not be afraid of anything new." So indeed since its founding, Johns Hopkins has been a place that is clearly fueled by curiosity-driven research in which all conditions, all knowledge, all methods, all received wisdoms are subject to revolution. Over the course of the past century and a quarter, ours has been a place as you know well that invented and reinvented medical education, first for the 20th century and now again for the 21st. A place that reimagined hospital design with the patient located at the very center of the hospital. A place that unleashed a torrent of discovery from the development of heparin to the modern pregnancy test. And a place that continues to fearlessly embrace with gusto, with deep commitment the new as we double and redouble our investments in precision medicine and translational discovery leveraging the basic research capabilities that have always defined us and pushed us and the whole field of medical science into new frontiers. The fruits of these efforts are being realized daily in the pioneering work of our faculty, whether they're harnessing the power of data, data science to prevent stroke worldwide, eradicating health disparities both locally and nationally and internationally, advancing our scientific understanding of cancer, immunotherapy, the list could go on and on. And of course we are so proud at the university to have a school of medicine that so brilliantly, so powerfully embodies tradition of thinking and acting anew across our entire enterprise. The university of which the medical school is part, has been doing well. At the same time, this past year we were really pleased to be able to celebrate a historic $1.8 billion gift for undergraduate financial aid that will expand access and ensure that no high-achieving student is prevented from obtaining a Hopkins undergraduate degree because of their family's means. That's a concept that I know the dean is really committed to seeing embodied in the way in which we do medical school admissions and I'd say on behalf of the university, I know with support of the trustees that we're anxious to support him in that very important endeavor and hope that in due course we'll be able to see an equally transformative gift for this great medical school. We've also had a great year in the decision that we made to acquire the iconic museum building which many of you will know in Washington, which is of course, just located across from the National Art Gallery and just a stone's throw from Capitol Hill. But see, this is a great way to consolidate all of Hopkins's existing activities in Washington but more than that, to use that as a very powerful portal where we can take the best ideas, perspectives from Baltimore and bring them to bear on Washington and the important policy debates, the dialogs that are underway in Washington and have been informed more readily in the past by Johns Hopkins ethos. So in all of these dimensions, the university I think is firing all cylinders and so of course is our great School of Medicine. And I think that sense of openness to all revolution, all change that was captured in the quote that Dorothy Reed had invoked the night before her exam continues to define this institution. So with that I simply say, on behalf of the university welcome. Thank you for coming back. Thank you for the support that you provide to your alma mater but more than that as Paul and I and other leaders of this institution know so full well, the greatest assets that we have at the university are alumni and the way in which, and the decisions they make in their professional lives and their lives within the community and beyond, the way in which you take the Johns Hopkins education and you embody the best of what you've taken from here and give us walking exemplars of what's possible with a Johns Hopkins education that we can use when we're seeking to inspire and challenge the students who are currently here at Hopkins. So with that I have only one other task to do and that is to introduce our wonderful Dean and CEO of Johns Hopkins Medicine. Paul has been a wonderful leader of medicine, a wonderful partner to me and to the deans across the university, a wonderful colleague. He's someone who brings strength both as a clinician but also as a bench scientist to his role here and is very adroit at bringing the best of basic science but also translational healthcare and sensitivity to patient-centered care, to all that he does at Johns Hopkins Medicine. I feel very lucky to have him as a colleague and I know that that view is widely shared within our School of Medicine and the health system overall. Paul, over to you. Again, thanks for being here. (audience applauding)  Thank you, Ron. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. You sound like medical students. I won't tell the joke. Thanks everyone for coming and we appreciate the alumni that have come back today to join us. What I thought I'd do today is just tell you a little bit about the state of the school today and then I was asked to talk about the future of medicine. And so what I'd like to do today is think about with you some of the things that we are contemplating about where medicine as going. And we're gonna hear after that from both Roy Zegelstein. (audience laughing) Again you sound like medical students. (laughs) And then we're gonna hear some great speakers who will talk about some of the things we're doing in cancer and cancer research here. So first of all, a little bit about the school and Johns Hopkins Medicine. So Johns Hopkins Medicine in 2020 is a $9 billion enterprise composed of the health system and the School of Medicine. We have six hospitals, five of them in the Mid Atlantic, one in Florida. We have four ambulatory centers, large ambulatory centers. We have 40 primary care sites throughout the region. We have an international division that helps operate or manage hospitals in 15 countries around the world from Abu Dhabi and Saudi Arabia to Singapore and Istanbul. We have a healthcare insurance company that has about $1.4 billion in revenue and takes care of 400,000 capitated lives in the state of Maryland. The School of Medicine, it has about 3,000 faculty. We have about 1,200 students, that's graduate students and medical students. And $900 million of funding for research this year. So it is a big enterprise. We, rankings now, the hospital's been number three for two years in a row, the med school number two and children's hospital number eight. So if you add that all together, we're the number one medical center, you do the math. So it's a wonderful place of students. As I tell people, if you ever, after you read the newspapers or listen to TV, question the future of this country, spend half an hour with our medical students and you'll feel a lot better about the future of medicine because they are terrific, very committed to the care of patients and the care of the communities. Smart as they come and just wonderful, dedicated folks. So I hope you get to see some of them during your time here. I thought I'd talk a little bit about the future of medicine just five minutes. But we'd be happy to talk, we'll take questions at the end. So when you think about medicine, what we're thinking about here at Hopkins is the fact we're in the middle of what has been called the fourth industrial revolution. That's a revolution that's being driven by technology, by computing, by robotics, by connectivity and by real changes in our understanding of biology. That fourth industrial revolution is gonna disrupt many things. We see it, everyone sees it in our daily lives, in the decline of retail, in self-driving cars and trucks. But in medicine we really think it's gonna be almost as disruptive as it is to other fields. So when we think about our future, we think about how we're gonna lead that disruption rather than be disrupted by it. And to that I'd like to talk about several of the initiatives we have here where we're harnessing large computing, artificial intelligence and machine learning and in the care of our patients. And then finally I'm gonna talk a little bit about the challenges that brings to us as an institution and field. So first about harnessing that power and we begin with our precision medicine initiative that Ron talked about. We really think that using connectivity, the fact that patients are gonna have all this data that we're gonna know it in realtime, their health or illness. I mean think about that in addition to all the electronic medical records we have and all that information. And all the measurements we have. So we can do the genome on everyone. We'll have everyone's proteome, metabolome. The imaging sophistication today is unbelievable. The question's how you harness that data and really understand diseases in a way we didn't. We have many physicians in the room and example that I always use is asthma. So I used to run pulmonary, allergy, critical care and always been interested in asthma. So as you know, asthma's not one disease. We call it a disease. It has reversible bronchial constriction as the phenotype. But in reality it's probably 10 diseases. And we already know several of 'em. We know aspirin-induced asthma, exercise-induced asthma, allergic, non-allergic asthma. But in reality, those are clinically phenotype but really not molecularly phenotyped. So the question is can we harness the power of measurement to do that? So what we've decided to do is set up an IT platform in which we can use all these measurements and interdiginate them. So in combination with Microsoft, the Applied Physics Lab we've set up a cloud-based data lake in which all our data can come. It's been a great partnership between the university, APL and us to do that. We're now using that in our Precision Medicine Centers of Excellence. The two first ones I described are multiple sclerosis and prostate cancer where we're using different measurements to better predict outcomes in subset patients. For instance prostate cancer we have tools that Bell Carter has developed where he can predict and next time you're in, what's the likelihood that your biopsy will be advanced by using the data we have. And we're seeing more of these precision medicines. We have 16 Precision Medicine Centers of Excellence now. We think we'll have 50 within five years. So we're trying to harness that power and the data we have to drive outcomes. The other way we're using this change is in our artificial intelligence machine learning. We understand that many fields will be disrupted by that because of the power of computing in especially things like understanding digitalized images. So we have a great collaboration with Elliot Fishman and Bert Volgelstein in pancreatic cancer using machine learning to teach computers how to better read CT scans and get earlier diagnosis of pancreatic cancer. And so far that project called Felix is very promising. We have a professor in the School of Engineering, Dr. Saria who has used machine learning to help us better predict patients in the hospital that are getting septic. So we can now predict hours earlier if someone's turning septic in the hospital and intervene earlier than we could before and that product is now being used or rolled out in all our hospitals in our system. So that's the sort of thing we're doing. And it's exciting and we think that is the future of medicine. So the questions you're probably asking is, well then what are the implications for physicians? And there are two of them I want to talk about, both of which we are interested and concerned about. The first one is what is the role of the physician if computers are going to be driving a lot of the paradigms of care, reading imaging, reading pathology slides. And we think the physician's role is fundamentally gonna change in some fields more than others, but most importantly the physician's gonna be the interface between that technology and the patient. So the patient's gonna have a lot of data that they're gonna bring in in terms of their heart rate at home, what their blood sugars have been. That's gonna get uploaded on the computer. And the physician's the one that's gonna work with the patient to understand that data and what it means for their care. The physician's gonna be the one who helps them interpret the genome and what are the implications for diseases that they may or may not be predisposed to. It'll be the physician that is that interface and also understands the clinical paradigm that the computer is gonna put on the screen and say well that may be what the computer says but that is not the right care for this patient for whatever reason. So that physician's role is gonna change, and we think change dramatically over the next two or three decades. We're talking decades, not years. Well maybe years but. The other big implication is physician burnout. As we've, for many reasons, regulatory burdens, administrative burdens and the burdens of the electronic medical record, physician burnout in this country's at a record high. Over 50% of physicians feel burned out at some level in this country. We've done a survey at Hopkins and we're just a little bit better than that but not significantly. And so I put a task force together now a year and a half ago and said, well what do we need to do to address this issue? And the truth is it's not just physician burnout. It's nursing burnout and it's all commissions. Again, it's administrative burden. It's just the illness of people we see in the hospitals. It's the number of patients we have to see and how sick they are. And so we thought as an institution that it was an existential threat to who we are to have so many people who feel so burned out. And so we had a task force. We call it Joy at Johns Hopkins. It initiated generally one, with an office of well-being led by Dr. Lee Daugherty Betison in the Department of Medicine. And the office is there to really set up a series of approaches to help people and it's not one approach. It's several so we have approaches to help people deal with the electronic medical record and those approaches are things like the Dragon Voice Recognition System for people to easier chart. It is a whole series of committees that's set up to make Epic easier for the user. We have a wellness initiative. Our house staff here can use any gym and we'll pay for it in the city so they can be members of gyms and we pay for it. It's getting yoga and Tai Chi in the mornings out here in the courtyard so people can do that. It's really just a focus on wellness. It's food initiatives across a whole system where we try to have people eat better. So it's a series of things and it's really support for people who feel burned out and thinking about their own wellness is something that's really important to our patients. This is not a two-year trial. This is a journey. It's gonna be ongoing because I don't see these pressures changing or this disruption in medicine lessening any time in the next decade or so. So we're committed to making sure that folks here are well taken care of and take care of themselves so that they can better take care of their patients. Those are just a couple of things we're doing here. We can talk later after the Q and A. And I now would like to introduce the Vice Dean for Education, Dr. Roy Ziegelstein, Roy. (audience applauding)  Thank you all for being here. I'm going to give you a little update quick on education in the School of Medicine. It's always a delight to do this. And I'm going to start by talking about La Sagrada Familia, something that perhaps some of you in the audience have heard about, maybe even visited. And if you've heard me talk before, I start all of these talks with this metaphor. How many of you have been to Sagrada Familia? So you're very well familiar with it. Sagrada Familia was started in 1882, a little bit before the School of Medicine here at Hopkins. You see an early picture on the left. And if you look at it, you'll see something even back then before the turn of the century. And that is that it was under construction. You look in the middle and you see a more recent picture. It's under construction. And then if you look on the right you'll see a picture that I took a few months ago when I visited Sagrada Familia again, it's under construction. And in fact Gaudi, the architect of Sagrada Familia, his idea was that every architect's generation should bring its own style to Sagrada Familia. He wanted each part of the basilica to be built separately one after the other in order to absorb new architectural styles over the years. The logic behind this strategy was that each generation would have a proud and identifiable contribution to the project. That's my view of Johns Hopkins. Every one in the audience has been an architect that has gone into building this great place. All of you have contributed to education in the School of Medicine, and as Vice Dean for Education, I feel like I owe all of you a debt of gratitude and now have to continue building like Sagrada Familia. So Paul Rothman talked to you a little bit about the rankings of the hospital. I wanted to talk about our School of Medicine rankings. You should be very proud. We're number two, like Avis we try harder. And importantly US News and World Report actually ranks eight departments, eight departments. We do not have a department of family medicine so really we're only eligible for ranking in seven departments, and we're number one in four of seven, number two in two of seven and number four in one of seven. That's extraordinary when you think about it and I hope that you look at this slide and we can debate whether US News and World Report rankings mean much. We can debate about their methodology. The bottom line is this should make us very proud and it's worthwhile taking a look at and thinking about for a moment. Our Genes to Society curriculum was revolutionized about a decade ago as many of you know. It has been the model curriculum used by many MD programs now around the country. And although we have no plans at the moment for revolutionizing our curriculum, I would say like Sagrada Familia, we add to it all the time. We add, we subtract, we change it importantly to address new areas of medicine, some areas that actually I did not learn about at all in medical school and I just graduated two years ago. Thank you for laughing. So I'm gonna talk to you about just a few things. For example high value care. I learned nothing about high value care. And it turns out that now Johns Hopkins is a leader in high value care. Pam Johnson in the Department of Radiology has started the High Value Care Practice Academic Alliance that now has more than 90, nine zero, institutional members around the world and recently two of our educators, Amit Pahwa and Danelle Cayea won an award at the Society of General Internal Medicine for the work on high value care in the curriculum. Again, this is an area that I did not learn about at all. Other areas that we now emphasize in the curriculum are population health, opioid use and addiction, patient safety, interprofessional education and interprofessional collaborative practice, healthcare finances, I learned nothing about healthcare finances. The care of special populations like LGBTQ populations, geriatric populations for example. Social determinants of health and health disparities. And even in the future, artificial intelligence and data science. We started a primary care leadership track in our medical school four years ago. The first class just graduated. You should be very proud of this. There's no reason why Johns Hopkins can't lead in everything including primary care. The primary care leadership track is an integrated three-year primary care experience with outstanding faculty in family medicine, internal medicine, pediatrics and geriatrics. More importantly, it has outstanding students. I mean the phenomenal students that entered this track who participate in scholarly projects in primary care, skills in leadership training workshops and other professional development activities. Importantly our students have spoken at national meetings. They've published their scholarly work in leading medical journals and developed curricula that we now implemented in our own medical school. So these are real leaders in primary care. Two of our students recently published an article in the Baltimore Sun, March 14th on treating opioid use disorder in prison. Opioid use disorder is a major problem in every city in the United States and in fact, not just in cities. It is a major, major problem in Baltimore. It's a major problem in our prisons. The fact that our students are doing this is really amazing. I was at a dinner a couple of months ago where Josh Sharfstein in the School of Public Health called these students out to the dean, to Paul and said these are amazing students who are changing the face of medicine. You should be very proud. And all of you should be very proud. We're starting a new graduate program that's called The Cross Disciplinary Graduate Program in Biomedical Sciences. We abbreviate it XDBio. The first class was recruited and will begin in just a couple of months. Importantly as you know, graduate school generally trainees are tied to an individual lab and their work is tied to an individual investigator's RO1. That makes some sense. It has made some sense for many years but in fact most discovery is cross disciplinary. It's based on people's different perspectives working together and so XDBio will free our students from an individual laboratory and by definition have them work in cross disciplinary work where they'll have at least two mentors and work on projects that will not be tied to an individual RO1, basically unleashing their curiosity and innovation. Steve Desadario, who retired as Director of IBBS a short time ago, I'll be introducing James Berger in a minute. Steve Desadario once said to me that there is no doubt in his mind that the greatest discoveries in biomedical science today are made by students. That's a pretty powerful point and we need to provide our students the right environment in order to unleash their curiosity and creativity. I'm gonna talk to you about Sara Blakely and Spanx and you may wonder why, but it will become apparent to you I hope in a minute. In 1998, Sara Blakely was getting dressed for a party. She decided to wear a new pair of fitted white pants. But she faced a dilemma. She wanted to wear pantyhose underneath for their slimming effect, but she also wanted bare feet so she could wear sandals. Inspiration struck. She cut the feet off her hose and wore them to the party. Two years later in 2000, she signed up her first client for Spanx. Neiman Marcus and Oprah chose Spanx as one her favorite things. 12 years later Forbes named Blakely the youngest self-made female billionaire in history. That's Sara Blakely on the cover of Forbes. Now you might say, why in the world is the Vice Dean for Education in the School of Medicine showing me a picture of Sara Blakely. I'll tell you. In one meeting with a group of lawyers, Sara Blakely noticed on who kept looking around the room suspiciously. Later the lawyer confessed to her, "Sara, I thought "when I first met you that your idea was so bad "that I thought you had been sent by Candid Camera." Men were largely incapable of understanding the genius of her idea and unfortunately men held most of the positions she needed to influence to get the product made. The owners of textile mills, men all, rejected her idea again and again and she was only able to create the prototype of the product when one mill owner shared the idea with his daughters who insisted that he call her back. So I'm using Sara Blakely's story to talk a little bit about diversity and inclusion. So many people think of diversity in groups as an important thing for social justice and it is. But that's actually not the main reason for diversity. The main reason for diversity is excellence. It's so that people bring different perspectives. So that no longer will all men say I don't know what this Spanx things is about. It turns out that our teams in this room, on the wards, in the research laboratories are better because our students come from different backgrounds and perspectives. And they bring those different backgrounds and perspectives to the care of patients, to science, to new discovery and to all the things that would make you proud. Our class in our medical school is pretty diverse. We have about 20% underrepresented in medicine. We have about 9% African Americans, about six to 7% Hispanic and Latino and our graduate programs now are much more diverse than they were just a short time ago. We have a symposium that occurs in this room in the summer. It's called Career Academic and Research Experience for Students, otherwise known as CARES. CARES brings our very diverse high school and college students who come here for summer research experiences to basically stand here in front of the room and talk to a packed audience about their work. Imagine a 19-year-old coming up here. Imagine a 16-year-old standing up here and talking about the work that they do in James Berger's lab for example. It's extraordinary. I would invite you to that meeting. It will take place on July 25th in this room from 10 a.m. to four p.m. Our keynote speaker is Nadia Hansel who's in the division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine. And it really again will get you to see what is Hopkins doing for diversity and increasing the pipeline. Finally I wanna close with something that I call precision education. So precision education is the education analog of precision medicine which all of you know about. It's basically informing decisions in education and training with data. I wanna share a brief story with you to illustrate this. On December 13th, Friday, December 13th, 1985 I was at Boston University as a student. I had already interviewed at programs in New York where I'm from and in Boston where I was in school. I only had one other program to interview at and it was Johns Hopkins. My Dean of Student Affairs had told me not to apply to Johns Hopkins. He told me it wasn't right for me. He said it was cutthroat and competitive and I would not be happy here. So I saved it for last. I called Johns Hopkins on Friday the 13th, 1985, December to cancel my interview. A woman answered the phone that perhaps some of you know. She worked in the Department of Medicine. Her name was Margaret Neroda. And she said to me, "Roy, that's a shame. "We were really looking forward to meeting you." It blew me away because I had this model in my mind of a cutthroat competitive place and she was rather nice on the phone. So I said to her, "Okay, I'll be there on Monday." And on Monday, December 16th, I took the night owl from Boston to here to interview at Johns Hopkins. And Johns Hopkins totally blew me away. And I'm here now 33, I've been here continuously 33 years later, much to people's chagrin. (audience applauding) Wow, this is the first time I've ever had applause here. So I went back to my school and I asked my Dean of Student Affairs, you know I said, "I have to tell you, "I did interview at Johns Hopkins even though "you told me not to, and I loved it. "When was the last time that you had been at Johns Hopkins?" He said, "Oh, I've never been." I said, "Well this seems like an important decision. "You recommended I not apply. "On what basis did you make that recommendation?" He said, "It has that reputation". Now this is an astonishing story but true. It totally changed my life, the fact that I did not listen to my dean. The problem is that in 2019, we're still making many of our decisions in medical education with very little or no data. So when Alex there, in the middle row, when he goes into the Dean of Student Affairs today and he says how should I sequence my courses? I think I wanna go into pediatrics. I'm making that up, Alex. I don't know what you wanna do. Should I take pediatrics first or should I save it for last? The Dean of Student Affairs will probably say, it doesn't matter. The truth is, he has absolutely no data to make that recommendation. So we are now trying to populate all of our decisions with data like precision medicine. Here's one example. As a resident I received zero, Bill Nelson and I were contemporaries. You'll hear from him in a minute. I received zero data on my performance metrics as a resident, none. Occasionally someone would high five me and tell me I did a good job, but that was about it. We are now providing data to our residents. Here's an example of an article that was published in the surgical literature, individualized performance feedback to surgical residents. The bottom line is that we gave them performance data on whether they prophylaxed appropriately against venous thromboembolic disease. 49 surgical residents, there was a wide variation in practice for risk appropriate VTE prophylaxis. It ranted from 48% to 99%. We gave them performance feedback, individual performance feedback with coaching and here's what happened. Dramatic increase, now near a 100% appropriate compliance. So again, I just wanna let you know what's on the horizon. We're gonna be informing decisions with data, not taking the place of caring, wonderful experienced, well-intentioned medical educators, not taking their place. Just like Paul was telling you, precision medicine will not take the place of physicians at the bedside. It's to supplement their work. I'm now gonna turn things over to the Director of the Institute for Basic Biomedical Sciences, James Berger. (audience applauding)  Thank you very much. It's a pleasure to be here today. I would very much like to thank Paul for the opportunity to speak and address to you today. I'm going to tell you a little bit about what's going on in the basic sciences here at the School of Medicine and our efforts to advance understanding of disease. And when I say basic science, I mean pretty basic. We're talking fairly fundamental kinds of work. Just to give you an example of the sort of deep dives we do, this is a protein, an enzyme in your cells that's responsible for disentangling your DNA. The blue and the green bits are the protein. The pink and the yellow bits are the DNA. And if you squint really hard, tucked deep down in there is an anticancer drug that poisons this enzyme. And it's through work such as this that we're able to look at these drugs, figure out what they do and try to figure out how to make them better. And that's just one small sampling of the types of things that go on. So the Institute for Basic Biomedical Sciences represents as I said, sort of some of the most fundamental science here in the School of Medicine. There's a lot of science here. But we are the sort of stuff that maybe appeared in the biochemistry textbooks you had to tend here as a sophomore in college that you maybe hope you forgot. So that institute is basically a collective of nine basic science departments that include about 155 primary faculty. And they span disciplines ranging from biological chemistry and biomedical engineering to pharmacology and physiology. The goal of the basic sciences really is to help maintain the excellence of Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, to help maintain it as a premier research institution with exceptional scientists that work together to train the future generations of scientists that we need, that Roy just talked about, make the transformative discoveries at the bench that we hope ultimately can lead to the new cures for tomorrow. Now there are six priorities within the basic sciences or the IBBS I should say. First and foremost our goal is to support the faculty and their research. These are challenging times for basic sciences as I'll allude at the very end of this talk. But that's really one of our first and primary goals. One effort in which we're trying to do that is to increase our non federal support through philanthropy and industry. And we're very keen on investing in core technologies that are essential to the mission of the basic sciences in this landscape. You already heard about how technologies are changing the face of medicine. Technology is very much changing the face of science as well. And the pace is only accelerating and we need to be at the forefront of it, not simply following. A key component of the basic sciences within the School of Medicine, as we are in the School of Medicine, we need to be interfacing with the clinical departments and helping them drive their mission. And that's very critical to us as well. Finally, or I should say second to last, we want to create a vibrant tech transfer culture here. It's no secret that a lot of basic scientific discoveries have profound implications in the biotechnological sector and we wanna make sure our faculty are educated and poised to take advantage of those. And finally, the last thing that's very essential for us to do, is we need to increase public awareness for basic research. I think again it's no secret that we're seeing a sort of almost resurgence of scientific illiteracy within the nation as a whole. And this is something we are trying actively to counteract. One of the things we do in this space is every year we hold a bootcamp for science writers. Our next one will be in Washington, DC at the National Press Club on June 10th. And in this bootcamp, this particular one will be on addiction and mental illness. We bring in scientists to meet with science writers to really help them craft the stories to get out what we think is the key information to the public at large. Now I mentioned that we have a lot of different goals in terms of supporting our scientists. One of those is investing in key technologies. I'm just going to highlight one such example of our efforts in this space. This involves a technology known as cryo electron microscopy or cryo-EM. Cryo-EM is, to simply put it, is really a revolution right now in macro molecular imaging. So we know that enzymes, we know that DNA, we know that the lipids of your cells, these are all made of atoms. And a big chunk of understanding how these molecules work is to see them in that atomic level of detail. And EM is allowing us to do this in an ever faster and faster pace. This image that's sort of rocking here is a system that we've worked on in my lab for over 20 years. And we tried for 20 years unsuccessfully to try and image it by conventional methods such as x-ray crystallography. Using cryo electro microscopy we were able to solve the problem in about nine months. So it's really a transformative tool. It's essential in terms of where the biomedical sciences are going. It leads to a number of high-impact insights such as how a drug might bind to a particular receptor, a particular place in an enzyme. And already this technology over the span of its lifetime has led to about 14 Nobel Prizes including the 2017 for EM itself. I'm pleased to say that we have instrumentation, installation of the instrumentation is already underway and this is being conducted with a substantial investment from the School of Medicine together with philanthropy. Now investing in basic science, 10 million's a lot of dollars, is a lot of dollars. Investing in basic science really pays off. If you look at the amount that NIH has spent from its inception in 1938 to 1975, that accumulates to about $21 billion. But if you ask what have we gotten from that investment, if you look at the biotechnology sector today as one indicator, just one, and that doesn't even count the academic side of what NIH funding has been important for, it's closing in on close to $1 trillion worth of net worth. And Hopkins has been leading this charge whether in the early stages with the discovery of restriction enzymes, which led to Nobel prizes, the basis of gene editing in the 1970s to more recently with cancer immunotherapy and precision medicine. I'm just gonna highlight a couple of science examples that I think showcase how basic science can sort of drive biomedical discovery. The first is work from Dr. Andrew Ewald in the Department of Cell Biology. Dr. Ewald is very interested in understanding what makes breast cells go rogue. Why do they metastasize and how to they lead? And to do this he's developed some very important model systems in the lab. This movie actually shows in green a series of cells which are normal tissue. Oops, and that's supposed to repeat so I'll try that again. Ah, it's not playing. It was playing before. Try it one more time. Get out of that and start it again because that movie's really cool and you need to see it. Okay, there it goes, oops, see that cell come out? See it reach back in and grab it? That was basically a normal set of tissue that a cancer cell is embedded in. And the cancer cell is the red thing trying to leave the normal tissue's grabbing it and pulling it back in. So what he realizes that the normal breast tissue actively plays a role in restraining the release of these cancerous cells from their normal environment. And this is important because it offers a whole new set of tools with which we can try and go in and understand these pathways and the drivers of metastasis. At a more molecular level, we've been interested in trying to understand how we can develop new kinds of drug targets. This here happens to be the work of Dr. Cynthia Wolberger in the Department of Biophysics. She's been working on an enzyme known as DOT1L which is responsible for helping maintain what we call the epigenetic state of your genome. Those are the little chemical tags that decorate your chromosomes to help control which genes are expressed. And what DOT1L is important for is that in certain forms of mixed lineage leukemia, there are mutated versions that actually lead to that disease. And it's unfortunately a disease with no drugs and poor prognosis. Recently Dr. Wolberger was able to use that same technology I just mentioned, cryo-EM to solve a structure of that enzyme, DOT1L bound to its particular piece of chromosome. It's an entity called a nucleosome. It's a bit of protein and your DNA mixed together. And within that structure she identified some new contacts that we did not know exist. And from that structural information, that atomic information, there are features within that interface that lead us to think that this will be an important new site for developing DOT1L antagonists and agents. Finally I just wanna highlight the work of Dr. Jun Liu who's in the Department of Pharmacology on an area that's of central importance to therapeutics and that's avoiding this so-called valley of death. For those of you who are familiar with drug discovery pipelines, there's usually a very long process. You might have heard it takes over a billion dollars to develop a drug. It's a very arduous process that begins there on the right, or on the left rather with target credentialing and leads all the way to standard of care on the right. And you have to go through each of these phases where you identify a target. You find chemicals that inhibit the target. You show they work in test tubes. You show they work in cells. You show they work in organisms and eventually you get them to patients and it's a very long and expensive road and funding can be hard in this space. What Dr. Liu did is he actually took known drugs, from known FDA-approved drugs and created a library which we can screen enzymes. And he's able to basically short circuit a large chunk of this process. So you can go straight from finding a chemical to actually going in to phase trials. Here's just a couple of examples of drugs that he has so-called repurposed. One is an antifungal that inhibits angiogenesis. Another is an antibiotic that has efficacy against bladder cancer. These are now in phase two clinical and three clinical trials and there's been several spin offs that have come out of this as a result. So these are all remarkable discoveries and there's many, many more I could stand up here all day and tell you about but I won't. I will just sort of close that saying despite this rosy picture, there are some storm clouds on the horizon. And the storm clouds we face frankly are dwindling support for the basic sciences. If we consider the NIH again, right now the NIH budget is roughly around $37 billion a year which sounds like a fair bit of money, and it is. That 37 billion is only a fraction of the money that the federal government put into basic research. However that fraction of money all together, all federal funds for basic research constitutes less than 50% of the money spent on the basic research here in this country. If we look at the NIH itself, since 2003 its funding has actually been flat with a few bumps downward and a few bumps upward. As a consequence it's gotten somewhat conservative in the types of science it will fund because it doesn't wanna waste taxpayer's money accordingly. And the share for basic science has been declining. This is a real problem for us in the basic sciences because we want to basically make discoveries that can lead and be translated to something that actually has real therapeutic potential. But you can't translate what you don't understand. Now there are some silver linings to this cloud and one of those is philanthropy. And even though philanthropy makes up a relatively small proportion of our support, about 10% overall, it's a very important component because it allows us to tackle high-risk, high-reward projects. And we're very grateful that both Paul and the Development Office have been working with us quite diligently to help the basic sciences stay at the forefront in this effort. So with that, I will turn the stage over to Dr. Nelson who is going to lead the panel discussion. (audience applauding)  All right, thanks James. We're gonna break things up with a little bit of a panel discussion. And I'll just introduce it with the notion that James Berger told you, he gave you a little glimpse into what our basic scientists are doing here at Johns Hopkins, the new frontiers that they're pushing. What we'd like to do in this panel is show you how discovery research being conducted here at Johns Hopkins, and I would argue because it's being conducted here at Johns Hopkins, it's impacting a clinical problem, cancer, more quickly and more profoundly than ever before. Some of you are here for your 50th reunion and welcome back. I clap for you guys, including some mentors of mine. But you've watched the cancer story initially when in 1971 Richard Nixon declared war on cancer which steered earmarked funding, building cancer centers like the ones we had here. The upshot of that was there were one-to-two new anticancer drugs discovered each year, largely by serendipity and screening. There's some wonderful stories where they look at the dirt around the Castle Del Monte in Apulia, Italy, find some red stuff and that turns out to be an anticancer drug. Most of these things at best were directly toxic to cells generally. You'd put more on the cancer cells in the dish. The more you put on the more you killed. The clinical exercise was could you give enough to a person to kill the cancer cells in their body without hurting them too much. Around 2000 to 2003 when the first draft and the completed draft of the human genome was completed, everything, and I mean everything in anticancer medicine has changed. We're now since that time up to nine to 10 new anticancer drugs a year and this shows no sign of abating. There's an estimate in the last 25 years that we've saved more than 2-1/2 million lives since that time. So let's bring the panel up and I'll introduce them to you. Vasan Yegnasubramanian is a member of the Department of Oncology, an expert in genome and epigenome technologies. Marikki Laiho in the Department of Radiation Oncology and Molecular Radiation Sciences, now a drug discovery maven and James Berger, who you've already been introduced to, a structural biologist in this space. And I guess I'll start with Vasan. I gave an argument there that solving the human genome has tremendously changed the way we think about making drugs. We don't develop them in any way that's similar. We've known forever that cancers are diseases of acquired disorders in genes, what's changed? What is the technology delivering to us today? (muffled speaking) Microphone.  This ability to measure things in every more depth and ever more precision has been incredibly important. That initially fueled that human genome project and completion of it, as Dr. Nelson just mentioned. But what's been amazing is that the technology revolution since then has really accelerated our ability to do that in such a way that the human genome has been now sequenced many hundreds of thousands to millions of times. And that type of measurement has allowed us to figure out exactly what went wrong genetically in those cancer cells. This is not just some abstract measurement. It's actually led to real practical benefit. And one anecdote that I can say about that, a team of scientists here at Hopkins using technology like this in the late 2000s surveyed a bunch of brain cancers and found that there were many that had a mutation in a specific gene, IEDH2 and another family member, IEDH1. These are genes that have mutations in them and by itself it doesn't seem to have a lot of consequence. It's just that once that was discovered, there was a very rapid path such that within a decade, there was a lot of science that was able to be performed with basic science fueling some of that way, understanding the mechanism of exactly how that mutation in those cancer cells led to that transformation of normal cells into cancers. And then using the type of structural biology that Dr. Berger described, there was ability to actually make inhibitors for that type of target, and that led to an FDA approval for a drug to target that type of mutant cancer in the last just year or so. So within a decade having a significant transformation from an early discovery from genome science out to drug being used by people.  So I wanna turn to James Berger next. What Vasan's arguing obviously is that an inventory of all the defective genes in any individual cancer must in some way be the blueprint for how you'd want to attack that cancer to get rid of it. One frustration early on people started complaining well some of these things that we're finding that are mutated or defective or could be a target for a drug are, I love this term, undruggable. You spent your life looking at these targets as the little mini machines they appear to be. Is there anything that's undruggable in your mind going forward?  That's a great question. I think it's difficult to say that everything is druggable but I would say the vast, vast, vast majority of things in the cell are indeed druggable. And the reason is because even though some of the images I showed of say an enzyme bound to a piece of DNA, they look static. The reality is that those molecules are moving and fluctuating all the time and they open up little pockets in them, and they close little pockets. And when they go into these certain little different structural states, a small molecule drug can sneak in there and gum up the works. In addition we now have in our toolbox a much better understanding of how to make biologics, that is for example, antibodies which can target specific, particularly external proteins with much higher specificity and precision than before. So I think it's actually a really, a golden age and AI and computation was mentioned earlier. That's going to radically change this space because as we gain more computing power, we will be able to design molecules, small molecules, biological molecules with ever faster and greater precision, and that's only going to then let us test whether these things can be functional in a real setting.  So over to Marikki Laiho, there are some pathologists in the audience, many pathologists have long recognized that cancer cells look funny. They have nuclei that are too big. They have big nucleoli juxtaposed in the middle of them. And you managed to figure out a way to take that on by targeting one of the key engines of where they nucleoli are big, the polymerase that makes all that RNA there. But you made a target discovery and you have pushed that as a discovery researcher all the way to the cusp of a drug molecule that might enter the clinic. How did you accomplish that journey?  It's a very long journey, we can start from that. But I'll try to keep it really very, very short in the interest of the time. So we started really from a research project. We wanted to generate tools of how can we toggle and turn on the big anti-cancer agents in the cancer cells. And that led us to actually discover this new target that hadn't been really considered as being either targetable or doable in the fight against the cancer. So having made that discovery and I identified this kind of a new old fashioned target, led us to the position where we had to make a decision, do we wanna go after that fundamental enzyme or not? And where is the science? And the science also was kind of lacking. So pathology had been zooming in on that specific feature for decades already. But we hadn't exploited that in the clinic. So that was the watershed, what are we gonna do? So we decided to continue work on the basic science of this aspect but we also wanted to go in, can we push this all the way to the clinic and that meant a lot of engagement with the experts in this area. So we needed really a lot of help. We needed the help from medicinal chemistry, pharmacology, also cancer people working on different mouse genetic models because those are the tools of the trade where we need to provide the proof of principle. And that led us further on the path to the stage where we needed to engage now big partners to really push this further.  So over to Vasan, you could imagine that a large pharmaceutical company making lots of money would have plenty of money to go in and figure out every gene in every cancer. But as it turns out, people who have cancer go visit doctors and they come to hospitals, and when their cancers are removed or biopsied, here is where we're learning about what the disease is. The pharmaceutical industry is remarkably incapable of understanding the disease. And so this kind of sequencing pairs up well 'cause we identify the targets. How are we also working to make the targets more useful in more efficient ways and faster ways to build drugs. Not just what is the target, but how do we build drugs in faster ways and test them?  Yeah, this has been a big part of this acceleration, the ability to take that primary information from measuring things in the disease state itself and then to use basic science tools that can be accomplished only in the types of environments that we have in academic institutes like this, very difficult really for other industries, even the pharmaceutical industry to have this sort of diverse set of expertise across a whole span of things, the types of things that Rikki just alluded to, James referred to before, where we can bring together scientists from all different areas of expertise and work together in institutions like ours where this type of collaborative culture is always embedded and try to take on what we can learn from those genetic measurements. They're just measurements at that point. But then to really take them in a way that we can explore what their mechanisms are and how they manifest in the disease and then figure out whether any of that can be an achilles heel for that cancer, a vulnerability that we can really target using the right types of tools and approaches. Part of that is done by using the same types of technologies that are used to measure the genetic alterations to begin with. That technology can also be harnessed in ways to screen through lots and lots of targets very quickly and understand functionally whether they have some important aspect and how that cancer cell has to function and in a way that wouldn't be important for normal cells to function. And that allows us to figure out that that target is worthwhile to go after, sort of credential it, license it as something to go after in treating cancer patients. And that allows us to do that in a much more readily accessible way so that that path to developing a drug can also be much faster.  So James, you hinted at this and Marikki's also talked a little about the evolving complexity of what a research team looks like. Historically particularly in discovery research, people would take on a problem pretty much on their own. They would go, do high-risk research. I argue they're looking under different rocks for the answer to things. And the early attempts at team science seem to bring people who did the same thing together. But that's not the way things appear to be playing out, is it? They were bringing together diverse areas of very deep expertise, particularly around these complex problems, and you're trying to move the IBBS in this direction. What do you see? How is this gonna play out?  I think this is key. It's traditionally this sort of academic setting you have departments, one might even say silos of individuals which bring together expertise and there's a lot of importance in that because say in an area like structural biology, it's not an easy technical area. It's good to be able to swap horror stories with your partners and colleagues and figure out how to trouble shoot equipment and things of that sort. But when it comes to tackling something like disease, you need perspectives from all over the scientific and clinical map. And that's where Hopkins and the School of Medicine is I think really so special because it enables me, so I was at Berkeley for 15 years on the faculty teaching undergraduates before I came here and here I can actually mingle with clinicians and clinically-minded individuals and take our work in a total different direction. And I think it's that overlapping of those circles that Hopkins really allows that is going to pave the way forward for this.  And then for Marikki, as we have worked broadly across the School of Medicine to build things that might ultimately be drugs or devices or whatnot, we work with the Johns Hopkins technology ventures and they just plain have more in their toolbox than every before. You had a chance to look at a number of different opportunities. You're now an entrepreneur. How did that work?  I'm not an entrepreneur. I'm the scientists. That's my identity, I'm not gonna change that. But it's a good point. So you know we really need expert help in many different areas. It's not only the collaborations, the science, the clinical people, but all the other people behind the scenes who help us to navigate this new area to us. So I wanna be who I am and I wanna give the task, all the lawyers and licensing associate, please do and help me here.  Paul: They're not on your scientific team, all the lawyers, Marikki?  I'm recording them. So that's the advantage we have here. So we need this expert help to navigate us as this field and make the connections to happen because we don't necessarily meet with the people, the angels, the pharma people, the biotech people. So we need that leverage point. So I can just share with you that on my track towards where we are today, I've had like 30 interactions with different kinds of small and big pharma companies and angels and venture capital companies all trying to find that leverage, are you interested in our work, will you help us to take it forward? We really wanna push this to the clinic, we don't have the means, do you have the funds? Do you have the resources to support that? And that's what the tech transfer is really helping us with.  So last question from me for each of you, Paul Rothman, Roy Ziegelstein, James Berger has tried to convey to you the excitement about being on this campus at this point with some of the greatest people in these fields. I can tell you, these people could do the stuff they do anywhere on this earth. They would be welcome. In fact they're highly sought after. It's a problem that Paul and I have to contend with frequently. Why are you here at Johns Hopkins? You could be anywhere, James.  Right, so I think for me it was exactly what I was describing before. It's, I was running a research lab at a premier research institution but this offered an opportunity to take our work into a much different and perhaps more societally relevant direction. And what I found really wonderful was just how welcoming, I mean Hopkins, so I heard a very different story about Hopkins Roy, which is that Hopkins was a very welcoming and collegial place. Maybe that's the basic sciences side. But I found the clinical side to be phenomenally warm and welcoming. And it's definitely changing some of the science that we do and how we do it.  So Roy of course was a superb (mumbles). He sort of dusted that under the rug there. And he had a skill that's disappeared now. You have the best handwriting of anyone I knew in our vintage. Marikki, I first met you many years ago in Finland where you are from. Why are you at Johns Hopkins?  It's a good question. I've been trying to answer that for the past 12 years. But I love the environment. So as pointed out already here, the opportunities for collaboration, being able to find the experts in the field, the open mindedness and the kind of the cherishing of the innovation, not being afraid of crazy ideas. That's really, really important. It's important for the discovery sciences, it's important I think in all the fields of life. So you find it here. That's why it's a really wonderful place to be at.  And Vasan, you came to the medical school originally from Duke. You're quite a basketball fan. I don't know if you figured out yet that the Hopkins basketball team isn't quite the entertainment value of the Duke basketball team. Why are you here?  You know it's great hearing Roy's story about his visit here to Hopkins. It was very similar to mine. I came to Hopkins as a medical student candidate and my interview day is still one of the most memorable days of my life. I met people passionate about tackling problems and solving the big issues with their expertise, working together in teams to accomplish big things. And I was totally inspired by that. I came here to do my medical training as an MD-PhD student, and I've stayed since. It's been fantastic and that same spirit has really lived on the entire time that I've been here, as a student and then as a faculty member. And that part is just so special. It's something that I don't see at that level at many of the institutions I have a chance to visit. It's just fantastic.  An in academic medicine, it's one of the only places I know of where you think you might discover something tomorrow that's even better than today. And with that, I'd like to invite back up our dean, Paul Rothman to field questions with us. (audience applauding)  That was great, thank you. And it also made me remember, no one knows how anyone's handwriting is anymore 'cause we never write. So we have great experts here and questions from the audience.  So bill, that was great. Charlie O from the class of '79. And I think you sat in my office one time when you did your surgery rotation. So this was a great panel and kudos to all. And you know I have no doubt that the science of this is tremendous here at Baltimore at Hopkins. I wanna ask Paul, you and Bill about the cost conundrum because as you mentioned, there are all these new drugs coming on board and big pharma is wonderful. We're gonna hear from Al Sigorski in an hour or so. But the cost for some of these drugs is staggering. And oftentimes the delta in median survival doesn't really properly line up with the cost. And so I realize you're not gonna be able to answer this specifically but how is Hopkins involved in policy making and trying to put pressure on people because if you design a drug that costs a billion dollars per dose, you're not gonna be able to help very many people. So help us understand what Hopkins is doing policy-wise cost conundrum.  So for those who didn't hear the question, I'll just repeat it, which is what is Hopkins doing about drug pricing? That's a complex, we do have several folks here who are very involved. Jeremy Green, who's the director of our history of medicine has testified on the Hill multiple times on this issue. We have people in the School of Public Health who are very involved. So we have a lot of people who are involved in it. Drug pricing is a very complicated issue. I look forward to ask Alex Gorski about it. And there's obviously a lot of press on it right now and clearly there are people in Washington, DC who are gonna take this on. It is a very complex issue in terms of how you measure value of a drug and how that value is compensated for to the drug companies. And you're right, some drugs have high prices and don't bring as much value as those prices would indicate and some are different. So it's very complex. Bill, do you wanna?  Yeah, the only thing I would add is I think the good news in this space, and it's gonna become a policy argument, I totally agree with you, is that as these methods for discovering and developing drugs make the pathways for development far less risky, far more rapid and far less expensive, the cost of goods if you will of the drugs are gonna be less. And then excuse to premium price them for the five years of windfall profit, that's gonna be a tough one, and I suspect it'll have to chase around the value. What do you really get out of the drug?  We could talk more about it but maybe some more questions.  It strikes me that a lot of work is being done in cancer therapy development is ferreting out the uniqueness of one cancer after another and attacking it in some way. I feel that there's one unique feature that is common to almost all cancers and what I call that is the rogueness of the cancer. They fail to recognize the boundaries of the cell or the structure of which they originate. And they then metastasize because they don't need to survive only if they're a liver cell in the liver, they can survive elsewhere. And all cancers have this ability, almost all have this ability to forget where they came from and head everywhere. And that seems to be a common denominator of all cancers. So I wonder if anybody's looking at that aspect of cancer.  Yeah, that's a really astute thought. The key to that though is that we're not necessarily trying to figure out exactly how one cancer differs from another cancer just for the sake of it. It's exactly what you pointed out though, that cancers have this universal property in terms of being able to evade the rules that normal cells have to live by and then perhaps invade and then go to other environments and survive there. The problem is that each cancer seems to solve that problem in different ways. And that's been the reality of what we've had to deal with in the unfolding of how we can understand cancers over the last several years, that as we figure out exactly how each person's cancer evades those rules and then accomplishes the types of things that it needs to do to be the pathological menace that it is, it's done that with multiple different mechanisms, some of them grouped together and clustered together in different individuals so that we can understand those patterns in productive ways. And others have very unique properties that we still have to have a handle on and sort of tackle better. But that's been the reality that's delivered to us by the understanding of the biology underneath that, that each cancer seems to do that in different ways. And so by understanding how each of those cancers do that in different ways, we can target that.  So the other commonality of cancer is all cancers have mutant genes and mutant proteins and in fact one of the approaches here at Hopkins has been oncology and the development of drugs that help the immune system remove cancer cells and their underlying hypothesis is that cancer cells are producing mutant proteins that can be recognized by the immune system. And that is the one commonality of cancer that is being used by people here and now throughout the world using, unleashing the power of the immune system to kill cancer cells because of their production of mutant proteins that could be recognized. Any other questions, Jim?  I have a question about the use of nano particles in looking at how you can treat metastases in the brain and particularly regarding melanoma.  Question is how can we use nano particles.  So brain cancers themselves, glioblastomas, typically invade along the white matter tracts. So you guys know the nervous system even better than me. But they invade along white matter tracts which makes them very pesky because unlike prostate cancer where you remove the entire organ that contains the cancer, that's really not an option when you're dealing with the brain. When things show up as a metastatic deposit like melanoma, they don't travel around in that way fortunately. And so if you look at President Jimmy Carter, when he had his melanoma, he got radiated but he got one of these immunotherapy reagents and they were able to control that in the brain. The notion of nano particles is that they may be things that can carry payloads with them that may be useful new drugs, but they also have properties that are a little different than small molecule drugs that are largely less than a thousand kilodaltons, and something that's different than a whole cell traveling around. But they can carry things around. They can get stuck in areas where the blood vessels are abnormal, like in a cancer. They do that innately even if you don't tag them on the outside so they intentionally stick to things. And I think you're gonna see more of that kind of thing. The other place you really see it these days, and it's exploding, we just saw some of this the other day, in nuclear medicine you can now make things that tag, see where they went by a PET type of image and it's the beginning of what I call a Swiss Army knife. It's not just a nano particle. You put on something you can see in an image, something that's like a chemical bomb, a radiation bomb. So you can control where it goes, know where it is, know when it's turned on, know when it's killing something and I think you're gonna see more and more of that as well.  We do have Justin Haines here in ophthalmology who is actually using nano particles. He's starting not in cancer in the brain but in the eye. And so he's using nano particles to deliver drugs in the eye, which has a lot of the same issues with the brain. So it's I think the vision there is to try it in the eyes and then eventually use it to deliver drugs in the brain too. Well, I wanted to thank everyone for coming today. At the conclusion of this, the Johns lecture will be in this room at 3:30 and we have Alex Gorski from J and J which will be interesting. And then at five o'clock the award and portrait presentation will be here followed by reception. So return here at 3:30. So thanks everyone for coming today. We really appreciate it. (audience applauding) 