  [MUSIC PLAYING] DANIEL SABATH: Welcome to this socially isolating edition of lab medicine grand rounds. Thanks for all of you out there and Zoomland. These are just some of the rules that our associated with Zoom here in terms of muting. And there apparently is a Q&A function so you can type in questions as they occur to you. So my topic today is about circulating tumor cells circa 2020, which is now. This is something that I actually have been involved in for quite some time, as you'll see. And so I guess we'll go into it. The objectives today are to understand the significance of minimal residual disease in cancer and how to detect it. I'm going to talk about a number of different modalities for detecting small amounts of cancer in patients with cancer. And we're going to talk about how circulating tumor cells might be useful in a diagnostic and prognostic setting. I do have one disclosure. I have received research funding from RareCyte, which is a local biotech company. And we'll be talking about some of the work I've been doing with them. So cancer therapy currently involves a combination of different types of modalities. There's the more traditional modalities, which have been with us for a long time. In addition, we have some newer modalities which have become available to us with improved technology as well as improved diagnostic techniques. So for solid tumors in particular, the traditional modalities would be things like surgery, radiation therapy, and what I would refer to as broad spectrum chemotherapy. So broad spectrum chemotherapy is essentially giving patients poisons, essentially, that the tumor cells hopefully are more sensitive to than normal cells. And so the idea would be to try to kill off tumor cells and limit the damage to normal tissues as much as possible. Stem cell transplantation is an enhanced version of this broad spectrum chemotherapy approach in that you give patients so much chemotherapy that otherwise it would be lethal, and then you can rescue them either by giving them their own stem cells back which have been collected in advance or by giving them stem cells from a donor. Now, in the age of personalized medicine, we have some more hopefully subtle techniques that we can use to treat cancer. So for example, we have specific drugs that can specifically target pathways that cancer cells are addicted to, for example, something like imatinib in the setting of chronic myeloid leukemia, where the pathogenic lesion, essentially, is an abnormal molecule of tyrosine kinase BCR-ABL1. And that can be inhibited by this molecule imatinib. And there are a number of other drugs that target other signaling pathways that are deranged in the setting of cancer. We also have now immunotherapy available to us. So for example, again, in the hematopathology world, Rituximab, which is an antibody against a B cell specific marker, CD20, is very effective at removing a lot of neoplastic B cells. Other immunotherapies include things like checkpoint inhibitors that can interfere with the PD-1 and PD-1L pathway, as well as things like CAR T cells. We now have T cells that can be specifically engineered to recognize cancer cells and eliminate them, without presumably affecting other cells in the body. And finally, now with next generation sequencing, we're able to look at large numbers of genes and look for mutations. And there are more agents coming along every day that can target the specific mutations that are associated with certain cancers. So now that we can target cancers more specifically, the question, then, is what does it really mean to cure a cancer? So in this particular picture I'm showing you, these are survival curves associated with different types of breast cancer. And the four different panels represent different stages of disease, in terms of how far it's spread throughout the body. And as you'd expect, stage 1 cancer, which is really limited in its spread, has very good survival. Whereas, stage 4, which is metastatic disease, has poorer survival. And the survival can be divided up-- in this case, depending on what particular markers or lesions that cancer cells may have. But the real issue becomes, then, if we treat this disease, how can we, first of all, see if it really is, in fact, eliminated? And then if it hasn't been eliminated, what do we do about it? So presumably, a cure would represent a complete elimination of all cancer cells from the body. So that's the ideal situation. In order to determine whether that's really happened, you need to have very sensitive methods to detect small amounts of residual cancer. Otherwise, you wouldn't necessarily know if the cancer has been eliminated or not. And then, there's a couple of things you can do. If you do, in fact, detect these residual cells, one of the things you can say is, "Well, are these residual cells different from the original cancers? Can we look at them and would looking at their genetics, for example, suggest new therapies that they might respond to?" And the other question is, of course, if we really do detect tiny numbers of cells, does that imply we should, then, try to give additional therapy to try to eliminate those small numbers of cells? And will that additional therapy benefit the patients? So there are a number of different ways of looking for residual disease in patients with cancer. And I've listed them on this slide here. So for example, probably the most low tech way to look for residual disease is just by microscopy. Look through a microscope. And so what I show here is a picture of a bone marrow biopsy from a patient who has follicular lymphoma. And you can see in this particular slide here, the blobs of blue that are in there. And those represent residual foci of lymphoma. Now, you can imagine this is not the world's most sensitive technique, because-- I mean, if you're lucky, maybe if there's between 1% and 5% of cells represented by a single focus of cancer there in that bone marrow, you might be able to see it. But that's not exactly looking for small, really tiny amounts of cancer. So that's one thing you can do. Now if you apply immunohistochemistry, this might give you an additional level of sensitivity. So for example, let's say you wanted to look for bone marrow involvement by breast cancer. Breast cancer cells will express specific proteins that are lacking in normal bone marrow, such as cytokeratin, for example. And so you could stain a bone marrow for cytokeratin and maybe find small individual cells that you would not be able to detect just looking through a microscope. So that's one option. Cytogenetics is another way you could look for small amounts of cancer. Although, it's not particularly sensitive. So if you do cytogenetics-- if you make chromosome spreads and look at them-- typically, in a cytogenetics lab, they're only going to look at about 20 cells. And so in this case, if you find one abnormal cell in 20 that still represents 5% residual cancers. That's not terribly impressive. Fluorescence in situ hybridization is sort of an enhanced cytogenetics technique, in which case you can have probes looking for the specific genes that are rearranged, for example. And in this case in the setting of fish, you look at 200 cells. And in this case, you might be able to detect small numbers of cells. Although, still in the setting of fish, you really can only detect maybe down to 2% or 3%, because there's going to be some background. So fish is not terribly sensitive as well. Next, we get into some of the more higher tech ways of looking for small numbers of cells. So flow cytometry. The advantage of flow cytometry is you can look at a large number of single cells in one assay. And if the cells you are looking for differ, for example, in their cell surface proteins, so that you can distinguish them from normal cells, you can now detect one in 10,000 abnormal cells relatively easily. So that gives you several logs more sensitivity. PCR is another way. So if you, for example, have cells that have a genetic lesion that is unique to your abnormal cells, you can use PCR. The normal cells in the background won't give you any signal, and you can detect the cells with the abnormal genetic lesion down to a level of maybe one in 100,000 cells. So that's quite a bit more sensitive. And that's what's shown on the gel over there on the right is an example of agarose gel. We're looking for a particular translocation associated with lymphoma. Now, next generation sequencing is not normally thought of as a minimal residual disease technique, particularly if you're looking at large populations of cells and looking for specific mutations. However, if there's a specific abnormal sequence that is contained within your malignant cell population that is not present in any kind of background cells, then actually, you can use the high level of coverage that can be obtained with next generation sequencing to look for small numbers of cells. And so again, in the hematopathology world, one thing you can do is look, for example, mutations in a gene called NPM1, which is associated with acute myeloid leukemia. We can just PCR amplify that one region that's mutated and get very, very high coverage and detect small numbers of cells if you're looking for that particular mutation. Analogously, if you're looking for a specific antigen receptor rearrangement in B or T cell neoplasm, if you know the sequence of that rearrangement that you're looking for-- again, you only have to look at this one gene segment, and you can amplify it to high levels and then very sensitively detect the abnormal sequence. And now we can get down to levels of one in a million or one in 10 million cells, potentially. We don't normally think of next generation sequencing. Again, it's a sensitive technique. But if you tweak it the right way, and you're looking for a specific abnormality, it can be actually useful. The last thing I have listed here is cell-free circulating DNA. And this is an area that's really undergoing a lot of growth. It's not necessarily a technique for minimal residual disease detection. And it's not an area that I have a lot of personal knowledge about. I'll talk about it a little bit later, particularly in the context of looking at circulating tumor cells. But self recirculating DNA is just another way of looking for residual disease. So this is an example of the kind of data you might get, if you want to consider minimal residual disease and what does it actually mean clinically. So this goes way back to 1993. And in the late 1980s, early 1990s, PCR techniques were developed to look for specific translocations in lymphoma. In this particular example, we're looking at follicular lymphoma. Follicular lymphoma has a characteristic translocation involving the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene on chromosome 14 and the BCL2 gene on chromosome 18. And you can develop a PCR assay to look for that particular rearrangement, which, again, is lacking in any normal cells, but it will be present in the lymphoma cells. And so the sensitivity of this type of PCR reaction is about one in 10,000 to one in 100,000 normal cells. And so in this study that was done back in 1993-- or published back in 1993-- they were following patients over time using this PCR technique, looking at their bone marrow or their peripheral blood and looking could they find cells with this translocation in a very sensitive way? And so if they followed patients longitudinally, they could compare whether patients were negative the entire time, or were positive, or in some cases, patients would go back and forth between being positive and negative. And that's why these three Kaplan-Meier curves are shown here. So patients who were PCR negative after, in this case, auto transplantation and then were followed by serial PCR reactions over time-- if they remained consistently negative-- they basically did not have a relapse. Patients who were PCR positive after their transplant, they essentially all relapsed within a few years. And then patients who maybe started out negative and became positive later on had sort of an intermediate course. So this is really when the first proof of principles where looking at the presence of looking for very small numbers of circulating tumor cells could tell you whether or not patients would go on to have their disease progressed. These are data that were produced by our own [? Suyen ?] Chen and at the SCCA. Looking at flow cytometry now for minimal residual disease in acute myeloid leukemia. And this is showing a same sort of phenomenon. So in the upper left panel, what you see there is the incidence of relapse in patients who either were flow cytometry, in this case, positive for AML, which is the upper line, and the solid blue line corresponds to patients who are MRD negative by flow cytometry. So they had a lower incidence of relapse. And similarly, they had a few patients who were flow cytometry MRD negative had longer survival, as shown in the bottom two panels in this figure. And this is another thing. So another question is if patients actually do not have detectable minimal residual disease, can that affect therapy? Now, the ultimate question is do we actually treat patients with minimal residual disease or do we leave them alone? Do we have any effective therapies that can treat this minimal residual disease without causing more harm than good? This doesn't really-- this particular picture here in this paper didn't address that specific question. What this paper does show that is in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, if they become MRD negative, if they have undetectable disease based on flow cytometry, it turns out that you can step back and not treat them as intensively as children who still have detectable disease after their first rounds of therapy. So this doesn't necessarily say, "Yes, you need to treat minimal residual disease if you find it." But what this says is sort of the reverse. That is, "If you can't detect any circulating leukemia, in this case, that means maybe you don't have to treat them quite as intensively." So the examples I've giving you so far are all from hematopathology, which is my personal bias. I'm a hematopathologist. So that's what I'm most familiar with. And so the question is can we use these same principles in the setting of patients with solid tumors? And so in this case, let's do a little math and see how what kind of problem here we're talking about. So flow cytometry-- what we've been talking about so far-- can pick up about one cancer cell in between 10,000 and 100,000 normal white blood cells. So if you take a normal peripheral blood, for example, which-- let's say for the sake of math-- has 10,000 white cells per microliter. Flow cytometry can detect residual disease if you have between 1/10 and one cell per microliter or about 100 to 1,000 cells per milliliter. OK. So that doesn't sound like a lot, but that's actually a fair number of cells. Now, for solid tumors-- and we know this now having looked-- but solid tumors, we're talking now about less than one cell per mil or one cell per 10 to the seventh to 10 to the eighth normal cells. So this is about three logs lower levels of circulating cells than we're detecting in the setting of hematologic malignancies. So this is going to require a different approach. We can't just look for cells with epithelial markers by flow cytometry and expect to find them on a regular basis, even in patients with metastatic disease. So the theme that comes in when you're trying to detect circulating tumor cells from solid tumors, something has to be done to enrich for these cells beyond just using unique cell markers. So we need to do some kind of cell enrichment. So these are some of the options that one can use for enriching circulating tumor cells. So you could take a blood sample, for example, and deplete it of leukocytes. If you take out the leukocytes, the remaining cells would presumably be the circulating tumor cells. You can use size selection, based on the fact that circulating tumor cells tend to be quite a bit bigger than most leukocytes and the peripheral blood. And then you can do other things. So you can use immunomagnetic enrichment. You can try to pull cells out with a magnet, based on the cell surface-- antigens they might express. And then there's a whole series of different microfluidic devices that people have developed. And I'll show you a couple of pictures of those. And then the last option is to use density centrifugation, based on the principle that the actual density of circulating tumor cells is different from lots of the other blood cells. So back around the dawn of the Millennium, I was working on some research to try to use reverse transcriptase PCR to detect circulating breast cancer cells. We used cytokeratin 19 as our marker, and we wanted to see if we could use this as a way of sensitively detecting circulating breast cancer cells. And so we basically had tried two different approaches. One is to use negative selection. That is to try to remove all the white blood cells from a blood sample and try to basically end up with just circulating tumor cells left over. And the alternative was to enrich for circulating tumor cells using beads that were coated with antibodies against epithelial cells. They were also magnetic beads. And so this, the data I've shown here, are from some of those early experiments. So the leukocyte depletion method uses something called RosetteSep, which is basically a cocktail of anti-leukocyte antibodies. And you add the antibodies to a blood sample, it will cause the white cells to agglutinate, and then you centrifuge the blood through Ficoll. And the white cells will sink, based on the fact that they're bound up by all these antibodies. And the red cells and neutrophils will also sink. And what's left on top of the Ficoll layer, then, is enriched for circulating soup tumor cells. The other method that we tried was using some magnetic beads coated with EpCAM antibodies that could pull out circulating tumor cells, based on their expression of EpCAM, which white cells lack. And so what we're showing here is-- we did flow cytometry, then, to look for the presence of circulating tumor cells. By doing these enrichment techniques, we could actually start to see them by flow cytometry. And it turned out that if we did leukocyte depletion, we had a better enrichment. And so what's shown over here is these gray dots here, sort of on the diagonal, are the leukocytes that are still present even after leukocyte depletion. And then over here on the right hand side, these red dots correspond to the circulating tumor cells as identified by cytokeratin. And the ratio of circulating tumor cells to residual white cells was higher when we did leukocyte depletion than when we did the reverse, where we were trying to use magnetic beads, which still ended up with a lot of white cell contamination in our cell preparations. So in this setting at least, leukocyte depletion was the winner. This is another way of looking for circulating tumor cells. This is based on size selection. And this is a very simple technique where you basically take a filter, which has pores that will allow red cells and white blood cells to pass through. But the pores are too small for the circulating tumor cells in the blood, and so they get stuck on the filter. This has not been used a whole lot, but it's an alternative technique. This is an alternative immunomagnetic enrichment technique that's used now in the commercial CellSearch assay. And this is the assay that basically killed our reverse transcriptase PCR projects, because essentially, as soon as this assay came along, no one was interested in participating in that anymore. But anyway, in this case, we've got magnetic particles and not really beads. It's called a ferrofluid, but it's magnetic particles, again, coated with antibodies against EpCAM, which is expressed on epithelial cells. And then you can use a magnet to pull the epithelial cells out to enrich them. And we'll talk more about this assay in a moment. And these are a few examples of microfluidic devices that can be used to enrich for circulating tumor cells. So these are now, basically, printed like a silicon chip. And there's a couple of different versions of this. So the one on the left here-- this uses a chip that's been printed with a series of posts on it. So you can basically flow blood through this device, to this chip, and it's got these posts. But in this particular case, the posts are actually coated with anti-EpCAM antibodies against. Essentially, it's an immunoselection technique. It allows the blood to flow through. And then once all the blood is washed out, you can then, in a separate step, remove the circulating tumor cells. But it still requires that the cells express EpCAM on their surface. This middle device here is called a so-called "cluster chip," which is the same idea. However, in this case, you've got a bigger [? civ ?] diameter. And so individual circulating tumor cells will pass through. And this is really just for the isolation of circulating tumor cell clusters, which are of interest in some studies to specifically look at cluster circulating tumor cells. So this is designed to isolate those, primarily by size, but again, by EpCAM expression. And then finally, on the lower right, around the right hand side here, is something called the iChip, which is a very slick technique, which combines both size selection and immunomagnetic selection. And so basically, what it works is at the front end of the chip up here at the top, you put in your whole blood, which has also been incubated with anti-EpCAM antibodies-- magnetic anti-EpCAM antibodies-- and as the blood flows through here, it's basically got a continuous flow thing, such that the magnetically labeled circulating tumor cells are pulled off to the side and come out one door, whereas the white cells will go out the other door. And it can be done in real time. And there's some very slick movies where you can watch this happening. So those are microfluidic devices. And then finally, another technique that can be used-- and this is the technique I'm going to be talking about quite a bit more-- is density centrifugation. Again, based on the principle that circulating tumor cells have a different cell density than a lot of the other blood components. So as I said, back in 2005, this assay came out that was FDA cleared. The company was originally making it was called Immunicon. This technology has now passed through a number of different companies-- Immunicon then Veridex then Johnson & Johnson, and finally, currently it's Menarini. And this is a assay called CellSearch, and this really is the one that you will see predominantly in the literature, because essentially, it's the only FDA-cleared CTC assay that's out there. And this assay, again, uses immunomagnetic selection of CTCs in order to enumerate circulating tumor cells. So how does that work? Well, basically, you get a tubal blood from the patient and into this tube of blood go these EpCAM coated ferrous particles, as well as fluorescent antibodies against CD45, and cytokeratin, and also a fluorescent stain to label cell nuclei. And so now these magnetic particles-- this whole [? cell gamish ?] goes into a chamber that has magnets. And the magnets will pull out the circulating tumor cells. And then you can wash away most of the cells that are not circulating tumor cells. And once that's done, the remaining cells are injected into this little chamber here, which is then put into an imaging system. So this is the box that does the cell preparation. And then, this is the box that does the image analysis. And see, what you end up with are images that are stained for either cytokeratin or CD45, which is a leukocyte marker. And then, they also have to have a nuclear stain. What a circulating tumor cell in this system is defined as is a cell that is cytokeratin positive, CD45 negative, and has a nucleus. And so a computer here goes and scans this cartridge, looks for all the cells, looks for the different colors that are on there, and tries to count all the circulating tumor cells. And so basically, a lot of clinical work has been done at this point, looking at this assay and particularly how it pertains to prognosis and response to therapy for patients with cancer. So first of all, it's FDA approved for counting circulating tumor cells and three types of cancer-- breast cancer, colon cancer, and prostate cancer. And then, there are specific clinical cutoffs, which are associated with prognosis. So for breast and prostate cancer, patients who have five or more cells per 7.5 mL of blood are considered higher risk. And for colon cancer, it's three or more cells per 7.5 mL of blood. People have done studies showing that the number of circulating tumor cells correspond to other tumor markers such as urological tumor markers. They correlate with radiological endpoints, particularly in breast cancer. You can look at response to therapy. So if a patient has x number of circulating tumor cells, and they get a therapy, and the number of circulating tumor cells goes down, that's good. And if not, it suggests the therapy doesn't work. And if a therapy is failing, it can be marked by an increasing number of circulating tumor cells. So I'll just show you a few examples of some of the data here. So this is data that was published with respect to circulating tumor cells and prognosis in breast cancer. And so patients in this study had circulating tumor cells measured at the beginning of therapy. And as you might expect, patients with more than five circulating tumor cells had the worst prognosis in these cases. And patients with fewer than five had better prognosis. And you can do the same thing at first follow-up. So after patients had their first round of therapy, you can measure circulating tumor cells again. And again, patients who have less than five circulating tumor cells had improved prognosis. These ones over here. And patients with more than five circulating tumor cells had a worse prognosis. And then the same thing happens in restaging. So once the patients had more follow-up, and they're being staged again, if you measure circulating tumor cells-- again, if you have fewer circulating tumor cells, your prognosis is better than if you have more circulating tumor cells. So these are the types of data that at least justify doing circulating tumor cell counts in these patients. Here's a similar story with prostate cancer. So again, patients with more than five circulating tumor cells had a better outcome than patients with fewer than five circulating tumor cells. And this graph here is interesting. So this is a receiver operating curve comparing using circulating tumor cells versus using PSA, prostate-specific antigen, in terms of looking for patient outcomes. And so in the setting of ROC curves, what you want is a curve that's as close as possible to the upper left hand corner. So the green line here is the association with circulating tumor cells-- more than five circulating tumor cells an outcome- whereas the red line is prostate-specific antigen. And so what this shows, at least in this type of experiment, is that, actually, circulating tumor cells is a better predictor of patient outcome than PSA. And then finally, here are the data from colon cancer. Again, the same idea. In this case, the cutoff being three cells. And patients with more than three circulating colon cancer cells-- more than three are down here in the yellow line-- had a worse outcome than patients with fewer than three circulating tumor cells, shown here in the blue line. So again, these are the types of clinical data that were published and demonstrate that the CellSearch assay has prognostic significance. I should add that it's still not-- the CNS, anyway, is still not reimbursing us for this. So they don't accept this data yet necessarily as being of clinical utility, but that's a talk for another day. So since we have this CellSearch assay up and running, why would we switch to another technology? As I said, we got this instrument in 2005. So this is 16 years ago now. And as of a couple of years ago, we decided we needed to replace it. There's a 14-year-old instrument at this point. It was breaking down, sort of on a regular basis, as you might expect. And the thing that was sort of frustrating is that if we wanted to replace our CellSearch instrument with an equivalent instrument, it would be, actually, exactly the same technology as from 14 years earlier. So we would buy a new instrument, and it'd be exactly the same as the old one, except that it would be a new hardware. The other issue that came up with CellSearch is it really is limited in that it can only detect cells that are EpCAM positive. So if you wanted to detect cells that don't have EpCAM, this technology won't work. So for example, epithelial malignancies can undergo something called an epithelial-mesenchymal transition as part of their tumor progression, and in this EMT as it's called, cells will lose expression of things like EpCAM and so will no longer be detectable using this assay. Furthermore, it'd be nice to have an assay for things other than epithelial tumors. For example, it'd be great to have a melanoma assay. And no such assay existed using this technology, because, again, melanoma cells don't express EpCAM. And one of the other things that was frustrating working with this assay is that it really was a closed system. Because it was an FDA-cleared system, is very limited in terms of what you can do with it beyond what it was FDA-approved for. And so there was really-- we're used to the flow cytometry world, where you can develop a new assay if something interesting comes along. Here, we really didn't have that opportunity. There's really no way to develop some sort of custom assay, if we wanted to ask a new question. So in 2009, I met a man named Ron Seubert. He knew that I was interested in circulating tumor cells, actually, from back in the cytokeratin days. And he actually owned a company called Applied Precision, which was in Issaquah. And Applied Precision was basically a company that was primarily specialized in high end microscopy. So they had the very fancy microscopes. And so he invited me out to Issaquah, and I looked at their shop, and it was your typical thing with engineers. I've had the opportunity to work with engineers now and again. And engineers are fun to work with, because if they need-- if they said, "Well, gee. It'd be really nice if we had something that could do x. We'll just build that." And so you go out to a place like this and the place is covered with printed circuit boards and cables and everything like that, and so all these sort of prototype instruments was kind of fun to see that. But anyway so Ron Seubert was interested in whether he could use some of his microscopy technology to look for small numbers of cells in the peripheral blood. And so because he was interested in this, he created a new company called RareCyte and was interested in us collaborating. So after some development, they developed this assay to look for circulating tumor cells. In this case, it's based on density gradient centrifugation. So the way this assay works is you take whole blood, and you put it into a centrifuge tube. And inside that tube, there is this float-- it is basically a piece of plastic. It's a cylindrical piece of plastic that has a very specific density to it. And if you then spin this tube in a centrifuge, this float will basically go to a particular point in the blood. And any blood cells that have the same density will be sort of coating-- will basically end up between this float and the wall of the tube in which it's spinning. So there's basically a monolayer of cells surrounding this tube in this region here. And then, if this tube is optically clear, you can take a microscope and look through the wall of the tube and essentially collect an image from the surface of this float. And so the tube would rotate and the microscope lens would go up and down and to take essentially if you think of this cylindrical thing here, if you unwrap it, you end up with a rectangle that looks something like this. So this is what it looks like here. So this is a tube of blood. You can see the red cells are here at the bottom. The plasma is up at the top. This is a layer of platelets up here. And along the wall of this float, essentially, is a buffy coat. So this is basically creating a very thin buffy coat layer. And then, if these cells are stained with fluorescent markers, for example, for CD45 and cytokeratin, and a nuclear stain, kind of like you did with the CellSearch assay, you could then image through the wall of this tube and end up with a rectangular image like here in B. And this blue band here across the middle are basically of the nuclei of all the white cells that are in there. And scattered among these white cells are also circulating tumor cells. And that's what you can see in this green cell here in D. If you can get a very close up view of this region, it turns out that scattered among the white cells in here are the circulating tumor cells. And so they can be imaged this way. And so this worked. The difficulty here, basically-- I mean, there's a lot of very fancy things that have to happen, particularly these tubes here. They're not generically available. And so the current assay we're doing now is a slight modification of this. And so this is how the current generation of the RareCyte method uses. And this is what we're using now in our laboratory. So it starts out the same. You start out with a tube of blood that has a float in it. And this tube, again, gets centrifuged in a standard swinging bucket rotor, basically. And the buffy coat ends up coating the float here, wedged in between the float and the side of the tube. Now, the difference between this and the original assay is now what we do is we kind of we squeeze off the tube-- the buffy coat-- put in a density solution, and manage to get the buffy coat out of the tube into a little microfuge tube like this. And then the buffy coat, from this microfuge tube, is then spread onto eight ordinary glass microscope slides. And once you have it on microscope slides, you can actually use a lot of pre-existing equipment to do stuff with it. And in particular, we can take an automated immunostainer and then stain the slide using the various fluorescent antibodies that we're interested in, which then go into an imager, and you end up with images. Very analogous to what we would see with the CellSearch assay. And so that's basically how this instrumentation, or this methodology, can image circulating tumor cells. And here are just some examples. So for example, here is an example of breast cancer. And what you see is we've got a signal for, in this case, it's a combination cytokeratin EpCAM. So rather than relying on EpCAM expression, now we have a cocktail of cytokeratin EpCAM antibodies. And that colors it here in magenta. The green color here are the leukocytes in the neighborhood. So they're staining green. And then blue is the nuclei. And what we see here is a cell that has cytokeratin EpCAM, does not have CD45, and has a blue nucleus. So that counts as a circulating tumor cell. And this is an example from a lung cancer patient. Again, it expresses cytokeratin EpCAM, lacks CD45, has a nucleus. And then, this is the final example-- prostate cancer. CD45, EpCAM. No CD45. Has a nucleus. So this is the kind of cells that we're looking for. And again, we have an automated imaging system and can count cells this way. This just four inches-- this is a patient with breast cancer. And this is a very large cluster of breast cancer cells. And again, some of the breast cancer researcers that we work with are interested in the significance of these circulating clusters of cells, as opposed to individual circulating tumor cells. So because we are in laboratory medicine, we wanted to bring this online as a clinical test. And so we had to validate it as a laboratory developed test. And so these, of course, are-- I'm sure most of you are familiar with the things that you need to worry about in terms of validation. So we need to worry about sensitivity and specificity, precision, recovery, linearity, potential interferences, and then finally, accuracy. So I'm going to show you some of our data now that we used to validate this has a clinical assay. So in order to determine sensitivity and specificity, we basically used an artificial system where we took cultured breast cancer cells and spiked them into normal peripheral blood and tried to count them. And so what we did, we took five tubes each with 25, 50, or 125 cells and then subjected them-- took them through this whole process-- and tried to count the cells. So the first thing. In all 15 tubes, we were able to detect circulating tumor cells. So that technically would be-- you would call that 100% sensitivity. Now, I admit that 25 cells is a fairly high number, but it turns out that it's extremely difficult to spike blood tubes with smaller numbers of cells than this reliably. So really, this is the best we're able to do in terms of artificial spiking experiments. The good news was in normal blood samples, we did not detect any circulating tumor cells. So that leads to 100% specificity. In order to determine whether or not we can detect lower cell numbers than 25, we had to rely on our clinical samples. And we'll get into that in a moment. Next, we wanted to look at precision. And so for precision, we took our spiked samples again and looked at the CVs. And at the highest number, actually, we see pretty nice reproducibility here with only 3.7% CV. Around 50 cells, we have a higher degree of variability. And with lower numbers of cells, we have an even a higher number of degree of variability. One caveat to this is that, again, you're making spiked samples. Your ability to accurately spike in certain numbers of cells is really dependent on you're making serial dilutions and so on. So I think, actually, a lot of this variability here does not reflect so much the assay, as it does the ability to spike in cells. But those are the kind of numbers we're getting for CVs. This shows linearity. So again, we're taking those same spiked samples now. And in this case, we get very nice linearity out to 125 cells. We got a nice slope there, very close to one. And this is our recovery experiments. So again, for these different numbers of spike ins, we actually see very close to 100% recovery, in all cases. So for all these sort of analytical type that you need for validation, they look pretty good. Interferences. It's a little hard to see how-- that's sort of the classic interferences would affect an assay where you're looking for circulating tumor cells. We just sort of the classic ones of bilirubin and triglycerides. They really had no effect. We didn't bother looking at hemolysis, because if any sample actually came to us and was actually grossly hemolyzed, we wouldn't probably want to look for intact cells in that situation. But bilirubin and triglycerides did not cause any interferences, which brings us to the accuracy part of the study. So what we did is we had 48 patient subjects who had duplicate blood draws. One blood draw was run using the predicate method, the CellSearch assay. And the other tube of blood was run using the RareCyte assay. And so this is what the data looked like altogether. And so if you do this, we can make a linear regression equation and so on with a P value and an R squared and all that kind of thing. But really, it's really not fair to do linear regression on data where 3/4 of the data are really clustered here with less than 10 circulating tumor cells per 7.5 mL of blood. So the question is what is really the best way to try to compare these things here? So one thing you can do is a log transformation. So this is what the data looked like when they are log transformed. I had to cheat a little bit, because we had a lot of zeros. You can't get a log of zero. So I added one cell to each sample across the board. And we ended up with data that looks like this. So it actually does have a pretty nice correlation. But again, a lot of these samples here in the low end-- there's a lot of scatter. And so it's really hard to get a meaningful R squared, for example, in this case, given how much the data is biased towards the low end. So what else can we do? So these are already a couple of-- well, the t-tests not so much. But the Wilcoxon and the Mann-Whitney-Wilcoxon are non-parametric statistical tests to compare two sets of data. And then we have the student's t-test for paired sets of data as well. And this is what you'd want to see. Basically, you get P values that are not significant, because the two sets of data should be the same. These tests are really good if you want to show that two sets of data are different. But it's really hard to-- what we really want to do is say, "How can we put some sort of number on how similar these data are not? Are they different or not?" So this is like a negative positive test, if you will. So this is another way of kind of looking at it. So in this case, I said, "OK, well, rather than looking at the exact numbers, let's see how good correlation we can obtain if we just say the tests are either positive for having greater than five circulating tumor cells per tube or negative with less than five circulating tumor cells per tube." All the patients in this study either had breast cancer or prostate cancer. So five cells was sort of the established clinical cutoff. And so in this case, what you see here is that there's actually very good concordance between the two assays, in terms of this positive versus negative type approach. There were three "false negatives" in looking at RareCyte. And there were three "false positives." So basically, six out of the 48 were allegedly discordant. And so when you have a two by two table like this, you can do a chi-squared analysis. And so if you do a chi-squared analysis, now you get a very nicely statistically significant P value saying that these methods are the same, at least in terms of the qualitative-- or semi-quantitative-- approach to whether they have more or less than five circulating tumor cells. So I also wanted to look and see, well, let's look at the discordant ones and see what that really means. And this gets into how reproducible can a CTC count really be? When you're spiking in samples, those should all be the same. When you're drawing a tube of blood from a patient, and they have very small numbers of cells, you run into this mathematical problem called the Poisson distribution. So for example, what I have here on the left is a histogram. If you took a patient who truly had five-- if the true number of circulating tumor cells was five in this particular patient, and you drew their blood 10,000 times-- I don't recommend it. But if you drew their blood 10,000 times, you get a distribution that looks like this. So this is a Poisson distribution, where the "correct value," referred to as lambda, is five. Well, if you could do the 95% confidence interval for that, if a patient's true CTC count is five, 95% of the time, you're going to get the number between two and nine, which is a fairly broad range, if you think about it. And it also sort of calls into question is how rigid can you be about one of these cutoffs for five circulating tumor cells affecting prognosis when in fact, you're looking at a fairly broad range of numbers in real life? And then if you use the colon cancer cutoff of three, the 95% confidence interval with Poisson distribution will be between one and six. So I wanted to look at our discordant ones and see are they really discordant or is this just noise? So here are the six discordant samples. And first of all, you can see that they all had very small numbers of circulating tumor cells. And then, what I did is I was taking the assumption that maybe the true number of circulating tumor cells is halfway between these results. If you then use the Poisson distribution to decide what is the 95% confidence interval based on that "true value," you get these numbers right here. And if you notice, all of these results fit within the 95% confidence intervals based on a Poisson distribution, assuming the true numbers is the mean between these two, which is an assumption. I grant you. But that's what it is. And so the question really is, are these numbers, in fact, different? Are these really discordant? Or are we really just looking at random chance? You stick a needle into a patient's vein and you take out 7.5 mL of blood, these are the numbers you're going to get, sort of on a random basis. So just in summary. The two methods are agreeing quite well. If you say where they disagree, I think I would disagree that they disagree. And we can agree to disagree. This is one other way of looking at the data. So this is a Bland-Altman plot. And what a Bland-Altman plot is where you take two paired data sets. You take the difference between them and divide it by the mean of the two data points. And again, if you've two zeros, that's a problem. You don't divide by zero. But correcting for all that, what you see is that, really, almost all the data here line up very nicely along this zero line, which just basically means they're giving you more or less the same result. Bland and Altman, when they published this paper, they specifically were looking at comparing two different methods in the setting of medical diagnosis and saying are two different methods the same or not? And so we get here's a very nice looking graph, except for this one point down here. So I will call your attention to with a red circle. So what's the deal here? So in this case, the CellSearch method found 340 circulating tumor cells, which is a huge number. The RareCyte method got 548 tumor cells. That's actually quite a significant difference. From a clinical standpoint, it's not a clinically significant difference, because it's a huge number of cells, unfortunately, for this patient. But from an analytical standpoint, we wanted to understand that. Well, it turns out for this particular patient, only 25% of their CTCs actually had surface EpCAM. And if you recall, the CellSearch method requires that cells have EpCAM on their surface. So this is a potential explanation. So here's this example of some cells that are positive for cytokeratin but lack EpCAM expression. So this is at least a possible explanation as to why you might get such a discordant result, for this particular patient. So at this point, this is a assay we have online. We're doing this as a clinical assay now. I just wanted to make a few other points. First of all this is just to mention circulating tumor DNA. So circulating tumor cells and circulating tumor DNA fall into this category of liquid biopsy, in that you can take a blood sample and not have to actually go in and get a tissue sample to learn something about a patient's tumor. So I just wanted to show you some of the results from this particular-- the question is are circulating tumor cells and cell-free DNA the same or different? And in this particular paper that came out this year, they actually asked this question. They took a single sample of blood and isolated both circulating tumor DNA and circulating tumor cells and did next generation sequencing to see if they had similar genetic profiles. And what's really interesting. It turns out that there's a lot of mutations in the circulating tumor cells that are lacking in the circulating tumor DNA. There are mutations in the circulating tumor DNA that are absent in the circulating tumor cells. And there is some overlap among them. And then again, that's shown here. So the red shows you mutations in the CTCs. And the blue are mutations in the circulating tumor DNA. So why do I bring this up? And again, this is not an area of particular expertise of mine, but the interesting thing about it to me is that circulating tumor DNA presumably represents DNA that's being shed from tumor cells as they die, perhaps, in their tumors, whereas circulating tumor cells are actually viable cells that are in the peripheral blood. Is there something biologically different about these two populations? And this might be one way to address that. So that's just sort of my philosophical take. So far what we've been talking about is cell enumeration. But there are some other applications that we can potentially do here. And we're working with some more collaborators at the SCCA to try to look at some of these things. So for example, you can look at the androgen receptor in prostate cancer. You look at things like estrogen receptor or HER2 expression in breast cancer. There's an instrument that you can actually use to pull individual cells off of these glass slides that are stained for downstream purposes. And we're also going to be looking at-- there's this thing called MUC1 star. And I'll just talk about this in a moment, just a little bit. This is an example of some additional biomarkers you can look at. So for example in breast cancer, you can look at estrogen receptor. You can look at HER2. For prostate cancer, you're looking at androgen receptor, in this particular isoform of antigen receptor. And also there are assays for example for PD-L1 and [? MUM1 ?] that you can look at as well. In terms of prostate cancer, so there's this variant of the androgen receptor called AR-V7, which is basically alternatively spliced. And it loses part of the protein that allows the receptor to be targeted by anti-estrogen drugs. So if you have this variant version of the androgen receptor, you will not be able to use these androgen receptor agonists. And so, for example, you can look at that by RT-PCR. You can look at the RNA. Or you can look at the protein if you've got a specific antibody. So here are some examples where you can actually look at this AR-V7 version of the androgen receptor versus the full length androgen receptors. This is an assay that's available. And our prostate cancer docs are interested in that. And then, you can look at other markers. So for example, when prostate cancer cells have been treated with anti-androgen agents, they sometimes undergo what's called neuroendocrine differentiation. And we can identify that by looking at synaptophysin as a marker. And so, again, this is another marker that some of our prostate cancer colleagues are interested in looking at. And so we will be developing an assay for that as well. One of the things that this technology can potentially do is that you can actually take single cells off of the glass slides that are normally analyzed. We do not have this capability in our lab mainly because the instrument that we have is set up to do automated multiple slide loading. There's an instrument where you can load one slide at a time by hand, which is obviously not the kind of thing you want to be doing in a clinical laboratory. But if you use that, you can select individual cells off of a slide and do things like whole exome sequencing, array CGH, or RNAseq, or any number of sort of high through put downstream sequences on these single cells. So these are the things that we're working on right now. Dr. Jennifer Specht is one of the breast cancer docs at the SCCA. And she has a study where she's going to be using CAR T cells that are targeted to an alternate version of the MUC1, mucin, marker that breast cancer has. And it's called MUC1 star. It's basically a cleaved form of MUC1, which is a common breast cancer marker. And so we will be developing an assay to specifically look for this MUC1 star version to identify patients who might be candidates for the CAR T cell therapy. And then also going forward, again, because this is an open system, we can use whatever antibodies we like to develop new assays. I'm definitely interested in looking at assays for malignancies that don't express EpCAM, for example. So things like melanoma or renal cell cancer. So those are some of the things that in the coming years, we want to look at as well. So I think I'll stop there. I've got pretty good timing, but there's a number of people that I really need to thank me who have helped work on this. First of all, in our department over at the hematology lab at Harborview, I need to thank Mike Tam, Michael Hardin, and Sarah Trimble our manager because they're really the ones who did the actual work to validate this assay for the clinical lab. I also need to thank, from the SCCA, Tia Higano, VK Gadi, and Evan Yu who are our collaborators working in breast and prostate cancer. We obviously did this in collaboration with RareCyte. And so the people listed there are from RareCyte. And then there's two other people I need to mention specifically. First Alisa Clein. Alisa Clein is our clinical coordinator. And this could never have possibly happened without her, because she's the one who actually goes into the clinic, talks to the providers, asks if their patients can participate in our study, and then goes and consents the patient, and gets their blood drawn. So Alisa is invaluable. Then I also need to thank Geoff Baird, in the Department of Laboratory Medicine, for helping support this work, getting us our instrumentation, and letting us develop it, and turning it into a clinical assay. And then finally, last, and definitely not least, I need to thank the patients who donated blood for this assay. These are patients who all have metastatic cancer. Their life expectancies were not long. And they would not benefit personally from any of this work, but they were willing to help out and donate their blood. And we, obviously, could not have done any of this work without them. So they're really the key to this whole project. So I will stop there. I'm happy to take any questions if there are any questions out there. AUDIENCE: Thanks so much, Dan. That's a really wonderful talk. I'm sure there's silent, social distancing applause going on over the Internet. And I'm looking to see if any other questions come in. But while I'm waiting, I just wanted to ask about the validation and comparison of the low numbers. It's so challenging to compare. I think you did a great job in showing how difficult it is when you have Poisson level of numbers to compare. And I'm wondering after [? Erik Haniss' ?] talk last week. When regulatory agencies come in and look at this, and what types of methods can you use to show that two and eight really aren't any different? And do you just need incredibly large numbers and get pretty large numbers for this sample or are there any better ways to potentially compare samples across that or could you give any? DANIEL SABATH: I mean, when you're really trying to analyze that-- I mean, we're very confident that we can detect. If the cells are there, we can find them. And this is you're really getting up against math. I mean, this human beings have very small numbers. Even patients with potentially advanced disease typically have single digit numbers of cells in their tubes of blood. You can draw larger blood volumes. That'd be one way to do it. Again, these patients are having their blood drawn for a lot of things. It's really not ethical to take huge samples. And so really, you're up against math, in terms of the sizes of samples you can practically take. AUDIENCE: Thank you. There's a few other questions coming in. So from Kim. Are other non-tumor epithelial cells shed into the blood, which would be counted in this assay? DANIEL SABATH: That's actually a very good question. So what about epithelial cells? Well, here's the obvious thing. You're sticking a needle through somebody's skin. And skin contains epithelial cells. And so actually, when you draw these specimens, you need to discard the first tube of blood to avoid that problem. And so that's something that we've dealt with all the way going back to with the reverse transcriptase PCR days. We knew that to avoid contamination with normal epithelial cells, you have to discard that first tube to make sure there aren't any skin cells in your needle. Other than that, there's really no reason to think "normal epithelial" cells would be present in the peripheral blood. AUDIENCE: There's two related questions. One from Daniel [INAUDIBLE] and from [? Takahiro. ?] Can you have more confidence in the level of results if you use the CTC test in two separate specimens from blood draws? And then what happens if you use a cutoff of zero versus any number, zero versus anything? DANIEL SABATH: Well, I guess that would require a clinical trial, I would think. Again, this cutoff of five cells that was established back in the CellSearch assay, it first became available in the mid aughts. Basically, it was all based on ROC curves and things like that. I don't recall seeing any of these papers discussions of five plus or minus three or four being the cutoff. And so I'm not sure if that answers the question completely. [? Takahiro, ?] if you want to write back. AUDIENCE: And the last question, because we're running out of time. So here's the question. Is there any work looking for CTCs or circulating tumor DNA in patients with brain tumors? DANIEL SABATH: I'm sorry. Repeat the question. AUDIENCE: Any work looking for circulating-- DANIEL SABATH: Circulating brain cancer cells? I mean, it's certainly possible. There are markers that we could use for that, sure. I haven't seen any literature, actually, on circulating neural tumors. That's actually an interesting-- I mean, we see lots of all sorts of every epithelial tumor under the sun. We've actually looked at Merkel-cell carcinomas, because Paul [? Niam ?] collaborates with pretty much everybody in the entire university. So we've had the opportunity to look at Merkel cells. And they will show up in a circulating tumor cell assay also. But that's actually a very intriguing idea. I do know a few neuropathologists. So maybe we should, we could think about that. AUDIENCE: May be future ideas. I think that's all the questions. All the time we have. So thank you so much. DANIEL SABATH: Thank you out there in Zoom land. AUDIENCE: Another round of silent applause for you. [APPLAUSE] [MUSIC PLAYING] 