 Mike Duffy: Good afternoon. I'm Mike Duffy, president of the  Cape Cod Tufts Club, and I would like to welcome   113 participants to today's program. That is a  phenomenal number. In addition to members of the   Tufts community from around the country, we have  many members from the Intercollegiate Alumni Clubs   of Cape Cod, including alumni from local schools  such as MIT, Harvard, Cornell, and Boston College.  Through your generosity, when registering  for this event, we have been able to raise   $760 for the Cape Cod Tufts Club  scholarship fund. This fund allows us to   award three $2,500 scholarships per year to  deserving, currently enrolled Tufts students   from the Cape Islands and South Coast areas. A few  housekeeping items before we start the program.  This meeting will be recorded and uploaded  to our Tufts Alumni Youtube channel. You will   notice your audio and video are disabled. Once we  begin, you will see the speakers on your screen.   You'll be able to hear them, but they  will not be able to hear or see you.   You may need to adjust your volume. If you would  like to ask a question during the presentation,   you can do so by clicking the Q&A  button at the bottom of the screen.   This will open a window where you can type your  questions. After Dr. Hanlon's presentation, Amanda   will read the questions for Dr. Hanlon to answer.  We will do our best to get to as many questions   as possible, but we may not be able to answer  everyone's question. Now I'm going to pass the   video off to Dr. Jack Whitehead, a member of  our board who will introduce today's speaker. Jack: Thank you, Mike. My name is Jack Whitehead. I  studied Mechanical Engineering at Tufts University,   and I fell in love with Fluid  Dynamics, and I continued to be   active as a Senior Scientist Emeritus  at Woods Hall Oceanographic Institution.   My wife Lynn and I have lived and raised a family  on Cape Cod in Falmouth, near Woods Hole Village  since 1971. Our speaker, Dr. Roger Hanlon, has lived  here too for about 25 years, about a half a mile   away from us. Dr. Hanlon came from the Cincinnati,  Ohio area and attended Florida State University   where he studied Biology and played baseball  and football. Then after the army and travel   he earned a PhD at the excellent Rosenstiel  School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences  at the University of Miami. After work at Cambridge  University in England and at the University of   Texas and some sabbaticals, he joined the Marine  Biological Laboratories (we call it MBL), which is   part of the University of Chicago, in 1955. He runs  a highly active laboratory as a Senior Scientist   and is also associated with Brown University  and the Rhode Island School of Design.   He has co-written two books, bunches of book  chapters, well well over 200 scientific papers,   and is cited more than fifteen thousand times, has  had numerous students and worked with innumerable   collaborators, His work began out of curiosity  when he looked at an octopus on a coral reef   in Panama in 1968. As great scientists  do, he has continued to follow his curiosity,   and he's made great contributions to fundamental  Biology with highly practical benefits to boot.  He has overlap with art, advertising, cosmetics,  camouflage, etc. etc. as you will learn. Roger? Roger: Well thank you, Jack, and thank you, Mike for  the invitation. It's a real pleasure to be here   and to talk to all of you and hopefully entertain  you on this beautiful Saturday. So I will maybe   explain the title a little bit, "The Octopus as  Tech", and we're looking at the technological side   of let's say the outcomes of some of the  basic research that we do. And I'm basically   one who does sort of pure science, but I get  involved in applied science just a little   bit. But I'll move right into it because I think the underwater world is going to tell   the story here. So take you diving right away,  and here you see a rock underwater and a fish   swimming around. It's a very boring scene. Nothing  happening. Until now, and you see that there was an   octopus on that rock the whole time, and now   into my face and jets away. If we look at that   slow motion reverse, you see a ring will develop  around the eye. Here it comes, right there. That's   five million chromatophore organs, pigmented  organs, innervated directly from the brain. Another   25 million create the pattern. Look where my cursor  is on the right side of the body, and watch the   skin morph from smooth to three-dimensional,  a very important aspect for good camouflage.   So the before and after is really dramatic,  and they do this very quickly, as you noticed.   This animal can go to the top right where you  have a more complex coral reef or to a fully   developed coral reef and move around anywhere  on that reef and in a fraction of a second   can look at the visible background and can  make decisions on which type of camouflage to use   and to implement it. So it's this visual sensory  motor system that I've been very interested in   for all these years. And there's actually  an octopus in the middle of that image.   Right there, if you can see my cursor. So the camo  is very good. Well this is the subject I talk   about: "Rapid Adaptive Coloration", and it's used for  camouflage, as you've seen, also for communication.   And down at the bottom we're really slant to talk  a little bit towards how some of these aspects can   inform technology. Wouldn't we all love to be  able to change color and pattern either in our   clothes or our car or a complexion or whatever?  Well here's a Cuttlefish I filmed at night in   Australia, and you notice the patterning change  going on there. There are little squirrels of color,   there are horizontal, thin stripes and horizontal,  white stripes. Now we can go kind of yellow and put   a bar across the middle of the body. And now it  decides to plop on the bottom next to a coral   and go camouflage. Now we have two squids here on a  coral reef in the Caribbean. There's a male on the   left, female on the right, and the males fight all  day long among other males to get a chance to pair   with and mate a female. And here's how the fight  is conducted. You see these two males fighting,   and they put patterns for communication on their  dorsal surface and also on their ventral surface   to give different signals of communication. And the  female is out of the picture at the moment. We're   going to see who wins the very gentlemanly fight  right here. And there's a little nip at the end,   coming right now, and now the winner swims off  and stays with the female. And when he does so   he guards her. And we have the male on the left  showing a brown courtship pattern to her and a   white aggressive pattern on the other side for  approaching males. Watch what happens when she   changes places. Watch the guy at the top. And you  see that he shifted his aggression pattern to   the other side of his body. So these animals have  very fast skin control, but they can do it even in   the context of sexual selection. So this is what...  you know, this takes a big brain, a lot of cognition.   So this is not a snail, even though these animals  are mollusks in the same phylum. Here's the Broad   Club Cuttlefish showing a dramatic, fast pattern  [inaudible] cloud pattern. They do that towards   a potential prey, like a crab, and we think that  it mesmerizes the crab just long enough for   the Cuttlefish then to eject these two fast  tentacles and seize it and have lunch. And   I just want to make a brief say about the  tools and methods that I use in my research.   I'm basically a Diving Biologist. We do a lot of  lab experiments. In the top layer here you see   lots of cameras, spectrometers, and so forth. I do  use instrumentation in this middle row like AUVs   (Autonomous Underwater Vehicles) on the left, or  ROBs (Remotely Operated Vehicles) in the middle,   spectrometers. And we culture animals in the  laboratory down here and do a lot of laboratory   experiments, which I will show you briefly, and a  lot of [inaudible]. But I want to point out   at the bottom right here, this is one of the most  important tools of all, and that is a good human   observation and thinking about what's going on.  So just a word about the brains of these animals.   They have large brains on the left as this  very elegant dissection of an octopus brain   and this large central mass right here as  illustrated on the right. There are 34, 36 lobes   of the brain and millions and millions of cells.  So this is a complex and sophisticated brain by   any measure, vertebrate or invertebrate. Here's a  diagram that shows the peculiarity of the nervous   system of the Cephalopods. This blue spot in the  middle is where the central brain is, right between   the eyes, and you can sell a drawing of that. There  are about 80 million neurons depending on how you   count those. But what's incredible is in the rest  of the body of the peripheral nervous system there   are 300 million neurons. So this is a nervous  animal, so to speak. It's got neurons everywhere,   and most of them are given over to controlling  the eight arms and these millions of color   chromatophores in the skin and so forth.  Interestingly that even though you have a   central brain, at the base of each arm there's a  little... we could call it a small satellite brain.  So some people could count and say "well they have  eight small satellite brains and one central brain",   and the big question that we are looking at  now is "what controls which", and we don't know the   answer to that yet. But the point is the brain is  very sophisticated. Well that brings us to a quick   evolutionary context picture that I want to show  you is that we've got mammals on the right, that's   our side of the evolutionary tree, and on the  other side you've got the Cephalopods back here.   The common denominator for those two groups was  a long time ago down at the bottom here. And the   curiosity question is it seems as though that  the Cephalopods have produced complex behaviors   in a different route than we mammals have. And  the big question is whether or not the cortical   structure of the Cephalopod brain is fundamentally  different. If it is, that tells us that   there's one more route to evolving intelligence  on the planet. We don't know if that's the case   yet, but it's a big question that Evolutionary  Biologists and Neurobiologists and animal behavior   folks like me are looking at. And I think if it  turns out to be the case then the artificial   intelligence community would have one more model,  other than the human model, for complexity    and intelligence. But I'm dreaming a little there,  but a lot of us are looking for those blue sky   questions. Now two discoveries recently about the  cephalopods that are at play here. One is that   their genomes have been done just recently,  and their genomes are absolutely enormous.   That is a big unexpected feature. And the genome  is loaded with things for the nervous system.   That's not unexpected. But what's really curious  about cephalopods versus any other animal group   is that instead of just taking their DNA  and making a transcript of RNA and making   a protein, which is how all life works, the  cephalopods take that RNA, and they   edit the DNA at an incredible rate. 500 times  more than humans do. It's really an amazing   difference. We don't know what it's all about,  but it sets them apart in terms of how they   deal with genes, and most of those are  for the nervous system it's thought. So again,   might explain a little bit about why they  aren't a snail any longer, they're very different.   Now Rapid Adaptive Camouflage requires keen vision  so that the animal can look around and see what   the micro habitat looks like so it decides on  the right camouflage pattern. Then of course,   what i'll glibly call magical skin, and you can  decide if it's magical after you see a few images.   But to experiment how they decide on camouflage, we  go in the laboratory. This is a cuttlefish in the   middle right here. And then we give it some kind  of visual background environment which we measure   quantitatively, and then the answer comes  out in the skin in some kind of body pattern.   And so this is a look at the brain.  It's a visual look at the brain because the body   is showing you what the brain decided in. This  is a great advantage for looking at the brain   without dissecting it apart. We put the animal on  uniform background here, and it's a uniform pattern.   We give it a non-uniform pattern, you know,  a small checkerboard pattern it's changed its   appearance, and on a large checkerboard pattern  which has solely increased the size of the checker   and the contrast, the animal is morphed from a  uniform camouflage pattern to a mottled pattern to   a disruptive pattern. And so what this means is we  can probe the visual system of this animal, and we   can put together what it looks at in that visual  background to decide on this camouflage pattern.   How does it do it in under a second? It's got to  be a neurobiological shortcut, and that's what   we're after. Well I can tell you right now after  12 years of experiments every week and a lot of   published experimental papers, you know, this bottom  animal looking at the checkerboard is looking at   the white checker, not the black checker, and when  the white checker is about the size of the white   square that the animal can put physiologically on  its back it uses that as the simple hue to turn on   disruptive coloration. Now we can illustrate that  a little bit. Under water, on the left, you see a   cuttlefish that is all bright and conspicuous. It  decides to go into a uniform pattern and disappear,   so before and after it's pretty different.  But now we do a real test in the laboratory.   There's a cuttlefish down here at the bottom on a  uniform camouflage pattern on uniform background.   We rudely pull the rug out from under it, and it's  got a different substrate. The animal checking out   the substrate as it swims around and settles right  there and puts on a mottled camouflage pattern.   And next what happens, if you look in the top right,  you'll see right about now our special talented   three-handed technician rolls in these white rocks  from heaven. The animal takes a look at him, moves,   and turns on a disruptive pattern because the  white rocks are about the size of the white square   in the middle of their back. So a simple visual cue.  It can overcome all the other visual information   that says "stay down here in a mottled pattern"  which would have been good, but it switches to   destructive. So there's a priority. So this is not  a reflex camouflage in the [inaudible]. It's a very refined decision making process. That's  the point I'm trying to get across here. So we look   at the skin now. You see the chromatophores  through a microscope opening and closing. And   so there's direct neurons coming from the brain to  operate the muscles that radiate around from each   chromatophore, and therefore you can do that in  about 100 milliseconds. And here's a diagram from a   [inaudible], and you've got a pigmented chromatophore  and the muscles radiating out, they're relaxed.  The neurons tell the muscle to contract, and it  pulls this out into a disk of color which is   now visible. And you have yellows and reds and  browns down here, and you have control of all of   those layers of color pigmented chromatophores.  And then on the next layer down in the skin you   have accentuated here, iridescent green and blue  and pink heretofores with a white base layer. This   is all structural coloration. So this magnificent,  beautiful skin produces the artist palette with   pigments and reflectors. Now here's a chromatophore.  This is an animation done based on real video.   And you see, we point out that the skin is always  moving, and so the muscles that control it, and the   pigment sac itself, have to accommodate for that  movement to give color coherency, and this is why ...  There's a grid underneath, and you can see what  steady would be. But the animals have figured   out how to do that, and engineers are going to  have a much tougher time trying to emulate this,   and they are trying to do this. Speaking of  engineers, material scientists, we work with   them all the time, and all of our grant projects.  And during a DARPA projects, one of the groups with   David Clark Evelyn Hu at Harvard Engineering have  submitted a patent to create display technologies   that operate like the squid chromatophore where you  have a punctate color sack, and it gets pulled   out horizontally at about 100 [inaudible] changing  area. There's no display technology that works like   that. So we've also been invited to write articles  in places like the Information Display Community.   Here's one we did a few years back, quite a few  years back, with our cuttlefish on, you know, the   cover and posing this crazy question "Is This the  Future of Displays?" Well it could be in the future.   Now there are pigments in the skin, but now  we're going to look at reflectors. Notice here   when I play this again that the iridescence  is gone. It shows up under neural stimulation,   and notice the color shift [inaudible] in the next  one. It shifts from red all the way across the   color spectrum to short wavelength green. This is  due to an extraordinary protein called reflectin.   And so you can take this reflectin, and you can  make other kinds of goodies and biomolecules   that are used for Optical Physics. And some  of your alumni from Tufts, or current faculty at   Tufts, have done some of this work. David Kaplan  and Theo Ominetto are part of the crew who've   done this. They're all part of the Biomedical  Engineering group at Tufts. But you can look   at some of these titles looking at that reflectin  protein, and how it creates optical materials. There   are other groups who are looking at some of these  tissue fibers and adhesives for active camouflage   including a cephalopod. So there is an outcome for  some of the basic science research we're doing   on how the individual chromatophores and [inaudible]  are actually dynamically controlled. So I put an   image of an iPhone up here because we all have  some kind of smartphone, and I ask you where does   the color and pattern come from? You've got a computer,  you've got a battery, the battery runs out every   day, you drop this thing, computer costs you another  grand. And the whole idea is that this machine   is creating all the light and pattern. And my point  is that our animals can produce all these colors   and patterns, and they're not creating any new  pattern or light. They're using available light and   manipulating light with pigments and reflectors  to get the same result. So the secret here is not   just pigments alone, not just reflectors alone,  but the combination of the two is very powerful   to really fool around with light. So maybe this  is a different route towards synthetic materials.   So I'm going to show you here, right here is one  of those leucophores, that structural coloration.   I take my stimulated electrode to move it  on top, or to the side, or back on top, and   the chromatophores on top the pigments will either  enhance or obscure the underlying white reflection.   So this is one way to create a synthetic material  with two simple processes. But let's take a look   at that white because this turns out to be  the whitest white known in the animal kingdom,   and we find it in this cuttlefish, up to the  side here. We look a little more carefully to   these white dots in their fin, and we look at it  really carefully, and we measure with spectrometer.   And when I said the white is white, here's the full  visible spectrum. White is all colors. And so it's   producing and reflecting all colors coherently, all  400 colors in the visible range at a high level.   The physicist who looked at this said we were  exaggerating and we couldn't do that, but we   actually showed him the data and maybe some of  them believe us, maybe some of them still don't, who   knows. But here is some electron microscopy where  we've isolated one single cell with 12,000 spheres   in it that produce this white. And there we've  modeled it, and we've emulated it, and modeled it,   and actually looked very carefully. This is  me scattering to give you such an incredible   passive arrangement to get pure white. Well  maybe you could produce a better Kindle   reading device, and we actually work a little bit  with the ink corporation, right there in Cambridge,  as another way to use available light more  efficiently, but this could also act as a   makeup base because, just like in the cephalopods,  it's a base upon which the pigment lies on top   to enhance it with contrast. But it turns out  that this also manipulates ultraviolet light,   although we don't know that in precision. But if  it did, now you have a translucent protein that   will block UV, but we don't know how much of the UV.  It's only an idea right now, we haven't measured it.   So to move on, this skin, the pigments plus the  reflectors give you a remarkable diversity of   appearances. And so I was invited to Estee Lauder,  the cosmetics company, to give a TEDx presentation,   and my point to them was that the future of  cosmetics is to have changeable cosmetics   that the individual can handle a little bit if  you use pigments and reflectors in a sophisticated   way, the way the animals are doing it. And here's a  high resolution image of cuttlefish skin, and you   see the very subtle blushing going on here. And  don't you know that women in particular would   really like to have this capability. This is not  out of the realm of possibility now because we   know enough about the biology, and the structure,  and the control of these pigment reflectors to   start translating some of that information. The  final part of that is the skin texture. You've   already seen this video, but here's another one  of the Giant Australian Cuttlefish. Smooth skin,   periscope up, you've got these big bumps. We look  at the same animal a little later on, and you   see close up that big bump. That's called a papilla,  and it's a muscular hydrostat, kind of like a human   tongue, it's all soft muscle. And so this is the  only animal group on the planet that can change   the three dimensions of its skin texture/ And don't  you know the Navy would like to be able to put   bumps on their vessels and their submarines to  camouflage them, but then when you have to go   fast you want to put them down flat so there's no  hydrodynamic drag. Well that's how the cephalopods   use it. for those two things. Well I just want to  show you, before I show the translation, here's a   Giant Australian Cuttlefish. A big animal, you  know, it's, you know, could be 10 kilos. And it's   bright, conspicuous pattern with smooth skin. And  one second apart I shoot it. One, two, three, four,  five. And you see the animal has morphed into sort  of an algae look-alike. Now it comes out of it, and you   see it goes back to its smooth skin. So we've got  great control of the bumps as well. Our colleagues   at Cornell led by Rod Shepard, took our ideas and  our publications on how those papillae work, and   they made the first synthetic papillae, or let's  say 3D texture morphing materials. Down here in the   picture is some octopus papillae that we had done.  And so we worked with them to help them. This was a   system that's got polymers, vegetable polymers, that  are driven by pneumatics. And this was published in   science a few years ago. So you know a real  bit of translation and a first step because   we don't have materials in society or industry  that can do this under full control. Okay so   just to summarize on the complexions.  Masking harsh edges would be important.   I get invited to international dermatology  meetings pretty often to talk about the skin   because they're always interested in different  skin. It's these gradations of color and contrast   with pigments and reflectors. And I really tell you  there is a goldmine of biodiversity out there in   the natural world with fishes, and invertebrates,  and vertebrates, and certainly our cephalopod   invertebrates that use color and pattern with  pigments and reflectors, and the vast majority of it is   undescribed. So different way to look at the planet.  Cool thing is they're manipulating available light,   they're not creating light, so there might be some  energy savings. Again our animals here are the only   shape-shifting skin known to science. In terms  of medical applications, [inaudible] there are a   lot of them. So just a a brief thing about art and  science, here's the same cuttlefish left and right.   camouflage or conspicuous. I want to point out  that what they're really manipulating in their   skin are these factors which we know: light shape,  contrast. But I want to point out that artists,   photographers, architects, landscape artists, makeup  artists, marketing and advertising folks are all   manipulating exactly the same features. And so  if you can look at those and control them one   at a time, you get a lot of possibility. Well the  art community is the community that does this. So   I teach occasionally at RISD and at Brown with  joint courses, and I have RISD students in my   lab often. And so we have a real collaboration  going with the art community. I currently have   an active grant with the Office of Naval Research, and  I have two RISD professors as a part of that grant. Okay, so last thing. Almost a colorblind  camouflage, look at this camouflaged octopus moving   along, and it gets to this red kelp, and it goes red,  and it goes to skin texture similar to the kelp. Well, the whole deal here is that this octopus, and all cephalopods are colorblind, so how do   they match the color of the background? And  the answer basically is that we don't know. But it turns out that there are opto molecules  in the retina are also distributed in the skin. We discovered that with colleagues. And here's  the bottom line, John Rogers, a really accomplished   person now at Northwestern, and his crew  looked at our studies of the opto molecules in   the skin. We couldn't prove anything biologically,  but he said, "Roger, this is a rare chance of we can   actually emulate something you think the animal  is doing, but we can put it into our technology." So down at the bottom right here, if you can see  my cursor, you see U of I, University of Illinois, that's where John was when he did this work, and  this is a piece of flexible, electronic material   that he plops down on a black rod. And on  that black rod underneath is printed U   O I, and this piece of flexible material sensed what  was underneath it and produced it up top in those   little squares, with no computer and no power  source attached to it. So this was a first, and   it was published in proceedings in the National  Academy of Sciences. So here we have a bio-inspired   idea really coming to a new capability. So  just to wind up the talk, these are exciting   times for biotechnology -- probably don't have  to tell this audience that. Nature has provided   a lot of frontiers that we really  haven't even touched very well yet.   This is one of them. The oceans are an untapped  gold mine still for biodiversity in many ways.  Sensory ecology is kind of what I do. I'm  interested in how animals operate in their   ecological context, limited by, constrained  by whatever their sensory apparatus happen to be.   We're never going to understand  ecology and conservation until we   realize what the world is like to the animals  involved. We tend to anthropomorphize way too much. Field work is a key inspiration  for me. I've got all my best ideas   when i'm immersed in the sensory world of  those animals. I do lab experiments only to,  let's say, corroborate the things that I've learned  underwater. And applying new technology is always   really important. One last little saying here  at the MBL, by Albert Szent-Gyorgyi, "Discovery is to   see what everyone has seen and think what nobody  has thought." It's a nice little fresh reminder   that is on a large sign in the building I work  in. So with that, I'll conclude with this   saying from Agassiz in the MBL library. It's been  there since 1888 or 1890. "Study nature, not books." Well, at least that's my excuse to go diving.  So thanks very much for your attention. Amanda Tramont: Hi everyone! My name is Amanda, and I am the liaison  for the Cape Cod Tufts Club. Thank you so much to   all of you who have joined us today. Roger,  thank you so much for your fascinating talk. So I'm going to be moderating the Q&A. I  originally had plans to go downstairs, but   it's lunch time for my toddler, so  upstairs I am, I hope nobody minds.   So let's go ahead and jump right into  it. Friendly reminder, if you guys do have any   questions that you'd like to ask during the  Q&A session, please feel free to do so using   the Q&A function at the bottom of your screen.  So our first question, Roger, is going to come   from one of our Cape Cod Tufts Club board members,  and I'm reading it off of my phone, he submitted   it in advance. "Are there any octopus in New  England waters, especially in Cape Cod waters?" Roger Hanlon: No, and why is that? And I still don't know because  I've been looking. There are octopuses up and down   the West Coast of North America and much of the  East Coast all the way up to about the New Jersey   area and the Carolinas, and then again way up,  you know, in the Arctic, but nothing along here, and no one can explain it. Sorry. That's why  I go elsewhere to do my diving and octopus.  Amanda Tramont: Okay, fantastic. All right, here's another one.   "Does the unique RNA editing you mentioned  apply to both coding and non-coding RNA?" Roger Hanlon: I'm not sure because I'm not an RNA  specialist, so I would refer that question   to Josh Rosenthal at the MBL. He's published  a lot of papers on this, so I'm not going to   try and wing it with a half-baked answer.  Amanda Tramont: Sure. And can you just define genome for us,  and how that relates to the information that  you were talking about in your presentation. Roger Hanlon: Well, the genome will give you a layout of every  gene that that organism possesses and gives you   detailed DNA information. The way we're going  to use it, the way we are using it right now,  is that I talked a little bit about the  reflecting proteins that produce the whiteness and   the iridescence, and that's what the Tufts folks  that we're working on. We've all been working with   three reflectant proteins, and all of those  reflectors and all the work we've done, and   the genome information now has informed us of how  much in the dark we've been because there are 18   reflectant proteins in the genome, and we've done  enough in-situ hybridization to find that there   are bits of different reflectance throughout  the skin, which we were totally unaware of. So this   is going to transform our study of iridescence and  whiteness and structural coloration because now   we know there are another 14 reflectant proteins  out there in different parts of the skin, and now   we've learned roughly where they are. So now it's  time to start sorting them out, and figuring out   how they work, and how you can make, you know,  some new bio optics toys with them later on. Amanda Tramont: Great, and so here is another one. I think, Roger,  you may have already answered this, but what   types of octopi do we have near cape cod, and,  just in general, what type of waters do these   animals, you know, tend to prefer?" Roger Hanlon: Well, the  octopuses are found all around the planet, even thousands of feet deep. There  are some deep sea octopuses, there are   many tropical coral reefs, kelp forest, sand plain,  tropical tempered octopuses all around the world.   They just don't happen to be here, which is a  total oddity. There are about 700 cephalopods that have been described. Among those about 200, 250  are octopuses. But everyone figures there are at   least another 100 octopuses yet undescribed, so   there are a lot of octopuses crawling around in   different habitats on the planet. So it's a very  successful group, and sometimes very plentiful. Amanda Tramont: How long in the history of Earth  have these critters been doing this?  Roger Hanlon: Well, the cephalopods, in their former form, were here in the Cambrian. They   literally dominated the oceans all the way  back as far as you can go. There were -- a lot of these things were big shelled, swimming  things, kind of like modern day Nautiluses. I think everyone knows what nautilus is,  but these were nautiluses that were six and   ten feet in diameter and weighed five tons.  They were like big swimming snails. So the   cephalopods have been around, you know, pretty much  forever in terms of organisms on the planet. It's the modern cephalopods, called the coleoid cephalopods, and they came on the scene... Oh, I   guess I should know this number, but I don't.  But they're relatively new in the geological   record, and so they're the new  ones on the scene. And what they did, like,   they gave -- they made that external shell of  vestigial organ, and they took on a big brain,   and big sensory systems, and this incredible skin,  and their locomotion. And so they've gone a totally   different route from the other mollusks and a  pretty much different route even from most of the   sort of, let's say, ancestral or original  cephalopods. So they are really morphing in   a very different way, evolving in a different,  really different direction in many ways. I mean   these are some of the weirdest animals around. I  fully admit it, but I actually like the weirdness.   Amanda Tramont: And I actually would like to ask my own question:   Can you tell us a little bit about how you became   involved in this world, and what have been  some of your favorite places to go diving?   Roger Hanlon: Well, I was a junior in college and went to visit  my brother, who was in the army at the time, in   Panama. And like all brothers, he wanted to get  rid of me one afternoon, so he took me over to   the coral reef, and gave me a mask and snorkel,  and said, "I'll come and get you in a few hours. Don't get   sunburned." So I just went out swimming around.  It's very shallow coral reef, it wasn't more than one   or two meters deep, about a meter deep. And I went  over this depression in the coral, just swimming   along, and something blew water on my belly. And  I just about came out of the water, it scared me.   And I circled around and just kind of looked down  in this depression with corals, and I didn't really   see anything unusual. Kept staring at it, and  finally saw this little movement that turned out to   be the funnel and the ventilation of the octopus.  And I went, "Wow, this one pound octopus scared the   daylights out of this 190 pound guy." And then it  came out slowly, moved a little bit, and disappeared   in front of my eyes. The camo was magnificent. It  was only, you know, this far away. I watched it for   a full 20 minutes, and I was hooked for life. I just  couldn't believe that an animal could do that. It   was just cool. So I went back, took an invertebrate  biology course, and did a study on octopus. And I've just been stuck on that idea of how they  do this camouflage ever since. So camouflage is   still one of my main areas of inquiry because  it's so complicated and so sophisticated   that i've had a lot of fun with it, and I'm  still having fun with it, so lucky for me! Amanda Tramont: All right, so what is the impact of  CRISPR of understanding about RNA editing? Roger Hanlon: Well, I think the CRISPR thing... I don't  relate it necessarily to RNA editing, but the   CRISPR is going to allow us -- in fact, we've already,   colleagues at the MBL have already done this,   this is Karen Crawford, and John Rosenfeld, Rosenthal, and Cary Alberton. And what they've   done is they've knocked out the initial enzyme  that gives you the pigment in the chromatophore.  And so they've done that at the two cell stage  in the embryo, and then they'll let the embryo grow, and go through the developmental stage, and  let it hatch out as a tiny squid, and then you   see this beautiful illustration of half the squid  has chromatophores, half the squid does not have   chromatophores. So you've knocked out specifically  the pigment sac that creates the pigment only. The chromatophore is not a single cell type, it's  six cell types. It's actually a complex organ, and   so the other five cells are all there. It's only  missing the pigment. So now that gives you a way to   study the dynamics of the chromatophore with the  nerves, and the muscles, and the sheath cells, and   all the rest. Without the pigment being present, you  can see more, and you can see the effect of it. So   there's an example of knocking out one gene that  gives you the startling effect and the appearance   of the animal. So the next thing to do would be to  do some knock-ins, or, you know, you can knock out, or   you can knock in. And CRISPR is a technique  that allows you to sort of play that game, and   then probe a little bit, and find out where things  are and where they aren't. So the next step we'll   do is we'll try to knock out one of the  reflecting genes that we know produces bright red   and blue iridescence and see what the effect is,  and what the remaining cell can do, and at least   find out where it's localized. It'll tell us a  lot about optics and the spectrometry so -- and the   protein chemistry that's all creating that light  interaction. So that's with the CRISPR technique,   and you know I mentioned in my talk, technology  innovations, like we're using hyperspectral imaging   now to look at color matching. That's really  high-tech cameras. CRISPR is a high-tech and   new technique that allows you to play around  with genes in a very specific way, so it's just   another tool in the arsenal to dig down and learn  something about how something actually functions. Amanda Tramont: Awesome. Here's another one. What studies have  been done on the octopus eyesight, and how does   that contribute to its adaptive ability? Any  optimal logical lessons learned from them? Roger Hanlon: Well, I don't know about the ophthalmological  lessons, but I will tell you that the eye has   been studied in reasonable detail. The octopus  and his relatives have very high visual acuity.   When you do a cross-section  and a light microscope of a   of an octopus eye and do it right next to  a human eye, they are so similar it's scary in their gross organization, but their  fine organization is tremendously different. The octopus eye only has one photoreceptor  cell type. In other words, they don't have   cones, and they don't have rods, like vertebrates  do. Without the cones, they can't see color because   they've only got one cell type, and they only  have one option tuned to about... What was it? About right around 400 nanometers. So the idea is  that they see the animal, they see the world in   a monochromatic way, but strangely enough they can  see polarized light because their photoreceptors   are orthogonally arranged, so they can pick up  the polarization aspect of light. Humans can't   do that. So what an octopus sees and what you  and I see is tremendously different. We both   have good visual acuity, but they don't see color,  and we do. We don't see polarization, and they do,   and what that looks like is baffling, but we have  to remember not to make too many analogies between   what we see in the background and what they see  because it's got to be different. They can handle   the information well. So I'm sorry I can't give  you a connection to ophthalmology because I can't   think of any at the moment, but I at least was  able to tell you a little bit about the eye.  Oh, by the way, they have superb night vision  too. You go at night, and it's just like   daylight. We've done experiments with cuttlefish  in nature and also in the lab down to .003 lux,   that's starlight. We are totally blind in starlight  only, and the cuttlefish, you put different bottoms   underneath, and they change patterns just like  it's high noon. So their night vision is   really superb, in addition to having a good  acuity and good polarization sensitivity. Amanda Tramont: Fascinating. So these questions are really rolling  in. So far we have 27 questions that people have   asked, so this is awesome, keep them coming.   So here's another one. Why is the genome of   the octopus so much larger than humans? Is it all  related to the RNA editing, or is it something else?   Roger Hanlon: Well, there's undoubtedly a lot of junk in there,  like there are in most genomes, but the answer   is no one really knows. Their hox genes  are organized in a very different way, I know that.   Carrie Albertan published that in  her nature paper a few years ago.   But I'm not a genome expert, I'm a genome  dummy. I can't really answer such a question. But I think the genome is so recent that the  questions are just being addressed. No one did   a a full genome until five, four years ago. And now we have the squid genome, and so I know   some of the folks in my lab, I've mentioned  their names already, they're studying this   every all day long. And so we're gonna  have to wait for the answer to that one.   Maybe that can be next year's Tufts Talk,  I'll be happy to volunteer a colleague.   But let's go fast if there are 27 questions!  Let's roll, I'll make shorter answers.   Amanda Tramont: So what is an example  of use for camouflage skin? Roger Hanlon: Well, you mean human? Well, human  applications are obvious. A hunter,   or a swat team member, or a soldier would love  to have better camouflage. I personally have a   lot of military background, and I would like  our groups to have better camouflage, but I   think that's one thing. The other is just learning  how skin works is another big deal, and how it's   controlled, and the nature of the camouflage  patterns is something, and how they use   their camouflage patterns is really more dynamic  than any animal on the planet, so we're adding to   camouflage theory in a big way, and we deal a lot with that. Next! Amanda Tramont: Do octopi form communities? Roger Hanlon: No, except one species might in Australia.   So octopuses are asocial, solitary animals. We  know that for dozens of species, but there is   one species that tends to aggregate where their  habitat is, they're mainly collections of shells from   fishermen dumping them in one place, and they seem  to tolerate each other, but that doesn't mean it's   sociality. That site is being studied in Australia,  but it would be the one off occasion. Basically   the answer is no. There might be an exception  or two. I hope there is, but we don't know yet. Amanda Tramont: All right, so here I'm going to consolidate  two questions that came in related to a   similar matter. How do you feel about eating  octopus, and what is the best octopus to eat?   Roger Hanlon: Yum. The octopuses are too good. I do eat them very  rarely. Part of the reason, I only eat them in certain   parts of the world where I know they're still  plentiful, and the fisheries are not in jeopardy.   And that's true in most places, so that's the  good news. Same with squid. Next time you have   calamari, you can think of this beautiful skin, but  it won't look very beautiful on your dinner plate, but it does taste good. So, no, I don't have  a problem eating these animals, at least the   ones that I know the fisheries are in good shape.  I do a lot of, I did a lot of fisheries research,   so I keep abreast of that. So I'm not overly  concerned about that personally. I know some people   are, some people will be offended by my answer,  but i'm just being truthful. Amanda Tramont: Here's another one. How are -- how is climate change and commercial  harvesting impacting their habitat prospects? Roger Hanlon: Well, commercial fishing is probably the  biggest problem, not climate change per se, but commercial fishing with bottom crawls really  alters the habitat. And for bottom dwelling   animals like cuttlefish, and octopus, and even  squid spawning grounds here on the Cape, that is a   big problem. So there is an effect of the  fisheries on habitat use of these animals,   so there's no question about that. Climate  change, the real change investigators are   concerned about is that we, you know,  you get the changes in carbon dioxide, and   acidity, and so forth. And we know that if the pH  of seawater continues to go down, the cephalopods   are quite sensitive to that because, in their  respiratory system, they don't have hemoglobin to   transport oxygen or molecules, they have hemocyanin,  which is very pH sensitive, unlike fishes which can   take lower pH, our animals cannot do that very  well. So there's a lot of experimentation   going on on that at the moment. That's the one  thing I think some folks are worried about. Amanda Tramont: So here's another one related to your background,  I know you already shared info on this, but   here's a second component to the question. What  were you studying before you got into this? Roger Hanlon: Well, I was in college, and I started out  studying hotel administration. Who knows why. I mean   I was more interested in sports in college than  academics, at least at the beginning, but then I   just got interested in biology. I've always been  an outdoor kid, and I just gravitated towards it   and started taking biology. So from my sophomore  to my senior years, I just took biology courses. But then I, you know, it was Vietnam Era, and I  was in the army, and then I traveled, and I went   back to graduate school more than three years  later, so I was not totally committed. I thought   I was going to be an underwater photographer as a  profession because I got into that and, after the   army, diving around the world, but then I sort  of glued them together, and the biology won. So   here I am. But I'm still doing my underwater  cinematography and videography, so I sort of   combined the two passions that arose -- love of  nature and being outside in the water and imaging. Amanda Tramont: What is the largest size of the octopus, and where  are they located? And similarly what's the smallest? Roger Hanlon: The largest one is the GPO, the Giant Pacific  Octopus, that's octopus defleini. It's in the area of Oregon, and Seattle, and the US, up through  Alaska, and over into Japan, so it's a North Pacific,   cold water species. A little controversy  about how big it gets, but they can get up   to 100 pounds pretty regularly. You can  see those in public aquariums, including   the New England Aquarium. The smallest octopus  is a tiny little pygmy octopus called octopus   joubini. It's, you know, I don't know, it's  about the size of one of my tip of my   fingers and a few small arms. So it's  a really tiny little dude for sure. Amanda Tramont: Here on Cape Cod in the spring, there is a one to  two week of fishing for these animals, I believe,   question mark. What is that all about? Is  it related to breeding? Also what is their   ink composed of and how unique is it? Roger Hanlon: The ink is melanin. It's one of the purest sources of melanin, and also it's delicious in food because the Mediterranean folks. Calamari en su tinta is calamari baked in the ink. In terms of the  squids, there is a squid fishery in the Northeast. It's a substantial fishery, about 30  million dollars a year, right here in Northern New   England, and you do see the boats out here getting  squids, especially in May, but also throughout the   summer. And the squids have come from offshore  in May, when the coastal waters get warm enough, and they come in large numbers all the  way up into the Vineyard Sound, Nantucket Sound, and they lay eggs. These are all mature squids,  they've overwintered in the deep canyons   off the coastline here, these canyons. They spend  their whole winter at about 900 to 1000 feet down   in these canyons, on the edge of the continental  shelf, and that water is about a stable 10 degrees.   Sounds cold to us. That's like heaven to a squid, that's the perfect temperature for a squid,   and they'll come up on the shelf to lay eggs, and  then they'll lay eggs. Those eggs will hatch out. And these squids, they only live 9 to 12  months, that's their whole life cycle, so they   grow very fast. So the squids you see here around  Cape Cod by September, and October, and November   are young of the year, and some of them are  pretty big, so they can really grow super fast. And now, as the water's just gotten cold, the squids  literally right now are mosying their way off of   the Cape because the local water temperatures  are coming down, and they're heading off to those   deep canyons. You know, humans go to Florida for  the winter, and squids go to the bottom of canyons. Amanda Tramont: Have you ever been entangled with an octopus? Roger Hanlon: A little bit. I've had one on my arm.   I've had another one crawl up my arm, and it's  hard to get it off. You got to dislodge the suckers because you have to worry about it, because  an octopus can bite you, and they do have   a venom, a neurotoxin. Most octopuses would just  give you a sore arm and a little bleedy bite.   The blu-rayed octopus, which occurs in Indonesia  and Australia, which is a little sucker with   iridescent blue rings, and it's bite will kill a  human and has killed some humans. It's almost   impossible to get them to bite you. The humans that  have been killed have done ridiculous things,   like a drunken soldier, that was the case  that everyone knows about, kept taking this   octopus and actually stuck it under his armpit,  showing off to a crowd of kids I guess, and the   thing finally bit him after five minutes, and it  killed him. So the neurotoxin for one species is   really, really, will paralyze the whole human  nervous system. But most octopuses are not   that dangerous, and I've, you know, kind of mingled  with them a little bit. I almost got grabbed by a   Humboldt squid once, which was almost as big as  me, in Baja California. That did scare me plenty   It only came up temporarily and jetted away,  so that's an animal I'm definitely afraid of. Amanda Tramont: Where's your favorite place to go diving?  Roger Hanlon: I've got about seven favorites. They're   all over the globe. The Plow islands and  Western Micronesia are right up there. I've just completed two studies in the last three  years in parts of Indonesia, especially Eastern   Indonesia, the Raja Ampat area, which is a couple  thousand square kilometers of pristine coral reef   and uninhabited islands. These are places that  have not been influenced by human dredging and   activities. The corals are in good shape. Another  favorite dive spot, I have several in the Caribbean   where I can -- I go where I can find my animals,  that's basically where my favorite sites are. Coral reefs, kelp forests off California and off  New Zealand, kelp forest off Northwest Spain, which is cold water diving too. So some of  the places, I'm really going where I can find   either the cuttlefish, or the octopus, or the squid  that I'm funded to study. I go to where they are.   And most of these places are not very  convenient. Some of them are beautiful, and   I like those, and most of my diving sites are  cold water sites, so I'm usually in a dry suit. I guess I'm not smart enough to do more coral  reef work, although I do some of that as well. Amanda Tramont: What are your thoughts on the  documentary My Octopus Teacher? Roger Hanlon: I thought it was excellent insofar as it really  brought attention to the beautiful ocean, how   sophisticated an octopus can be, how beautiful  it can be, and I thought it was a neat story. The story was about a human and sentimentality,  that part of it was all really attractive and good.   The interpretations of the gentleman about  the octopus behaviors... A lot of problems there.   They just weren't science based, and so  I've been asked to comment on that one. I   like the film a lot, and I really admire that  guy's diving abilities, and he did something   that I do a lot of, and my colleagues, which is  go down, and spend a lot of time there, and let   one animal habituate to your presence. That's how  we do all of our field studies, so what he's doing   is nothing new. It's just that I've never  known anyone to do it by holding their breath,   which is a little counterproductive  for science because you wouldn't be able   to spend enough time to get anything, but I do it with scuba and other toys. But   admirable. I think it's going to bring a lot  of attention to the ocean, how beautiful it is,   and how cool these animals are. The one  story you shouldn't believe though is the octopus   tactically figuring out that if it leaked on the  back of the shark it wouldn't get it eaten. Sorry,   that one was fabricated, but the rest of them were  pretty darn good. I really like the film though. Amanda Tramont: Light only penetrates a couple  of hundred meters. Do any deep   ocean animals below this depth  also have these amazing features? Roger Hanlon: Yes, but in a different manner. So below where light  goes, you have bioluminescence dominates those   parts of the oceans where animals communicate  visually. And there are many cephalopods,   squids in particular, also some deep sea octopods  that have all kinds of amazing arrangements of   photophores that create bioluminescence.  And some of those are used for camouflage,   but it's not been well documented. I showed you  a uniform, mottle, and disruptive pattern, which   are three pattern types, you know,  in light that cuttlefish and octopuses use,   and I see something fairly equivalent to the  patterns of the photophores on some deep sea   squids, but it's hard to study those. But they are  definitely using the photophores and communicating   either what they are for sexual attraction or  what they may not be, sort of a masquerade,   we call it, or mimicry of something else,  and so there's a lot of stuff going on   with light, but it's really weird because  it's bioluminescence created out of the skin. Amanda Tramont: Could you list a few of the more  interesting implications for humans in the future? Roger Hanlon: For cephalopods? Well, I think that, you know, just  looking at what some of my colleagues are doing...   One of the implications we already talked about  was, you know, devising better camouflage, but I   think optical devices in particular are where most of  the applications will come from, especially making   fabrics that change color and pattern based on how  these animals arrange their pigments reflectors   and how they control them. I think that's probably  the biggest outlet, but those reflectant proteins   that I keep referring to, that create the  structural coloration in the iridescence.  There are some folks who have taken those, and  they've made electrical devices. You can   get, because they're kind of a protein  pump, the way the the protein is set up, it's really a proton pump from the protein. You  can actually generate some electrical activity, and some of those have actually been published.  So you just never know what people are going to   come up with when they find something. The folks at  Tufts took the reflectant protein and embedded the   protein into silk fibers, and they made optical  devices through silk that could change color   on the basis of the cephalopod protein. Now  that is some far out thinking right there.   So, you know, it's human ingenuity. Once you give  them something that does something with light, people are going to figure out how to play with  it. So I think those are some of the, you know,   I think those are the main avenues  that I've seen people working on.   Amanda Tramont: So we are just coming right up on the one  o'clock hour. Dr. Hanlon, if it's okay with   you, can we ask the last few questions that have come in? Roger Hanlon: I'm not in a hurry. I'm fine.   Amanda Tramont: Great, okay. Is the octopus endangered, and what is their most serious enemy? Roger Hanlon: They're not endangered. The   biggest octopus fishery in the world  is off the Sahara Bank of West Africa. It's a big   continental shelf where they're trolled, and it's a  big history where they get octopus and cuttlefish.   The numbers are down, but they're not anything on  the red list. So there may be one other fishery,   squid fishery, that seems to have some of  the numbers going down, but thank goodness,   with their short life cycle and their very high fecundity, the squids in particular reproduce in   large numbers, very quickly, and I think this -- their mobility is amazing! I mean it's just   pretty hard to catch squids and certain types  of squids with traditional nets and so forth.   Octopus fisheries, in particular most of the  octopus fisheries, are very small fisheries.   There are artisanal fisheries where  communities go out, and go down, and grab   them by hand or in pots, and those are small  fisheries that only feed small communities, and   they're managed well enough, and the octopuses are...  They're available enough to reoccupy.  The octopuses have a, most of them have a larval  stage coming out of the egg, so they disperse a lot, and so that means that they disperse a lot,  and there are a lot of animals that are settling   in different places. So remove some octopuses,  others settle, and there seems to be -- I wouldn't   say an equilibrium, but there's no area that I know  of where they're really being fished out. The one   cephalopod that is definitely being fished out  is natilus in areas of the Philippines. Nautilus   is a deep water animal, they put traps down there,  and the some of the nautilus are on the red list.   Don't anyone go out and buy any nautilus shells  cut in half to decorate your home, that is the   reason that the fishermen go after them and sell  them around the world, and they're finally on the   red list because they've been fished  with impunity, and so that's the only   one of the cephalopods that is really in some  trouble in most of that area of Philippines. Amanda Tramont: What has been the cosmetics  industry response to your research? Roger Hanlon: A lot of interest, but no action yet. A lot of  discussions, and so they say, "Yeah, would that   make sense? We could talk about that." But i think  their RND sections have not yet been ready   to go in that direction. We were getting close  for a while, but I haven't had any discussions with   them recently, so you know some very influential  people in that community have talked to me.   They realize that there's good enough science  behind it to do something with it, but they're not   funding agencies. Yes, they do fund some  research, but it's a little different. So nothing   too much has happened in that area yet, but I think  it could come around in the next decade. We'll see.   Amanda Tramont: Are octopus creatures more concerned with their  own safety slash needs and staying out of sight? Roger Hanlon: Yeah, but what animal isn't? I'm  not so sure about that question.   Yes, I mean an octopus is a solitary animal. I mean  a day in the life of an octopus is pretty tough.   I mean they're hiding in a hole most of the  time because they are so vulnerable. I mean I  sometimes describe an octopus and define it  as a yummy hunk of protein swimming in the   ocean that everything's trying to eat. They're  right in the middle of the food chain, and every   toothy predator out there, and diving marine mammal,  and diving birds are trying to get octopuses.   So they have to be really careful when they're  out, which is one reason they have such great   camouflage. And so finding food is a big  deal, so they're going out, and they're   parachuting over rocks and getting everything  underneath. They're getting the occasional crab,   and they rarely eat fish. So an octopus life is  really tough. They're hiding most of the time, they're daring to go out to the grocery store and  not get killed. I mean it's equivalent to that, and   that's it. So they don't have much time for  play. These are smart animals in so far as they   have short long term memory, their spatial memory  is probably among the best in the animal kingdom.   They'll go all around a coral reef for two hours  and go 80 or 100 meters in the most complicated 3D   environments on the planet, and they'll find their  way back to a little hole in the ground, and we   divers are always confused and lost. We follow  the animal, and it pops down in a hole, and we   realize that was the same hole we started at two  hours ago. We've actually published that and shown   how complicated it is. So that takes a lot of  brain power. So they're really good at   some things, and then other things, you know, they  don't do because it's not part of their lifestyle.   Amanda Tramont: Could you describe the importance of kelp  and the current condition of kelp forests? Roger Hanlon: Yeah, I'm not thoroughly knowledgeable  about it, but the kelp forests come and go with   environmental changes. Right now the kelp in  California really went through a really bad   period, and New Zealand went through that  for a while too. Back in the 1970s, there were   big problems with kelp forest because the  sea urchins were eating the base of the kelp, and   the kelp were then floating away and dying. And  so these cycles come along where one animal,   in that case the sea urchins, were implementing  it. Other times temperature can have a big effect.   You know, kelp beds in California during  el Nino versus la Nina are very different,   they're temperature sensitive in terms  of how abundant they are and how fast they grow. But I don't keep abreast of all that literature, so  I can't say much more than that, except the kelp   situation in California in the last year is really  different, and so maybe someone can follow that up   on the web with the California situation. Amanda Tramont: What is the difference between a cuttlefish and a squid? Roger Hanlon: It's a big difference. So the cuttlefish and the  squid, unlike the octopus, they have ten appendages.   They have eight arms, but they have two tentacles,  which are hidden all the time, and they only use   them to flash out at high speed to grab a prey  organism. A squid is a pelagic animal. It's always   swimming out in the water column. A cuttlefish  is not out there swimming in the water column.   They're down near the bottom there, they're  on the bottom or swimming close to the bottom, so their habitats are very different. A squid  is negatively buoyant. Day and night, it has to pump   to stay up, so it's expending energy like mad. The  cuttlefish doesn't do that at all. A cuttlefish has   a cuddle bone, and it can pump gas into the bone or  out of the bone. It's not a true bone, it's called a   cuttle bone, but it's calcium carbonate, and it pumps  gas in or out to give it neutral buoyancy all the   time no matter whether it's deep or shallow. That's  really cool. So that's a major difference between   a cuttlefish and a squid. Amanda Tramont: All right, two  more, here we go. The near instantanity of these color changes is amazing. Any idea how  this omunification across the cells occur? Roger Hanlon: Yes, we have a good idea because we've done a lot of work with our colleagues. The individual chromatophore  organs in the skin of a squid,   if you look at the neurons that are connected to  that chromatophore, and you follow them backwards,   you stain them with, you know, different things  that stay neurons -- hydrogen peroxide is one of   these -- you can follow that neuron all the way  back, and we and others have done that study.   And the cell body of those neurons is all the  way back in the brain, which means that you've   got the fastest system possible in a biological  system. The cell body is in the brain and sends   the signal out to one neuron, all the way to the  end organ chromatophore to turn it on. It's like a   light switch in your house. You can't make anything  faster in biology. Other animals change color by   putting a hormone in the blood system, the blood  system has to distribute it to the blood system,   and all of that takes time. It takes minutes, days,  hours. If you want something to go fast, you get   direct control or direct connection by the nerves.  There's not even a nerve to nerve junction with   the synapse in between. They don't even have that  in cephalopods. It's just one long nerve that sends   the signal down as fast as you can possibly get  it there. That's the system. It's really unusual. Amanda Tramont: That's really interesting. All  right, so here's our last question.   Why do you think octopuses have multiple hearts?  Unsure of what their circulatory systems are like, but must take a lot of blood slash nutrients  to support all their neurons and many legs.   Roger Hanlon: Yes, well, the anatomy of these animals is  unusual. They have a central heart, like   many animals do, like us, but they have at the  base of each gill, they have two big gills,   and at the base of each gill they have another  heart, and that heart pumps the water through the   gills. So there are kind of two things going on. One  is the central heart isn't big enough to push   blood through the total vascular system, and second  of all, it seems as though each gill has enough   back pressure that it requires an extra pump right  there to push the blood through those gills and   then to push it out into the arteries throughout  the body. So this is one of the oddities of these   animals. I mean if you play trivial pursuits one of  the questions is how many hearts does an octopus   have, so the answer is three. You can get that one  right. But it's a quite an inefficient   system, but it's an oddity more than  anything else. It worked great for the cephalopods.   Why other animals don't have sensory hearts at  the base of their gills, I don't know the answer   to that, but i'm sure it has to do with the physics  and the resistance in the vascular system.   Amanda Tramont: Awesome. Well, so that concludes our live audience Q&A session. Dr. Hanlon, thank you so much, and to all of   you who submitted questions, thank you to all of  you. I have to say in in all my time of doing   this, which has been now nearly eight months, this  has to be one of the most engaged audiences that   we've had, so kudos to all of you. This has been  really, really enlightening, and thank you all   for tuning in. And without further  ado, I'm going to pass this back to Mike Duffy. Mike Duffy: Okay, can you hear me? Amanda? Can  everybody else? Okay. I don't see myself.   Thank you, Dr. Hanlon, for that captivating  presentation, and to our attendees, we appreciate   your participation and your thoughtful questions.  You will receive an email next week with a link to   a brief two-minute survey which we hope you will  complete and, as I mentioned earlier, this event has   helped us raise 760 dollars for the Cape Cod Tufts  Club's scholarship fund. If you are so inclined, we   hope you will consider making a gift to this fund.  Amanda will post that link now, so you can do so   online. Finally, I would like to invite you all to  join us again on Wednesday, December 16th at 7 pm   for our virtual holiday concert, so save the date. An email for registration will be sent to you soon.   Have a wonderful rest of the day, and  please stay safe and be well. Thank you. 