 (upbeat music) (gentle music) - Every batch we make is personalized. It is made for a specific person using their own cells and genetic information. Cell and gene therapies aim to be onetime treatments. This is often a huge improvement over conventional medicines, and I am proud to be part of this progress. I'm Paula Alvarez, and I'm a scientist in cell and gene manufacturing here at Novartis. I'm responsible for the planning and quality control. Our process begins with thawing the patient's cells, after they are shipped to us from the hospital. We characterize a blood sample, which serves as critical information for my colleagues who are tasked with reprogramming the patient's cells, to become cancer-fighting cells. We check for impurities, cell count and several other viables during this stage. We inspect samples of the finished product, to ensure it meets all the safety standards, through a meticulous series of tests, before going back to the patient. What gives me energy in life, is engaging with the world through music. Spending time with the people I love, my friends and family, and the idea that what I do every day, really matters to someone else. I also enjoy cooking and caring for people. When I host my friends and family for dinner, I don't want them to worry about anything. I take time to prepare the meal and set the table, so that we can fully enjoy each other's company and time together. Being organized and detailed-oriented, is essential for working in quality control. Every step must be recorded in a way, that anyone on the team, can understand exactly what we did at any time, even years later. There are many associates working in quality control, in order to get therapies to patients as quickly and as safely as possible. We work in shifts so that the site stays open for 365 days a year. I learned many of my skills that applied to my work today, during my pharmacy studies. Balancing creativity, great attention to detail, and teamwork, in order to make a larger picture come to life. (gentle music) 