 Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak here today. It's a real pleasure to put together a talk on this subject. Two of the things that have occupied my attention the past couple of months, figuring out how to target the SARS-CoV-2 virus and the enzymes, its genome encodes, and then how we think about peer review and the role of peer review and dissemination of our results. I'd like to start just on a personal note of what we were up to in March. My lab was really deep in studying problems like antibiotic resistance and evolution, with my colleague, Ian Seiple. Here, we just published this really great paper where we made all kinds of new molecules and studied them in the context of bacterial ribosomes using cryo-electron microscopy. Then we were doing more basic things too, like studying how molecules like proteins respond to temperature and how they fluctuate between different confirmations. So on both of these videos, I'm showing you models of molecules inside of molecular envelopes that are the density maps that we build these models into, that are the results of x-ray crystallography or cryo-electron microscopy. I spend my days as a structural biologist trying to determine these structures. I also spend some of my time advocating for accelerating scientific publication, as part of an organization that was founded at UCSF by Ron Vale, called ASAPbio, which really has a mission of advocacy around transforming the publishing landscape for science. This is how I spent the next couple of months. We have two young kids, and my wife, who is also a scientist, and I spent most of the next several months just basically trying to keep things intact on the home front. Right before I went into this mode, I was called together with a group of colleagues, and this is actually the last time I saw most of my friends and colleagues in person This picture was taken right at the end of February. Really spearheaded by my friend Nevan Krogan, who's also Canadian, right here, who I think is wearing the second ugliest shirt in this picture. Nevan called this group together and said, ''Hey, something is coming''. We all knew it was coming at the time, and he said, ''I think we have a chance, if we work together, to do something that can help advance the science of coronavirus biology and really help to understand how this virus is hijacking our bodies, our immune systems''. That initial group of colleagues then grew to an even larger group as shown here. Really, that QBI group that Nevan put together of UCSF faculty, as I believe you've probably heard in this course previously, really was tasked with this question: How does a virus with only 14 genes take over a human cell? The central technology that Nevan and his group used to enter that question was a really simple biochemical technique, where they expressed each of the proteins that the SARS genome encodes with a special handle, an affinity tag, that then made it really easy to pull out that protein and all the human proteins it would interact with in a cell. We'd pull them out together and then run them on a machine called a mass spec that would identify the other proteins that were in that mixture. This was really successful for most of the viral proteins and resulted in a map of all these viral proteins, which are shown in red here, all these viral proteins, and then the edges surrounding them are all the human proteins that were enriched in this mass spectrometry analysis. One of the early insights into the biology of this virus from the study was that, it's got a very small number of proteins encoded by the virus, but it's interacting with a whole bunch of human proteins in order to hijack our cells. We did a whole bunch of controls and I'll just show you one of the ones that I was most involved in here. Even though these experiments were done in a cell line that was derived from a kidney, the proteins that the virus was hijacking were very enriched in proteins that were highly expressed in the lung. This made a lot of sense with what we know about SARS biology and how it would be entering the body through the lung tissue and hijacking those cells as a first line of defense. What was really cool is that after we had this map, a bunch of colleagues led by Kevan Shokat and Brian Shoichet started overlaying what we knew about the pharmacology of these interacting proteins and identified many drugs and chemical tool compounds that could provide additional insight into how SARS-CoV-2 was hijacking host biology. While this was going on, we were making the results public and the plasmids, the DNA that encodes all these proteins, was being shared all around the world to over 300 labs in 38 different countries. This work started getting a lot of attention because we weren't being quiet about what we were doing. We wanted to share the results, we wanted to get insight from other scientists, we wanted to see whether there was other data that we could overlay with it, and even before the data were finalized, it already started being covered in the popular press. Here, an article from the New York Times by Carl Zimmer, published March 17, started talking about how this map was identifying different small molecules and those small molecules were being sent to labs in Paris and in New York for testing in cell lines that were able to be infected by SARS-CoV-2 because they were some of the only labs in the world that had that capability at the time. Then here's another article, when the map was really finalized. You can see the number of drugs grew from 50-69 in five days as this map was being finalized. In the background of this, we've got press coverage in the New York Times, we've got us talking about it to our peers, to our friends before we've even published a preprint. On March 22nd, we uploaded, at 8:00 PM, a version of the article to a server called bioRxiv that contained our initial results. This article undergoes the scrutiny of, is this science or not? Does this seem like there's anything that would lead to it not being science? If it passes that bar, it gets to basically go online. Then it began the normal peer review process, which I note here, the nature of the journal that published it received it the next day after we posted the preprint. It was reviewed very rapidly, accepted on April 22nd, and then published online a week later, and then ultimately, published in a print form in July. That gives you some insight into the kinetics of this peer review process. We had popular press coverage proceeding this disclosure of the manuscript and then the peer review process. A few things maybe changed during that, but by and large, the manuscript and the underlying findings didn't change in this case. Some of you may be asking, what is this preprint? What is bioRxiv? I'm going to play a video now. It's a couple of minutes long that describes what a preprint is and what I think the transformational effect it's having on the communication of science. A scientist's job is to obtain knowledge about the natural world. Sharing that knowledge is critical for scientific progress as new information produced by one scientist can be used by others to make new discoveries and further benefit society. In 1665, the Royal Society of London created the first scientific journal called Philosophical Transactions to facilitate the transmission of new scientific primings. This publishing model established the concept of peer review to ensure scientific quality and the defined date of publication to establish priority of discovery. These principles have laid the foundation for the nearly 30,000 scientific journals that exists today. Let's see how the process works. First, scientists write a manuscript and send it to a journal for consideration. If the editors are interested, it is sent out to a group of anonymous scientists for their opinion of the quality of the work. The journal receives commentaries from the reviewers and decides whether to accept or reject the manuscript or commonly requests revisions that require more experiments, re-submission, and re-review before the journal makes a final decision. This process works, but it takes time. It's not uncommon for studies to be published one year after initial submission. In addition, excellent work can be rejected on the basis of its perceived importance. Are there better ways biologists can share information? Biology may learn a thing or two from the physicists. In 1991, Paul Ginsparg revolutionize communication among physicists by producing a preprint server called arXiv that allows for rapid communication among scientists. arXiv now posts more than 100,000 papers each year. Preprint servers in the life sciences exist, but they are not yet widely used. A preprint server is simple. A scientist uploads manuscripts to a server. The paper is screened to ensure its scientific nature. Within a few days, the manuscript is posted online and becomes visible to the entire scientific community before peer review. Subsequently, the manuscript is usually submitted to a traditional journal for peer review and publication. Most, but not all journals, will accept work previously posted on a preprint server. The immediate access of the preprint has many advantages. Preprint servers give the author's feedback from a larger group of people than the anonymous peer reviewers. Preprints can be an announcement of a discovery which helps scientists establish priority of their work. With preprints, authors can share work in progress or recent accomplishments with funding agencies, promotion committees, or future employers. Preprints are open access. Anyone in the world with an Internet connection can view the manuscript for free. Preprints accelerate scientific progress by speeding up access to new findings. The Internet is continuing to redefine how people access information and create social networks. Using the Internet, physicist Paul Ginsparg tried at the first truly new experiments in scientific communication since the creation of the Philosophical Transactions 350 years ago. As our lives go digital, many new ideas and experiments in scientific communication will facilitate access to data, changing how scientific work is evaluated and discussed, and pushing scientific innovation at an ever accelerating rates. Let's see what the next 10 years will bring. This video was produced by Youreka Science, and is brought to you by ASAPbio. Great. If there was ever a time where we needed science to be accelerated, it's right now. I was really happy that we posted a preprint of this, that we were sharing the materials really openly and transparently. A lot of people have been building on this work already. It's already acquired almost 1,000 citations, as I mentioned, more than 300 labs have requested the plasmids by the time we even submitted the paper. That number is now almost an order of magnitude higher. The coverage continued as the paper got accepted with the message largely staying the same. I think we were appropriately cautious in describing the potential impact of some of the small molecules that we implicated there. I think there was less caution by others in our country about the benefits of other potential small molecules. It's really raised a lot of questions about what peer review's job is, whether peer review is supposed to find major flaws or whether peer review truly authenticates its work. One of my heroes of the pandemic, Dr. Fauci, said you can peer review something that's a bad study. Something can pass peer review and still be flawed. That's a really important lesson that we try and impart on our graduate students very early on in their education at UCSF. But even scientists are concerned about the impact of preprints and early disclosure of data, especially during this pandemic. One of the big concerns amongst a survey that we did of scientists is that premature media coverage of preprints. We saw that, maybe even more so, this past week with the media coverage of the results from the DeepMind Google protein folding team, AlphaFold, and their results in the CASP competition. That's not even media coverage of a preprint, that's media coverage of a single presentation. There's this interesting relationship right now between preprints, peer review, and popular press coverage. To be honest, I don't know what the right solution is to that landscape. Another example, if ours is the positive side of press coverage. There was also a study done by our colleagues in the South, as Jeff would put it, at Stanford, on the seroprevalence, basically, an estimate of how many people in Santa Clara County had been infected by SARS-CoV-2. This was picked up really by the right-wing media as evidence that SARS-CoV-2 was not that deadly. Then used, to be honest, to shape policy and has led to really disastrous outcomes. That was based on a preprint. Very rapidly, there were comments on that preprint peer review that was going on transparently in real-time that noted some of the flaws. We really need to think about how to identify flawed research before it becomes dangerous. There is a proposal by a good friend of mine, Mike Eisen, and a colleague, Robert Tibshirani, that maybe for certain articles with extra public importance, there might be a service for rapid review and authentication of the main punchlines. But I think that there is going to be a real problem here with misinformation, and I don't think it's caused by preprints. I think these things will occur in journals as well. But as information proceeds very rapidly, as we've seen during this pandemic, it's going to be interesting to see how the press, the journal infrastructure, and scientists operate in the future. All right. Back to the science that we were doing. After we had this wonderful map of the viral proteins and the human proteins they interacted with, we got more investigators and trainees together to start to approach it from the perspective of structural biology. That's what we're really interested in. What do these proteins look like and how do they fit together? A team of many labs, including mine, I'm in this picture down here, and many other colleagues, got together along with many trainees, many more screens of Zoom after this, and we set up a consortium led by Klim Verba, who's a fellow, and Oren Rosenberg, who's a clinician scientist, and both structural biologists, to study the viral and host proteins in several different ways. I'm going to go through quick vignettes of all of these different ways and how we think they might eventually teach us how to stop SARS. I'm going to tell you about three ways we think about interrupting the biology of SARS, some of which I think you've heard of in this course before. Those are entry, how the virus gets into cells, protein processing, once the virus starts making its own proteins, how they get processed, and then signaling, once those proteins are released, they start signaling and interrupting host pathways to allow the virus time to form again, to spread to other cells. I'm going to focus in on each of these three steps and ways that we think we can use the power of structural biology and chemical biology to learn how to interrupt them. The first is entry. SARS has these spike proteins on its surface, and they bind to a receptor on human cells called ACE2. There is a really simple idea. This is in fact how many of the promising antibodies, such as the Regeneron antibody cocktail that President Trump took, work. They block the spike protein and keep it from binding the ACE2 receptor. So we were really interested in visualizing how different antibodies and other proteins bound to the spike protein, and we used a technique called cryo-electron microscopy to do that. In cryo-electron microscopy, we purify the protein, and we pipette a tiny amount of it onto one of these copper grids that looks like this. The protein flows into very tiny holes inside those grids, so those grids then are coated with carbon, they have very small holes there, and then we wick away most of the mixture so that just a small amount of liquid is trapped in one of those holes. It looks like this, where the proteins are then trapped in that thin layer of liquid, and then we plunge that entire grid into liquid ethane or liquid nitrogen at very cold temperatures, and it freezes very rapidly, and then we can fire an electron beam through that frozen sheet of protein and water to get images like what's shown here on the right, which are called electron micrographs. Then we use computational techniques to stitch together those images to give rise to structural models, like what's shown here, and that's just what my friend and colleague, Aashish Manglik, did within this consortium was he figured out ways to create little miniature nanobodies. These are antibodies derived from camel species and then engineered in yeast so that they would bind to this spike protein. He engineered many of these variants, and they turned out to be super potent inhibitors of the SARS spike protein. UCSF was really excited about the potential of this, and to continue with the theme of disclosure, UCSF released this wonderful write-up on the work, on August 11th, that highlighted the fact that the consortium and Aashish and Peter Walter had posted this as a preprint on bioRxiv, and so that was August 11th, and then here, you can see the eventual journal publications. Then over the next couple of months, received for publication, peer review, and now we're talking a delay from August to October. Still a very rapid peer review and publication process, but now, we've moved from the one month in the beginning of the pandemic to three months here. That's a biologic, that's a protein therapeutic. But what we were disappointed by collectively as scientists is that we had no effective small molecule therapies to stop the spread of SARS-CoV-2 at the beginning of this outbreak. Small molecules that have many advantages over biologics. In particular, if you can give people a pill, they can usually take that at home, whereas biologics usually have to be infused in a hospital. I mentioned there are some other places to stop SARS. Well, one of the places where a small molecule might make a big impact is in this protein processing step. After the virus has gotten into the cell and started making its own proteins, one of the proteins that it makes is a protease that chews up some of the SARS proteins into smaller proteins, and they need to be chewed up in order to be functional. This main protease here, the so-called 3CL-protease of SARS-CoV-2, is a really interesting therapeutic target because if you could stop it from processing those other proteins, you basically stop it from being able to replicate. There are many protease inhibitors for other viruses and other human proteases that have decent activity against SARS-CoV-2, this is one of them here. Many people are really interested in either re-purposing small molecules against this protease or discovering new ones. One effort that we thought was particularly inspirational was from a group at Oxford in the UK that attacked the main protease to try to design a completely new drug. They use a technique that I'm going to tell you more about called fragment screening, where you combine a whole bunch of small molecules together, and they're also using other techniques of chemical biology and computational techniques to try to design new inhibitors against this protease that would hopefully have better properties than some of the re-purposed compounds that are currently being investigated for inhibiting the protease. What is a fragment and why did they bother starting from scratch? If we take a small molecule like this one here, that's about the size of a normal FDA approved drug, you can see that it's actually made up of several different components that are stitched together chemically, and they're highlighted in different colors here. These different building blocks, if we were to imagine cutting them apart, those are fragments, those are the heterocycles, the chemical building blocks that are stitched together to make a drug. A drug is made of fragments. Why is that important? Well, if we think about the normal size of a drug, the number of compounds that have that size that just contain carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur is huge. There's a gigantic number of compounds. It's 10 to the 63, which, to give you some perspective, we have thousands of approved drugs. The number of drugs that have been investigated ever by humans and in the literature is a couple order of magnitudes bigger than that. Molecules that we think we can make is 10 to the 10, so in the billions. Then the number of possible molecules that, again, just contain reasonable chemical structures with just those four elements is in the order of 10 to the 60. So that's more than the number of stars in the universe or atoms in the solar system. We're searching in drug discovery for needles in this just enormous haystack. It's not just like this, it's really more like searching for an atom in the solar system for that one drug. So how do we think about finding that rare needle? Well, normally, we could do something like screen a library of molecules that are about drug-like size, but we're only able to do maybe a million compounds in that way. We can assay that by using robotics and, hopefully, we get some hit that turns into some kind of candidate. But we have this huge disconnect because that chemical space, we've accessed about a million, and there's actually 10 to the 60 molecules of that size. The probability that we're going to find the molecule with the right properties is very small, and that's one of the main reasons why a drug discovery is so hard. But if we now shrink it down to 15 or 10 heavy atoms, there are fewer molecules that we can enumerate of that size, and we can screen a reasonable proportion of chemical space in that way. At least that's the theory. So rather than us trying to find something that fits the entire binding site, as I've schematized here, we'll try different compounds as shown by different shapes and hope that some of them will bind weakly, and that we can separate those that bind weakly from those that don't bind at all, and then we can take that information about where they bind on the protein and start to link them together to form a more potent molecule. So what's one way to identify where they're binding? Well, I already told you about cryo-electron microscopy. Another way to do it is protein crystallography, where we coax the protein by dehydrating it in different solutions to form beautiful crystals like this that are about 100 microns, about a tenth of a millimeter in size. Then we take it up to a particle accelerator, called a synchrotron. This is our beam line at the advanced light source in Berkeley, and then shine x-rays at it and rotate the crystal. As we rotate the crystal, we get this beautiful pattern, that's called a diffraction pattern, that then we can mathematically convert into an image of what the protein looks like. Once we've done that, we've determined a structure. When we want to soak fragments in, we'll do that over and over again, we'll do it 96 times in a tray that looks like this. In each of those wells, there'll be, hopefully, a single crystal, and then we'll take that tray, flip it upside down, and use a robot that uses sound waves to dispense small molecules into each of those wells, and then we'll use robotics up at the beamline to collect all of the data for all of these crystals, so that we can visualize if or how those hundreds or thousands of molecules bind to the protein. They did this at Diamond in the UK on the protease very rapidly. They got started in February and they basically disclosed all of their data over the course of March and April. They did it all completely openly to try to catalyze the international community to help them think about how to design better protease inhibitors for SARS-CoV-2. Again, data was released in March, popular press coverage, or at least science popular press coverage, in early March. They didn't post a preprint until June, and then the paper ultimately was published in October. Where are they now? They've kept building during the time that this paper was in review. They now have merged a couple of the fragments together, and they have something that's active in cells with an IC50, an inhibitory constant around one micromolar. That's about three micromolar. That's about as good as Remdesivir, which is so, so small molecule. They still have a ways to go and they're updating their work live on this website here where they're calling it the COVID Moonshot, and then had posted a preprint describing their iterative effort to improve these molecules. The last vignette I want to talk about today is how we can stop SARS from messing up host signaling. After the proteins have been made, as the virus is trying to package it's genome up in new virions, it's doing all kinds of things to shut down the host immune system, and one of the proteins that it's using is our hero, or our antagonist, I guess, here, the macro domain, which one of the only things we know about it is it binds this chemical here, which is called ADP ribose, in its active site right there. In a very simplified version of SARS immunology, the virus enters the cell and the immune system starts to recognize that the virus is there, and starts signaling, and the way it accomplishes a lot of that signaling is by adding on different modifications onto different proteins, which are shown here. One of those types of modifications is this ADP ribose or ADRP signal. What the SARS macro domain does is it expresses this protein that starts to take those signals away. Some of the inflammatory signals, or immune signals, are suppressed and some of them go way up when this happens. It's thought that this leads to some of the out-of-control immune signaling where you basically aren't controlling the virus but you're getting this crazy inflammatory signal is because of the mischievous action of this macro domain in messing up this type of signaling. Some evidence from that is that when you take a mutation in this gene in the SARS-1 virus, just that alone is sufficient to dramatically reduce virulence in some mouse models of infection. The only thing that we know that really binds there is this chemical, this post-translational modification, this signal that's attached to other proteins. That's the only thing we know really about the chemistry there. We had no good starting points for inhibitors. But fortunately, this type of signaling is super important in another context. It's super important in breast and ovarian cancer because it's also a signal that the body uses when there are breaks and damage to DNA. One of the enzymes that puts on these signals is called PARP and there are PARP inhibitors now that are very important in certain BRCA mutant cancer treatments, and this is the first approved PARP inhibitor, but there are now several. One of the world's experts in PARP biology and PARP inhibitors is the Cancer Center Director, Alan Ashworth, at UCSF. When we realized the signaling the virus was doing was related to the signaling that Alan was studying in the context of cancer, we got really excited about studying this macro domain. As I mentioned, we have no effective small-molecule therapies to stop the spread of SARS-CoV-2 and we think that the macro domain would be a great target for doing that, but we have no validated small molecule inhibitors and in fact, no validated small molecule binders of macro domain. Rather than the protease, where I think there was a lot of chemical material, here, we're really just starting from scratch, and that fragment approach could really be useful for providing starting points. This consortium that Klim and Oren were heading up that was so valuable in the nanobody work, got to work on trying to crystallize this protein. We form beautiful crystals very rapidly, spear-headed by these folks down here. We collected amazing data. This was in the middle of the shelter in place period, and this is just some of the most spectacular data that I've ever seen. I'll just point your attention over here. The data are so precise and high resolution. Everybody knows water is H_2O. Here, you can actually see the electron clouds for the O and then these little green bits here are the hydrogens. It's so precise that you can literally see H_2O in the data. It's really remarkable data, some of the best data we've ever collected. We got to work and started collaborating with our friends at Oxford, Ivan Ahel and Frank Von Delft to re-collaborate previously on fragment screen work. We employed both of the particle accelerators in the Bay Area, the Advanced Light Source at Lawrence Berkeley Lab and SSRL at Stanford at Slack. This was a huge team effort. I'm just going to single out Galen Correy, a post-doc who works in my group, who just worked tirelessly on this. We weren't actually flying back and forth to the UK, but we were zooming all hours of the day coordinating our work, and Marion and Galen had a really fantastic collaboration. Here's our synchrotron that we use at the Advanced Light Source at Berkeley and then there is the Mission Bay campus of UCSF. We've collected almost a thousand datasets from this effort using the techniques that I showed you before, where we move using sound waves, chemicals into each of these crystals. By we, I really mean Galen here. The team worked so hard around the clock to get this done. This is a message that Galen sent me, a summary of his data processing some point in July, highlighting some of his latest results. You can see the time here, it's four o'clock in the morning. Just remarkable energy from all the participants here. We were really excited because we found over 200 molecules that bound to this protein. We were really surprised where they bound. They bound mostly in this region that's coming over here, which I'll call north-south. They didn't bind very much east-west. We were expecting them to bind in that orientation because that was the only chemical knowledge that we had going into this, that it would bind up looking a lot like this ADP ribose. Remember, we have this huge chemical space. Even though fragment screening is a pretty efficient way to cover that chemical space, there's still an under-sampling. One way to fight against that is to use computation rather than experiments. We teamed up with Brian Shoichet here at UCSF and his postdoc Stefan Gahbauer. They do a technique called docking. Essentially, what they're doing is they're taking a binding site on the protein and using the computer to vary the molecules that are in there and calculate the energies. We were able to screen, as I said, about a thousand molecules crystallographically. They can screen 19 million using docking. After a bunch of filters, they purchased about 60 of them. The coolest part about that is that some of these 60 molecules, as far as we know, had never been made before by any human. They were really being used for the first time in our study, and that's made possible by some breakthroughs in chemical synthesis from this company, Enamine, which is based in the Ukraine. We got data back on those 60 compounds and 20 of them hit, one-third, which is a remarkable success for docking, to have a one-third confirmation of your predictions, and those predictions were very close to the actual experimental structures in most cases. I'm showing the predictions for many of them here in blue and then the resulting crystal structures in yellow. You can see they're mostly very close. This is probably the worst one here where it's translated and flipped around. But by and large, the docking was right and it was right for the right reasons. One of the coolest things that we discovered in this is, as I mentioned, some of these molecules were being made for the first time ever. Well, even the company that does the chemical synthesis wasn't being very careful, and they sent us the wrong compound. They sent us a compound probably because of a mistake in their synthesis, not because of a mistake in the handling. We were able to tell from the data, which is this blue and green mesh here, we thought we were supposed to get this molecule, but what they actually made was this molecule over here, and we could tell that because the data quality were so high. This is a really cool result for us from a technical point of view. Now that we have all these molecules laid out over the active site, we've got to start to think about ways to connect them together to make a more potent inhibitor. Our colleagues in the UK have written a program called Fragmentstein, which takes the parts from different molecules and tries to stitch them together. I'll just show you a little movie of how that works here. We're zooming into the active site of the protein, getting rid of that substrate that we know a lot about, showing you one of our fragments here, and then another one of the fragments, and then a hypothetical molecule that could link the two. This molecule is purchasable from that company that's able to make on-demand all these things. It's never been made before, but we would predict that this is a potent or a more potent inhibitor than either of the parent molecules. We've ordered those, and they're due here in the next couple of weeks. We've already gotten some of them and validated that they are more potent inhibitors. One of the cool things that they do is they cause the protein to shift into a more open shape, a more open conformation. That more open shape gives us additional opportunities to take the computational approaches that Brian's lab specializes in and try to match to the new shape of this pocket to try to find more potent inhibitors. While the publication process for this is going, we're getting advice because we've posted our data openly from all over the world. We disclosed the data in July, really just days after finishing collecting it, posted all the data online, and so did our friends in the UK. We just posted our preprint right around Thanksgiving. We've been ordering all kinds of new molecules based on these ideas to test and bring into the next set of structural biology and computational studies that we're doing on this very cool protein. What I told you about with the idea to interrupt signaling here is we think this is this great target that before we started this day, we didn't know if it could be targeted with small molecules. Now, we're pretty optimistic. We have lots of starting points from this fragment screening campaign that are very chemically diverse, and we've shown that this computational technique docking can work on this target. We're starting to link and merge these things together, and we're optimistic that we can eventually develop a strong inhibitor. Not in time for the SARS-CoV-2, COVID pandemic, but these macro domains are widely found across many different viruses. We think that we can develop a molecule that has a broad-spectrum activity that will hopefully be able to work across many different types of viruses. What's next? Well, this platform from the QCRG has been doing a lot of other things. I'll bring it back to that protein map that Nevan's lab produced as part of this consortium effort. One of the interactions was between this human protein Tom70 and this viral protein, Orf9b here, and we've now visualized what that interaction looks like using CryoEM. It was a big surprise because this protein, the viral protein, shapeshifts. You can see here on the right is what it looks like when it's on its own. Then when it's bound to this human protein, it undergoes this remarkable structural rearrangement to fit into that hole in the human protein. One of the things we'd like to do is find a way to target small molecules to bind at this hole right here to prevent this interaction between Orf9b and Tom70. That just gives you a flavor of how much more is coming down the pipe from this huge effort here at UCSF. One of the big lessons of all this is that the way we're disclosing data is changing and a lot of the incentive structures in science and academia are not well-suited to the quality science that needs to be produced, especially in pandemic circumstances. You saw this was a huge team effort. We need ways to acknowledge that, to acknowledge and encourage open dissemination of data and code earlier. Open data is also important as we start to evaluate vaccines, and here's a really interesting series of tweets from an epidemiologist who's saying she doesn't object to science by press release, but that press release needs to have data along with it so the experts can dig into it as well. With that, I will thank you for your attention tonight. Hopefully, people are still on. Thank the folks who did this work. As I mentioned, the QBI, QRCG Structural Biology Consortium was huge in this. That's led by Klim and Oren and then Natalia Jura and I have been leading the crystallography effort. There's just so many wonderful trainees involved in that. Then especially the folks from my lab who did a lot of the heavy lifting. Iris on a lot of the data processing, Robbie on a lot of the functional work, and then Galen, who with Marion at Oxford, really just did heroic work on the crystallography. With that, I will end my sharing and be happy to take any questions. Thanks very much, James. That was a great insight into all your work and also into the challenges of keeping communication among researchers going and the limitations of publications. Take-home point for the general public: How does it affect our families, what's this mean to the general member of public, and what learning points can they take about progress in COVID-19 from this? Yes. I think one of the main lessons is that we're going to be much better prepared the next time. We're going to be much better prepared as scientists because of the open culture that has emerged around this. I think that I really take that to heart because I grew up in Toronto, which experienced the first SARS outbreak almost 20 years ago. It was a much smaller outbreak, but we took our foot off the gas as a scientific community after that. There was initially a big flurry of interest in coronaviruses, but we kind of took our foot off the gas. I don't think that's going to happen this time. In that 20 years, the data-sharing practices and the disclosure practices have just gotten so much healthier. I think they still have a long way to go. But I think that's going to be a big part of what helps us be prepared for the next COVID-2029, or hopefully much later, because we don't have those off-the-shelf small molecules that can be widely deployed. I'm optimistic that out of this, we're going to get stuff that will make an impact in future outbreaks and keep them from becoming pandemics. Do you think that this new approach to publishing with preprints has been a major advance for the scientists, but perhaps muddying for the general public? Because, as you said, you can pick and choose anything from these things. In addition to what's been going on with fake news and things like that, it's riskier for the general public, would you say? I don't because I think that everything that wants to be published will be published. It's very obvious when there is actually a legitimate, huge scientific story that it will get picked up no matter where it's published or even before it's published. As we saw with this breakthrough in protein structure prediction, that's just getting coverage everywhere, despite the fact that it hasn't even been published yet. But then, I'll put the blame on scientists who are hyping results before they're really fully baked, whether they're in peer review journals, or just preprints, or just by press release. I think we need to be much more cautious about our interactions with the public and with journalists. I don't know that peer review necessarily is the guaranteer of that, as much as restraint and using each time you want to talk about your science as a chance to educate both about the promise but also the limitations of your work. I'm obviously a preprint evangelist. There are other folks that would say it is polluting the literature, there's no hierarchy, all of these types of things. So I'll acknowledge those types of limitations. But by and large, most harm that I can think of in the past 20 years from misrepresentation of science has come from the peer-reviewed literature. Right. In a way, it may be that what's harmed science more is the Silicon Valley pitch, where you pitch this great product that you don't yet have to get the investors. It seems like science has adopted that a little bit. I don't know. What do you think? Yeah. We often joke that a lot of funding is more on a reimbursement model than a pitch model. You almost don't have the project done. There's an interesting valley there to cross between hype and reimbursement. I do think it's important for scientists to get the public excited about the potential for their work. Just not everything is going to have a disruptive impact within the next six months. As we've seen, we're nine months into this pandemic, and we haven't had that disruptive solution yet. The vaccines look great, but even that is built on really decades of work. Even the more experimental mRNA vaccines. I think we have a big responsibility to be educators much more than hype people. One of our audience, Rose Marie, asks, "How can we access preprint materials and studies? What websites do you go to?" The main ones for the life sciences are bioRxiv and medRxiv. BioRxiv has the life science, basic science, discovery science domain, and medRxiv has a little bit of extra scrutiny for patient disclosures, and that's where preprints about clinical trials or things involving patients would go. You can think of those two as your main gateways in. But they're now indexed on Google Scholar, and PubMed is also experimenting with indexing all SARS-CoV-2 preprints as well. But bioRxiv and medRxiv would be the two main ones. Great. Thank you. Let's see. Spencer, in our audience, asks, "A lot of the huge advancements made by your team and collaborators in finding small molecules to help stop release of SARS-CoV-2 virions were enabled by the more free and free-flowing sharing of info. Another barrier to research discoveries is money. I'm thinking of paywalls to academic journals that stop less well-funded labs from gaining access to information. Also, of how academics keep their jobs by making discoveries in private and not getting scooped by labs that make discoveries first." Really, I think this story that you just told is the best story I've heard about not siloing; it's really amazing. "But can you come on how financial incentives are not aligned with pure research, scientific discovery, equity, and collaboration?" Yeah. Spencer, I think the equity point is super important here, and it extends not just to less well-funded labs or countries, or scientists in other countries, but also to the public. One of the great things about all the work on bioRxiv or medRxiv is everyone can read it. It's completely open access from the minute it goes on there. There's no paywalls for anybody. I think that is so important. I think we have a moral responsibility to accelerate science in that way so that folks in different countries and folks who don't have the access to the resources that we have at UCSF can be a part of scientific discovery. The other aspect of scooping and incentives, one of the other great things, and this is the thing that most attracted me to preprints in the beginning, is if I have a big discovery in my lab and I submit it to a journal, and it goes behind the cloak of peer review for months, I don't control when it's disclosed. I am, in that time, subject to potential scooping. When I post a preprint, I control when I disclose the data. I can decide whether I'm rushing to beat somebody, and try and scoop them, or I can do it in response to them scooping me. But now, we're talking about scooping maybe on the matter of days or weeks. We're not in the timescale of months, where it's really ambiguous who had what first, who did what when. If Jeff posts a preprint that's basically identical to something I'm about to post and I post it 24 hours later, yeah, sure, maybe I posted it 24 hours later instead of a week later, but it's very clear we had the results at the same general time. I think this openness and transparency and scientist control is just such a huge part of moving science to a much more healthy culture where we control what's going on and we can eliminate a lot of the non-transparent aspects of the competitive nature of science that I think is so antithetical to the real reasons we got into doing this. I have to say, the more we probe and discuss this, the more sense it makes actually. Yeah. Yeah. I like it. The old system, as that video pointed out, was invented in the 17th century, and we've basically been operating on that system for almost 400 years, despite the fact that we now have the Internet. Somehow, we've invented email and PDFs and all of these things, and peer review has gotten slower and more painful than when it was done by carrier pigeons. So you should have a [inaudible] Hey, that was good enough for my grandfather. Corey asks us, "Can you talk about the open cultures that relates to or perhaps threatens the traditional pharmaceutical for profit industry structure? Will research dollars flow differently in this new paradigm?" You know who are gigantic fans of preprints and open science? Pharma biotech because they hate the idea that there are these incentives that academics have to publish in certain journals and massage data so it gets by peer review in certain ways. They're very big fans of open data as potentially more reliable data, that data can come out faster so that they can build on it faster. I don't know that it's going to change the flow of dollars between there because hopefully, we're going to move the entire system toward something where people are disclosing stuff much more rapidly. But I think the incentives for doing that are very in line with the motivations of these companies to create new medicines faster for people based on more reliable input data. Audience members asks, "Are we way past the era of worrying about unintended consequences or side effects of synthetically created molecules?" I love the fact that you can just request your molecule and have it sent to you. Yeah, that's so cool. Amazing. But it's a great question, are we past the era of worrying about that? I don't think we're worried about it from an environmental point of view. These are generally, we're not using any exotic elements or any exotic chemistry. It's just with very simple building blocks, you're able to create such enormous chemical space that we couldn't hope to cover it. We are, of course, worried about side effects of any small molecules that we create to target SARS-CoV-2 proteins. In fact, this COVID Moonshot for the protease, that's where they're going to spend most of their time and most of their money in the next little while. They're going to get to a decent efficacy in cell lines and in vitro studies really soon, and then the real slog of drug development comes along, and it's all about absorption, distribution, toxicity, all of these other properties that are so painful to engineer around, and side effects, of course, are a big one, especially for a protease inhibitor. There are so many human proteases that could be off target. Similarly with the macro domain, there are lots of human proteins that bind ADPR, and that means that a molecule that binds in that pocket might bind some of those. So we're going to try and get out in front of it and look at the specificity of it. But the unintended consequences are something that you're on the lookout for, but unfortunately, we don't have great tools for predicting those until the rubber meets the road and you're actually putting it into animals or very sophisticated cell models. Seems like that might be more pertinent to when we start ordering synthetic organisms. You put in your order for an organism to this company in England. They send you the organism, then we might have to be worried, but probably not these molecules. Yeah, I agree. That was great. Any last minute insights for the audience? Really appreciate you going through that with us. It was eye opening for me. I hadn't really thought about the implications of this new publishing process. Let's see, "Do you expect the new administration's approach to COVID to impact you and your lab's daily working experience?" It's a great question, and like many, I'm very optimistic that the new administration will bring a more serious approach to dealing with the pandemic. Obviously, the health consequences for the people who are suffering are huge and that's where the main thing is at the top of everybody's minds. We've had folks in our lab, we've had family members affected by this. Fortunately, no one in the lab affected by it themselves. But from a very selfish point of view, we're working at 50 percent density in the lab. That means we're not getting as much science done as we like to. The faster we can get stuff under control, vaccines distributed, better, more available testing for asymptomatic people all around, then hopefully, we can increase that number and increase the rate at which the science goes. But the lab's daily working experience is, we're so lucky to be at UCSF, great place that's had a really great institutional response to COVID, that's kept our labs open, that's kept people's jobs safe. The impact on us has been minimal, but that doesn't mean that we're not looking forward to it getting better. We got to get you back into that lab, get the whole lab working because we need you. I'm actually in my office today because I tend to talk too loudly for my kids when I'm giving a seminar like this. I made a very rare trip into UCSF, into my office. I haven't actually been in here in weeks to months, so it's nice to be back. We appreciate that, and thank your family for releasing you tonight. All right. Well, take care. Everybody out there, stay safe, and we will see you back next week. 