 Welcome to this episode of Ask a Scientist. My name is Ata Sarajedini, I'm the Dean of the College of Science at Florida Atlantic University. And I have with me Dr. Diuto Esiobu, professor of biology at Florida Atlantic University. Thank you for being with us Diuto. Dr. Esiobu: Thank you, Ata. Dean Sarajedini: Before I ask you the questions that our viewers have submitted, I want to start off by talking about what science is and how it works. So, in a nutshell, science is a tool we use to better understand the natural world. And how does science actually work? Well, it begins with a question, and we then take data or observations to answer that question. The data and the observations then lead us to an explanation. Another word for explanation is hypothesis or theory. And every good theory or hypothesis makes a prediction. Those predictions are then tested against the observations, if the predictions come true then the theory or model or hypothesis is probably correct. If they don't, then we have to go back and modify the model or hypothesis so that we have predictions that are borne out by the data. And in this way over time science is a self-correcting process and we make models to better understand the natural world and in this way the self-correcting process takes hold. Sometimes it can take weeks months years, sometimes even centuries for science to come back and redo the model to get a better prediction that then reproduces the natural world. Now having said all that and showing you what science actually is, I want to bring in Dr. Esiobu to talk about the the latest coronavirus situation that we have encountered and to motivate the discussion I want her first to talk about her research but also we have a whole host of questions that our viewers have submitted online that I would like to pose to her during the interview. So let's begin Dr. Esiobu with talking about your research what what do you do here at Florida Atlantic University. Dr. Esiobu: Thank you very much Dean Ata, so in my applied microbiology lab we use a wide range of tools ranging from classic microbiology to genomics to synthetic biology, to investigate issues that are important in public health risk assessment and also we work on environmental quality assessments and invasion - plant invasion, so there are three major areas of research in my lab. The first one is on public health risk assessment using metagenomics, so we get samples from the environment and we ask questions about what is the best indicator of human risks in this environment so we can in one snapshot look at all of the organisms in the environment: viruses, bacteria, fungi, protozoans, using metagenomic analysis. The second area of research in my lab is to understand how microorganisms drive plant invasion and how they influence the aggression of plant invasion in Florida. For example, Florida soils are known to have very low biotic resistance and we don't know why so we're using a wide variety of tools to investigate that. And the other area of research in my lab has to do with synthetic biology where we use synthetic -  we create molecules that don't exist and we use that to simulate what exists in nature to solve problems. For example, we cloned Ebola in a bacterium so we could use it to study how that virus - nasty virus - causes diseases. Dean Sarajedini: I see. Thank you. Now I want to turn to the questions that were submitted online with respect to the COVID-19 virus and the current situation and I want to pose each of those to Dr. Esiobu and give her a chance to answer them. And we received quite a number of questions, very interesting ones, in fact, and it was very difficult to pick a subset of all of those submitted ones to actually ask, so excuse us if we didn't select your question. But I think these questions really represent the broad range of topics that our our viewers are interested in. Let me begin by asking Dr. Esiobu something general which is: "how our virus is generated?" Can you give us a sense of that answer.  Dr. Esiobu: Yes, indeed. To start with what is a virus? So a virus is a little piece of nucleic acid like DNA or RNA that is enclosed in a protein coat so some people say virus is a piece of bad news in a protein coat. And some people think because it's a nonliving particle that it can just generate by itself. There's been rumors about viruses being generated by 5Gs and all that. So a virus truly is a nonliving particle, is an obligate intracellular pathogen so it can grow inside a cell and make many copies of itself. So how do we generate viruses or how are they generated? We culture them. We use compatible cells to grow them so a bacterium is used to grow a bacteriophage. An animal cell will be used to grow an animal virus. Plant cells are used to grow plant viruses, so sometimes we create tissue cultures that we use to grow those viruses. So from a scientific perspective how do we know that these viruses don't just spring up on their own? How do we know that they are not constantly being generated by radiation of some sort? We know because we have grown them in exotic cultures in pure cultures, so we'll pick a virus of a known identity and we generated in a cell and it reproduces itself in a consistent manner. So that tells us that that virus is an entity that is stable. Dean Sarajedini: So viruses cannot survive on their own, they have to have some hosts to be inside for them to reproduce themselves? Is that how it works? Dr. Esiobu: That is exactly true so - but they carry the blueprint they'd normally use to overwhelm the host. So they take over the cell system that they infect. They use the ribosomes of the host cell they use sometimes the enzymes of the host cell to express themselves, but they carry a stable genetic information that directs exactly how they are replicated. Dean Sarajedini: They use the cells machinery for the purpose of reproducing themselves. Dr. Esiobu: That's correct. Of replicating themselves. Yeah. Dean Sarajedini: That's the idea. idea yeah and so now that we know what a So now that we know what a virus is and how it works, can you tell us about how you find drugs to block viruses and their activity in the cell? Dr. Esiobu: That's a very important question, one that is quite pertinent to what is going on right now with COVID-19. In general, antimicrobials, when we search for antimicrobials, there are two things on our mind. Number one is selective toxicity. We want to find a molecule that will selectively kill the microorganism and spare the host cells. And the next is you want that molecule to be potent of course, to be effective, against the organism - one that cannot be easily resisted. Because you can't shave a person's hair and expect the person to die. So we normally target component cell components or components of the molecule of the virus that would make it die. So how do we look for new drugs? Two approaches in general. The first I'll call serendipity, where we take old drugs such as the chloroquine and others that have been in use in circulation and you try to treat them you either methyl group you adjust them with a hydroxyl group a phenyl group you modify those using chemistry and then you test them in the lab. And after the in vitro testing you're going to do some clinical testing. So that's one approach and sometimes that takes a very long time. What has shortened the current approach now is synthetic biology where we can use computers and artificial intelligence to look at the molecule of the virus to look at something that's unique about that virus and target that particular structure. So currently, for COVID-19 we're targeting the non- structural protein number 12, which is the enzyme that this virus uses to make copies of itself so there are drugs that are now being tried to inhibit that enzyme. It doesn't exist in the human system so the drug will be selectively toxic against the virus. Dean Sarajedini: I think it's interesting that because of synthetic biology we can use AI to simulate the impact of these changes to the to the drugs to see if they'll be effective or not rather than doing clinical trials which could take years I suppose. Dr. Esiobu: Exactly Dean Ata, you exactly right. That is what has shortened the normal time it takes to develop a drug. The time it takes to develop a drug runs some people say 18 months but that is being very optimistic. It runs sometimes multiple years to get an antibiotic for instance in the past would take 15 years but now with synthetic biology we can reverse engineer things we can use artificial intelligence to study the molecule, test many different - you can even do a preliminary screening using your computers - and then after that you narrow down the number you want to test and it increases your chances of getting a positive heat. Dean Sarajedini: Very interesting. As we go down the list of questions, the next one I'm sure many are interested in with respect to the future of this virus and the epidemic, and one of our viewers asked "When would this epidemic end and what would the aftermath of this look like?" Can you address that. Dr. Esiobu: I wish someone knew for sure. I am not sure anybody knows exactly when this pandemic will end. So there have been many models and the models kept changing. That's somewhat like a hypothesis in the scientific world. In the lab, we make a hypothesis and then we test it and then with predictions test those predictions and if they don't match we go back and test again just like the Dean said. You may have observed that the scientists in the task force and around the country have been making projections, they've been making predictions as to when this epidemic or this pandemic will be over and each time they get new data that plug that in and adjust it. So having said that I think the short answer to that question is that nobody knows for sure when this epidemic will end nobody knows for sure, yes. Dean Sarajedini: And I like the fact that you made the point of noting that a lot of it is based on the models and the models are designed to explain the data, the observations, and they're continually refining the models and every time they refine the model to get a better prediction you know it changes the prediction itself.  Dr. Esiobu: That's exactly correct: Dean Sarajedini: That's the nature of how of science works. And then along those lines also Dr. Esiobu, one of our viewers also asked "how does a pandemic become endemic?" and can you talk about that and how that change happens?  Dr. Esiobu: Yes. And just quickly before I answer that the previous question asked about what will be the aftermath of this current pandemic. I didn't address that. I'm hoping that at the end of all of this which I'm hoping will be soon the end will come in soon, that there will be greater emphasis in training the appropriate workforce. I'm hoping there'll be much more money given for scholarships for my students because they are the workforce the skilled workforce that do all the testing people talk about testing, test kits, testing, and a lot of money is given to the private sector, rightfully so, but money should also be given to the College of Science for example to train the people to operate these we hear that they have a lot of test kits out there and no one to equip them. My students are routinely trained in RT-PCR, which is what is being used to detect this virus for example. So I hope in the aftermath that there'll be more money pumped into research and into training students.  Dean Sarajedini: Well you make a good point, which is that much of the work we do in the College of Science trains students for practical applications of their of their lab work so - and it's very important to prepare the the next generation of workers, if you will, to be be prepared to make these tests work and operate them in the proper way. So that's what you're talking about is very important. Dr. Esiobu: So next the next question was about how does a pandemic become an endemic disease. So a pandemic disease is one that has an outbreak of global proportions. A disease that breaks out in multiple countries at the same time or around about the same time. So we've had many pandemics in the past so it is the skill and the timing of the spread of the disease that makes it a pandemic. An endemic disease on the other hand is one that is always present in a given community so you can predict for example with some certainty the level or scale of outbreak. For instance, chicken pox has become endemic in some countries, mumps is endemic in South Florida. Malaria is endemic in West Africa. So this disease - these diseases are always there in the population, so the question is really if you put it the other way around is how would a pandemic become an endemic? So that would happen with time, with vaccination, which builds herd immunity, and when people have gotten ill and recovered. So three things would make a pandemic become endemic and I could easily see COVID-19, over time, two, three, four years time, becoming endemic in the population. Dean Sarajedini: I see. One of our viewers also asked the following question and before I read it let me just harken back to what you were talking about earlier about how a virus works which you said that a virus basically hijacks the machinery in the cell to produce reproductions of its own DNA and so the question is the question that this this person asked is "through that process can the virus or its DNA be integrated into the genome of the cell so that there's later reactivation the of the virus itself? Of how it damages the cell? Is there any way that the virus's DNA is worked into that of the cell and then later reactivated after the virus has you know after there's no more effects from the virus?" Dr. Esiobu: Wonderful, so there are seven classes of viruses we divide them up on the basis of the nature of the nucleic acids whether it be DNA or RNA and whether it's double stranded or single stranded. The COVID virus for example the COVID-19 is an a single-stranded plus RNA virus. Now how these viruses replicate or behave in their host is determined primarily by the nature of their genome. The HIV, for example, is an RNA virus that converts itself into a DNA and then integrates into the human chromosome in the nucleus so that then it becomes a provirus in its host. Now so in that case it has a retrovirus a retro transcriptase enzyme reverse transcriptase enzyme that it uses to convert itself from an RNA to a DNA. Not all viruses can do that in fact only members of the lentivirus can do it. So the current COVID-19 is an RNA virus it stays outside the nucleus in fact when a virus is getting into a cell it feels exactly the same way you feel when you're landing into the airport and you look out from the window you can see the entire city and you're landing so the virus can see the nucleus far away. So only specialized viruses can make their way into the host nucleus and integrate into the chromosome the COVID-19 certainly does not do that. It survives in the cytoplasm it makes a little surrounding what we call that endosome where it makes copies of itself so not all viruses can integrate and then reactivate. Now with respect to chicken pox which eventually reactivates when it causes latent diseases it's the herpes breed of family they all do that, so they go into cells where they don't replicate they just remain silent and then when the host is like stressed out or immunocompromised for one reason or the other then they emerge from those cells and infect neighboring cells where they can replicate and that's what's called the reactivation of the shingles when you have shingles as a reactivation of chickenpox. Not because the virus integrated into the genome of the host but because it took up residence in cells where it could hide from the host immune system and then it switches off replication for a while so it's silent. That's why people have herpes from time to time they would have a reactivation like a blister and then it will go away and then it comes up back again so there are persistent latent virus infections that's how those work. Dean Sarajedini: It sounds like these viruses are sneaky Dr. Esiobu: Incredibly so. Dean Sarajedini: ...little entities. Do we know what turns on and off there you know the their presence and their activity in the cell? You said they remain latent for a while then their activity turns on again. Do we know what does that? Dr. Esiobu: Indeed. So for the herpes variety, who do this a lot like the one that causes herpes simplex and all those Dean Sarajedini: These are cold sores. Dr. Esiobu: Yes. It takes up residence in neuronal cells in neural cells in those cells it doesn't have a transcriptome that it needs to make copies of itself so migrates there finds a receptor and goes in so it remains latent. And the host doesn't want to attack its own neuronal cells so it is spared however when the host is stressed out there are changes in the hormonal levels of the host and that triggers those immune neural cells to release it to die and it all emerge and go down the dorsal nerve route see and then it creates that shingles belt and rash that you see it begins to multiply so when it exits those neural cells it goes into epithelial cells in those cells it's got everything it needs to multiply. And then you get to grow again. Dean Sarajedini: Right. Well it sounds like we can have a whole course on this topic of course there's a lot of information here and and I'm sure that the folks listening and watching are fascinated by all these topics and of course you know there's a lot here that people can follow up on and we don't have enough time to go through everything but I want to get back to the questions that were posed by our by folks online and the next one has to do with another sort of modern issue which is that of climate change and this person is asking "how are viruses similar to COVID-19 or others are projected to change or increase over time as the rate of climate change increases?' Can you address that? Dr. Esiobu: Yes. Indeed, so the key features associated with climate change are the following number one extended summers, heavy downpour, erratic and extreme weather, conditions, sea level rise, as well. So the question is how would these things affect viruses and their emergence. We know that as environmental conditions change and swing that these viruses mutate in response. There are spontaneous mutations that will call when you have extended summers for example elevated temperatures, above viruses which are viruses that are transmitted by insects would have a feast they have an elongated time to celebrate so these vectors are more in the environment and the transmission will be much higher. Also when you have extended summers or extended warm temperatures wild animals tend to replicate even more and these animals are the reserve of those of the viruses that we'll see such as the COVID-19 so you can actually say that indeed climate change could have an impact. And there have been cases in the past where climate change led to outbreaks like the West Nile epidemic that happened in the southern part of the US in the 19th century was caused by extended warm periods from El Nino, so we had mosquitoes and floods all over the place that transmitted the West Nile virus so they are intricately related, yes. Dean Sarajedini: I see. Right it's certainly the way you're talking about it and your example of West Nile certainly indicates yes they're very closely related so it bears watching the impact of climate change on the viruses. Our next question is also a bit more general and this person's asking what are the knowns and known unknowns related to Arctic permafrost thaw so is there any impact there on future COVID-19 activity or just virus activity in general. Dr. Esiobu: I think one thing we know for sure about all of these things is that there will never be an end to the emergence of new pathogens because the environment constantly changes, human behaviors change, urbanization also, extensive deforestation is happening, industrialization, many new products are being pumped into the environment. So these viruses will continue to change and to mutate that's one thing we know for sure. We also know that there will be pandemics in the future. No one can predict how soon or how far away that would be so some people say okay somebody was wonder some people will wonder about pandemics especially the COVID-19 but that's like predicting that the Sun will rise tomorrow. That doesn't tell you quite what will happen tomorrow so indeed we know for sure that there will be pandemics. Now what did we know? The direction of the mutation. For a long time scientists expected a pandemic to happen in the flu virus group - the orthomyxoviridae - because those viruses are segmented and they can easily shuffle their genomes so everyone was expecting a pandemic from that group and that never really happened, it came from another group of viruses the corona viruses and so we can't predict with certainty which virus is going to cause the next pandemic but it's important to have a good solid health care system and infrastructure to cope with any that may come. Dean Sarajedini: Well so we've had a variety of questions on a whole range of different topics and I want to thank the the folks out there on the in the cyber world for submitting them. This is our last one and it's somewhat of a hypothetical question and this person would like to know "is there a case to be made for long-term indefinite quarantine due to future viral projections and climate change?" Dr. Esiobu: That's the elephant in the room. Testing, testing, testing, so that we can all come out. Well I don't think there is a case to be made and I don't think that testing is the solution to everything. Come to think about it from a scientist's angle if you test someone and the individual tests positive then they go to work but what then happens if the next virus mutates or even if this particular virus changes? What happens? We go back on a lockdown? Now what if you test a person and the test is negative? So what? You lock the individual down for a prolonged period of time - No. So the shut - the lock down we had was necessary and useful to flatten the curve. In other words slow the rate of transmission to allow us prepare and as soon as that is done I think that we should all open up and go back to work. Continuous lockdown would prevent us from building herd immunity and we would live to fight again in the future. So I think the sooner we'll let go to go out and confront this virus the human immune system is potent, is powerful, at least 85% of people tested already have the immunity the serology test shows so I think that we shouldn't be locked down for six months or beyond. Dean Sarajedini: Well thank you very much Dr. Esiobu I want to thank you for being here for our interview and answering all these very diverse and I in some cases challenging questions. And I want to also just ask the viewers and listeners to go on our website and fill out the feedback form we'd love to hear what you think about these podcasts and this particular interview. The website is science.fau.edu and there's a feedback form there for Ask a Scientist and we would love to hear your opinions on the podcasts and this interview. Thank you very much for watching and listening. Dr. Esiobu: Thank you. 