 Hi, I'm Raj Singh. I work with LSU AG Center, and I'm Director of the Plant Diagnostic Center and Extension Plant Pathologist for Horticultural Crops. So we received a sample from a nursery here  in Rapides Parish. And this unique plant is called ligularia, and you can see on the leaves they are worried about these symptoms over here. So we're going to check it out; but, before we do that, we try to look at the sample submission form and the notes they bring to us and see who it came from, is it commercial  or homeowner, and if we have enough information on when the problem started and if they have any specific testing to be done for that sample. When a sample comes in, we log it with a number, a unique number, that will stay permanently with this sample for the time period we keep our records. So basically, it's just a five digit number. The first two digits are the year, and then the last three digits are the sample number. So you can see even with  CoVid-19, we have had 268 samples this year. So I, generally at this point of the year in June/July, we are hitting about 500 to 600 samples; but, because of  CoVid-19 shut down, we didn't receive that many samples. Here is another example  of a sample that's been collected by Department of Agriculture and Forestry. This is a regular sample. This is a quarantined sample. So you can see the difference. This just came in in a regular gift bag; but this sample, it has a number, collection number, and everything, and it's double bagged, okay?  And this sample we are looking, we have specifications to look this sample, test this sample for citrus greening. So, citrus greening is not a contagious disease compared to citrus canker. So, we don't recommend that homeowners, or  commercial growers, or anybody who deals with citrus, they should touch any citrus canker symptoms, symptomatic plants; but, because citrus greening is not, so I'm going to take it out and look at the sample. And in order to look at the sample, I should go to the bio-safety cabinet to see if there are any insects or anything like that. So here I'm just visually examining it. The tests we are going to run for it is a molecular test, but I want to make sure that we are looking at something which is kind of symptomatic for citrus greening. So you can see this type of blotchy mottling. You can see here is some blotchy motteling. Here is some blotchy mottling, okay? But at the same time, this blotchy mottelng can easily be caused by a nutrition deficiency, or something like that. As you can see, there is some similarity in these two different leaves. They are similar kind of symptoms, so we definitely need to test it. So for this testing we have to take the midrib samples out. Now we will do the DNA  extraction, and then we will run that with specific reagents that will only amplify the citrus greening DNA, if it's there. So, in this case, this sample came from a nursery owner in Rapides Parish, and they are worried about these necrotic lesions on the margins of this plant. So in these kind of sample, the first thing we do is take the leaves under a dissecting microscope and see if we can find any fungal structures or any signs of the fungal disease. So right now, I'm just looking at that affected part and I'm trying to see any, any kind of spores that might be produced on it or any insects. And I'm trying, also trying to see if there is any, um...because sometimes what you, what you see is, you can look at the spots, leaf spots, and you can have a little bit of idea that if it is produced by a fungal pathogen or a bacterial pathogen. And also, sometimes viruses may produce similar kind of symptoms. So, I'm just looking for any signs or any any symptom similarity here. So, after this, what we like to do is we will cut this tissue out from the transition zone here, where you have the healthy and the dead part, and now we plate it on different kind of, different set of media in order for it to grow out of that medium, and then we can ID it. Depending upon what kind of spores it's producing, what kind of bacterial colonies it's producing, we can, we have an idea of what we're dealing with - if it's a plant pathogen, if it's a fungal pathogen, or a bacterial pathogen. Viruses - you can't culture out viruses. So we have different tests for viruses. So once we have, once we have them on the artificial media, and this is just a plate showing a plant that was baited, the roots and soil  was baited with these Camellia discs. The pathogen, if it's present, it will swim up and colonize the leaf disks. And we'll take those leaf disks out of it, and then we will rinse them with water, and then stick it underneath the media. This media is very, it has all the antibiotics and chemicals in it. So, it will only let that phytophthora produce into the, into the culture. So, by now you have to look at it under the light microscope and see if it's producing the mycelium that you're looking for. Again, these are the, so, depending upon the type of the mycelium, you can tell if it is a phytopthora or not. Here I have a good example of the phytopthora. mycelium, how it looks like. So, this is actually a coral, okay, coral reef; and the mycelium will look exactly like that. It's knobby and it's just, if you can imagine this shape, the phytopthora,  most of the phytopthora, will be knobby like that. So, we have a preliminary diagnosis that this is caused by a phytopthora type bacteria. So, we also categorize our samples depending upon which day we receive them. So if you send a sample on a Monday and we received it Tuesday, that will go there in Tuesday so that if we have to go back, we are not looking for the sample. So we are kind of like very systematic here. On some days you get more samples, some days you get less samples; but we generally recommend that if you are interested in submitting a plant sample, you want to do it early in the week so we have time during the rest of the week to diagnose that problem. Your sample doesn't have to sit over the weekend here at the diagnostic center in order to be processed. So once we isolate the, once we plate the affected leaf tissue or the root tissue on the artificial media, then we bring them over here, and we store them at a specific temperature so that you can, so that  the pathogen can start growing out of it. Here is a good example from hemp, industrial hemp. The plant was infested with, infected with the southern blight. And once we, once we grow it on it, and this is kind of a classical example where the southern blight is producing the sclerotia, okay, mustard seed size, and shape, and color sclerotia on the plate. Once we see this, we are about eighty percent sure that this is southern blight. Again, we have to make sure that we have what species. There are different species of the same genus. So we have to figure out based on molecular tests like sequencing, DNA sequencing, what that particular species  is. So this is my staff here, Mr. Tim Barks and Dr. Monique D'Souza. They, Dr. D'Souza started working with me last year, and I'm very fortunate to have her. And Mr. Tim works over here. He has been working with me for how long now? (2012)  And he is our lab manager, and he takes care of most of your samples here. Okay, I  just send you the report. So he is the main man behind all these scenes, okay. (That's okay) So this is where we culture our pathogens. So you can see here some plates that have produced the mycelium that we're looking for or the fungal pathogen. This is actually not a fungal pathogen. It's fungal-like microorganism which is phytopthora,  okay? It's basically known as a water mold. Here in this room we do the gel documentation system. So once we do the DNA extraction, we amplify the DNA. But you can't see that DNA with naked eye. But here in this room, what we do is we run those DNA samples, and you can actually see the DNA. So we use this. This is called gel documentation system. So once we put all the cameras on, and everything, and you can actually then see. So this is a new pathogen that we are dealing with here. The name of the host is American hornbeam. It's a very native tree here, very popular tree here, and in the wild. Here you are looking at two samples of DNA. And this is the DNA amplified. Now you can't see that with naked eyes, so you have to use this equipment in order to see that DNA from that plant material. And you can see this is a really nice gel picture that is showing you two samples, two duplicates, and then two duplicates. So this is a very good DNA amplification here. This is our PCR room where we run the conventional PCR and the real-time PCR. And this is our real-time PCR machine here. The difference between these two PCRs is that the real-time PCR is in real-time. So you can see the results while this machine is amplifying the DNA, and the conventional is that you have to amplify the DNA first, and then you have to run the gel documentation system on it, and see the results on the gel. In this case, you don't need a gel to run after you run the PCR. So this is an example of one of the citrus canker  samples that we have here. So you see here three lines. Okay? So what you are seeing here is two samples - one is our positive, which is this blue line, okay; and the other one is our sample, and you can see it amplified after 21 cycles, okay. That is a positive, that is considered a positive sample. And here you can see the results. You have the water, which is our negative control, the positive, which is on to another control, and down here. So, the for the sample to be a positive sample it has to be in a range, it can't be after 30, 35 cycles, if it's after 35 cycles, that's not considered a positive sample. So, we are still running a conventional PCR here. In this case there are three different steps that it will run for several, for I would say 40 steps, and each, each cycle has three steps in it. So you can see it goes to 93 degrees Celsius, and then it comes down to 64, and then 72. So this is called denaturation at 93, and at 64 it's annealing those building blocks. So it's making the DNA, amplifying the DNA, and then this is at, the last step is 72. Okay? So, and then, it will repeat, okay; it will repeat. It will go back, repeat, and you can say it's going to repeat here on this this particular test that we're running. We are running this for HLB, which is your citrus greening disease. So this will run for 34 cycles. It will run for 34 cycles with these three steps, and then we will go back, use the gel documentation system to see if it amplified the DNA or not. These two workstations are our clean workstations. We use them to mix our reagents. One is for making the master mix, and the second one is adding the  DNA template that we isolated from the from the plants, from the leaves of the plants, the plant tissue. Music 