 Hi! This is Kim.E from IsNotSo.com. You are listening to my article called: Global Solution? Everyone has a story  enmeshed with the intricacies of life's challenges, dramas and downfalls. Many of our deepest desires and dreams remain thoughts and seldom actions. Chasing dreams means breaking out of an environment that conforms, restricts and apparently knows what is best for us. An unsurmountable challenge many prefer to avoid. The masses work hard with salaries so low that financial survival from one paycheck to the next is considered good fortune. How many remain loyal employees over decades and live by the mantra: At least I have a job? They trust in the security of their futures by willingly placing the responsibility and control thereof in the hands of others. Are you in full grasp of the steering wheel of your life and the way you choose to live it? Is the picture you paint of your future a dismal one? The whole world is currently moving towards a global recession and the corona virus is key player. Regardless of how tired you are of hearing these two words, fact is that even though many may die from other diseases, this virus has the power to bring nations to their knees and to stop even the most stable economy right in its tracks. A few months ago, China and the corona virus was bad news on a good day in Austria. Today, this is no longer  news from a distant country because the whole world has its infected citizens. The following countries either have restrictions or are currently in lockdown: Africa: Ghana | Kenya | Morocco Namibia | South Africa. Americas: Argentina Bolivia | Brazil | Canada | Chile | Colombia Costa Rica | Dominican Republic | Ecuador |  El Salvador | Guatemala | Mexico | Peru United States | Uruguay | Venezuela. Asia: Cambodia China | Hong Kong | India | Japan | Malaysia Myanmar | Nepal | Philippines | Singapore South Korea | Sri Lanka | Taiwan | Thailand United Arab Emirates | Vietnam | Australia New Zealand. Middle East: Israel | Jordan Lebanon | Saudi Arabia. Europe: Austria Belgium | Bulgaria | Croatia | Cyprus The Czech Republic | Denmark | Estonia | Finland  France | Germany | Greece | Hungary | Italy Latvia | Lithuania | Luxembourg | Malta Netherlands | Poland | Portugal | Romania Slovakia | Slovenia | Spain | Sweden | Ireland United Kingdom. This information is according to an article from The New York Times on the 13th of April 2020. The virus may not affect everyone's health but it will certainly influence the financial survival of many businesses, especially the smaller ones, which will subsequently result in the inevitable deterioration of income and the livelihood of the masses worldwide. The repercussions of its wrath are immense and for the first time in history, every person, regardless of the size of their bank account or their list of assets, will be affected by its existence and the current lockdown on a global scale. Although considerable financial profit is guaranteed for many during this global crisis, as the stock markets are plundered and companies are bought up. My concern lies more with the poor, hard-working folk who keep the wheels of the ever so powerful, corrupt and manipulative machinery continuously in motion. Is there a solution to the problems that the poorest individuals are destined to face, who without an education and with the less preferred ethnicity are destined to remain the lower class on the edge of survival? When do individuals, regardless of their nationality, have priority over businesses and profit from their turnover? When do users have total control over their personal data? When can individuals work on building up their own network by helping others do the same and in turn, earn a passive income monthly? Xis7 and Cre8tor of Metaversum. This article has been written with the assumption that you know and understand the concepts virtual reality, metaverses and virtual real estate. If not, please refer to my informative articles by clicking the links below. Virtual real estate can only be purchased by private individuals in Xis7. This property can be used for personal use that is either: kept private, made publicly accessible or rented out to businesses. Businesses rent property from private individuals which in turn provides the small person with a monthly income. Businesses are able to create virtual online shops, showrooms or offices that are accessible 24/7 worldwide, which means that money is earned while you sleep. A percentage of the turnover earned by the businesses is equally distributed amongst all the land owners on a monthly basis. Owning more real estate has no advantage here. Virtual offices allow people to work together effectively in the same space regardless of where they are physically seated. Live cultural, musical and sports events can be enjoyed from anywhere in the world. Teaching or training is taken to another level with emotional experiences and virtual interaction that enables effective learning. Virtual classrooms allow education to continue regardless of a student's location or country of residence. Children retain more information due to the emotional and realistic virtual reality experiences. Walk with the dinosaurs instead of looking at the pictures of them. Fact is, that virtual reality has been around for a very long time and is quickly becoming a way of life. Technology, whether we like it or not, serves the purpose of solving problems and subsequently improves and simplifies our lives. I'm not sure about you, but I definitely do not yearn for the era without Internet, PCs or iPhones. Besides that, this new technology will provide me, the aspiring artist, with the platform to expose my talents on a global scale, to build up my own network and to earn passive income which has always been my biggest dream, the dream I am now chasing. Xis7 is the answer to many issues we are currently faced with on a global scale and the answer to many of the challenges I have been confronted with in the past. That concludes my article: Global Solution? This is Kim.E from IsNotSo.com. thank you so much for listening. 