 Hi I’m Daniel, Product Manager on Desigo CC, the leading building management platform from Siemens. Desigo CC transforms every building into a smart and high-performing building. It combines multiple disciplines into one single platform and ensures comfort, safety, security and energy efficiency. Thanks to its modular flexible approach it suits buildings of all types and of different sizes. And with Desigo CC Compact we even offer versions which are specially tailored to the needs of small and medium size buildings. Desigo CC is the right building management system for your project because with every new software version we focus on our customer needs and are bringing new innovations to the market. One very good example is our new flex client: many operators often require to access their building from anywhere and in an easy way. Our new flex client based on HTML5 now allows to manage the building from any device like an ipad and it provides an easy and intuitive user interface for a great user experience. Another innovation from which operator now can benefit is the Event Hub. For operators it can be really challenging to manage events for multiple and distributed sites. And for that reason, we have developed Event Hub. It is a cloud application which allows to connect multipl Desigo CC sites and to manage all events coming from these different locations in one single cloud application. These were just two examples of innovation of how we simplify life of operators. But with Desigo CC we of course also take care of the comfort and well-being of the tenents. And for that we offer new integrations for Enlighted and for Comfy to allow the people to interact with the building in a new intuitive way. And of course we did also not forget about planners and engineers. For planners we enable digital transformation by providing direct support for BIM objects with real time 3D modules and 360 view. And engineers will now benefit from new tools and easy integration to save their valuable time like our new BACnet server and the south bound haystack integration. So you’ve just heart couple of innovations from Desigo CC. Regardless if you are an engineering, managing or living inside of a building with Desigo CC we are always focusing on features that improve your daily experience. Are you interested to know more and how Desigo CC can make your building a smart and high-performing building? Click the link below. 