 Thank you for taking the time to review the  Renton School District information on HVAC   systems and COVID-19 risk minimization. We  look forward to welcoming students and staff   back to our schools as safely as possible. As  we prepare for this, there are many questions   about COVID-19's airborne transmission risk  and how it can be transmitted by HVAC systems.   To respond to these questions, we have put  together this presentation in which we will review   the following topics: how HVAC systems work in  the Renton School District schools and facilities;   how the function of these systems relate to  COVID-19, and viral transmission in general;   and the steps the Renton School District is  taking to minimize transmission of COVID-19   from one space to another. First and foremost,  it needs to be clearly understood that risk   reduction for spreading COVID-19 requires a large  effort from everyone involved. Even in laboratory   settings, where HVAC systems are designed to  prevent the spread of pathogens and viruses,   HVAC systems are not considered the primary level  of protection. Similar to those laboratories,   during a pandemic we need the users of our  buildings to utilize best practices for reducing   the risks of virus transmission as their first  layer of protection. Staying home if you are sick,   performing daily attestations and health checks,  washing or sanitizing your hands regularly,   maintaining a distance of six feet or more from  other people, and not touching faces are the   primary and most important protections that we  can provide for ourselves and our community as   we interact in school buildings. The second  layer of protection in laboratories is PPE,   or personal protective equipment. In the  case of COVID-19 risk minimization at schools   our PPE consists of all building occupants wearing  masks. The director of the CDC was quoted on   September 16, 2020 stating that "wearing masks may  be more effective at protecting against COVID-19   than a vaccine." He also stated that masks are "the  most important public health tool that we have."   We need to all take advantage of this tool and  protect ourselves and our community by wearing   masks while in public. The third and final layer  of protection in a laboratory is the HVAC system.   This is similar in schools. HVAC systems cannot  prevent the spread of a virus from one person   to another; however with modifications,  a building can have a better chance of   minimizing the spread from one space to  another. By evaluating and modifying our   systems we will improve the capabilities of  this third layer of protection in our schools.   The quote on this slide is very helpful for  understanding what can be done with HVAC   systems. A risk reduction strategy is  different from a goal of achieving zero cases.   There is no such thing as zero risk in anything  we do and certainly not during a pandemic.   The most important thing to understand regarding  HVAC systems, and their role in a building,   is that they are not a primary means of infectious  disease control. HVAC systems in schools,   and almost all other building types, are designed  to maintain comfort. The three things used to   measure comfort within an HVAC condition space  are: temperature, humidity, and odor control.   Understanding that airborne particles can be  pulled into HVAC systems, we know that COVID-19   could very likely be spread through an HVAC  system. ASHRA, the American Society of Heating,   Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning engineers,  states that it is probable for COVID-19 to be   spread through HVAC systems; and steps should  be taken to reduce that risk. However, as we   move further into this presentation, you will  understand that HVAC modifications can only reduce   risk of transmission in one of the three ways that  COVID-19 can be spread, and it is not possible to   prevent person-to-person transmission with HVAC  modifications. COVID-19 spreads in three ways:   one, large droplets. This is the primary form of  viral transmission for COVID-19 and HVAC systems   can do very little to prevent this type of viral  transmission, as large droplets rarely enter those   systems. Two: on surfaces. HVAC modifications  cannot prevent this type of viral transmission.   However the Renton School District is putting in  place enhanced sanitation programs to minimize   the risk of viral transmission through this  method. Three: aerosols or airborne particles.   This is where HVAC systems have a  role in minimizing viral transmission,   and we will be discussing further what the Renton  School District is doing to minimize risk through   this method during this presentation. While HVAC  can only minimize risk through airborne particles,   best practices in PPE can reduce risk of  viral transmission from all three of these   methods of viral transmission. Modifications to  school building HVAC systems that can minimize   viral transmission include: one, increasing the  amount of outside air introduced to the building.   This reduces the amount of viral particles in  the HVAC system and lowers the amount of air that   is being recirculated throughout the building.  Two: flush buildings nightly with outside air.   This allows a larger amount of fresh air exchange  during unoccupied periods of building use   additionally reducing viral particles. Three:  install MERV13 air filters throughout the   school district. While MERV13 filters  are not laboratory grade air filters,   they are expected to be 60 to 70 percent efficient  at removing COVID-19 size particles. Other risk   reduction technologies have been reviewed and  considered by the Renton School District such as   UV lighting and bipolar ionization; however, there  is currently little data on the effectiveness of   these systems killing the virus or the methods  to install them in a manner that is safe for our   students and staff. We will continue to monitor  technology such as these as we move forward.   As stated earlier, maintaining a six-foot minimum  distance from others while in social situations is   a helpful tool for minimizing risk of viral  transmission through close range contact.   An additional benefit of social distancing  is a lower occupancy rate in each classroom;   if all students are remaining six-feet apart, then  we are limited on the number of students that can   occupy one classroom. This allows for higher  volume of ventilation per person in each space   and creates a higher likelihood of removing  aerosol viral particles from a space.   Please keep in mind that HVAC systems  remove aerosol viral particles only   and these modifications do not prevent  close range contact viral transmission.   So what is an HVAC system? HVAC stands for  Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning.   We stated earlier that these systems are designed  to provide comfort by adjusting temperature,   humidity, and odor control. They also maintain  the air quality within the spaces of a building by:   bringing fresh air into a building, heating  and cooling that air to adjust the temperature,   and exhausting stale indoor air to the outside.  In Renton School District buildings, HVAC systems   also filter particulate out of the interior air.  These particulates can include dust, bacteria, and   viruses. The basic components of an HVAC system  include, one: filters which remove particulate   from the air passing through them. The filter's  ability to remove particulate is determined by   its minimum efficiency reporting value or MERV  rating. Typical school systems utilize a filter   with a MERV rating of somewhere between MERV8  and MERV11. The Renton School District will be   updating our filters to MERV13 to further reduce  risk and help capture airborne virus particles.   The school district also follows manufacturer's  guidelines for filter changes and regular   maintenance of our systems. Two: coils, which  heat and cool the air as it passes over them.   Three: fans, which move air through  the ductwork and spaces of a building.   Some buildings and spaces utilize one HVAC  system per room of a building. These are known   as single zone air handlers and each system  specifically controls the temperature and air   quality in one room. Other buildings and spaces  use larger systems that serve multiple rooms;   these are known as multi-zone air handlers.  These systems have many different devices spaced   throughout the system that allow multiple levels  of comfort to be provided through one large unit.   As seen in this slide, single zone air handlers  utilize a fan to pull air from the room and the   outside; then they mix those two types of  air through a filter and coil to provide   appropriate temperatures and ventilation for  the space being served. There are single zone   air handlers being used throughout all of the  schools and facilities listed on this slide.   Multi-zone air handlers utilize a fan to pull air  from indoor spaces and the outside, very similar   to a single zone air handler. The difference is  that they are removing air from multiple spaces   to mix with outdoor air then running that air  through a filter and coil to provide appropriate   temperatures and ventilation for the multiple  spaces being served. The fact to keep in mind   with multi-zone air handlers is that unfiltered  air does not travel from one interior space to   another. Air is being pulled through a negatively  pressurized return duct and then sent through   a filter before being reintroduced to other  spaces within a building. There are multi-zone   air handlers being used throughout all of the  schools and facilities listed on this slide.   The other HVAC system that is utilized in our  school buildings is exhaust. Exhaust systems   pull air from an indoor space and send it directly  outside with no re-introduction elsewhere in the   building. A primary place exhaust is used within  bathrooms. Exhaust runs continuously in bathrooms   to remove foul odors, airborne bacteria, and  airborne viruses that may be within the space.   People often ask if opening windows and running  100 outside air in the HVAC system will prevent   the spread of COVID-19 in a building. The answer  is likely no. The building systems would not be   able to provide an acceptable level of  heating and cooling for the occupants.   This would create a high level of thermal  stress for building users and it would do   nothing to prevent the spread of the virus by  surface or respiratory droplets. Additionally,   providing outdoor air in a space does not prevent  viral transmission, it only provides a potentially   minimized risk. The Renton School District  is committed to following the best available   guidance from authoritative sources such as the  CDC, the Washington State Department of Health   and ASHRA. To that end, the Renton School District  will reduce recirculation by increasing the rate   of outside ventilation as much as is practical  without negatively impacting thermal comfort;   dilute indoor air by running the  HVAC systems during and after school;   and provide MERV13 filters for  recirculated air where practical.   It is possible that airborne COVID-19  particles can get into the HVAC system;   however, if that situation occurs, the Renton  School District is working to modify our   building systems and minimize the risk of viral  transmission through the systems. As much as we   would like to, it is not possible to eliminate the  risk of viral transmission through an HVAC system;   however, person-to-person contact has  been shown to provide a much more likely   transmission path than aerosol particles  through HVAC systems. As stated earlier,   opening windows does not necessarily lower the  rate of viral transmission in a building or space.   Opening windows is helpful for buildings  with no HVAC system and no other means of   introducing outside air to the interior spaces;  however, Renton School District buildings have   HVAC systems in place, and opening windows can  make spaces uncomfortable and reduce the ability   of the HVAC system to circulate air through  the space and filtration system effectively.   As previously discussed, bathrooms utilize exhaust  systems to remove air from within the space   and provide a negative pressure to prevent air  from moving to other spaces within a building.   While viral particles can exist within  a bathroom, they will not be spread beyond   the bathroom through the ventilation system. To  allow bathroom exhaust to perform appropriately,   all bathroom windows should remain closed assuring  that air is exhausted in a contained manner.   So, the bottom line is that it is up to  all of us to prevent viral transmission.   Source control and behavior are critical.  One: the best ways to minimize transmission   is source control. Stay home if you are sick or  if you have been exposed to someone who is sick.   Two: the second best way is behavior. Wear a  mask, wash your hands frequently, and practice   social distancing. Three: no building modification  can eliminate the risk of COVID-19 transmission.   Four: Renton School District will do everything  practical to reduce risk to our community members.   And five: we need help to keep everyone  safe. We are all in this together. 