 Hey everybody, welcome to  Automation Alley. I'm Tom Kelly, the Executive Director and CEO. Come on in let me show you around. [upbeat music] So, Automation Alley is Michigan's industry 4.0 knowledge center. What is industry 4.0? It's really the collection of technologies. Think artificial intelligence, 3d printing, sensors, cyber security, big data, all the things that are changing the landscape for our industry. We help manufacturers figure that out and at Automation Alley we have over a thousand members all trying to figure this out in the state of Michigan. So we are Michigan's Industry 4.0 knowledge center. Let me show you our first stop which is our atrium. So this is our largest space here at Automation Alley, and this seats over 110 people. What's nice about this space is our members use this to convene the knowledge that  we need in this economy to make the right decisions. The other things that we do here - it's very important - is every  Wednesday, Automation Alley has what's called a technology takeover. A technology company will come in and it might be somebody talking about artificial intelligence,  or 3D printing, or big data. It's a way to help answer what is current today and, 'How can I apply it to my business?' What I want to talk about next is,  we have two other marquee events. One is our Integr8 conference that's the Industry 4.0 conference we do it at TCF Center every year. This year we had over 1100 people show up to talk about industry 4.0 technologies. Very powerful. This april we'll have our technology and industry reveal which is our Technology and Industry Report, in association with 10 academic institutions: the MEDC, and the MMTC and it's looking at, "Where is technology going?" from an academic perspective.  "How do we help our manufacturers understand what's coming over the  hill and around the bend. So between Integr8 and the  Technology and Industry Report, and our tech takeovers, Automation Alley always has you covered with industry 4.0. These are our spaces where our  members are able to come and find a bigger space. A lot of our members are small. I talked about our very largest members but most of our members are under  $10 million in revenue and don't have access to spaces like this and so by being a part of Automation Alley, you're able to use this space. Here come on in let's take a quick look. Hey Faris! So this is a group from Egypt so they've arrived from Egypt to learn about the  ecosystem here at Automation Alley. This is Faris Alami. He's a great supporter  of ours. Thanks for being here. So this is our International  Business Center. This was put in in 2011 and we've had over 35 companies come through this space. and we've generated believe it or not hundreds of millions of dollars of new business for the state of Michigan through our soft landing center.  So if you come with me I'll show you a little bit more. So you can look back here and this is a space where if you're a larger company anywhere in the world, and you have established business but you may not have business in Michigan or in the United States,  you come to Automation Alley, we'll get you set up here in this space for free, and we'll even help you get the contracts that you need to be successful. Well thanks for joining me today. I hope you had as much fun as I did. if you want to know more information check out automationalley.com and also check out  michiganbusiness.org/entrepreneurship Thanks for joining me. I'll see you later. 