 Thank you for joining the San Francisco Tech Council at our July webinar on isolation loneliness and technology. In part one, we welcome Dr. Ashwin Kotwal, Assistant Professor of Medicine in the Division of Geriatrics at the University of California San Francisco. Dr. Kotwal provides an overview of an ongoing study that he and his colleagues are conducting on isolation and loneliness among older adults. Welcome Dr. Kotwal. As a brief introduction into the topic of loneliness and isolation I'll just mention that it's been getting a lot of attention overall in healthcare and the media recently. So in the United States there was recently a National Academy of Sciences report that laid out the evidence for the large impact that these markers of social well-being have on health and called for more research and for clinicians and community organizations to actively work together to address this epidemic and that's something that UCSF has been actively a part of. My colleague Dr. Carla Perissinotto was actually on that National Academy of Sciences report and so I've been fortunate to work with her. In the united states I think there are increasing efforts-- in the United Kingdom there's actually a Ministry of Loneliness and a nationwide campaign to end loneliness. I think this is a global, very much a global phenomenon and what has been clear to me is just how much people care about their social connections and how it can affect health. I think there's a massive community of people that are trying to come up with solutions for this problem. I became interested in these concepts when during my geriatrics training at UCSF I noticed that loneliness and social isolation are fundamentally tied to health and people's quality of life, especially among older adults in San Francisco. This really came to light actually when Shireen McSpadden was giving a grand rounds presentation to our UCSF group and was really kind of building some of the awareness of loneliness, particularly in San Francisco. So I think a lot of physicians, we know how to provide really good medical care for older adults but we don't get great training on how to improve people's social well-being even though we're often on the front lines of seeing many social vulnerabilities and I continue to see a need to break down barriers between these traditionally medical and social needs. And, as Shireen mentioned, this has really been amplified during the COVID-19 pandemic. With that in mind, I think the first important thing is to make sure we're getting the terms right to make sure that we know what we're actually targeting here. I generally think of loneliness and social isolation as related but distinct social risk factors. Loneliness is what we think of as a subjective feeling that your social relationships are lacking, a discrepancy between your desired and your actual social relationships. A popular phrase is you can feel lonely in a crowd. So people can have many relationships or even be married and still feel lonely. The factors that lead to loneliness are complex. There are intrinsic factors--people's personalities, their access to social groups. But there are also extrinsic factors where people live, what trauma they've been exposed to, have they experienced certain transitions in their life like a transition to widowhood or moving to a new neighborhood?  Loneliness has been tied to many health outcomes, including depression, the development of disability, heart disease, dementia, and even death. And we believe that the primary way that loneliness impacts health is through stress pathways. So basically people are having long-standing emotional stress which increases the body's natural stress response and leads to wear and tear on the body. Other ways it can affect health include sleep can affect people's sleep, how they interact with the health care system and how active people are, how physically engaged people are, how mobile people are in their communities. So while loneliness is really thought of as a subjective feeling, social isolation, in contrast is a more objective deficit-- the number and frequency of interaction with family, friends or the community. So this is more of a quantifiable number of relationships. I think of this as a near complete lack of contact with society so how often so we can think of people's social interactions as quantifiable, how often are individuals actually seeing their children, go into their religious groups. This might not necessarily be emotionally distressing for all people, like loneliness, in many ways, it doesn't bother people at all but they can have trouble when they run into difficulties. They may not have anyone to turn to when times are hard, when they need emotional support, financial support, even just getting to and from medical appointments. And these issues can become amplified as people get older or have more medical conditions that they're dealing with. The key point here is that loneliness and social isolation are distinct processes with different potential ways that they're impacting health. And both are quite common in the U.S. So loneliness affects nearly 40 percent of older adults and social isolation occurs in about a quarter of adults in the older adults in the United States. They can often coexist but often occur separately. More recently there has been a lot of concern that COVID-19, the pandemic has been making experiences of loneliness and social isolation worse. As we know social distancing or physical distancing, a more accurate term, and shelter and place orders, they've been critical to reducing the spread of COVID-19, but this is having a huge social impact. Senior centers have closed for many in-person interactions. Visitors are discouraged at nursing homes. Grandparents are limited from visiting their grandchildren. And there have been many reports that socially isolated older adults have experienced breakdowns in getting important caregiver support, having food insecurity, and getting medications. With restrictions and in-person interaction, people really need to be able to navigate technology-based alternatives to connect with others. So we've been interested in understanding people's experiences in San Francisco during this time and we have an ongoing study at UCSF which has had a close partnership with Curry Senior Center and Covia Senior Services, for adults aging 60 to actually late 90s, so 96 years old, primarily living in San Francisco in the Bay Area and we found that loneliness, as expected, has been worsened by restrictions related to COVID-19. Nearly over half of our study participants-- we have about 150 people in our study-- thus far have reported worsened loneliness. This has been a really diverse experience for many people and we've actually seen a remarkable level of resilience among people in in the community. It's also been an incredibly challenging time for many people to maintain social connections. For social isolation we expected that that would increase due to restrictions in in-person interaction and we know that people need to use technology-based alternatives. Unfortunately we found that even when accounting for video or internet-based socializing, over a third of older adults in our study were socially isolated and this has actually been driven by lower use of video communication where about four in five older adults or 80 percent were not using video communication regularly. Low internet-based socializing were only about, a quarter of older adults were not using the internet at all for socializing and this might be a little surprising for people who are tuning in. I think when people are lonely this directly leads to psychological distress and when people are isolated, this again leads to critical unmet medical needs and social needs--difficulty finding people to help with getting food, bathing, helping with medications, getting in touch with medical providers or other issues. But there is a lot of good news as well. Older adults, as we know, are an incredibly diverse group and what we found is that there has been an incredible ability to adopt new technologies which help people feel more included and  increases connections. There's many stories of people using Zoom,  new applications, Twitter, Facebook, the internet, new video devices. People have found classes like at the Curry Senior Center, and people to support them when new technologies are unfamiliar. I've seen a lot of excitement from our study and the majority of people really want to learn. I'll just end by saying a few thoughts about technology-based solutions for loneliness and social isolation in San Francisco. The first is that what we're targeting with technology is really important. So if we're targeting loneliness, we need to be thinking carefully about addressing the underlying issues that are causing loneliness. Is it psychological distress? depression? You know a transition in people's lives often requires an individualized approach. So one technological solution won't be right for everyone. The second is, in the short term, not all older adults have great access to technologies for social connections. Part of this is an access issue but part of it is a discomfort with available technologies. We need to be thoughtful on how to have strategies to better include older adults. This might include classes, volunteers, other methods to facilitate training and it could involve age-friendly design which i'm sure many people in this Council have thoughts about. And and lastly we need to recognize that older adults are incredibly diverse part of our population and they have diverse needs. And they want to be involved in innovation and design. We need to continue to make sure their voices are heard. And finally there's a huge need for research here, so funding is critical. And so I encourage those who are listening to continue to advocate here. Myself and Dr. Carla Perissinotto, my colleague were working on trying to build a coalition in San Francisco so that people can work together to understand local solutions. We would love to have people involved in this group which I think will be very complementary to this Tech Council. So thank you everyone. 