 Welcome to Trussville City Schools for the 2020 21 school year. We're anxious to get started and I hope you are too. My administrative team and I have worked with the State Department,  the Alabama Department of Health and now we have a document from the American Academy of Pediatrics and all of those documents and all those entities are guiding us on how to reopen schools in the middle of a global pandemic. You'll see on the screen the Alabama Department of Education Roadmap to Reopening link. If you want to read the 45 page document it will tell you everything we know about reopening schools. But for the purpose of this broadcast I want to give you the three options for Trussville City Schools families and students for next year. We're so excited to be able to offer you three different things. The first slide gives you a snapshot of what the three options are. Option A is traditional school. Option B is a Husky Online Academy. Option C is the Online Academy Plus and I want to spend a few minutes to explain these three options to you. In the case of Option A, we'll be in school five days a week and it will be traditional and it will look just like it did before. But there is a back-up plan. If the governor or the Department of Health calls for a 50% capacity health order then we will be prepared to educate students two days a week in school and three days a week online. If the governor or the Department of Health calls for another school closure we'll be prepared for a temporary remote learning environment like we did last spring until the orders are lifted and we can return to school five days a week. Option B is our Husky Online Academy. It is off campus and it is an online curriculum known as SchoolsPLP and it is a very rigorous curriculum and available to all students who do not want to come to school five days a week. Option C is our Husky Online Academy Plus. It is online but it offers some in school options for students who would like to take elective courses, AP courses, or any other enrichment, remediation, or intervention course in K through 12. Let me go a little deeper into these three options. This slide shows Options A, B, and C instructional delivery models. You can see over on the side this slide is about instruction and what it looks like. The traditional method will have all students, all teachers, all day face-to-face and it's just like school as we have known it. We will continue our early dismissal day on Thursday. In the case of a new health order with the 50% capacity rule, we will go into a blended environment where students will attend Monday and Tuesday in person and three days online and Wednesday is cleaning day. The building will be disinfected and the other half of the students in that building will come Thursday and Friday after finishing three days online. If in the case of a complete school closure once again we will go into a temporary remote option where students will learn from home until the order is lifted and they can return to school. Each day in the face-to-face option, students will have a little bit of online learning because we want to get you used to the Schoology platform and we want to get you ready to go into the back-up plan for blended or temporary if the case arises. In option B, the learning environment looks like this. Students will work off-campus using a digital platform known as Schoology. The curriculum will be delivered through SchoolsPLP and all of those students that choose option B will be assigned a Trussville City Schools teacher. We hope you'll sign up for that for the full academic year, but if you sign up for it and want to change you can change to the face-to-face option at the end of the trimester or the semester depending on your grade level. Option C is Husky Online Academy Plus. It includes everything and Option B. First of all is everything in Option B plus for 1st through 5th grade students students can connect socially and through scheduled rotations at your elementary school and these rotations will consist of intervention activities,  remediation if you need help and enrichment activities for fun. All of the Academy Plus activities are not graded. You will not receive a grade for those.  But if you want to come in sign up for Option C. The 6th through 12th grade students can sign up for electives, AP courses, any other course that they would like to take on a schedule that's already in existence in the school and you can come in for those courses after you have finished your content online. So Option C students can come in for those type of electives in grades 6 through 12 and you will receive a grade or credit for those courses. For Kindergarten, our Academy Plus classes start in January. We're hoping all of our Kindergarten students will choose Option A, but if you don't then we will work with you as an Option C student and bring you into the school starting in January and it's important to note that transportation is not provided in Option C. Transportation is only provided in Option A. So let's take a look now at teaching and learning for options A, B, and C. The teaching and learning for Option A is traditional instructional delivery. We have our supplemental curriculum with AR and Clever and Dreambox and all those supplementary materials that we've always had. And in the case of the blended option in the case of an emergency and we have to go to blended you will be in school five days a week but online for three and in school for two. In the case of a temporary remote everybody will be online five days a week and everybody will be used to Schoology because you will have practiced that learning method in the face-to-face learning environment and if we have to go into a school closure or a partial closure you'll already know what to do because you will have already used your Chromebook online in class. The teaching and learning for Option B is the SchoolsPLP curriculum. It is purchased by the state and it will be consistent with Option A. So the Option A curriculum and Option B curriculum are the same. So the 6 through 12 electives offered in SchoolsPLP are the same as the TCS electives so if you if you like Option B and you don't want to come in for your elective you can take that online. Teachers will regularly check in with students using a variety of technology tools and communication tools and once again Option B students will have a Trussville City Schools teacher assigned to them and the technology department will be ready to assist you if you need any help. The teaching and learning and Option C is everything in Option B first of all but you have scheduled in school opportunities in grades K through 12 as we've talked about before. In the 7 through 12 electives do mirror SchoolsPLP so the electives are the same and the curriculum is  the same. That really answers the questions about instructional technology but right now I want to go through some of the items that are functional from the State Roadmap and you can you can google the state roadmap and take a look at the 45 page document but based on parent communications, parent questions, and parent concerns, we've created the top 15 answers to your questions. So you can take a look at what this snapshot looks like for Option A which is our traditional face-to-face. Yes, it's five days a week. It's a high quality curriculum. We have extra cleaning and sanitizing scheduled. We have frequent hand-washing built into the student schedules. Masks are encouraged but not required. Social distancing will be implemented as much as possible. Students should bring their own water bottle with their name on it. Fill it up with water before you show up and you can refill it in our water fountains but we're asking that students not drink out of the water fountains. Yes, you will eat in the cafeteria, but we will also have overflow classrooms and outside spaces to use for lunch to increase social distancing. Bus transportation will be provided in Option A. And the next few things are very, very important for health and attendance. We're asking parents to take the temperature of their children every morning before sending them to school and if you have shortness of breath, temperature, congestion, or any of the COVID-19 symptoms please stay at home. If you come to school and you feel sick and you go to the clinic and you have a temperature you'll be placed in a clinic quarantine until your parents can come pick you up. And if children test positive for COVID-19, they'll need a doctor's excuse before returning. And what we really want to emphasize is a new attendance code for COVID-19 symptoms. If you're worried about absences and you're worried about attendance and you have a COVID-19 symptom, please don't come to school. There's a brand new attendance code that will exempt you from school on an excused absence for COVID-19 symptoms. So don't worry about that being unexcused if you have any of the symptoms please stay home. This is the plan and the snapshot and and I want to say again Option A could change if the health order changes. So the Option B snapshot for parents who have asked about staying at home and using the virtual option. For Option B, all remote learning students will be assigned to a Trussville City Schools teacher. The curriculum is rigorous and it follows the Alabama Course of Study. Students will work at their own pace on a weekly basis. We want students to check in for their attendance. All you have to do is log in and we know you're present for the day. And if you can finish five days of work in three or four days that's just fine. If it takes you five days to finish five days of work that's okay too but you can pace yourself as long as you take it week by week and finish your weekly work within the week. Sometimes you'll be asked to come into school and see your teacher and attend a face-to-face session because we want to do a little checkpoint with you now and then. So that might happen it might not happen. But we want students to choose Option B to identify themselves as either an independent learner or we want a family member to be identified as their learning coach especially for the younger children. We need a learning coach that the virtual TCS teacher can call on if there are problems in Option B. If you need any assistance from our technology department, we will be there to assist you like we have been before and if students need paper resources or a packet we'll provide those as well like we did last spring for our seven week course at the end of the year. So the snapshot for Option C which is the Husky Online Academy Plus. The snapshot provides the online instruction and all of the options from from the Husky Online Academy from Option B and the first through fifth grade students can immediately connect socially through scheduled rotations determined by each school and we've already identified the school library is the place for the rotations and the rotations will consist of intervention, remediation, and enrichment. No grades will be given. Our 6 through 12 students in Option C can enroll and attend in school scheduled electives, advanced courses, AP courses for their grade level. And credits and grades will be given. For our Kindergarten students we'll start Option C in January. You'll be an Option B until then and transportation is not provided for Option C. I do want to go over a few health and safety precautions because health and safety is our number-one concern. We're in the business of education, but right now we have to pair education with health and safety in a way that is extremely important. So we have increased cleanliness, hygiene and disinfecting of our classrooms, restrooms, and common areas. We're building hand-washing routines into your daily schedule. We want to encourage you to wear a face mask or a face shield. We'll practice social distancing as much as possible and do line spacing for our students who walk in straight lines. Our classroom seating arrangements will be on a seating chart. Visitors are not allowed. We're trying to limit exposure as much as we can. So as far as transportation for Option A, students will be assigned to seat on the bus and we're trying to transport members of the same household in a configuration for middle school and high school. We would like for those routes to be combined if possible. We're working on it we would love your feedback on that but we need to seat students from the same household together if possible and we will leave the elementary routes alone. Bus loading and unloading will take place at different places. We don't want that bottleneck at the front of the school anymore so we'll open up some side doors and back doors for arrival and dismissal and buses will be sanitized twice a day following the morning in the afternoon routes. Meals will be served in the cafeteria, classrooms, and outdoors and other available spaces. At the time that the 50% capacity restaurant rule changes this could be changed as well but you'll notice that your retail stores and your restaurants are counting people as they walk in and they're trying to seat about 50% of capacity at this time. For parents and guardians, it's very important that you monitor your child's temperature every morning. Anyone with a 100.4 degrees or more should stay home. If you have a sore throat or a cough, congestion of any type please stay home and notify the school immediately if the student has been exposed to COVID-19 or if the student is tested for COVID or household member tests positive for COVID-19 because all of those things that we know allow us to put you into the special attendance code for an excused absence for COVID-19 and that is brand new. And that leads me right to the attendance procedures that you can see on the screen and these parents are the first screening point and we need the help of our parents now more than ever before. So if you'll please take a close look at this slide and help us monitor your child's health. The last thing I want to do is invite you to share comments, concerns and questions. We value your input and this is a link for you to share your comments, your concerns, and ask us any questions.  We will be collecting your questions and posting frequently asked questions on our website. As you go through the 4th of July holiday and as you go through the month of July I want you to take time to reread these slides and make an informed decision on or before July 17th. We will send a link and have a link available for you to register for the Option that you want. Your options are A, B, or C. Please go back through the slides and reread. If you have questions, you can contact your school principal. Most of your questions will be specific to your school. So the principals have all of this information and they're ready to communicate with you, answer your questions, and make you comfortable with your choice. There is no wrong choice. They are all good choices and all of our students will have a very productive school year regardless of the option you choose and we'll make it through this together because we're all in this together. Thank you for your time and thank you for your patience and any question or concern or comment you have will be met with kindness and understanding. We will offer that to you and we hope that you offer that to us as well. We're all in this together to make it work. Thank you and I look forward to hearing from you. I look forward to talking to your principal about your concerns and most of all I look forward to starting school for everyone on August 12th 2020. thank you 