 We want to welcome you back to Renown Health. If you haven't been here for a few months, or have an upcoming test, surgery, a baby on the way, or any other healthcare needs, we can't wait to see you. We want to do everything humanly possible to care for you in sickness and in health. That's why our teams are taking extra precautions to ensure a safe environment for you and your family when you visit us. Everybody including employees, patients, and their supporters are screened with a temperature check at the entrance. Wearing a mask is mandatory and there are social distancing guidelines in place. Me, I feel like by giving them the right answer or helping them where they need to go it makes them feel a little bit more comfortable and makes me feel better knowing I'm able to help them out. We know the important role that patient supporters play in the health, healing and recovery of every patient. As a patient, you'll be asked to choose one healthy adult patient supporter to be with you during a Renown medical visit, surgery, birthing, or hospital stay. Children can have two patience supporters but they can only visit one at a time. If you are coming for a surgery, you must test negative to a COVID-19 test before your procedure and then remain in isolation until the day you are admitted. I love Renown. I'm happy to be here. We will walk you to the pre-operating area to eliminate time spent in a waiting room or lobby. The thing to be able to work with patients side by side to help in the recovery and I feel blessed to have chosen this profession and be able to contribute. Renown Health provides a clean and safe environment 365 days a year, 24 hours a day. We have always held extremely high standards to the cleaning and sanitizing of our surgical areas. As an operating room nurse ourselves, we have to take just moments to gain the trust of our patients and just letting them know that we are there for them throughout their entire stay and that we're gonna make sure that they are safe and come out healthier than before. Renown employs a large environmental service team that uses the highest quality equipment for cleaning and sanitizing including an electrostatic cleaning system and germ zapping robot. These innovative technologies are used to sanitize various areas of the hospital, rooms and equipment. The electrostatic system kills multiple organisms in just two minutes including cold and flu viruses. Our staff takes pride in the work they do cleaning and disinfecting throughout the day. I feel so so like um happy because I see how I can save lives and I'm so proud of what I do. Nothing is overlooked when cleaning. From the patient's room, to a counter, to a doorknob, to an elevator button. We've taken other serious measures to isolate patients who could spread illness to others. Renown Health: we are fighting the good fight for you. We have cared for our community for more than 150 years. From our humble beginnings a smallpox clinic, to today where we continue to be here for you and all your healthcare needs. I love everything about my job. I love creating a positive situation in such a negative circumstance; unfortunately it's where we are in this world. But if I can make people smile then I've done my job. Learn more about the extra steps we're taking to ensure your health and safety at renown.org/wefightforyou 