 Artificial Intelligence and surveillance analytics  are becoming more powerful than ever before   with Hanwha Techwin's deep learning technology.  Let's find out more - you're watching Norbain TV.  Today we have Uri Guterman who's Head of  Product and Marketing for Hanwha Techwin Europe.   He's here to talk about their deep learning  surveillance systems using artificial intelligence.   Uri, deep learning is very much a trend of the  moment but could you explain in simple terms   what deep learning is and what is the relevance  of deep learning to video analytics? Hey Robert,   thanks for having me. Yeah, deep learning is part  of machine learning which is a way of achieving   artificial intelligence by training a machine to  perform tasks based on a large number of examples.   To do that, deep learning uses multi-layered  or deep artificial neural networks which are   essentially mathematical models inspired by the  human brain. And the fact they are deep makes them   very suitable for solving complex problems such  as identifying and recognising objects and events   in raw video with extremely high accuracy.  When applied to video analytics, deep learning   AI techniques offer a far superior performance  compared to more traditional algorithms which are   usually based on motion detection and, therefore,  not sophisticated enough to cope with video noise   such as light pollution from headlights or moving  shadows that cause lots of false alarms, or to   detect static objects such as parked vehicles. So  what does this mean for control room operators and   security personnel? Well, this means they can focus  on responding to real incidents and emergencies   and not waste time and effort on false alarms. In  addition to extreme accuracy, deep learning also   allows operators to recognise specific features  and attributes such as a person's age group and   gender, whether they are wearing glasses, a hat,  or carrying a bag. And the performance is just as   impressive with other types of distractions in the  video or in fast moving or very busy environments.   This improves forensic search and dramatically  speeds up investigations. What type of applications   would you say suit deep learning technology? Well,  deep learning AI, being a superior technology,   is gradually replacing older technologies in all  the video analytic applications we've known for   years especially those that suffer most from false  detection. It's also very suitable in applications   that are more sophisticated than usual video  analytics such as face recognition or niche   applications used in specific vertical markets  like a retailer who wants to gain a greater   understanding of customer behavior in buying  patterns. And at Norbain we understand that   your AI based video analytics can be used in the  help to fight against COVID-19? You're absolutely   right Robert. Deep learning AI cameras are also  proving to be very useful for social distancing   and complying with safety regulations with face  mask detection distance measuring and occupancy   monitoring applications. Uri from Hanwha Techwin  thank you very much. Thank you again for having me.   Well, the applications are clearly endless and  new ones are being discovered all the time.   This certainly gives a clearer understanding  of the benefits of AI based video analytics.   Please do remember to like and subscribe  to our channel and press that all important   notification button so you'll know when the  next video is available thanks for watching 