 Good evening. Welcome to everyone on what is  definitely in Oklahoma a cold icy evening,   and we certainly hope that those of you joining  us this evening are somewhere warm with power.   Obviously you have internet access. It's  certainly been disruptive in a number of ways   and we certainly appreciate your attendance this  evening. I'm Jeff King. I'm on the executive   committee of the DaVinci Institute, and here in  Oklahoma, the DaVinci Institute is Oklahoma's   think tank for creativity and education.  And as part of what we do in that capacity,   we hold a fall forum every year which typically  is a face-to-face event that's held at one of our   member institution’s campuses. The pandemic  of course is a disruption to that this year   and in the spirit of innovation and creativity  as well as knowing well the zoom fatigue that   has set in for everyone it seems in higher  education we decided that instead of our normal   face-to-face mid-afternoon to our mid-morning  to mid-afternoon event we would hold a series   of four one hour uh zoom broadcast Monday through  Thursday of this week and so obviously we have had   two so far this is the third in our series and  for those of you who are joining us this evening   we're absolutely delighted to have doctors Donald  French and Jeanette Loutsch with us for a focus on   stem education and stem faculty in the age of  disruption and the pandemic and then tomorrow   our focus will be on liberal arts and education  and we're delighted to have um Dr. Martha Parrott   from Northeastern State University and a couple  of her teacher ed candidates who will be with   us tomorrow. And along with that, with her  and her students, will be Dr. Thomas Horne   from Oklahoma City Community College who will  speak a little bit about teaching composition   in the age of the pandemic and doing so at a  distance, successfully with some interesting   technological approaches. And finally, Dr. Carie  Schneider from Cameron University will also speak   and do some presentation related to the liberal  arts. So just as a very brief preview of what's   coming up tonight, and then our final installment  tomorrow night, I wanted to share that. And so   before we begin with Dr. French, let me give you a  very quick rundown of what our structure has been   and the focus of what these seri... or what this  series of four Zoom webinars is on, and why we   thought this would be an appropriate topic. The  age of the pandemic has disrupted higher education   enormously, but specifically for faculty, it has  added any number of stressors. The pandemic itself   is a stressor - the disruption of potentially  being a faculty member with children at home,   because their schools are not functioning in a  face-to-face mechanism, is also a stressor; but   teaching in new ways that may be a combination of  face-to-face plus live streaming, or fully online,   for the first time having to function  with the new pedagogy and or andragogy,   as well as all of these other stressors, has  really created a situation in which faculty   can appreciate and can well use  some ideas, some techniques, some   tips for self-care and self-renewal. So we at  the DaVinci Institute thought it would be very   appropriate to try and focus around this idea  of self-renewal and self-care. And to that end,   share among ourselves, faculty and higher  education in Oklahoma, in an informal setting so   that we can all learn some additional ways to help  cope successfully in this new teaching-learning   environment. So that's the reason for the focus  of our four episode mini series, if you will.   And with that, with that then, as a setting or  a frame for this evening, and the entire series,   it's my pleasure at this point to introduce Dr.  Donald French from Oklahoma State University who   is a professor of Zoology there and the  Edward Bartlett Professor of Pedagogy. Educated as an ethologist, he earned his PhD at  Indiana University studying fish behavior then   joined the faculty at University of Maryland  - Eastern Shore, where his research focused on   crab behavior. His interest turned to education  and education research when he joined the faculty   at Oklahoma State University. Since 1992, he's  been coordinating the introductory biology course   and has served as the coordinator for the  university faculty preparation program. His   scholarly focus has been primarily on implementing  and evaluating evidence-based practices,   active learning and inquiry-based or authentic  research laboratories -- for instance in   introductory course work that's been supported by  HHMI, NSF, EPA, and OSU. He's served as president   of the National Association of Biology Teachers  and the Society for College Science Teachers and   has received awards for his teaching and or  research from those organizations as well as   OSU and the Oklahoma State Regents for  Higher Education. So, we welcome Dr. French   to our program this evening, and we're so very  grateful that you're able to join us, Dr. French.   My pleasure. So we'd like to start, there we go. Your slides or my slides? If your screen sharing  is working, you can do that. Would you like me to   do that? That will work fine - that's worked well  in our previous evenings. Okay then I will -- give   me half a second here to put some stuff away;  I already hid my mail so my students wouldn't   interrupt us with various things they do.  And I will go ahead and share my screen.   Let's see if that's working - we have that now?  All right. So thank you for the opportunity   that was a remarkably formal introduction for  an informal setting, so I'm going to switch   perhaps to something a little more informal,  we'll see. And what I'm going to talk about is   delivering laboratory experiences remotely --  that's been our biggest concern at the moment.   I'm not sure, I think my contribution to our  well-being is perhaps if we spend our time   thinking about how we could plan it out,  maybe there'll be less anxiety when we   actually have to do it. So that's  what I'm thinking at the moment.   All right, so what I'm going to talk about is  to, is the planning. How might you plan a lab   depends on what you, as we'll, talk about depends  on what your interests are; what your goals are.   Some options that are available,  again, depending upon your goals   and then finally the approaches we've taken, which  don't cover the broad range other faculty have,   so I'm just going to talk about what we're doing  and specifically in the course, the courses, that   I'm worrying about - concerned about. So the first  thing really you have to think about is, "What is   the role of the laboratory where you are or for  the course you have?" And it could vary from lab   to lab -- one big, one common thought often is  that it's there to support the lecture - it's   there to make sure that you know the students  visualize or engage in the same kind of content   that they might be seeing in lecture. At that  time, but you might have a whole different   experience in mind. You might be focused on the  process of science discovery -- getting involved   in investigation. So there's a variety of things  that you can think about to either expand or   alter the content entirely, or the focus entirely.  Perhaps the experience you're thinking about is   to provide an authentic experience, and that's  again, something that many people debate as to   what does it mean to have an authentic experience;  especially within an undergraduate course setting   and I know of a lot of ideas that people have  various places, including UCO, down at OU,   etc. where people are trying to do this sort of  thing. So when I say authentic, what I'd like to   at least think about is these aspects, and this  is a paper that I produced a few years ago, that   it involves students in the use of scientific  practices, all right, -- so the process of   science, the kind of tools that we all use as  scientists, it involves some kind of discovery,   so there's something new to them; and then,  and this is where a lot of debate occurs, how   new does it need to be to call it authentic? And  it's something we could all have an interesting   discussion the rest of the evening, or probably  for days on end. It needs to be collaborative,   students are working together, just like  scientists do iterative, that is it's not a   one-shot deal. I don't just sit there do this one  experiment and whatever I get my for my results,   that's it. They get an opportunity to work on a  process - rethink it, re-evaluate and try again;   and then broadly relevant to somebody. And this  can apply in a wide range of fields - it's not   just the sciences, but it should be relevant  hopefully to someone besides just themselves or   maybe the few students around them, or themselves  and the teacher. Who is it, who is it relevant?   So if you're looking at your own  labs and thinking about this,   you know, what are your expected outcomes? Is it  content mastery? Are you interested in specific,   factual conceptual knowledge, and that plays  one role in doing a laboratory? And again,   what I'm talking about, it doesn't matter whether  it's online in our particular circumstances or   face-to-face; we all have to face these kinds  of questions. Is it about process mastery,   design, interpretation, evaluation of data?  How far do you want to go? Whose data is,   whose data are we talking about? What should  people do with it? Is it skills mastery,   analytical or technical? And there you might  say, "Well this where we have a little more,   perhaps, emphasis on the hands-on component of  the laboratory as opposed to the design component   of the of the laboratory." So again, it's going  to depend on how you perceive the value of that   particular laboratory, who your students are, etc.  So there's lots of possibilities and combinations.   Okay, so what's your approach? And I'll say  this, we can talk about this in terms of inquiry;   you can talk about this in terms of authenticity;  and again the different viewpoints on that, but   who sets the goals for the lab? Who chooses  the topic? Who chooses the question to   be investigated, which is the materials,  the designs and procedures, the analysis?   Who's coming up with the conclusions and this is  a continuum? I see a lot of people over the years   associate, for example, inquiry or authentic with  something only on the far end -- that's discovery.   The students have to do it all. Well, usually  that's not the case. That's independent research,   maybe. If you think about it, even doctoral  students don't always decide what the question is   that they're going to work in that laboratory. It  often depends upon where the funding comes from,   etc. So, there's a range of things that can be  done, and the teacher plays a different role   in that laboratory and making those decisions.  So again, how comfortable are you? Where are   your students? How well prepared are they? Can  we get them, especially when we have to do things   remotely, can we get them to whichever of these  to succeed in whatever/whichever these tracks   that we might perceive these as, as to what,  who's doing what, who's responsible for what? And to match those, there's a wide range of  tools and it's actually very interesting,   having had a lot of discussions in the last  a few months on, on how to accomplish these   it's going to depend very much on what are the,  what the goals are, what your resources are,   in order to decide. But perhaps, if it's content,  for example, then maybe if you're in an anatomy   lab, used as an example, then images may be quite  sufficient - videos for some folks. If it's about   learning procedures, at least understanding  what the procedure is about, and that again   is being demonstrated by videos, we have people  doing dissections live in front of the class when   the animals are dead. But nonetheless, but the  section...and they might be a video that's been   done before. On the other hand, we have  simulations...animations we might move up to   interactive lessons case studies, if you've  done work in the past, a lot of computer-based   instruction has been a matter of setting up  sequential environments in which students   are asking questions, answering questions, and  laboratories, even, online are getting far more   elaborate. They often miss the goal of of the  the iteration. They miss the variation in data,   if you will. They don't fail as often, if you  look at a lot of laboratory, but that's not always   true. But you can have, as indicated here, for  example, my comment there, but Ben's bad day it's   providing students with a scenario they can work  through. These sorts of things understand what the   neurological behavioral, in this case, processes  what's going on when this occurs. You see that   the little picture about the membrane potential,  you can sit and you can adjust various parameters   and get results. The students can then graph, work  on, etc. and work from their databases and data   sets, if you know anything about the literature of  bioinformatics work; but, there's other databases   being developed so students can work with that.  And I'm going to give you a couple of examples   of what we've been doing, but another, an other  approach altogether, which people say is, well if   the goal is to understand how science works, then  working through primary literature may be quite   valuable - not just reading it once and talking  about it, but basically deconstructing it,   reconstructing, decide what is the, what is the  next experiment that might be done. How might this   researcher approach this? And if there is a  series of, sequence of behavior papers, you could   reveal them one at a time and say,  "Okay well this is what you folks think.   How would you collect that data? Let's take  a look to see what the next step is." In   our, in our, one of our other classes that I'm not  going to talk about today, but well, just briefly:   We do a lot of that, all right, where we sit  there and look at pri... and ask students to   design experiments, and then look at the results  of others, and then talk about what's occurring.   So there's a wide range of them. And then finally,  there's the idea of remote data collection.   And there are sites around the country where  some of that is available, where it can happen.   A lot of citizen science is being done where  remote data occurring. In our case we'll talk   about where someone in the laboratory is doing  work, and the students are remotely collecting   the data, or at least receiving the data, and  then they can work on it. So, they're missing   the hands-on component, but they gain the rest of  the experience. And I mentioned Merlot down here -   I have some URLs at the end of the presentation,  but Merlot is an organization - Oklahoma's been,   was an early participant - one of the founding  members, Jim Bidlack down there at UCO, still   is extremely active; and this is an opportunity  to have...so all of these items that I happen to   pull up there, I did this on purpose, they were  all pulled off pretty much pulled off Merlot. So   there's opportunities to say where you get these  resources, as we talk about them to match what   you're interested in doing. Okay and finally  we might have to think about how do we assess;   and I'm not going to spend a lot of time,  but you know, for identification of anatomy,   maybe fixed response, maybe multiple  choice would be a good idea; maybe an   essay -- drawing material might work up to  that. For experiments that are longer term,   any kind of work reports or manuscripts - we have  a little journal that we produce for our students,   and they get the opportunity to actually publish  in that journal. And I'll talk briefly about that,   but poster sessions, which can be done  also electronically, as we've been doing,   is a well-known way of getting students  actively involved, and it can be done online,   just as well as it can be done, perhaps a little  less nervousness, depending on what it's like,   it can be done online as well. So I'll talk a  little bit about, specifically, about our approach   in doing this. We've been funded for a number of  years now through a grant from the Howard Hughes   Medical Institute for STEM persistence through  authentic authentic research opportunities,   and we were providing these as both CURES,  so materials in laboratories as well as   as mentored research opportunities through  courses; as well as other events occurring to   get students involved in research. And, but today,  I'm just going to really talk about a couple of   things specifically with one of our labs, although  we did do some work in other courses as well.   And the course I'm going to talk about, not  surprisingly, is the one that I coordinate.   It's a mixed major, so everyone's in it. There's  about 1600 over the year, as you can see here.   They receive a topic, observation, background  - the students work in groups of four,   do the whole work of designing the  experiment, conducting the experiment,   and then ultimately they submitted to the  journal of Introductory Biology Investigations,   where it's actually double-blind reviewed  and the students get back feedback - and   several times, so they get an opportunity to  see how they can improve their manuscript.   And hopefully at the end, there's two components  - one, they do receive a grade based on it,   but also, the manuscripts that meet our criteria  are actually published, and they have a citation,   and they're rather proud of this - many of them,  and this sort of thing. What do our experiments   look like? We tried to make something authentic,  connected up to our researchers at OSU. So one   was on: looking at maximizing microalgae growth,  Picochlorum oklamense, was something that was,   is local, to Oklahoma. It was discovered by  one of our faculty at OSU. The students use   incredibly economical photobioreactors, that  is you see the water bottles that are there,   those are photobioreactors which the students  can build and collect data on various parameters   so they can choose whatever they want to do, to  see if they can maximize this. And then they can   learn the techniques of cell counts, of using mass  and dividing to get idea of how how much the cells   are growing, they can do some work on looking  at characteristics of the cells - do chlorophyll   counts etc., so chlorophyll measurements. So,  they can look to see what their parameters   have been like how successful are they in growing  these better than has been done before. One of our   other experiments, based on research that was  done actually a long time ago. It was ironic,   one of the other faculty, newer faculty, came  out of the same lab that I did when I did my PhD,   and they used classical ethological models, where  you present these to the fish and you look to see   what characteristics, I'm already in my fish mode  -- I put my fish in my hand automatically when I   do this -- we look to see what characteristics  do, are attractive for the potential mates,   and the students are able to use these. But  we have them design things with 3D models,   all right. So those are how the labs were done  traditionally, how did we do our shifting.   Well pre-COVID 19, the planning is done  online, so we were in good shape there.   They submit their plans for their experiments,  they get their feedback before they come in,   experimentation was done in lab, the  writing was all done in lab using   Microsoft Office, and submission and grading also  was done online. So, they submitted to the journal   where it was double-blind reviewed. So, we had  some things going for us that was well positioned   for making a shift. So what do we have to do for  a shift? Well spring of 2020, you know, the panic   we all faced -- What do we do? And we had some,  our, my TAs -- there's a lot of them -- they were   outstanding in pitching in. And basically the  t... the students went remote and their hands   were the TAs. And so, their job was to give the  TAs their specific directions: what do you, do   what are you collecting for me? Now the advantage  was that depending what they were doing once   the experiments were set up and you can see the  TAs, if you see in the lower right hand corner,   there's a TA. She's actually talking to the  students. So they had computers at every table and   the stu…the TAs would walk around the room just  like they were walking and talking to each group.   The other force, the students are online and  they literally are talking to them, "What do   you want me to do?" They're on camera; they walk  to the next table, they're talking to them there,   and they're walking around the room, and with the  remotes, with the software, the students could   actually use LoggerPro and they could see the data  being collected as the experiments were going on,   at least for the algae experiment. And one of  our ones on fermentation, they could actually   see the data being collected. So it worked  out nicely, except for the set of hands. Okay   well that's great - how do we modify that for  fall 2020 - we have a different circumstance? So   we went with many of the same things - the  students could still do collaborative work   using Google, they could work their documents, the  TAs could watch them, they could see how they were   working. And what we did was, we brought half the  team in. So two students in, two students out,   so we could have social distancing. All right,  a lot of work to set up the laboratory to make   sure that nobody could breathe on anybody  else; we're very careful, but nonetheless,   but I want to make a comment about this - which is  also interesting. We had an interesting problem,   which you know, which was we have different  combinations of students -- some of which   really didn't want to go back in the laboratory,  others really wanted to be in the laboratory.   This is also true of our graduate students --  some of them were concerned about, "How do I keep   everything safe?" And so basically, over time,  we said, "Okay let's give them some freedom,"   and as long as someone's working, so for some  TA group combinations, they had the two and two,   for some they had one and three (one student would  come in and work in the lab, the three remote),   and in some cases they they decided that  the TA would be the hands and the students   would be remote; but they're there on their  monitors, the students, the TAs can see them.   We added document cameras so they can see  the setup in front of them at all times.   There's a camera on the person, there's a camera  on the desktop, so they're really able to see   all the experimentation going on and we let  students, we still don't know at the end   how the different arrangements worked, as far as  final results, we'll see, but for now we know that   those laboratories are moving along. They're  getting the full experience as best we could. Now the fish lab was a little more complicated,  because it really takes direct observation setting   up video cameras to actually get all the angles  - it's difficult, so we went with the database   approach. We have many years of data which  the students in the past have been collecting,   and so we could have huge data sets of these  model presentations and the students can go in   and they can look at the models and decide which  model they want to use. And instead of just doing   the normal comparisons, they could compare  any set of models to any other set of models,   as long as they were tested against a common  control. And we have lots of data like that, so   we're able to move our students online entirely.  And they're still working with very real data,   okay, so that's pretty much the...so it's a  different approach there using our own data. And   by the way, you can see our little 3D fish there.  We built the soft...we built it so the students   could come in and actually, whatever model they  chose, they could bring it down and rotate it   on its own screen so they can take the parameters  and see exactly what their, what their fish model   looks like. And we're developing that for the  future, as well, so students can modify things.   Okay I'm going to take one other example we have  - another course, which is on DNA barcoding,   to characterize zooplankton communities. And this  is really much more the true CURE - it's based on   Dr. Andy Joloski's research, and you can see over  here, this is some of the projects - he's working   on detecting invasive species, restoration of fish  habitat, and we're trying to develop techniques   used so they can effectively use DNA barcoding  to characterize the plankton communities.   So we have our students in it - is very much  technique intensive DNA extraction, PCR,   gel electrophoresis, so we can do some work. And  so again, we paired the students so they could   work and they could switch off which student is  doing which work each week. And what I thought was   worth doing is giving you a picture here of what  the lab looks like. Here are students, you can see   at the moment they're learning how to  use their analytical balances to get,   um, to take measurements, and we're actually  watching them through the document cameras.   We're remote here. I am, I'm remote, one of the  TAs is remote, the other one is in the laboratory,   and if you'll see over here, there's a  comment here by Giaren, she's a postdoc   of mine - unfortunately she went to China when  COVID hit, and she's been there ever since,   so she's remote from China watching our  students. So we're watching them all   remotely. They're communicating with us over  there - their microphones - we're watching the   work they're doing, and even colleagues in China  are giving them feedback saying, "You might want   to try this now. What should we try next?" Critics  critiquing their work and providing them with with   feedback. So I thought that was worth doing. We're  very proud of this, this is our chat going on   and again, it's possible to do these  sorts of things. Does this all work well?   This is something we can debate, but at least  we'll do the, do no harm. Pre- and post-COVID   are grades, at least in the spring, there was  no effect - no negative effect on this this   semester. It looks like some of our lab grades  are actually a little higher now. We also have   a little more disparity, and I'll be honest about  some of this, we have some students that are not   taking to - what I mean is they're not showing up  when they should, and that presents a problem. And   we have a way for them to work out, if they don't  do the work, how they can compensate, but we are,   I don't say losing, but we have some instances  where we really have to reach out to them more   and work on that because, they're, they, we do  have some that are not earning the credit, because   they're not completing the work they should.  This happens throughout many courses, let's not,   let's not pretend, but we're just a little more  aware of it under these circumstances. But the   grades on the reports are actually a little  higher than they've been so far, so we'll see.   So with that, I thought I would leave - and maybe  since we're supposed to have some discussion,   a couple of questions we might want to kick  around, depending on how you'd like to open   the discussion. What are your goals...learning  objectives for your labs? What do you value most?   When you think about this, and maybe we can talk  about what might be a good approach. And then,   what challenges do you think you're facing? We're  doing this with a large number of students and a   small # of students; we're doing this with a lot  of tech; and we're doing this with a lot of um   I mean some of our TAs are new to the campus;  and some of ours are old hat; and have done this   numerous times before, so we've got a range  of experiences. What might your challenges   be? And with that in mind, I'll open that up for  discussion, whatever you'd like to do, Jeff. Thank   you, Dr. French. Very fascinating how you made the  transition. And all of us were are well aware of   the fast pandemic pivot, which I think is closely  related to the funky chicken or the running man;   but the pandemic pivot that was forced upon  higher education around the time of spring break.   The way I think we should proceed,  for just a few minutes here,   there is one question already posted into  chat for you, and while you're taking a second   to read that, the attendees can also see that  Mark Walvoord has posted the link to Merlot,   and please understand whatever your  discipline, Merlot is a wonderful resource   which can provide case studies with video  resources in support of the case studies on   pedagogy; on disciplinary content. If you haven't  visited the Merlot site, please take a few minutes   to kind of tool around - you'll be, I think,  very very impressed with the range of resources   that you can put to use as a result of that  visit. So with that, let me turn it back to you,   Dr. French, for that first question.  Okay so I'm taking them in in some order,   so what is this...How does this,  this is a fairly straightforward,   "How does this differ for your courses for major,  for majors?" We believe wholeheartedly that,   right, the general education is, we've made a  course that's suitable for all, for all students,   and prepares our majors. So we think that at the  earliest at this earliest level course this is   this is both majors and non-majors um uh and  and anyone that that realizes that students   are trying to decide what major they're going to  be plenty of our majors are not really thinking   you know they're not i don't want to say  they're not really majors that's not fair   but they're entering it for a wide range of  reasons so the experience is good for everybody   they all need that sort of um understanding of  what science is and once we started thinking about   this way how do you leave saying i understand  how to do an experiment i understand how   the problems that researchers face the problems  that um science encounters how to think this way   we're not sure if you said should that have been  for majors or non-majors to know what it's like   to be to to do science and so that's what that  is about plus many of our you know students are   start out you know what do we declare a major well  you can be any you can be any major and be pre-med   so what do what what harm does it do okay um  and the question here about to make something   authentic they need to get publications  even undergraduate research journal or   proceedings so that is the that is the interesting  question about what does make something authentic   and there's a couple of different thoughts about  this among people um the more inquiry-oriented   folks say it is important that the students um  focus on coming up with design making their own   contributions um designing and taking ownership  that way and that discovery can be more local   there are others who say yes we want to contribute  and it should contribute to a far broader audience   and that can mean so for example if I'm when  you say publication if I'm doing for example   what we're doing here with the DNA barcoding those  students are not necessarily getting publications   but the information goes to a database or so any  of our student or it goes to the faculty member   it's data that's being contributed,  so that's an aspect of authenticity   and it's interesting because if you think about  a lot of research, the inquiry folks, if you will   put an emphasis on design, the different aspect  of authentic, say well it has to contribute to a   broader audience, so one of the ways we dealt  with this was creating that student journal,   so every student has the opportunity to approach  to publish in that. And that journal is used   by all the subsequent years of students, so they  get to see the other research - they cite it,   they work with it. Should they also cite  other kinds of primary literature, absolutely,   but it is definitely the full experience  in the sense of they are contributing to   knowledge through to multiple years of generations  of students. So based on that, just like inquiry,   there's a continuum of what is authentic. That  answers the question. Okay anyone, anyone else? Well, you know, this is a beautiful segway  into comments from Dr. Jeannette Loutsch,   and I’m hopeful, Dr. French, you can stay  with us to the end, because I know that   the connection between what you've just  talked about and the things that Dr. Loutsch   will share will mean that we may have a very  robust combined Q&A at the end. That was my plan,   so I'll be delighted - Jeanette I'm, I'm looking  forward. Wonderful well at this point, it is my   great pleasure to introduce to everyone Dr.  Jeanette Loutsch. Dr. Jeanette Loutsch's PhD   is in pathology from St. Louis University.  She's a molecular virologist and teaches   introductory biology, genetics, microbiology,  cell molecular biology, immune... immunology,   and viral virology. She mentors students in  research and does STEM outreach for young   women and men by way of introducing them  to food science and food preservation.   Dr. Loutsch has been at USAO since the fall of  2007. And so, Dr. Loutsch, thank you very much for   being with us this evening and contributing;  and once again we will keep track of um the   uh questions that might come into chat, and  we are happy to present you at this point.   Thank you very much. So my experience is quite,  not quite as organized as Dr. French's experience.   I actually had taken the summer off of teaching,  my first summer off in 20 years, and so   I actually took a bunch of classes to try  to figure out what the best thing to do for   online teaching actually would be  in the laboratory situation, and so   one of the things that I felt when we were  having conversations about what to do with our   students is, I don't think that they were really  considered much in the practice of what we're   going to do in terms of the fall. So I actually  didn't make a decision about my classes either   being asynchronous or synchronous or in person or  online until actually the first day of class when   I actually met with our students. And I think Dr.  French mentioned this too, most of our students   or at least at USAO a lot of our kids, wanted to  be in the classroom, which is all well and good,   except when your laboratory has been deemed  a six-person lab instead of a 24-person lab.   It made it quite interesting for me to come up  with a way to teach this semester. I’m actually   teaching microbiology and its laboratory and cell  molecular biology, and then a new lab that we're   actually trying to integrate, biochemistry, along  with our cell molecular thing. And so we're making   it a a two-credit course that meets twice a week  so that the students can see a little bit more   about what actually happens, and then the lab  will actually cover the cell molecular as well   as our biochemistry requirement lab. And so I'm  trying to figure out how am I going to take my   21 kids in cell and biochemistry techniques into a  classroom that can hold six, and how do I take my   18 kids in micro into a lab that holds six? And so  for me, I wanted that experience to be a hands-on   experience. Our students, in the past  in the 13 years that I've been at USAO,   they take away a significant amount of tools from  both, you know, at that point it was the cell   molecular biology lab and the micro lab, that  has really enhanced their ability to get jobs.   It's enhanced their ability to decide on  graduate school or not graduate school.   It's gotten them into summer research programs.  It's introduced them to mentored researching which   we do here on campus. And so I couldn't, in my  heart of hearts, let my students not have that   same experience that lots of other students had  had in the past; and so one of the things that I   was doing as I was getting ready to have our first  meeting for the lab, since we couldn't all fit   in the lab room, was to do a Zoom conference with  them remotely. And as I was getting ready to start   the Zoom conference I got this like, aha light  shining moment, you know, big ray of sunshine   came down over my head and I'm like, "What if we  ran this like a research laboratory...actually   gave them the opportunity to conduct experiments  in small groups that they would, that all   led to a bigger piece? We would have Zoom meetings   in which we would talk about what they did,  what the implications of what they did,   and those kinds of things had on the  overall impact of the experiment?" And so   truly, not only do we have this new class that's  not been taught before, but now we have this   very highly experimental method of teaching this  particular class. And so we've gotten to where,   I mean, we're still working out some of the  bugs, there's a bunch of data I have to evaluate this week, so that we can move on to the next  step to determine whether our enzyme kinetics   lab needs to have a few more tweaks to it, or  if we're ready to start writing that up. So   we meet about every two weeks as a group,  online during one of my hours of office up   Zoom office hours, and we kind of talk about the  things that we've actually been doing. And so   I've broken up the groups in such a way  that they only come, like maybe once a week,   or depending on if the lab is really short, we  have an hour and a half group that comes at 3 and   then we have a second group that comes at, what  is that 4:30 about, and then they do their stuff,   and when we kind of collect and make a data  bank of the data. And what have you, and so,   we're starting at that point where they're  all getting the same types of laboratories. So   this week, while we were supposed to finish it up  on Friday, Western Blot looking at relatedness of   some fish that one of my counterparts went out and  caught at our habitat area, we have a what used to   be the old farm associated with USAO where campus  was supposed to be built that, it didn't happen at   that point back in 1908 or whatever that was, and  so we've kind of turned it into a native prairie;   and it's got some water and so a friend, might  one of my counterpart teachers and his son,   went out and caught some fish. We're going to try  to see we're going to do some bar coding for the   fish as well as this protein analysis to see if  they have, you know, proteins in common. Are those   proteins common enough to be recognized by the  antibody, are they the same size? So we can do,   you know, we can do protein determination.  We could do, you know, molecular sizing.   They're get...they got the experience of  running an acrylamide gel, a dry block transfer,   and now they'll get the opportunity to  do the Western; whereas the other group,   they didn't get that same experience, but they got  to set up an ELISA, and we made this story about   who has COVID -- who doesn't have COVID. And so,  we did a multi-step ELISA process so that they   also get to see antibodies. And so when we get  together this coming week, after we finish up the   Western part of our protein study, those kids are  going to explain the differences between those two   techniques, and other than substrate, there really  is not much, but it's a totally different process   for them to get to see. And we are also kind of  using that same sort of idea with our microbiology   classes. They learned a bunch of techniques, like  how to test for sugar production or sugar usage,   rather, and you know sulfur production, and indole  production, and now we're getting ready to give   them their unknown final case study, because the  majority of that class is actually kids who want   to be physicians, or they're nursing students,  so they basically are all in the same 3000-level   micro class, and so they're getting ready to get  big case studies. Each one of them will get a   case study with a particular sample - so somebody  will get salmonella, obviously, and it'll be in a   tootsie roll. So we'll autoclave some tootsie  rolls and inoculate that and so they'll get very   real looking samples along with patient data that  I generate, because part of my previous world I   was a medical technologist, so I have lots of  you know, gory, but, micro bacteria stories   of things that I've seen in in actual real life  patients that I can then pull in, and you know,   give these particular things to students. And they  have to be able to identify the organisms by the   end of the semester. And so, this idea of them  sharing a little pieces of information, and then   doing the work on their own,  has kind of been really nice,   because now they can just kind of  come in the lab when they need to,   and I don't have to babysit them quite so much. So  they're getting a very, also a very hands-on, very   targeted type of experience in that class,  which you know, I don't think a lot of   students get that opportunity, especially with  this semester being, you know, a lot of kids being   online. Now we have also added some simulation  stuff. Labster has been really good to us - to   kind of cut us some breaks on using a few  of their Labster programs, and so a lot   of the topics in our cell-molec-biochem class,  basically were introduced by doing a simulation   and then they actually came into the lab.  So they learned the theory outside of class,   come in, and could actually just do the hands-on  stuff, and it seems to be working. They seem   to really be liking how it's working out. And  again I have a lot of data to kind of look at,   at the very end here to see if this is a way  that me, we may want to continue, at least with   this particular class, is to treat it like what a  graduate program would look like, because that's   one thing - we just aren't very lucky here at  USAO - there's no graduate programs; there's no   access to graduate labs. I mean we all have our  little bitty tiny pieces of research, but not,   you know, we're not a R1 school, and so this gives  them that kind of another level of understanding   what graduate school is, because I don't think,  I think a lot of them know what medical school   is or PA school, and I think this gives them a  chance to go, "That's what you do, this kind of   stuff?" and I'm just like, "Yeah this is what  we do." And so I'm hoping that that becomes   the model for this particular class,  and maybe, hopefully some of our other   upper level classes, because  this is actually a 4000-level   laboratory experience, and I'm hoping  that I can continue to make it work,   even if we don't have to worry about COVID. I  think this idea of giving them very hands-on, very   directed experiences, and right now we're using  a bunch of kits and stuff, but like from Bio-Rad   so we can do CRISPR, if we have time again. I  think it gives them that opportunity to see what   all the steps are as opposed to just like this  little piece that they may not understand. And so   hopefully in the future this will continue in this  kind of a way and it kind of just really fits in,   because it gives us a chance to talk about  other areas where this may work. And with   the combination of biology students and chemistry  -- so we have biology majors and chemistry majors   in this program -- it gives them a chance,  specifically our chem kids, to see biology   applications, because the chem program is pretty  much all chem, all the time, and they miss out,   I think, on some of, "Well why is this important?"  because they don't have to do anatomy, they don't   have to do physiology, in those kinds of classes.  So it kind of helps them make a little more sense   of how to incorporate multiple disciplines into  the same type of experience that they would have   if they were just doing a biochem lab without  any emphasisis...emphasis, Ican't even talk,   emphasize...whatever that word  is...it's been a long day... to help them understand that there  is a connection between the two.   And that's about all I have to say right  now, that hopefully there'll be more   good information coming out of this idea  that just sort of happened by accident,   on a Friday afternoon. Well thank you very  much for explaining how, what you're doing,   now, came to be and a little bit  of the insides or the guts of that.   Mark Walvoord has posted the links to Labster and  some link regarding CRISPR there, but one of the   things that, just selfishly, I'm curious about,  and Dr. French had mentioned also the fact that   one of the things that scientists are great  at doing, even teaching scientists, is   they look at the data in terms of student  performance at the end of each term;   and certainly that yields very, very interesting  and usable information, but I'm wondering   now that you're 10, 11 weeks, or whatever it might  be, into the semester with this new approach,   from the teacher's perspective, do you have a  sense that, compared to students when you were,   when they were only engaged in the way that you  had it set up before this semester, do you notice   student differences in enthusiasm and attendance?  Just from the teaching perspective, what has   interested you? We've been, I've been really  surprised -- the kids have all been, even if   I'm a little bit late like on posting what the lab  looks like and stuff, they all come in pretty much   ready to go. So even if I only give them 24 to 36  hours to process what the lab will be about, they   seem to be ready to go, which I think is amazing.  I do have one student who doesn't show up, but to   be honest, she doesn't surprise me. She starts  really strong every semester, and then just,   as you know, we all, like he said, we all have  those students you know that are, like that.   I think that their ability to talk about science  is improving. We started out where it's like,   "Oh and then I took five microliters of this,  and I added it to six microliters of that,"   and now they're actually talking more about  what that science means, as opposed to you know,   reciting the recipe. So I think they're kind  of getting a point of understanding that. So   they're going to have one big paper that they  have to write over one, whichever lab they really   feel the most comfortable with, so they'll write  like a, like a "manuscripty" kind of a situation,   and then they'll write what we call executive  summaries, which is like a one-page,   "These are my results; this is what it means;  this is what we should do next," to give them   that opportunity to work on their writing skills,  because that is one of the big things, too, that I   think we need to work with our students -- is not  so much, not just the sc...talking about science,   but writing about science in a way  that scientists write. You know, like   we, it, and it's one of the biggest struggles,  and we even have a scientific writing class   that they all take as sophomores, and we  still have to remind them, "No adjectives;   not, no personal pronouns; no, you know, this  is not, you're not trying to impress your   teacher with the use of big words that you  may or may not know the meaning of," and so   we start, start out in our ideas of this, is we  kind of start out, we grade them pretty harshly,   but they get perfect scores, so we  give them lots and lots of feedback   and then as they move through, they get less help  and their grades are going to be penalized by,   you know, if they're con...if they are continuing  to make the same mistakes over and over; because,   most kids just, they don't understand that, you  know, the method isn't really... the method,   everybody's method is based on somebody's...else's  method, you know, and you can just go ahead and   say, you know, "Based on, you know, such and such  laboratory," whatever. And so, it, we, I continue   to struggle with some of those things, even though  I've had these kids two or three times, and you're   just like, "I told you not to use that word! Well,  it's statistically significant... where's your   stats?" Then, you know, so like all these little  pieces that you kind of have to bring in and,   you know, kind of we like to talk about  beating the humanity out of the student,   so that this is not your English pape,r  this is not you know British Lit paper,   this is a scientific thing and we don't  have time to read a lot of fluffy stuff;   so, just give us the content of what  we need and we will go from there. And   it's, I think it's working. I'll be anxious to  see if I can convince them all to do their course   evaluations, you know, that's the other thing  that's, I think, a hard thing to get kids to   do. They're so tired by the end of the semester,  that the last thing they want to do is sit down   and say anything, and they're like, "But we like  it!" Yeah, I need that on paper - my boss needs   to read that, his boss needs to read that, the  president of the university needs to read that!   "Oh well, maybe I'll get it done  this weekend," I'm just like...so,   you know, I, just kids, are wonderful things.  I love working with the students, even though   some days I just want to pull all my hairs out,  you know; but they're coming along and I think,   you know, I think this group is really going to  benefit from how we've done this. And so we shall   see. Yes, wonderful. Dr. French I'm curious  about this idea Dr. Loutsch has just talked   about - students understanding how to communicate  about science. Ad I'm wondering if there   might be any effects of students working in this  new kind of environment where maybe because the   environment demands more written communication to  communicate their ideas and their understandings,   whether maybe there's a potential that there could  be more of that kind of development in students   becoming more facile, more  quickly in communicating science? So of course a lot of the communication,  though, that we're doing is live,   back-and-forth communication, so if you watch  chats, yeah communication goes up, but the format   is actually something more comfortable - which is  the short, quick responses. In terms of other work   though, so we've been having them write paper,  write journal, essentially a journal article,   a manuscript they've submitted for a while, so  they're used to doing that. What is interesting,   of course, for some of it, is their ability to  communicate what needs to be done, and realizing   that people don't always understand what needs to  be done unless you're clear about explaining it,   or asking the right questions. When someone says,  "I did this," well, what exactly did you do?   And so, many of the conversations seem to sound  very much like us, which is, we might say when a   student says, "Well I did this. I heard just about  significance," or whatever, "Well where's the   data?" We need to have that for our paper; where  is this? So they're more cognizant in a different   way, and they're communicating. And again, it  depends. We're still working out, you know,   in five or six more years of doing this, we'll  get really good at it. But the idea of, you know,   what partnerships look like for communicating, and  I often tell my stu…the students when I'm talking   to them, that you know, I'm listening and watching  how my sons have to work now, and both of them are   working for online, you know, for the companies  they work for and everything, is this sort of   combination of chatting and video conferencing  and various other, you know, whether it's Slack or   something else, a constant stream of information.  And they should get used to this. This is, I think   some of the greatest experience they've ever had  in real, in real communication between each other,   that they will have to carry on. And, but  that'll take a while - that'll take a while. It's   interesting too, I think, we sometimes forget,  and this is not...I admit it, that this is a   not something I do with my students, but there  are other forms of communication in terms of,   yes written, but communicating to a more...broader  audience of a public that might be different. And   I think that depends, you know, on what the  goal of that, again that goal of that course.   What's the objective? So you know, so for  example, Jeanette I can learn from you,   I'm a behavioral biologist, trying to get my  students to do molecular work, which by the way   has served very nicely, because I get to  truthfully tell them that I'm totally ignorant   of what they're doing! And so, they should be free  to practice communicating, and I'm going to ask   ignorant questions because I don't know how this  works. Now unfortunately, as I've learned from   my students over the last few years, I'm getting  more proficient with molecular, so I'm not quite   as ignorant; but, you know, it's interesting when  they have to say, "Oh Dr. ,don't you understand   how this works? Let me explain it to you," and  that actually works very nicely, especially the   first couple times we did this. But there's  also communicating to get into that broader   audience. Someone said, "Well what happens?" So  there's a classic piece of work in DNA barcoding   where people go out and look at, one of the  nice papers published a number of years ago, was   students were going out and looking at what's -  is the fish that's being sold in fish markets and   in restaurants, is it actually (you're familiar  Jeanette), is it actually the fish you say it is?   Now if you think about that, then you can  convert that to an informational poster;   you can convert that to something to  explain to local newspapers something;   you could communicate back to restaurants, if they  said, "Did I really buy what I thought I did?"   you know. So there are other ways in going back  to the question, what makes something authentic?   That's something that makes it authentic. So  there's other forms of communication. One of   my colleagues, Vauderhoff, has been teaching an  online, upper division science communication,   and they try to do a variety of different venues  for teaching the students how to write for   different audiences. And so, I think there's a lot  of value to that as well. Again I can only point   to other people in the excellent work they do - it  is not something that I've that, I've tried to do,   so we just tried to mostly emulate the the  whole challenge of the peer-reviewed experience,   where our students learned very early on to hate  the third reviewer, because while the first two   reviews were always good, you will learn you  will hear the same expletives many times coming   out of their mouths. So we know it's authentic,  because the students hate that third reviewer,   but we explained it, and why is that  third - what didn't they understand? Well,   we have to learn how to communicate, all  right so that's part of it. Authenticity   is very interesting. One of the things that  I do with my non-science kids, in a class,   is we do infographics, where they have to, partly  because it's... everybody's in that class, so it   gives the art kids and some of the, you know,  creative drama kids, a way to express science   information in a way that's easier for them. And  so we just finished up doing, identifying whether   some food products were actually GMO or non-GMO  - we have to do some work on that again, because   I think the mechanism that we did to isolate  the DNA did not work like it was supposed to,   because everything only came up positive and  the positive control, and none of the plant   primers worked, which they always work, so I'm not  sure what exactly happened with that particular   process, but we're working on trying to figure  that one - but that would be a good one that you   could use as an infographic, as opposed to like  a full science paper or even as a scientific,   you know, executive summary, you know. And so  those are some of those types of ways to bring   that science communication into multiple-level  courses. Now Mark has a question about the impact   on TAs and the stress from this new setup. Are  you talking about what I talked about, Mark? I think that may be a question for Dr.  French, unless you have TAs. Without   that, I am the TA, and she is tired, because my labs are actually back to  back, so I teach micro from 12:30 to 2:30,   and then I teach the cell molec technique on from  3 to 6; and so, yeah the TA at USAO is tired!   I'm happy to...so first of all, Jeanette, thank  you. My undergraduate TAs they come back and they   volunteer for DNA barcode - they actually enjoy  the course so much, they come back, and it's   really being run by students teaching the next  generation; but I will be happy to pass along,   since they have struggled, that people far more  professional than Jeanette and I, also, you know,   sometimes the magic works and sometimes  it doesn't. And they have learned that,   and they pass that on with great authority  to the next generation. That you know, we're   going to fail a lot, and you know the faculty  here understand that because it's real science,   and we're very proud of themselves,  they'll be happy to know your students.   I still do dishes. So, micro we've gone through  five cases of 500 Petri dishes this semester,   and that's just our solid media; so, I still  do dishes. So yeah., we understand. I don't   really want to do dishes anymore. I'm just like,  "You are work study. I do dishes, you do dishes.   When I can stop doing dishes, you can stop  doing dishes," you know? It's that kind of a,   I think, that's part of why they can experience  this is because I make them do the lab tech part   as part of their training, you know. They have  to make media; they have to clean 72 test tubes   to my specifications. And so, but yeah, well let  me, let me answer Mark's question, if that's okay,   and then I, depending on time permitting whatever,  I've got a story - not everybody washes dishes,   and you and I, that's what happens; but it's  worth, it's worth mentioning anyway. Okay,   so impact on GAs - I think it depends, I mean,  like everything else, I can't say there's   something universal. I think that there are TAs  that are exhausted, just like everybody else,   but that's true during the normal semester. I  think that there are...I really don't think Ii   have a a good answer to say that COVID is anything  more stressful. I think some of the TAs would   prefer to work directly with the students; others  have learned to do this, this our technique here,   and and happily push the students away; not  push the students, but do everything remotely.   So I think giving them some freedom...I  think I need to talk to them some more,   to be honest with you, and find out more  about what level they're at. For some of this,   I do have to again tell you that, in the spring  - and maybe it was that we all have to do this   together - I mean we sat down the night before  we had to break to the first of these labs,   and/or a couple days before, and the TAs just sat  for hours. We were trying to figure out how to   get Google to work for us, how to get everything  to work for us, and they were very excited - Not   excited, but very positive. I'm not sure if it  goes on for a couple more years how they'll feel,   but maybe we'll get better. It becomes more  routine, because again, we have TAs who,   well for a variety of reasons, so I can't really  answer that, and a good question. I'm, in a good   way in particular about that, I think, most of  them just...I'll leave it at that. Great, well,   you know, realizing our time, maybe you can wrap  us up with your story, Dr. French? You had said   you might have one for us, time depending, and it  will be a wonderful way to conclude the evening's   event. Well I'm not sure how, how - is that  it's not a long story sort of a quick comment,   but you're right Jeanette, we all have to do  our work in the lab and most of us you know,   again, it's inspirational for students to see you  side-by-side doing the same stuff they have to do;   and I think that is important. And a lot of  us, you know, again, if people study, look at,   change over time with faculty, we start out  young hands-on with the students; and often   students, you know, faculty at large research  universities get further and further away.   But a colleague of mine went to work at the  Mayo Clinic in doing the genetics research,   and when she was there when they were  they're hiring her and she got this,   she was out there for the Mayo Clinic in a big  research lab, you know what the reputation is,   and they looked and they said,”Now understand: You wash no dishes, you just put everything  into the sink and magically at night the   elves come in. And you come in the next day and  everything is put away, however way you want it,   because that's what we do. We don't have time, you  don't have time, given what we expected you to do,   for you to wash any dishes.” It's interesting  after a number of years working there talking   about...she went back to a smaller undergraduate  institution, and decided that that was not who she   wanted to be. But it's just very interesting.  So when we think to ourselves, you know, this   is part of it just everything is always different  someplace, so I don't know if that's a good story   or bad, but I know that most of us sat there in,  just, disbelief when I tell that story, going,   "Seriously, that's how... yep, we don't have  time for that! You just put it in the sink;   it all magically appears in the morning? Wow," and  that's a very strange way to do things, at least   for those of us who work with undergraduates  here. Anyway Mark, I didn't know if you wanted   to put up...I said the end of my slides, but  did you want to put something, perhaps, about   ABLE and the forum on biolabs? That might  be a nice thing for those who are interested   specifically in bio labs. Se had Merlot up there,  that was nice, but at ableweb.org there's a forum   on biolabs online, and that might also be a place  where people might be interested. There we go,   and there's a specific segment, there has been  for biolabs online. People might want to chat   and find out what other people are doing, because  again we're all, yeah, there, that's it. Everybody   is, nationally, it's been very interesting -  NABT also on their Facebook page is a constant   chatter back and forth, "How are we gonna do  this? How's that gonna happen?" So there's   lots of people out there trying to reduce  everybody else's stress over, "Oh my gosh,   you know, we had this all planned out,  and then, oh yeah the power lines hit,   and this one happened, and whatever we wanted,  didn't order--what can I do in the morning?"   And there's some very interesting solutions  out there, so I hope that's helpful as well.   That's at least what I can contribute for  the night. Thank you, thank you very much,   both to Dr. French and Dr. Loutsch. This has  been very illuminating, and I think we achieved   exactly what we wanted, which was an informal  conversation - people leaving with good ideas,   and a little bit of de-stressing and kicking  back and enjoying collegial conversation with   peers across the state. So thanks very much  to both of our presenters, and thanks to Mark   Walvoord, who was our chat-meister tonight, and we  appreciate all of those of you in attendance. And   we certainly hope that your power does not  go out and that you survive the ice storm.   So with that, we bid everyone a very fond good  evening. All right, good night now, good night. 