 Well, hello everyone and thank you for joining us  again for the PSNI global alliance webinar today   with Williams AV for an overview of  their contactless communication systems.   Let me introduce Nancy Blanchard our new  director of programming for PSNI and consultant   liaison for Williams AV. She will be joined by  other Williams AV team members. All participants   will be in the listen only mode. Please use  the chat box for your questions to the right   of the screen, we'll get to as many of them as  possible. We want you to know that the webinar   is also being recorded, so you'll receive a copy  of that as soon as it's available. With that,   let me introduce Nancy. Thank you, and thank  you to all that have attended our last session   which was held on August the 26th discussing open  captioning and markets applications, discussing   what is open captioning and viewing our  latest product called Caption Assist.   So for today's session we're going  to discuss contactless communication   which is essential in our everyday lives, whether  it's attending school, religious services,   work, recently graduations and  hopefully concerts and other activities.   We have today Tony Strong who is our ADA  spokesperson and one of our sales leaders who will   discuss solutions to consider for these activities  in a safe manner. So, take it away Tony!   Great, thank you so much Nancy, and thank  you to all those at the PSNI alliance for   setting up this time. My name is Tony Strong.  I'm with Williams AV we've been here for gosh   11 years now and many of you I've met in the  field. But we've learned quite a thing or two and   here today to talk about a lot of these solutions  that we currently have technologies for but we may   be using them or needing a different application.  So we'll be covering a lot of that today in   technology-based solutions for the new contactless  communications. I think you'd agree that today's   environment poses some unique challenges and  here we have some clever individuals creating   new solutions for these current phenomenon,  the social distancing and things like that. But   as we all find our pathway to how to navigate  this new normal, and I guess I'm gonna boycott   the word new normal because I don't really think  it is normal but it definitely is something that   we haven't experienced before. And hopefully as we  make our path through this, the social distancing   thing may continue for some time, but we're going  to find solutions and we're going to find ways to   to work around it. So in this new condition, shall  we say, of the 2020 year of Covid, we're seeing   mask mandates and social distancing mandates that  are working through both the commercial space and   the personal space. We've got modified workplace  layouts, as you go to your Home Depot you're   seeing the big plastic screen now, your bank and  your grocery store also are making new behaviors.   And these physical barriers and these guided red  dots on the sidewalk that are six feet apart,   these things likely will continue but, as they  do, it's also creating new paths for business to   to creatively solve these problems. I think one  thing is true that we are really no longer able   to maintain our old patterns of behavior the days  of 900 people at a concert right now are gone.   Houses of worship are having to change their  paths of of business and how we communicate and   those are creating new challenges. We've seen  business channels that have completely changed   lanes and or have dried up completely, but that's  also presenting new challenges and with those   new challenges also come new solutions. So in the  experience that Williams Sound and Williams AV has   had in the last 40 years of working with the hard  of hearing, how do these new conditions affect   people who are hard of hearing? How  do they affect those who might have   extended learning circumstances? Those that might  need better and more clear communication? But the   technologies that we're using in those atmospheres  now are also the same solutions that we can use to   accommodate this, you know, boycotting the word  new normal, but this new condition of Covid 2020.   So i think what what the truth reveals is  that these conditions likely will be here   for quite some time. I think there are there  are businesses that may never go back to an   in-office relationship. People are going  to continue to work from home more often.   I believe social distancing will continue  to be a norm that many social and commercial   venues like amusement parks and these  types of things where people congregate   they're all going to have to find different  ways to handle these problems and in the world   of audio-visual, in the social environment,  the truth is we're gonna have to adapt. So   this seminar is based on using technologies that  already exist in ways that can help us adapt to   some of these new conditions, right? So, many  of the things that we've been experts at   here in the world of assistive listening,  some of these technologies can be adapted   as we mentioned the workplace modifications that  are happening are creating new challenges and  new distance learning types of things are  happening with education and remote participants.  We're starting to see a huge increase for those  that want to do some type of a broadcast to a car.   How do you accommodate a parking lot presentation  or maybe a concert that wants to do a remote   presence? The world of education in both k-12  and higher ed are having to completely rethink   how this hybrid classroom things are happening.  Courts, which are now opening back up here, courts   commonly have communications that would exist  within inches of each other. How are we going to   use technologies to accommodate that provision?  And then, of course, for corporate and medical   for language interpretation, we no longer can have  the interpreter standing feet away and whispering   into a defendant's ear, so how is it that we're  going to navigate these things. And these are   some of the positions that we're going to help  you with today. The most common thing we hear   when people are wearing masks is "I can't hear  you." I don't know if any of you have been to   a restaurant lately, but we had a server at  our Buffalo Wild Wings the other day, she was   talking. I could not hear her through her mask,  so this presents additional challenges for how   do we present audio also to those people who might  be remote presence today? We're doing a webinar;   how would we present this if this  was a live classroom environment?   Audio for in-person environments also is  changing, so we're going to look at that today. All of these applications. I think are true that they  require some type of contact-free audio delivery;   in other words, we need a way to take what used to  be person-to-person contact, and now we need a way   to communicate, but still create comprehension.  And then, of course, the complications that   sanitary issues have had for public spaces. So  all of those are are addressed in today's webinar.   There are several different modes of technology  that we'll be talking about today from wi-fi to   an open captioning, where you're putting a live  speaker's word on screen, giving visual cues   to communication. As well as a  digital point-to-point broadcast,   as well as intercoms. A lot of these new curtains  and plastic shields that have come into play   now might need some type of microphone support  where you never needed it before. And then, of   course, infrared for privacy security and multiple  instances of deployment. So let's look first at   wi-fi with social distancing. I think that it's  true that if we can get audio from an environment   to the person's personal device, that solves two  problems. Number one: we solve the problem of   having to hand out a receiver with an earphone or  headphones, which might be uncomfortable for some.   But, we also let people now use their own device  with an app and their own personal earphones. So,   if we can get audio to the wi-fi, we  avoid the receivers. We bring in a BYOD   and then now users that are using maybe a  Bluetooth connection to their hearing aid,   or Bluetooth connection to their jawbone. We  can bring wi-fi audio direct to the cellular or   the tablet, and then Bluetooth from the tablet  either direct to the car speakers or direct to   your hearing aid or direct to your jawbone or your  wireless mic system. So Wi-Fi is a great addition.   So the William's WaveCAST line covers a bunch  of those applications in several ways. There's   a single channel unit, which is inexpensive and  affordable for a single channel application.   We can use a couple of these boxes on a single  network. Excellent for a unicast where I might   only have 50 or so users, like maybe a house of  worship. In a larger commercial applications,   like casinos, they're really picking up on this  eight-channel option, which means that now on   the network I can have a couple of TV audio  broadcasts where I can see a simulcast from   Raceway Park or Fenway, or maybe the horse races  or whatever happens. The new kind of technology   Williams is working with is that now these wi-fi  solutions are all enabled in our FM, in our new IR   products. Which means that these traditional  FM products long used in every single school   auditorium and baseball field and football stadium  around the country, this classic FM transmission   now also contains a wi-fi encoder. So that  means I can get users on their personal devices   now participating with our local audio streams  and that's all new within the in the last year.   So for receiving options you've got your  smartphone, you've got a tablet or the   world's first WaveCAST receiver that we'll talk  about in a second. So the parking lot system that   we've talked about uses a standard FM or WaveCAST  broadcast transmitter with your local network,   and a couple of outdoor access points. So this  means that now you can broadcast a wi-fi signal   from the roof of your house of worship or the  roof of your concert presenting audio to smart   devices which are connected to the network. And  they can broadcast depending on range of your   access points -- six to eight hundred feet. So  you can include a lot larger audience and they can   use that phone then to connect to that car audio  system. The app is a free download, it's simple   go to your Apple or your Android store, download  the WaveCAST app. Companies can put their own logo   there and, of course. you can brand or name your  broadcast channels if you've got multiple types   of applications. So the WaveCAST receiver can  be enabled for those that might not have some   type of a smartphone. We agree that technology  challenged individuals, like my mom for example,   doesn't know how to spell smart in smartphone.  So how are we going to accommodate her in this   environment? So the wi-fi receiver is now a  hand-able device that you can go ahead and hand   out, should that be a solution. Remembering that  all of these things that we've just talked about   are all current solutions that you probably  have installed in many public facilities for   ADA compliance, so you can go to the ball field  or to the movie or to the public venue of your   choice and ask for what is the ADA solution,  and they should be able to give you something.   Now, let's talk about what I think is the biggest  wave that we're seeing right now. In this new   pathway is a call for point-to-point  communications needing full duplex. So we   have a system called Digi-Wave, which offers a  full duplex communication. So this full duplex   used in the social distancing application lets  a speaker stand remotely from their audience   including possibly even an interpreter so  those in the audience can either hear the   main presenter or hear their interpreter in an  installed environment. Guess what? They didn't   supply any conduit or any network capabilities in  this operating theater. They need to have something   they can bring in a box and drop on a table. So  Digi-Wave works with a portable microphone now.   You have a portable two-way broadcast, including  others that might be just in the next room as long   as they're within the range the the six or eight  hundred feet (whatever your range limitations are)   from the broadcasting. So for social distancing  applications, this has become paramount for   courtrooms. So we talked about that judge sidebar  situation we talked about defendant communication   with a COM-4 system. This is four pieces of full  duplex communication. So everybody uses an earbud   or a microphone headset of their choice.If I  have a remote situation, I actually can just drop   a unit in the middle of a conference table and  pick up 15 local voices and then broadcast that   to any of our listeners. So these types of systems  are helping to accommodate jury rooms where juries   no longer have the ability to congregate next  to each other. How do we solve that problem?   An interpreter can no longer sit directly next  to a defendant and and whisper in his ear; so,   he's got a device that he needs to use the  court interpreter. Or the court reporter,   the man or the woman sitting in the back of the  room or in the side of the room. They need to get   local audio support now even more than ever. For  corporate boardrooms or educators, we can deploy   multiple devices as an audio source pickup now  where, guess what, we've never had microphones   in this room before. We've never had to do audio  support. How are we going to do this in a 30   person boardroom chamber now? And then, of course,  that judge attorney sidebar we've covered. So the   Digi-Wave again is a full duplex two-way; everyone  hears everything all the time and multiple peoples   are in the same conversation whether they're  two feet apart or 20 feet apart. Doesn't matter.   We also have ADA kits for public and  social distancing in the FM realm,   so this is an example of an FM ADA kit where I  might have a local transmitter with a conference   style microphone. And now I go ahead and drop that  transmitter on the corporate board room table.   And now I have several remote listeners that  are either in the same room or in the next room   able to participate and actively listen in  on those conversations. In the medical realm,   we talked about the complications of the mask.  So several of these kits in several different   configurations. Here's an example I wanted to  bring up because this young girl, Ashley Lawrence,   actually created a solution so that people who are  D/deaf can actually lip read. So I think about this   now that masks are mandated everywhere: what if  you're a lip reader? How do you communicate? How   do you how do you create comprehension? Personal  connection? Transfer business information to   somebody that actually needs to lip read? So we  thought this was a very creative solution and and   this is allowing people that actually require lip  reading services to be able to work with people.   And in the light hazmat solution or a doctor on  rounds, now these people when they're 20 feet   behind you in a crowded hallway and there's 16  students, how can a doctor communicate clearly?   And you need some type of two-way broadcast that  the Digi-Wave system helps to accommodate that   in the hybrid classroom. This is a big  one. We've had several universities,   and the distance learning application, people  come to us and say how do I solve this problem?   I've got people in Rome and I've got people who  are remote. We've never done this before. How do   we do this? And so now with a two-way broadcast  modem, this will allow a remote participant using   a crossover cable here, because remember these  guys have to talk out and go to microphone, in   this Digi-Wave transceiver is a two-way  communication device with this crossover cable   this now allows this local broadcast to broadcast  everything that the web presence people say   directly to the educator's ear. And when the  educator speaks all of that communication goes   right back to the web audience and when the remote  clients or in-room clients need to hear they can   use a receiver or if they even need to participate  they can each have transceivers as well. So this   is a great application for how education in  higher ed and local services are using a portable   two-way communication to create the pathway for  comprehension. And that's that's the important   part here is how do we get people to understand  our message, our marketing message, our education   message, my training message. And you know what  how do I do that in three languages? Okay so   with a local connection to a sound board,  the Digi-Wave Connect box allows now a full   duplex full-party conversation to be connected  directly with other audio sources like a webcast   or a YouTube video or classroom or the main  PA speakers. However you choose to do that. So   these are great solutions. There's all kinds  of different headsets and different types of   muff cuff headsets and single ear and dual ear  microphone headsets. And the transceiver also   comes as a kit compared with your choice of  rechargeable receivers or alkaline receivers.   So this is important, if I've got only alkaline  batteries and I need to go ahead, and put another   40 hours of use without having to go down for  recharging, remember this will take you know   two to three hours to recharge. That alkaline  solution has been preferred for a lot of the   interpretation events where they need to  quickly change batteries and get back on   so that's the Digi-Wave stuff. Now, I  forgot to remind you at the head of time,   if you have a question, please use your question  window and enter in that question while it's   fresh on your mind. And then that way, Haley  will help us look at those during the Q and A   time. So if you've got any questions about of this  education type of application, and I'm guessing   there's at least four of you right now that are  saying "yeah, what is it? How do I get it? Where   do I find it those types of things?" address that  in your Q and A window for later discussion. So,   let's talk about TalkPerfect. Williams now with  our new partnership with Ampetronic has brought   in a number of great opportunities. We're seeing  plastic barriers go up. We're seeing curtains in   the golf cart between golfers to keep them  a distance. So that a vinyl curtain now   might not be used in your golf cart, but at  banks, at a reception windows, at Home Depot.   These intercom solutions from TalkPerfect allow  a speaker to be heard on the outside of the glass.   And a speaker and microphone to be picked up from  the inside of the glass. These kits come in all   kinds of different sort of solutions. It's a small  and easy interface right here. And if I have a   T-coil equipped hearing aid, I might even  have an induction loop system that that is   installed directly in the counter, meaning that  when somebody comes up with their hearing aid,   they push the T-coil button, and now audio from my  inside the wall speaker is now presented directly   to the ear of your outside communication  partner who needs to hear. So all kinds of   great communications here with this. These are in  reception areas and service desks, banks and post   offices, ticket counters, information kiosks,  anywhere that you find people are separated   by a physical barrier. These options are are  available too. And if you have questions on that,   please let us know. Different styles of  microphones, inside and outside the glass,   but these things are now a necessity where they  might have just been a preferred option before.   The amplifiers are simple and easy to connect with  simple audio interfaces everything you need. And   they also, as I mentioned, include an induction  loop category, so let's talk about induction loop   as the ultimate touchless communication.  Loop has been around for a long time,   and induction loops are actually installed in the  presentation environment. Either a foil tape wire   under the floor, or maybe saw cut into the  concrete if it's new construction. Now my   local speaker on stage audio is presented to an  amplifier which in charges a wire in the floor.   And this user now, without any receiver, without  any headphones, without having to go to anybody,   and ask for permission to hear, uses their  T-coil enabled device. And they flick this   to T-coil mode, and anybody in this environment  now can hear the audio wirelessly. So a CEO in   the boardroom with a loop walks in, and clicks on  his hearing aid. Voila! He can hear France on the   distant video telecommunications call. A user at a  church or a house of worship or a hotel ballroom.   This technology has been around for 30 or 40  years folks, but it really is just gaining a   lot of ground now as the current building codes  have adopted the acceptance of of this technology,   we're seeing more loops go in now than ever  before. Even though the magnetic field stuff   is 30 or 40 years old, the technology is  brand new, the amplifiers are brand new, the   systems and development for commissioning and  the ANSI standards for measuring and metering   are all brand new. And the idea here is that  every listener using their T-coil device   has the exact same experience, whether they're  in the Staple Center, or whether they're in the   Metropolitan Opera. Wherever they are, that T-coil  operates in the exact same experience realm. So   there are some additional considerations  when you're looking to install a loop,   typically before construction or at the time  when you're removing carpet, that wire to be   laid in the floor is a great opportunity  to consider a complete contactless free   audio transmission for your environments. And,  again, these things are more popular than ever.   Moving on, let's talk about infrared. Infrared  is a great application where I might either   have multiple transmission sources, such as an  education environment, where I've got a hundred   classrooms all on the same floor. How do I present  a wireless transmission for 100 spaces where they   don't get audio crosstalk, or have a interference  application? You know, the hardest thing to do   with wireless mics is get the frequencies right, correct? So with infrared, since infrared is light   this light stays within the room of transmission.  So I, for my end user, can have the exact same   frequency the exact same belt pack. Works in  Mrs. Peterson's room as it does next door in   Mrs. Jone's room as it does in Tom Robert's  room as it does in Nancy Blanchard's room.   And so here an infrared transmission for schools  and for education that have multiple spaces of   audio, that fear a cross talk. Application becomes  a necessity. The other reason that infrared   is great is because it's private and secure.  Since it's light and it stays in the room that   courtroom now can have private HIPAA regulations  or private communications in a defamation lawsuit,   or these types of things where it can't  be picked up outside the room. So infrared   utilizing its technologies has really boomed in  the last just few months with courtrooms. And   here I see an article of from the source right  down here below, that courts are spending more   money this year on assistive technology  both visual and auditory than ever before.   And the reason is is because I think courts found  that they were really lagging a little bit behind.   So when they were in their closed phase during  the Covid crisis, a lot of them looked at their   systems and said we just don't have the ability to  communicate with the people we need to communicate   with. Now what are we going to do? So that's  led to a lot of increase in the implementation   for annotation types of systems, where I might  have an evidence presentation. Williams has the   Annotation Pro, which is a great provider for ways  to switch graphic interfaces be able to annotate,   store, capture and log evidence files for a  video so that they can be reproduced later.   And then of course this IR application. We've  seen a complete boom in requests for infrared   for exactly this application. So we just talked  a minute ago about visual and auditory solutions,   this is another visual solution that that we  learned is a huge marketplace. So along   with audio, sometimes hearing assistance needs  a visual component, right? So that's why we use   PowerPoint; that's why we use webcam. So that we  can point to physical things and say you know what   this is, what I'm talking about right here. So  along with an audio environment, our solutions   help to provide better comprehension  and understanding that compensate for   bad sound and poor room acoustics or maybe  somebody that's very soft spoken as a presenter.   I have a big booming voice so you might not have  heard those last words. But here's an example of   visual congestion. If you look at those last two  lines that's visual communication, where there's   background noise that use your brain right now is  having to audio process harder, to visually seek   out what is the meaning of these words on the  screen. So here we see where comprehension is   actually increased by using some visual cues.  Now that led to the Caption Assist software,   where I have a live speaker on stage and the words  get presented to the screen. So the Caption Assist   is a revolutionary new hardware and software  solution that leverages the power of Google AI.   I'm sure that you all use speech to text  in some capacity on your smart devices.   That's a limited example of the Google AI  interface. We have a licensed a contract with   google utilizing the AI engine specifically for up  to 27 languages and 57 different dialects, so this   means that this is a broader application than  before and and here's how it works. If I have a   live speaker on stage, that audio goes out to the  Google AI Cloud. That voice is converted to text,   that text come back and is presented as text on  the screen for your environment for your local   audience. Or what about a remote zoom audience  or your go to meeting clients? Now you can put   every single word that you say can also  be reproduced as words on the screen.   And then next you'll find that that's going to be  archived, so as we look at this Caption Assist,   we have voice that goes out to the cloud speech  to text and the words come back on the screen.   Here's a great picture of us in our room right  now. Today, if I was using the Caption Assist,   you actually would see the printed text right  along the the top of your screen. But guess what   that's an extra charge for today, so you saw that  last week and maybe we'll we'll do another one on   that that Nancy led. So these applications provide  visual solutions as well as audio solutions.   So let's talk about Pocketalker. And a  lot of people in the integration world   or in the consumer space say "I just want  to hear in a in a restaurant, or in a car   of these types of things." So what the  Pocketalker is is a non-audio connected,   no ac power, it's a local amplifier that can  take a local conversation speech and amplify   it for a listener that may have trouble  discerning, because of background noise or   loud audience, of noises and low sounds. The  Pocketalker is a simple amplifier with a local   microphone this allows you to hear maybe the front  seat conversation from the back seat of a car.   It allows you to hear in a important communication  environment, like maybe your doctor. And a lot of   times these are available at your disability  services office for a K-12 where a student   actually carries one of these with them in their  application. Or a medical provider has these as   a resource so it's a personal communicator they're  typically less than 200 bucks available on the on   the internet. Williams Sound Pocketalker comes in  several different sizes and flavors, but again,   it allows you to communicate in environments what  might be typically challenging. Now, adding masks   and the Covid condition Pocketalkers have  been more popular than ever. So this is a   photo of the the newer application you  can use a T-coil connection to it with   talking directly to your hearing aid or plugging  in a headphone and earphone. And there are several   different microphone applications as well at  some trade shows we have guys who actually will   run around with a microphone right and they they  just hold the microphone out like this for you   and as you're speaking your voice is being  amplified and bringing audio direct to their   ear. So that's increasing their comprehension and  awareness. So here we are at the Q and A section.   I've got a number of different  kinds of question happening. And   I'm going to turn it back over to  Haley. And Haley, let's open it up for   for the Q and A. What have our audience  discovered was of interest to them today?   Sounds great. Great information. A couple of  questions have come in so, first of all, how does   one go about getting a demo of any of the products  that you have displayed today? Sure. Well, so   demonstrations can happen in any one of two ways.  Number one: you can get hold of a local integrator   that carries the Williams AV brand. A lot of times  those solution providers are already involved with   your school or your library many times. You can  contact us directly using the info at Williams AV   website address. That will be a great solution  for you we forward that on to our local reps.   We have manufacturers reps, who some of which are  on the line today. Thank you very much for our   manufacturers reps and they provide local support  and system service for an organization or possibly   an end user that might want to be evaluating some  of these products. We also have an 800 number   and I'm gonna... I should have had it on the  screen, but I'm going to give that it is 800-328-6190,   and that is the number that you would  call for 800 support. That will come to my   customer assistance and also you should be able  to reach out directly to your PSNI affiliate.   So there are several relationships carved out  with PSNI that give you special circumstances so   take advantage of those relationships in your  local PSNI affiliate. Next question. Yeah, so   some people are curious as to the cost of  Digi-Wave. Curious if they need to go through   distribution or if Williams ever sells direct. So two answers to that question; yes, we   want you to be able to acquire the solutions and  evaluate them. Typically we do not sell direct,   we sell through our integration partners. There  are some schools and relationships that pre-exist   with your existing PSNI affiliates. So again  I would refer you to the local PSNI person   for special pricing considerations and we would  direct traffic through them. Thanks. Regarding   Caption Assist, does offering Caption Assist to  client events mean that the venue needs dedicated   high-speed internet to connect to the Google AI  Cloud. So that is an excellent question. Yes,   as part of the solution using the Google AI Cloud,  it does require an outbound internet connection.   A typical corporate application for internet  is usually good, and that two megabyte download   speed is sufficient and usually a 700 megabit  upload speed is sufficient to handle that device.   And again if you need more information on that  your local PSNI affiliate has a number of IT experts   ready to help in those applications. Next. And,  you just said it, but who does installation   on all of these types of orders? You got it  right there. So our our channel is diverse and   and the PSNI folks in your neighborhood have  special relationships already set up and   channels already set up to get you product, get  you evaluations, and get your preferred pricing. On Caption Assist, you did mention  that you didn't use it today,   and you said it was an additional  cost. Can you elaborate on that?   So there are several different ways to  interface. Let me just skip back up to this.   There's a cost for the hardware; that's a  one-time purchase. The app or the software   piece is free from your app store, so that  allows you to control and initiate a session   and bank air time. So the Caption Assist, just  like a cellular device or a tablet you'd buy from   Best Buy, comes with air time. So you purchase  air time, that air time is banked in your device   and when you initiate access to Google AI, that's  when the billing would start. That's done directly   through this application store, billing directly  to the Apple iOS or the Android store. This   hardware starts at about four grand for a United  States dealer, right, for United States dollars.   And the application is so cheap, it really  averages out to about six bucks an hour   for putting words on screen for your  professional event. If you use it   for 30 minutes the seven hours and 20 minutes  is banked for another month when you use it for   an hour. And then you might use it a week later  for four hours. So all that information is banked   that gives you a great way to communicate with  your audience. Did that answer that question? I believe so, but if not please feel free to use  that question again. A whole lot of questions   regarding whether they will be receiving a copy  of this presentation, which I can go ahead and   tell you yes you will within 24 hours after  we close. Let's see. Is the WaveCAST stereo?   Great question. So a lot  of the assistive listening modalities   are in a single channel mode for example for  somebody that's hard of hearing, we don't want   bass and drums in this here and vocals and  keyboards in this year because a lot of times   the damage occurs in one ear or the other. So  most of all of our systems are presented in a mono   format. WaveCAST is the same so if there is a left  and right channel together it would be summed as   a single audio channel through the WaveCAST  system. So, yes, single channel not stereo.   And back on the Caption Assist, it says who pays  for the six dollars an hour? Is it the user   or the presenter? Great question so when a  box is deployed, and hardware is installed   the user would be the environment that is  using that. And so that might be with a   dedicated device that handles the connection or  a personal device. Or the presenter who actually   uses the iOS app and starts and initiates that  call. So it's whoever owns the device that has   the air time affiliated to it , which is bought  directly with the either the iOS or the Android   store. That's who's responsible for the billing  it's all through Google, iOS or Android store.   Will Caption Assist work in UC or VC environments,  and has this been implemented anywhere?   So with video conferencing, we actually did  the video conference for you guys last week   where we had the Caption Assist running on  our remote video call. So all of the users   on the far end all saw our words across the screen  and it works really, really well for that. So the   answer is yes it can be used for that. There's an  additional piece that we use called the Williams   AV... like an mp3 adapter. And we can talk more  about that as you talk with your PSNI affiliate   and get a local box on site for trial. We'll  figure that out. That webinar is also available   on demand and you will see that in this follow-up  email with the recording of today's webinar.   Also, final question here, so what is the  latency in the WaveCAST. Great question,   so, with regards to anything over wi-fi obviously  the network has a role. So the hardware itself   applies virtually no latency, maybe 20 to 30  milliseconds, as that wi-fi encoder. The rest   of the latency is really the responsibility of  the network, so there are network switches and   conditions which can enable a very low  latency. Bottom line is this, if it's a   real-time application where I'm looking at a  pastor on stage or I'm watching a tv screen   the lip sync has to be real-time; otherwise, it's  not a viable solution. So yes in both unicast and   multicast modes we're able to get real-time  communication so that you can see lips speak   and get audio direct from your device direct to  your ear in a real-time fashion. If it's 30 to   a minute 30 seconds behind it's useless, right?  So yes it has to be real-time lip sync. Yes,   great. So again a lot of questions on pricing and  who the local integrator in their territory is.   We can work with you on that to send you  that information with the Williams team   and PSNI global alliance with that  back over to Tony, Tommy and Nancy.   Nancy, is there anything you would like to add?  Think you're muted there. Yes, hi, sorry about  that. No, I was just saying to thank everybody for attending today, and thank you Tony. Well,   you know, we'd like to thank everyone at Williams  AV. You're a wonderful partner for PSNI. PSNI has   82 members worldwide. If a few of the questions  today are where do you buy it and how much does   it cost and all that, PSNI is an association  of systems integration companies worldwide   you can go to www.psni.org. There's a an affiliate  locator on our website. If you're a PSNI affiliate,   our program with Williams AV is as listed on our  intranet under preferred vendor programs. Our   program with Williams is a global program, so as  we deal with international logistics, as we deal   with the enterprise opportunities which certainly  will apply with this particular product line   of Williams AV is and PSNI have worked diligently  to put a program together to support those   types of initiatives. I would encourage all of  our members to reach out to your local Williams AV   regional representative. If you don't know who,  that is Nancy Blanchard will be more than glad   to connect you with them directly. I also want to  thank Page Stanbury, the marketing coordinator   for Williams AV, and obviously Haley Klein of PSNI  communications and marketing director for making   this meeting possible. You just can't do this  type of thing without them. Our next global vendor   webinar will be next Wednesday morning September  16th at 10 a.m. Cenex will produce a program on   financial services and back to business solutions  for the covid period. Unless anybody else has   anything to add on behalf of the PSNI global  alliance, thank you for joining us today.   This concludes our webinar. Goodbye! Stay safe  and mask up. Take care. Bye-bye. Thanks Tom. 