 Social distancing Norms has resulted in a locked down kind of situation for most of the education institution as well as universities , physical campuses are closed and currently it is the season of admission. There are a lot of Education Institute school colleges or universities conduct entrance exam as part of their admission process , now conducting entrance exams in the physical or traditional mechanism using pen and paper based exams is quite not quite Possible in today's world. There are Technologies which are available which can certainly help you to simplify your entrance examination process and you can easily manage your entrance exam with the help of technology. So in today's video. I am going to share with you how technology can help you to simplify your entrance exam management. So stay tuned. So first thing associated With managing your entrance exam would be online registration process. You need to invite applicants who are interested in applying for the respective courses and related to entrance exam. So in this case, you can easily manage that thing using online registration and online fee collection process associated with entrance exam , platforms like ePravesh.com provides you paperless entrance examination registration process where you can easily customize your application related to entrance Where you can provide various facilities to upload Mark Sheets, photograph, category certificates or any other documents associated with admission , students can fill the form and can make online fee payment associated with entrance exam and based on number of candidates who would apply , you can easily Define online proctored exam associated with those candidates. So in case of online proctored exam candidates situated at home can appear for your entrance exam in a secure manner. Remote Proctor sitting at remote location can easily do the online examination invigilation process. Remote Proctor can also initiate chat with the student who is attempting the online exam. There are various facilities provided for the remote Proctor using Advanced artificial intelligence algorithm where AI algorithm can easily detect malpractices associated with online Exam or even it can help you to recognize if the same person who is registered for your entrance exam is attempting the online exam or not. Even AI algorithms of proctored online exam provides facility to capture audio associated with the candidate when candidate is attempting the online exam. Even there is a facility available for the screen recording of the candidate. Plus there is Advanced security mechanism related to secure browser, which can help you to prevent cheating during online examination process where candidate will not be able to open any other window while online exam is happening. So secure browser with remote Proctor mechanism can certainly help you to conduct your online entrance exam quite successfully Eklavvya platform has been used extensively by various university school colleges as well as schools in order to conduct such entrance exam or management of process of scholarship exams associated with the students and they're able to continue their admission or registration process. in the current era of social distancing as well. As soon as you're able to complete the entrance exam , Next step would be defining the Merit list associated with the eligible candidates. So based on the scores achieved in the entrance exam by the respective students. You can easily short list, you can easily generate merit list associated with the student with the help of platforms like ePravesh where it can help you to take into consideration academic performance. as well as performance in the entrance exam for the respective candidates and based on the Merit List you can invite or you can ask individual students to make the fee payment associated with your course and those who are going to make the fee payment their Admission would get confirmed. Platform Like ePravesh provides Advanced post admission process mechanism where you can collect the fees associated with the students. You can easily manage quota Admission process based on the category. You can also manage admission cancellation process associated with the students. So as soon as students are going to cancel the admission after confirmation of the admission due to whatever reason then that seat will be available for the next students for admission. You can easily manage your entrance examination process with the help of Technology like online registration process and secure remote proctoring mechanism. We have been working with various education institution as well as universities in order to simplify , automate their entrance examination process with the help of technology and they're able to do it with success. If you are interested in demonstration, or if you would like to understand how Eklavvya platform can help you to simplify your entrance examination process, then you can connect with us for the demonstration purpose. Thank you for watching this video. If you are interested in more such videos related to education technology or adoption of technology in education domain, then please subscribe to our social media channel so that whenever we are going to release more such videos you will get notified. Thank you. 