 Hello! Welcome to this presentation entitled: "si vis pacem para bellum (if youwant peace prepare for war): robust and resilient supply chains with foresight. War refers here to extreme situation as we are experiencing right now during the pandemic of the corona virus.  My name is Quentin Ladetto and I'm in charge of the technology foresight research program at armasuisse Science and Technology. I would like to start this presentation using a picture taken 21 years ago. You might think that given the context today that I was already performing some tests in infected area condition Not really but this is a small reminder that context is important... always. You saw that my backgrounds is in geomatics with some work on inertial navigation. For those of you who are familiar with the topic, you for sure know about Kalman filters. Kalman filters main role is in this context to predict the future one position at a time! How does it work (of course without the equations!) ? The concept is that you know (in theory) your true trajectory: a plane is flying from New York to Zurich along a given route. This is represented in white. Your plane has sensors (with some errors and bias) measuring along the way the positions with a given error those are represented by the pink points Now, if you have the knowledge that your plane is departing from New York, you still might not know if it is leaving from LaGuardia or Newark. This explains the imprecision of the green curve at the beginning, but after a while the measurements improve your assessment as well as the fact that you know to fly to Zurich, at a given speed (not the speed of light, yet). This information and some other assumptions help you build the model that brings you closer to the true trajectory than using the measurements alone. You get improvements on your trajectory thanks to a model you are using! The topic of today is not really about navigation but about foresight. In foresight, we find ourself in a similar situation where 't-1' is history 't' becomes the present and 't+x' predicts our future. Things are in real life not so simple and linear and you can find a thunderstorm along the way leading to a new destination! You may also experience wind blowing in another direction leading you, with delay, to destination. We see that there are different possible landing areas. You may also have birds entering into the reactor during take off... this is also a possibility caused by it what we called "Wild Card" or "Black Swan" (not related to the type of birds entering in the reactor) Foresight therefore is about considering not only one, but several possible futureS.  This is important for what follows as with the situation we are experiencing today - on of these "Wild Card - with the coronavirus, everything we have based our futures on must be revisited, and considered under these new circumstances. This is one of the goal of the technology foresight program. The futures we can build today are not the same anymore as the futures of yesterday. Let me just briefly introduce who we are!  armasuisse is the Swiss federal office of defense procurement it belongs to the Federal Department of Defense,  Civil Protection and Sport (DDPS) armasuisse is organised in different entities regrouping Procurement competences sectors, real estate and Science and Technology. armasuisse Science and Technology is the technology center of excellence of the DDPS regrouping different fields, among them the research management entity to which belongs the technology foresight program. Considering our futures, now just rotated for reasons of layout, we would like to consider a model to improve our estimates… the PESTEL framework is one of them, and we can say that it is composed of 6 parameters: political, economical, social, technical, environmental and legal. By using them, we can emit various hypothesis to better anticipate the future. Future of a country, of a profession, of an industry… The interesting aspect in the exercise conducted in november 2019 in the foresight class of « disrupted future » given by Prof. Thomas Gauthier and supervised by Anne-Cécile Violin, is the context that was considered. A pandemic, almost exactly what we are experiencing now. The only different is that the focus was on setting the conditions to find a new product for the glass industry. Focus was not on the pandemic itself, but on the « opportunities » it could create and the risks that needed to be mitigated for that. Impact was mainly on the supply chain…. Now, from a Supply Chain perspective, is the civilian supply-chain really different from the military one? ... not really ... … and for sure both of them are allergic to surprises. How do you anticipate these surprise? To do so, you need experts in Supply Chain, I name the International Institute for the Management of logistics and Supply Chain of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne (EPFL), Envisioning Ltd, stimulating the forward thinking process and the valorisation of the results EM Lyon Business School supporting us with their expertise in scenario building. Together we are conducting an open and collaborative experience on The Future of Supply Chain https://deftech.ch/supply-chain There are infinite elements you can consider to describe the Supply Chain. These are the elements we considered to organise them into 7 clusters. For each of these clusters, we try to identify one main trend. I'm pretty sure you are all asking yourself now the following question: where is AI involved?  Any ideas? Well, easy or obvious, AI is ubiquitous, it is everywhere… but hopefully not only AI,  but EXPLAINABLE Artificial Intelligence! Having described the process, let’s move to the tool that we have build and fed with this small 90' video. It is available online and just awaiting for your inputs and your use! All the inputs are grouped in the 7 clusters we saw before appear on the screen. Coming to the center you find the ones at maturity and towards the outside, the ideas and concepts with a low Technology Readiness Level (TRL) everything is dynamic, searchable you find basic indicators on publications and information to bring you one step further, not competing, but leveraging Wikipedia when possible. The goal here is to stimulate curiosity and triggers some questions. Embedded is a survey function helping you to let your audience assess some of these entities. The results will be displayable online, showing in real-time the opinion of the user, and ready to generate and stimulate additional questions and discussions! Focusing on 2 examples, we find here the "Remote vehicle operator" (hey, not autonomous... yet!) more in the logistics part of the supply-chain, but definitely something with dual-use interest! On a completely different side we find the "Programmable Liquid Matter".  The goal is not here to turn you into subject expert, but to let you start your thinking process considering what are the changes it could bring if this would exist tomorrow It kick starts your SWOT analysis  and idea generation process! To guide the reflexion, we have adapted a NATO innovation framework. We start with technologies… We provide a context or "disrupted future" - here making sense for the supply chain - The goal is to find how to solve the « disrupted future » using the technologies (and else)… we love canvas and structure, so we make them available, including questions to challenge yourself and your organisation. This is an adapted version of the DTAG (Disrupted Technology Assessment Game) NATO game It normally last one week, but that we adapted for a (half-) day workshop. But once you have these innovations, how do you experience them as they still do not exist? We find the solution in serious gaming them in a realistic tactical situations… Working with Helvetia Games, we have created a table-top game including elements like exoskeleton, swarms of drones, unmanned vehicles and we are working now on logistics This is the cover of the game in its commercial outfit. It is supposed to be available in May this year, but we did not anticipate the situation we are living… (-1 for us as we didn't forsee it), but it is coming… For the ones who are preparing questions right now, the answer is YES… We are working with the company "Scensei" on a digital version of the game introducing agent based simulation. In parallel together with IDSIA - Dalle Molle Institute for Artificial Intelligence, we are developing AI powered automatic players; there is still a bit of research involved as we don’t know if we are closer to Fortnight or to Go ? To offer the opportunity to teach future competencies, we are also creating with "Oni3" (pronounce 'Onisan') an interactive platform integrating video games. This is our idea how to challenge the present supply chains, make them more robust and resilient, because everything that can happen will happen. We just don’t know when! Thank you for your attention! 