 Subscribe DOCTOR TECH channel and press bell icon For latest video friends , all of you must have 4G smartphone. Why not it will ? JIO had launched so cheap plan and made everything free so everyone bought the 4G smartphone. But two years before , everyone uses 2G or 3G smartphone and at that time plans were also too costly because today 4G is very cheap but at that time 3G Internet costs Rs 200 or 250 for 1gb data . That were too costly and 4G Smartphone works very fast . Today you can watch youtube video very fastly due to 4G . But now I will talk about 5G Yeah , you are listening right . 5G smartphone which will come very early in market or it may happen that it will come in market since 2019 . So today i am going to talk about all this their features and what will be special in 5G smartphone . Friends , today this video is going to be special for you because you can get 50 rupees surprise . you can achieve it so watch this video till the end or else you have to regret yourself. so let's start friend my name is sujeet and you are watching Doctor Tech . 5G smartphone is tested till now in some part of America and in some country of Europe. According to the testing , it can be hoped that 5G smartphone can be available in market till 2019 for people that was earlier hoping to be released till 2022 0r 2023. The first look of 5G smartphone was posted by Qualcomm company on twitter few days before. That is becoming so viral . you can clearly see in these pics Qualcomm snapdragon is written which is the processor of this phone it is very fast and due to this your phone will work very fast second thing is that it's display screen is of 6 inch . you can see a rear camera behind it that is of 24 mega-pixel. and with that , it's downloading speed will be 350 mbps and uploading speed will be 150 mbps that is really very fast . you can download any movie , game or any big file in just few seconds . it may be that this phone will be available in market since 2019 but now this phone is under testing process to make it more better so that user will not get any problem using it . you can get 50 rupees in free for that you have to comment below this video you can comment anything . like how was this video ? what improvement you want ? and in which topic you want to watch the video ? so you can comment all this and one more thing only those viewers will get Rs 50 who are the subscribers of our channel . so till now , if you haven't subscribed our channel . then do it by clicking below the subscribe button and we will announce the name of winner of this video in next video that is on next Sunday . friends , how was this video ? tell us about it by comment and most important thing if you haven't subscribed our channel till now then please go to subscribe button and press that like , comment , share our video as much as possible thank you for watching 