 [MUSIC] I research embedded systems. So think small computational devices that interact with the physical world around them. They sense things, they actuate, they communicate. But they're not human-centric. Unlike say, your mobile phone, or your desktop, or your laptop, or your tablet. But just in the past few years, really that vision of this future of smart dust, of smart spaces, smart objects is becoming a reality. And it turns out that when we put computation and communication and sensing into everything, right, smart shoes, smart doors, smart cars, the security implications are pretty enormous in terms of, can somebody hack your door? Can somebody learn very private data about you based on your shirt that's monitoring your health? And it turns out that many of the existing security solutions don't quite apply here. And that's what I'm really interested in, this question of, if we're gonna deploy a smart door lock today that you can both use it normally but also interact with over a network through some secure channel. How do we secure systems like that such that Internet of things is something that looking forward and looking backwards, we embrace and want rather than fear? These devices need to be very, very low power. They need to often be battery operated, sometimes they scavenge power from the environment. You need to very carefully architect them, you don't add frills because doing so is gonna use up your most valuable resource, which is energy. It's battery-operated, so it has to also be minimalist. This raises all kinds of interesting questions for security. You can't just send an update to it every week, because the wireless cost of doing that is gonna greatly overwhelm the cost of its daily operation that will dominate its energy budget and force it to have a large battery. And so one of the research questions we're looking at, how would we design a device like that to be secure for 20 years? What would the processor on that device be? In 20 years the cryptography these systems use is gonna possibly be completely different. So we need to start designing devices today with the potential of that future in mind. We then need to start thinking up. Well, what does the operating system look like? This lowest level of software sitting on top of the hardware. What do applications look like? How does this device interact with other devices, like your mobile phone, your gateways? To me, at least in my opinion, the real benefit of this future of embedded sensing everywhere and actuation, it's one of quantification. By that I mean that once you can measure something, then you can improve it. So as a simple example, every month I get an energy bill for my house, and I see how much it is. And I do not have much visibility into what contributes to that. So, if I wanted to reduce my energy bill, what do you do? Well, you do things like turn off your lights. Turns out your lights are pretty minuscule in the grand scheme of things. And I think we're starting to see this in some modern applications, things like traffic. Now that we have all these smartphones running map applications, being able to really precisely characterize traffic, we understand traffic much, much better, just tremendously fine grain, then was really possible before. Remember a story about New York City where, they needed to shut down a particular route through Central Park for several years for some work. And there was tremendous concern that all the traffic going through this route is going to severely impact traffic and traffic's gonna get much worse. And they shut it down and traffic didn't change. So there was this point, there was this belief as to the way things would work, which turned out to not hold up in the face of data. And I think there are so many things in our lives that follow that pattern. And so if I were to think really about the end game of this or the benefit is, moving toward this world of tremendous rational decision, right. Where we can act on our beliefs or we can act on the facts. And that means we're gonna use less of our natural resources, cities will be more efficient, food use will be more efficient. It paints this future in which gosh, and we just can use our own resources much, much better. As for risks, I mean there are many risks to this. First there's just the information that this contains. All of this privacy is a really, really big concern. We're collecting all this data about ourselves and our lives. So it's one thing if an adversary can tell whether I'm home. It's another when they can access the power grid or access the larger sewage system or access air traffic control systems. And so I think, there's the aspect of the edge or the edges of touching people's live, there are risks there of a personal nature. But then there's real also centralized risks of infrastructure. I think in security in networks, there's this real tension. Okay, think about the origins of the Internet where every node can talk to every other node on the Internet. This is tremendously powerful, it could build all kinds of new applications, it is tremendously flexible. And then this means that anyone can attack anyone else. But clearly, I have many objects on me, and I'd like to be able to walk up to say, a kiosk and have it interact with my smart watch, and show me a menu or do something like that. Well if I can do that, it could be that I just walk by some malicious device and it can somehow interact with me. And how do we manage that? How do we restrict communications for security yet enable them for new applications? I think that is an open and interesting research question. Some work a student of mine has been doing on this relating to making more effective networking, in fact has taken the opposite position of the Internet, which is that the Internet was default on, right? Anyone can talk to anyone else and over time we slowly restricted that. His approach is actually default off. By default, two devices can't talk to each other. You have to turn on communication between them. Under the observation in the current models they can't talk, so there's this new capability. I don't want my smart watch talking with some device I walk by, unless I explicitly engage it. So there was actually just an announcement yesterday, the CEO talked about how they use a technique called differential privacy. Which is essentially a way where they can learn important things about populations, without knowing anything about individuals. So they can learn about how people are using their iPhones, without learning about how you use your iPhone. Or they can learn about how people are moving through a road and what traffic is light, without learning exactly what road you're taking. And part of this is just a desire to respect people's privacy. So you could have this case where a device is generate encrypted data and they send it to another computer to compute. That computer doesn't know what that data means, it's encrypted. It can do a computation on it, produce a result and not know what the result means either. So as an example, you can feed it all of these data points, it can compute, say, a logistic regression on the data points. And it doesn't know what the data points are, it doesn't know what the regression output is, but then it just gives the output back to you. And you can then decrypt it and see what the result is. And this could really change the way we think about this. Cloud providers still provide all of their useful benefits of centralizing the data, they can run better algorithms with all of this data more than any individual could. But they don't really know what the results are. They can help you, but they don't know how. Then there's this removal of responsibility or liability for that data because if it's stolen, it's all encrypted, only you could decrypt it. I think that's a very interesting possible future. I mean the research is still very much ongoing, sort of in the next five or ten years, be interesting to see where it goes and what happens. [MUSIC] 