BusinessUnless we state otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms “Paychex,” “we,” “us,” “our” and the “Company” refer to Paychex, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries.OverviewWe are a leading provider of integrated human capital management (“HCM”) solutions for human resources (“HR”), payroll, benefits, and insurance services for small- to medium-sized businesses. Our purpose is to allow our customers the freedom to succeed.  The workplace is evolving, and we lead the way by making complex HR, payroll, and benefits simple for our clients.  Paychex incorporated in Delaware in 1979 and has a fiscal year that ends May 31st.  We maintain our corporate headquarters in Rochester, New York, and serve clients throughout the U.S. and parts of Europe. As of May 31, 2020, we served greater than 680,000 payroll and PEO clients. For any organization, a key function is the effective management of human capital which requires both resources and expertise. Organizations are faced with complex and ever-changing requirements, including diverse federal, state and local regulations across multiple jurisdictions. In addition, the workplace is rapidly changing as employees increasingly become mobile, work remotely, and expect a user experience similar to consumer-oriented Internet applications.  We focus on helping small- to medium-sized businesses who do not have the resources or expertise to adapt to the constantly evolving environment. The COVID-19 environment has further accelerated certain trends and increased regulatory complexity.  Paychex offers a wide range of services – including a fully outsourced HR solution, payroll processing, retirement services, and insurance – allowing us to customize our offering to the client's business, whether it is small or large, simple or complex.  We believe that we have the breadth of solutions to cover the spectrum of the employee life cycle, but we also allow integration with some of the most popular HR, accounting, point-of-sale, and productivity applications on the market today.  Our comprehensive solutions allow our clients to manage their workforces effectively from hire to retire.  We provide leading-edge HCM technology solutions, coupled with human expertise, to make complex HR, payroll, and benefits issues simple for our clients.  The key features of our solutions are:·Comprehensive cloud-based platform optimized to meet the payroll and HCM needs of small and medium-sized organizations;·Streamlined workforce management that combines technology with flexible service options;·Modern, mobile, and intuitive user experience and self-service capabilities that significantly increase employee engagement;·Scalable and customizable platform that allows clients the ability to add services as they grow;·Software as a service, or “SaaS”, delivery model that reduces total cost of ownership for our clients; and ·Over 45 years of expertise in HR and payroll with our technology backed by over 200 compliance experts and 600 HR business partners.We market our solutions through our direct and virtual sales forces which are supported by various corporate lead generation and marketing initiatives.  Over 50% of our revenues are gained from our services beyond payroll processing.  We focus on providing an industry-leading client experience, and continue to see improving client satisfaction scores and retention.    Company StrategyOur mission is to be the leading provider of HR, payroll, benefits, and insurance solutions by being an essential partner to small and medium-sized businesses across the U.S. and parts of Europe.   We believe that success in this mission will lead to strong, long-term financial performance.  We intend to strengthen and extend our position as a leading provider through continued investments in both our technology and service offerings.  Key elements of our strategy include:·Providing industry-leading, integrated technology.  We continue to invest significantly in our award-winning Paychex Flex® platform and mobility applications to increase efficiency and functionality for our clients and their employees.   3Table of Contents    ·Increasing client satisfaction. Our flexible service model and technology-enabled service allows us to provide a personalized service experience for our clients and their employees.  We continue to invest in artificial intelligence and machine learning and self-service capabilities to allow clients and their employees easy, intuitive, and flexible service how, when, and where they want it.  ·Expanding our leadership in HR.  We have a comprehensive suite of value-added HR Solutions for our clients and their employees.  Greater than half of our revenues are from HR and benefits solutions beyond payroll.  After several strategic PEO acquisitions over the past several years, we are now the second largest provider of PEO services in the nation.  With over 600 HR business partners, we have extensive expertise that we believe sets us apart in the industry.·Growing our client base. We believe there is significant potential to grow within our current target markets.  We have invested significantly in new demand generation and sales tools and expanding certain areas of our sales force.  We continue to focus on sales productivity with the intent of expanding our market share across all our product lines.·Engaging in strategic acquisitions.  In the past, we utilized acquisitions as a mean to expand our portfolio, enter new markets or increase our scale.  We continue to evaluate and monitor potential acquisitions and will utilize this when the acquisitions are in alignment with our overall strategy.Our Solutions Our solutions bring together payroll and HCM software with flexible, personalized technology-enabled service capabilities.  Clients have the option of doing payroll online using our SaaS technology, outsourcing to our payroll specialists or using a combination of those solutions.  Payroll is then integrated with HCM software modules for clients who have more complex HR needs.  We also provide comprehensive HR outsourcing through our administrative services organization (“ASO”) and PEO solutions.  The integration of leading-edge technology and flexible service options allows us to meet our clients’ needs how, when, and where they want.HCM Technology:  Paychex Flex is our proprietary HCM SaaS platform that unites HR, payroll, time and attendance, and benefits processes to maximize efficiency and savings.  Paychex Flex helps clients manage the employee life cycle from recruiting and hiring to retirement, providing an integrated suite of solutions including recruiting, onboarding, HR, time and attendance and employee benefits.  It utilizes a single cloud-based platform, with single client and employee records. Clients can select the modules they need and easily add on additional services as they grow. In addition, Paychex Flex presents function-focused analytics throughout the platform, assisting HR leaders with making more informed business decisions.  Paychex Flex uses a mobile-first design throughout our HCM suite, which allows full functionality of all application components, regardless of device or screen size. We believe our Paychex mobile applications add greater value and convenience for our clients and their employees by allowing them instant access on their mobile device.We continue to invest in Paychex Flex, making significant enhancements designed to simplify the complexity of HR. The latest enhancements include expansion of our integration capabilities to connect users with some of the world’s leading business tools, a Help Center that gives users access to training and how-to tutorials, a pay-on-demand solution to grant employees access to earned wages before their scheduled pay day, a custom dashboard, and a newly enhanced grid entry view which offers more flexibility, customization, and visibility into employee pay data.  We also expanded into wearable technology where Paychex Flex Time users can also use our smartwatch solution, which enables users to track time worked via their smartwatch, making the time and attendance tracking process easier for an increasingly remote workforce.   HR and Compliance Expertise:  Paychex supports its HCM software solutions with over 45 years of experience.  We have over 600 HR professionals who are dedicated to our clients and have the experience and training to provide HR best practices and advice.  Our HR business partners are available to provide our ASO and PEO clients with specific guidance on HR issues. In addition, we have over 200 compliance professionals who are in real-time contact with tax agencies and regulators to understand upcoming or newly enacted laws and regulations, and advocate for our clients’ interests.   The contributions of these compliance experts are intended to ensure that our HCM solutions are updated timely to adhere to regulations and to help our clients stay in compliance.Technology-Enabled Client Service:  Paychex Flex also provides technology-enabled service with options that include self-service, a 24/7 dedicated service center, an individual payroll specialist, and integrated service via a multi-product service center.  In addition, mid-market clients can utilize a relationship manager for more personalized service.  This flexible platform services our small- to medium-sized clients, and a portion of our PEO business.   4Table of Contents   Within Paychex Flex there is embedded technology to assist clients.  The Paychex Flex Intelligence Engine includes the Flex Assistant, a customer service chatbot who can answer over 200 commonly asked questions.  Our Flex Intelligence Engine allows clients to elect their preference for learning – via written how-to-documents, tutorial-style video vignettes, or a guided interactive tour. At any time, a live Paychex agent is just a click away, with the entire chat conversation available real-time to provide a better, more personalized service experience.      The platform embeds self-service capabilities that empower client employees to manage their HR and benefits information from any location, on any device.  These self-service capabilities allow for greater access and convenience for client employees and greater productivity for clients.  Our ClientsPaychex has HR solutions to fit the needs of any small- to medium-sized business, from do-it-yourself payroll to comprehensive HR outsourcing.  The target market for our integrated HCM solutions is small- to medium-sized businesses. Within this space, we serve a diverse base of clients operating in a broad range of industries throughout the U.S. and parts of Europe. The flexibility and scalability of our solutions allow our clients to define the solution that best meets their needs and to grow within the Flex platform. We utilize service agreements and arrangements with clients that generally do not contain specified contract periods, and may be terminated by either party with 30-days’ notice of termination. For the fiscal year ended May 31, 2020 (“fiscal 2020”), client retention was at record levels of over 83% of our beginning client base for the fiscal year. We support our small-business clients, reducing the complexity and risk of running their own payroll, while ensuring greater accuracy with up-to-date tax rates and regulatory information. We simplify their payroll with a combination of our products and customer service options for a quick and easy payday. Clients may choose to have our service team handle everything for them, or process payroll themselves utilizing our proprietary, robust SaaS Paychex Flex platform and our SurePayroll® SaaS-based products. Both products allow users to process payroll when they want, how they want, and on any device (desktop, tablet, and mobile phone).Our mid-market clients generally have more complex payroll and employee benefit needs, though with the environment of increasing regulations, we believe the need for HR outsourcing services has been moving down-market.   Any of our clients on Paychex Flex can opt for the integrated suite of HCM solutions, which allows clients to choose the services and software that will meet the needs of their business. While Paychex Flex is our primary SaaS-based platform utilized by the majority of our clients for their HCM needs, there are some clients that use other platforms, including SurePayroll clients, certain PEO clients, and some smaller tenured clients. Both our small and mid-market clients can choose one of our comprehensive HR outsourcing services, which include ASO and PEO solutions, and participate in our benefits offerings, which include our insurance and retirement services. Our insurance services simplify the insurance process to make it easy to find plans with the features and affordability to meet the client’s needs.  Our retirement services product line offers many plan design options to meet the client’s requirements, as well as investment options. Description of ServicesWithin our HCM solutions we offer a comprehensive portfolio of services and products that allow our clients to meet their diverse HR and payroll needs. Clients can select services on an á la carte basis or as part of various product bundles. Our offerings often leverage the information gathered in our base payroll processing service, allowing us to provide comprehensive outsourcing services covering the HCM spectrum.Our portfolio of services is comprised of the following: Management Solutions:·Payroll processing services: Our payroll processing services include the calculation, preparation, and delivery of employee payroll checks; production of internal accounting records and management reports; preparation of federal, state, and local payroll tax returns; and collection and remittance of clients’ payroll obligations. 5Table of Contents    ·Payroll tax administration services: Payroll tax administration services provide for accurate preparation and timely filing of quarterly and year-end tax returns, as well as the electronic transfer of funds to the applicable federal, state, and local tax or regulatory agencies. In connection with these services, we electronically collect payroll taxes from clients’ bank accounts, typically on payday, prepare and file the applicable tax returns, and remit taxes to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies on the respective due dates. These taxes are typically paid between one and 30 days after receipt of collections from clients, with some items extending up to 90 days. We handle regulatory correspondence, amendments, and penalty and interest disputes. ·Employee payment services: Our employee payment services provide an employer the option of paying their employees by direct deposit, payroll debit card, a check drawn on a Paychex account (Readychex®), or a check drawn on the employer’s account and electronically signed by us. For each of the first three methods, we electronically collect net payroll from the clients’ bank accounts, typically one business day before payday, and provide payment to the employees on payday. Our Readychex service provides a cost-effective solution that offers the benefit of convenient, one-step payroll account reconciliation for employers. We also allow employers to opt for more flexible pay options.  Same day ACH functionality is also available for clients using direct deposit, allowing employers the flexibility to pay employees via direct deposit on the same day they initiate payroll.  In addition, we are giving business owners the ability to leverage real-time payments to process payroll and deliver net pay to their employees immediately for time worked. Pay-on-demand functionality enables an employee to request access to a portion of earned pay before the scheduled pay date, which is deposited into a traditional bank account or a third-party account.·Regulatory compliance services: We offer new-hire reporting services, which enable clients to comply with federal and state requirements to report information on newly hired employees. This information aids the government in enforcing child support orders and minimizes fraudulent unemployment and workers’ compensation insurance claims. Our garnishment processing service provides deductions from employees’ pay, forwards payments to third-party agencies, including those that require electronic payments, and tracks the obligations to fulfillment. These services enable employers to comply with legal requirements and reduce the risk of penalties. We also offer comprehensive solutions to help employers and employees with certain mandates under the Affordable Care Act (“ACA”), which sets forth specific coverage and reporting requirements that employers must meet. ·HR Solutions (ASO): Our ASO offers businesses a combined package that includes payroll, employer compliance, HR and employee benefits administration, risk management outsourcing, and the on-site availability of a professionally trained HR representative, among other services. Paychex HR Essentials is an ASO product that provides support to our clients over the phone or online to help manage employee-related topics.  ·Retirement services administration: Our retirement services product line offers a variety of options to clients, including 401(k) plans, 401(k) SIMPLE plans, SIMPLE IRAs, 401(k) plans with safe harbor provisions, owner-only 401(k) plans, profit sharing plans, and money purchase plans. These services provide plan implementation, ongoing compliance with government regulations, employee and employer reporting, participant and employer online access, electronic funds transfer, and other administrative services. Auto enrollment is an optional plan feature that allows employers to automatically enroll employees in their company’s 401(k) plan and increase overall plan participation. Clients may choose from a group of pre-defined fund selections or customize their investment options within their plan. We are the largest 401(k) recordkeeper for small businesses in the U.S. Our large-market retirement services clients include relationships with financial advisors.  ·HR administration services: We offer cloud-based HR administration software for employee benefits management and administration, time and attendance solutions, recruiting, and onboarding. oPaychex HR Online offers powerful tools for managing employee personnel information, performance management, HR compliance and reporting. Our Learning Management solution compliments our performance management.  When combined with our workflow and approval engine, we offer clients the flexibility to capture ongoing performance feedback, recommend and enroll employees in specific training courses, and leverage automated workflows to track progress and approve compensation changes tied to performance.  oBenefits administration software manages the employee-benefit enrollment process for both open-enrollment and life events.   6Table of Contents    oTime and attendance products, including our integrated Flex Time software, provide timekeeping, scheduling, and workforce analytics. The InVisionTM IRIS Time Clock, a biometric clock that scans the iris, provides fast and accurate time capture. Paychex Flex Time also works with wearable technology to allow for employees to clock in and out using their smartwatch.oApplicant tracking suite provides technology that streamlines, simplifies, and drives the applicant workflow and onboarding process for companies of all sizes.  ·Other HR services and products: We offer the outsourcing of plan administration under section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code, allowing employees to use pre-tax dollars to pay for certain health insurance benefits and health and dependent care expenses not covered by insurance. All required implementation, administration, compliance, claims processing and reimbursement, and coverage tests are provided with these services. We offer state unemployment insurance services, which provide clients with prompt processing for all claims, appeals, determinations, change statements, and requests for separation documents. ·Business services: We offer various business services to small- to medium-sized businesses. Our wholly owned subsidiary, Paychex Advance, LLC, provides a portfolio of services to the temporary staffing industry, including payroll funding (via the purchase of accounts receivable) and outsourcing services, which include payroll processing, invoicing, and tax preparation. Paychex Promise, a subscription-based service, offers protection against payroll interruptions and solutions to address routine challenges of running a successful business.  The primary offering is payroll protection, which extends the collection of payroll funds from a client’s bank account by seven days without interruption of service or charges for insufficient funds.  In addition, through partnerships with third-party providers, we provide clients opportunities for services such as payment processing services, financial fitness programs, and a small-business loan resource center.PEO and Insurance Solutions:·PEO solutions: Our licensed subsidiaries, Paychex Business Solutions, LLC, HR Outsourcing Holdings, Inc. (“HROi”), and Oasis offer businesses a combined package that includes payroll, employer compliance, HR and employee benefits administration, risk management outsourcing, and the on-site availability of a professionally trained HR representative, among other services. What differentiates our PEO solutions from our ASO solutions is that we serve as a co-employer of our clients’ employees, offer health care coverage to PEO client employees, and assume the risks and rewards of workers’ compensation insurance and certain benefit insurance offerings. We are certified under the Small Business Efficiency Act to provide PEO solutions. ·Insurance solutions: Our licensed insurance agency, Paychex Insurance Agency, Inc., provides insurance through a variety of carriers, allowing employers to expand their employee benefit and corporate offerings at an affordable cost. Insurance offerings include property and casualty coverage such as workers’ compensation, business-owner policies, cyber security protection, commercial auto, and health and benefits coverage, including health, dental, vision, and life. Our insurance services simplify the insurance process to make it easy to find plans with the features and affordability to meet the client’s needs. With access to numerous top national and regional insurance carriers, our professional insurance agents have access to a wide selection of plans from which they can best match the insurance needs of small businesses. Additionally, clients have the option to integrate their insurance plans with Paychex payroll processing for easy, accurate plan administration.Sales and MarketingWe market and sell our services primarily through our direct sales force based in the markets we serve. Our direct sales force includes sales representatives who have defined geographical territories and specialize within our portfolio of services. Our sales representatives are also supported by marketing, advertising, public relations, trade shows, and telemarketing programs. Our virtual sales force manages inbound sales leads for the under 10 employee space, sales in areas without a direct sales force presence, and sales of various ancillary services. In addition to our direct selling and marketing efforts, we utilize other indirect sales channels such as our relationships with existing clients, certified public accountants (“CPAs”), and banks for new client referrals. Approximately 50% of our new small-market payroll clients (excluding business acquisitions) come from these referral sources. Our dedicated business development group drives sales through banking, national associations, and franchise channels.  We also utilize digital marketing as a means to market our services. 7Table of Contents   We have a long-standing partnership with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) as the preferred payroll provider for its AICPA Business SolutionsTM Program. Our current partnership agreement with the AICPA is in place through September 2021.  We also partner with numerous state CPA society organizations.Our website is available at www.paychex.com.  It is a cost-efficient channel that serves as a source of leads and new sales, while complementing the efforts of our direct and virtual sales forces. The website allows us to market to existing and prospective clients that want to learn more about our products and services and offers information about our core lines of business: human resources (www.paychex.com/human-resources), payroll (www.paychex.com/payroll), benefits (www.paychex.com/employee-benefits), and insurance (www.paychex.com/business-insurance).Paychex also builds on its reputation as an expert in the HCM industry by providing education and assistance primarily to clients and the CPA community. We provide free webinars, white papers, and other information on our website to aid existing and prospective clients with the impact of regulatory change as well as HR and business best practices. Paychex WORX, available at www.paychex.com/worx, is a digital destination for insightful resources useful for businesses at every stage, from entrepreneur to enterprise. Paychex WORX highlights our expertise, and ability to help businesses of all sizes with a wide range of HR and financial information for current clients and prospects alike. We also track current regulatory issues that impact the business community and provide regulatory updates. We issue small business trend reports through our Paychex | IHS Markit Small Business Employment Watch. Our Paychex Accountant Knowledge Center is a free online resource available through our website that brings valuable information and time-saving online tools to accounting professionals. Through Paychex Flex, AccountantHQ offers access to authorized client payroll and HR data and key account contacts, along with an extensive accountant resource library. AccountantHQ drives efficiency by putting accountants in the best position possible to easily access critical client payroll and HR data, as well as powerful reporting tools, including our Paychex Protection Program (“PPP”) loan forgiveness estimator. Markets and CompetitionWe remain focused on servicing small- to medium-sized businesses based upon the growth potential that we believe exists in the markets we serve. Our internal database source indicates that there are approximately 8 million employer firms in the target markets that we currently serve in the U.S.The market for HCM services is highly competitive and fragmented. We have one primary national competitor and we also compete with other national, international, regional, local, and online service providers. In addition to traditional payroll processing and HR service providers, we compete with in-house payroll and HR systems and departments. Payroll and HR systems and software are sold by many vendors. Our products also compete with a variety of providers of HR services, such as retirement services companies, insurance companies, HR and benefits consulting firms, and national and regional PEOs.Competition in the payroll processing and HR services industry is primarily based on service responsiveness, product quality and reputation, including ease of use and accessibility of technology, breadth of service and product offerings, and price. We believe we are competitive in each of these areas.  We believe that our leading-edge technology and mobility applications, combined with personalized service provided by industry professionals and our technology-enabled service capabilities, distinguishes us from our competitors.Software Maintenance and DevelopmentThe ever-changing mandates of federal, state, and local tax and regulatory agencies require us to regularly update our proprietary software to provide payroll and HR services to our clients. We are continually engaged in developing enhancements to and maintaining our various software platforms to meet the changing requirements of our clients and the marketplace. We continue to enhance our SaaS solutions and mobility applications to offer our users an integrated and unified experience.  Continued enhancement of the client and client employee experience is important to our future success.EmployeesWe believe our ability to attract and retain qualified employees in all areas of our business is important to our future success and growth. As of May 31, 2020, we employed approximately 15,800 people, of which approximately 15,600 people were employed on a full-time basis.   8Table of Contents   Intellectual PropertyWe own or license and use a number of trademarks, trade names, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, computer programs and software, and other intellectual property rights. Collectively, our intellectual property rights are material to the conduct of our business. Where it is determined to be appropriate, we take measures to protect our intellectual property rights, including, but not limited to, confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements or policies with employees, vendors, and others; license agreements with licensees and licensors of intellectual property; and registration of certain trademarks. We believe that the “Paychex” name, trademark, and logo are of material importance to us.SeasonalityThere is no significant seasonality to our business. However, during our third fiscal quarter, which ends in February, the number of new payroll clients, new retirement services clients, and new worksite employees associated with our HR Solutions ASO and PEO businesses tends to be higher than during the rest of the fiscal year, primarily because many new clients prefer to start using our services at the beginning of a calendar year. In addition, calendar year-end transaction processing and client funds activity are traditionally higher during our third fiscal quarter due to clients paying year-end bonuses, clients requesting additional year-end services, and the preparation and delivery of end-of year reporting requirements. Available InformationWe are subject to the informational and reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that includes our reports, proxy statements, and other information. Our corporate website, www.paychex.com, provides materials for investors and information about our services. Our Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other SEC filings, as well as any amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are made available, free of charge, on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into our Form 10-K. Also, copies of our Annual Report to Stockholders and Proxy Statement, to be issued in connection with our 2020 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, will be made available, free of charge, upon written request submitted to Paychex, Inc., c/o Corporate Secretary, 911 Panorama Trail South, Rochester, New York 14625-2396. 