BusinessWe incorporated in 1985 under the laws of the state of California. In 1991, we reincorporated in the state of Delaware. We operate and report using a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the last Sunday in September. Our 52-week fiscal years consist of four equal fiscal quarters of 13 weeks each, and our 53-week fiscal years consist of three 13-week fiscal quarters and one 14-week fiscal quarter. The financial results for our 53-week fiscal years and our 14-week fiscal quarters will not be exactly comparable to our 52-week fiscal years and our 13-week fiscal quarters. Both of the fiscal years ended September 28, 2014 and September 29, 2013 included 52 weeks. The fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 included 53 weeks.OverviewWe continue to lead the development and commercialization of a digital communication technology called CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access), and we own significant intellectual property applicable to products that implement any version of CDMA, including patents, patent applications and trade secrets. The mobile communications industry generally recognizes that a company seeking to develop, manufacture and/or sell products that use CDMA technology will require a patent license from us. CDMA is one of the main technologies currently used in digital wireless communications networks (also known as wireless networks). Based on wireless connections, CDMA and TDMA (Time Division Multiple Access), of which GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) is the primary commercial form, are the primary digital technologies currently used to transmit a wireless device user’s voice or data over radio waves using a public cellular wireless network.We also continue our significant role in the development and commercialization of OFDMA (Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access) technology for which we own substantial intellectual property. Sales of multimode CDMA and LTE (which stands for Long Term Evolution and is an OFDMA-based standard for cellular wireless communication applications) wireless devices have grown significantly during the past several years. We also develop and commercialize several other key technologies used in handsets and tablets that contribute to end-user demand, and we own substantial intellectual property related to these technologies. Some of these were contributed to and are being commercialized as industry standards, such as certain audio and video codecs, the advanced WLAN (wireless local area networks, or Wi-Fi) 802.11 functionality and volatile and non-volatile memory controllers. Other technologies widely used by wireless devices that we have developed are not related to any industry standards, such as operating systems, user interfaces, graphics and camera processing functionality, integrated circuit packaging techniques, sensors and sensor fusion algorithms and application processor architectures. In addition to licensing portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, we design, manufacture, have manufactured on our behalf and market products and services based on CDMA, OFDMA and other digital communications technologies. Our products principally consist of integrated circuits (also known as chips or chipsets) and system software used in mobile devices and in wireless networks. We also sell other products and services, which include: integrated circuits for use in wired devices, particularly broadband gateway equipment, desktop computers and streaming media players; software products and content enablement services for wireless operators; and products designed for the implementation of small cells. 1State of the Mobile IndustryThe mobile industry has experienced tremendous growth over the past 20 years, growing from less than 60 million global connections in 1994 (WCIS+, October 2014) to approximately 7 billion global connections in September 2014 (GSMA Intelligence, November 2014). As the largest technology platform in the world, mobile has made peoples’ lives more connected, transforming the way we interact with one another and with the world. The scale and pace of innovation in mobile, especially around connectivity and computing capabilities, is impacting industries beyond wireless.Extending connectivity. 3G/4G (third generation/fourth generation) multimode mobile broadband technology has been a key driver of the growth of mobile, providing users with fast, reliable, always-on connectivity. As of September 2014, there were approximately 2.8 billion 3G/4G connections globally (CDMA-based, OFDMA-based and CDMA/OFDMA multimode) representing nearly 40% of total mobile connections, and by 2018, 3G/4G connections are projected to surpass 5 billion globally, with approximately three-quarters of this growth occurring in emerging regions (GSMA Intelligence, November 2014).  3G/4G multimode mobile broadband has also emerged as an important platform for extending the reach and potential of the Internet. In 2010, the number of broadband connections using mobile technology surpassed those using fixed technologies, making mobile networks the primary method of access to the Internet for many people around the world. The impact is further amplified in emerging regions, where 3G/4G connections are approximately four times the number of fixed Internet connections (GSMA Intelligence, November 2014 and WBIS, October 2014). Mobile broadband may be the first, and in many cases only, way that people in these regions access the Internet. 3G/4G LTE multimode services are being rolled out in China, which we expect will encourage competition and growth, bring the benefits of 3G/4G LTE multimode to consumers, encourage consumers to replace 2G, or second generation, (GSM) and 3G devices and enable new opportunities for the industry. Growth in smartphones. Smartphone adoption is growing worldwide, fueled by ultra-fast 3G/4G LTE multimode connectivity, powerful application processors (now delivering speeds over 2 GHz) and advanced multimedia and location aware capabilities. In 2013, nearly 1 billion smartphones shipped globally, representing a year-over-year increase of more than 40%, and shipments of smartphones between 2014 and 2018 are projected to reach over 8 billion (Gartner, September 2014). Much of this growth is happening in emerging regions, where smartphones represented 46% of total handset shipments in 2013 and are expected to reach approximately 89% in 2018 (Gartner, September 2014). Declining costs and the rapid expansion of entry-level smartphones have been and are expected to continue to be key to this growth.Consumer demand for new types of experiences, combined with the need by mobile operators and device manufacturers to provide differentiated features and services, is driving continued innovation within the smartphone. This innovation is happening across multiple technology dimensions, including connectivity, application processors, camera, audio, video, location, radio frequencies and sensors. As a result, the smartphone has supplanted in many ways the personal computer as the go-to device for email, web browsing, music, gaming, social networking and more. It is also replacing many traditional consumer electronics items due to its advanced capabilities, including digital cameras, video cameras, Global Positioning System (GPS) units and music players.  Meeting data demand. As more smartphones and other connected devices come online, data usage is growing rapidly, putting a tremendous strain on the capacity of mobile networks. To meet the challenge resulting from increased demand for data, mobile operators are looking at a variety of methods to improve the performance and capacity of their networks, including acquiring additional spectrum, using more efficient air-interface technologies (derived from the continued evolution of 3G/4G and Wi-Fi technologies) and leveraging both licensed and unlicensed spectrum. An additional approach is network densification, in which very small, lower-power base stations, known as small cells, are deployed close to the end user to complement the larger “macro” network.  Addressing new opportunities. The mobile industry is leveraging the same technology innovations found in smartphones to extend advanced connectivity and computing capabilities into a broad array of end-devices and access points, which make up the “edge” of the Internet. With billions of connected devices projected to be added over the coming years, enhancing the capabilities of the network will be vital to improving its scalability and performance as it enters this new phase of growth. These enhancements are helping to transform industry segments, including the connected home, tablets, automotive, health care and wearables, as companies leverage mobile connectivity and computing technology to create intelligently connected products and services and reach new customers.The proliferation of intelligently connected “things” (e.g., consumer electronics, appliances and cars) is enabling new types of user experiences, as smartphones are able to interact with and control more of the things around us. Through the addition of embedded sensors, connected things are able to collect and send data on their environment, providing users with contextually relevant information and further increasing their utility and value. We refer to this as the Internet of Everything. 2Wireless TechnologiesThe growth in the use of wireless devices worldwide, such as smartphones and tablets, and demand for data services and applications requires continuous innovation to further improve the user experience, enable new services and increase network capacity, make use of different frequency bands and enable dense network deployments. To meet these requirements, different wireless communications technologies continue to evolve. For over two decades, we have invested and continue to invest heavily in research and development of many of these cellular wireless communication technologies, including CDMA and OFDMA. As a result, we have developed and acquired (and continue to develop and acquire) significant related intellectual property. This intellectual property has been incorporated into the most widely accepted and deployed wireless communications technology standards, and we have licensed it to wireless device and infrastructure manufacturers (more than 260 licensees, including all leading manufacturers). Most of the cellular wireless technologies can be grouped into three categories.TDMA-based. TDMA-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency channel by dividing the signal into different time slots. Most of these systems are classified as 2G technology.The main examples of TDMA-based technologies are GSM (deployed worldwide), IS-136 (deployed in the Americas) and Personal Digital Cellular (PDC) (deployed in Japan). Compared to the earlier generations of analog technologies, these digital communications technologies provided for significantly enhanced efficiency within a fixed spectrum, resulting in increased voice capacity. These technologies also enable enhanced services, such as SMS (short message service) texting service, as well as low-speed data services. GSM has evolved to support mobile packet data transmission, such as GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) and EDGE (Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution).According to GSMA Intelligence estimates as of November 3, 2014, there were approximately 4.2 billion GSM connections worldwide, representing approximately 60% of total cellular connections. The transition of wireless devices from 2G to 3G/4G continued around the world with 3G/4G connections up 24% year-over-year.CDMA-based. CDMA-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency and time by allocating different orthogonal codes to individual users. Most of the CDMA-based technologies are classified as 3G technology. We lead the development of CDMA-based technologies. There are a number of variants of CDMA-based technologies deployed around the world, in particular CDMA2000, EV-DO (Evolution Data Optimized), WCDMA (Wideband CDMA) and TD-SCDMA (Time Division-Synchronous CDMA) (deployed exclusively in China). CDMA-based technologies provide vastly improved capacity for voice and low-rate data services as compared to analog technologies and significant improvements over TDMA-based technologies, such as GSM. The following are the CDMA-based technologies and their standards revisions:•CDMA2000 revisions A through E•1xEV-DO revisions A through C•WCDMA/HSPA releases 4 through 12•TD-SCDMA releases 4 through 12To date, these technologies have seen many revisions, and they continue to evolve, progressively offering higher capacity and data rates, improved user experiences and new applications and services. As these technologies continue to evolve, new features are being defined in their relevant standardization bodies, the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 (3GPP2) for CDMA2000 and 1xEV-DO and the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) for WCDMA and TD-SCDMA.For simplicity, the releases of these technologies are often combined and given “marketing” or “trade” names that also indicate their benefits. One example is the 3GPP releases: Releases 5 and 6 together are called HSPA (High Speed Packet Access). The releases from 7 to 10 are called HSPA+, indicating that they provide performance improvements over HSPA. We refer to releases 11 and beyond as HSPA+ Advanced, again indicating improvements beyond the ones that HSPA+ offers. The naming convention also applies to the successive releases of CDMA2000, which are grouped and referred to as CDMA2000 1X, 1X Advanced, as well as to 1xEV-DO successive releases, which are referred to as EV-DO Revision A, Revision B and DO Advanced. CDMA technologies ushered in a significant increase in broadband data services that continue to grow rapidly. According to GSMA Intelligence estimates as of November 3, 2014, there were approximately 2.4 billion CDMA-based connections worldwide, representing approximately 35% of total cellular connections. As of the fourth quarter of calendar 2014, the first phases of 1X Advanced and DO Advanced, as well as up to the eighth release of HSPA+,  were commercially launched. OFDMA-based. OFDMA-based technologies are characterized by their access method allowing several users to share the same frequency band and time by allocating different subcarriers to individual users. Most of the OFDMA-based technologies  3are classified as 4G technology. We continue to play a significant role in the development of LTE and LTE Advanced, which are the predominant 4G technologies.The primary OFDMA-based technology is LTE, which is incorporated in 3GPP specifications starting from release 8. LTE has two modes, FDD (frequency division duplex) and TDD (time division duplex), to support paired and unpaired spectrum, respectively, and is being developed by 3GPP. The principal benefit of LTE is its ability to leverage wide swaths of spectrum (bandwidths of 10 MHz or more). LTE is designed to seamlessly interwork with 3G through 3G/4G multimode devices. Currently, most LTE devices rely on 3G for voice services across the network, as well as for ubiquitous data services outside the LTE coverage area, and on 4G for data services inside the coverage area. To date, LTE’s voice solution, VoLTE (voice over LTE), has been commercially deployed in only a small number of networks.  LTE’s releases are often combined and given “marketing” or “trade” names that also indicate their benefits. The name LTE covers releases 8 and 9. Releases 10 and beyond are referred to as LTE Advanced. According to GSMA Intelligence estimates as of November 3, 2014, there were approximately 360 million global 3G/4G multimode connections worldwide, representing approximately 5% of total cellular connections. Carrier aggregation, one of the significant improvements of LTE Advanced, was commercially launched in June 2013. Along with carrier aggregation, LTE Advanced brings many more enhancements, including advanced antenna techniques and optimization for small cells. LTE Advanced continues to evolve; release 12 is expected to be finalized toward the end of calendar 2014, and the work on release 13 has already started. Apart from improving the performance of existing networks, these releases also bring new enhancements, such as LTE Direct for proximity-based device-to-device discovery, the ability to use LTE Advanced in unlicensed spectrum, improved LTE broadcast through carrier aggregation with LTE Advanced in licensed spectrum and optimizations of machine-type communications. (LTE in unlicensed spectrum can be commercialized in countries such as the United States, China and South Korea with the existing release 10 standard; however, it will need new standards in many other countries.) The evolution of LTE will significantly expand the role of LTE Advanced in the future of communications.There also have been ongoing efforts to make the interworking between LTE and Wi-Fi more seamless and completely transparent to the users. The seamless interworking will also enable the device to use the best possible link or links depending on conditions of the LTE and Wi-Fi links as the applications run on devices.Other (Non-cellular) Wireless Technologies. There are other non-cellular wireless technologies that have also been broadly adopted in mobile cellular devices.Wireless Local Area Networks. Wireless local area networks (WLAN, also known as Wi-Fi) link two or more devices wirelessly and usually provide connectivity through an access point. WLAN systems have been standardized by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) in the 802.11 family of standards. 802.11ac, which includes advanced features, such as multiple user multiple in/multiple out (MU MIMO) and support for large bandwidths and higher order modulation, primarily targets broadband connectivity for mobile devices, laptops and consumer electronics devices using 5 GHz spectrum. 802.11ad provides multi-gigabit data rates for short range communication, using 60 GHz spectrum. 802.11ah, which is still under development and targets sub-GHz spectrum, is envisioned to be a solution for “connected home” applications that require long battery life. We played a leading role in the development of 802.11ac, 802.11ad and 802.11ah. Bluetooth. Bluetooth is a wireless personal area network that provides wireless connectivity between devices over short distances ranging from a few centimeters to a few meters. Bluetooth technology provides wireless connectivity to a wide range of fixed or mobile consumer electronics devices. Bluetooth functionalities are standardized by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group in various versions of the specification (from 1.0 to 4.0), which include different functionalities, such as enhanced data rate or low energy (known as Bluetooth Smart). Location Positioning Technologies. Location positioning technologies have evolved rapidly in the industry over the past few years in order to deliver an enhanced location experience. In the past, satellite navigation systems were predominantly used to provide the accurate location of mobile devices. We were a key developer of the Assisted-GPS (A-GPS) positioning technology used in most cellular handsets today. For uses requiring the best accuracy for E911 services and navigational based services, A-GPS provided a leading-edge solution. The industry has now evolved to support additional inputs for improving the location experience. We now support multiple constellations, including: GPS, GLONASS (Global Navigation Satellite System) and BeiDou; terrestrial-based positioning using WWAN (Wireless Wide Area Network) and Wi-Fi-based inputs; Wi-Fi RSSI (received signal strength indication) and RTT (round-trip time) signals for indoor location; and third-party sensors combined with GNSS (Global Navigation Satellite System) measurements to provide interim support for location-based services in rural areas and indoors, where other signal inputs may not be available.Other Significant Technologies used in Cellular and Certain Consumer Electronic Devices and NetworksWe have played a leading role in developing many of the other technologies used in cellular and certain consumer electronic devices and networks, including:  4•graphics and display processing functionality; •video coding based on H.264 standards, which has already been deployed commercially, and its successor, H.265, or high-efficiency video codec, which will be deployed to support ultra-high definition (4K) video content;•audio coding, including for multimedia use and for voice/speech use (also known as Vocoding);•camera and camcorder functions;•system user and interface features; •security and content protection systems;•volatile (LP-DDR2, 3, 4) and non-volatile (eMMC) memory and related controllers; and•power management systems and batteries.Operating SegmentsWe have three reportable segments. We conduct business primarily through two reportable segments, QCT (Qualcomm CDMA Technologies) and QTL (Qualcomm Technology Licensing), and our QSI (Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives) reportable segment makes strategic investments. QSI did not have revenues in any periods presented. Revenues in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 for our reportable segments were as follows (in millions, except percentage data): QCT QTL2014$18,665 $7,569As a percent of total70% 29%2013$16,715 $7,554As a percent of total67% 30%2012$12,141 $6,327As a percent of total63% 33%QCT Segment. QCT is a leading developer and supplier of integrated circuits and system software based on CDMA, OFDMA and other technologies for use in voice and data communications, networking, application processing, multimedia and global positioning system products. QCT’s integrated circuit products are sold and its system software is licensed to manufacturers that use our products in wireless devices, particularly mobile phones, tablets, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers and gaming devices, access points and routers, data cards and infrastructure equipment, and in wired devices, particularly broadband gateway equipment, desktop computers and streaming media players. Our Mobile Station Modem (MSM) integrated circuits, which include the Mobile Data Modem, Qualcomm Single Chip and Qualcomm Snapdragon processors, perform the core baseband modem functionality in wireless devices providing voice and data communications, as well as multimedia applications and global positioning functions. In addition, our Snapdragon processors provide advanced application and graphics processing capabilities. Because of our experience in designing and developing CDMA- and OFDMA-based products, we design both the baseband integrated circuit and the supporting system as well, including the RF (Radio Frequency), PM (Power Management) and connectivity devices. This approach enables us to optimize the performance of the wireless device with improved product features and integration with the network system. Our portfolio of RF products includes QFE (Qualcomm Front End) radio front end components that are designed to simplify the RF design for LTE multimode, multiband mobile devices, reduce power consumption and improve radio performance. QCT’s system software enables the other device components to interface with our integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling manufacturers to develop devices utilizing the functionality within the integrated circuits. We also provide support, including reference designs and tools, to enable our customers to reduce the time required to design their products and bring their products to market faster. We plan to add additional features and capabilities to our integrated circuit products to help our customers reduce the cost and size of their products, to simplify our customers’ design processes and to enable more wireless devices and services. QCT offers a broad portfolio of products, including both wireless device and infrastructure integrated circuits, in support of CDMA2000 1X and 1xEV-DO, as well as the EV-DO Revision A/B evolutions of CDMA 2000 technology. Leveraging our expertise in CDMA, we also develop and offer integrated circuits supporting the WCDMA version of 3G for manufacturers of wireless devices. More than 90 device manufacturers have selected our WCDMA products that support GSM/GPRS, WCDMA, HSDPA (High-Speed Downlink Packet Access), HSUPA (High-Speed Uplink Packet Access) and HSPA+ for their devices. QCT also sells multimode products for the LTE standard, which offer seamless backward compatibility to existing 3G technologies. Our integrated circuit products are included in a broad range of devices, from low-tier, entry-level devices for  5emerging regions, which may use our Qualcomm Reference Design (QRD) products, to premium-tier devices. In fiscal 2014, QCT shipped approximately 861 million MSM integrated circuits for wireless devices worldwide, compared to approximately 716 million and 590 million in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our modems are built to work with increasingly complex networks. They support the latest communication technologies and adapt to network conditions and user needs in real time to enable delivery of faster, smoother data and voice connections. Our 3G/4G modem roadmap delivers the latest network technologies across multiple product tiers and devices. This roadmap is the result of our years of research into emerging network standards and the development of chipsets that take advantage of these new standards, while maintaining backward compatibility with existing standards. Each Snapdragon processor is a highly integrated, mobile optimized system on a chip incorporating our advanced technologies, including a high performance central processing unit (CPU), digital signal processor (DSP), graphics processing unit (GPU) and modem, multimedia subsystems, including high fidelity audio, high-definition video and advanced imaging capabilities, a hardware-based security suite and highly accurate location positioning engines. Our CPU cores are designed to deliver high levels of compute performance at low power, allowing manufacturers to design slim and powerful devices with longer battery life between charges. Our Qualcomm Adreno GPUs are also designed to deliver graphics performance for visually rich 3D gaming and user interfaces. The heterogeneous compute architecture of our Snapdragon processors is designed to ensure that the CPU, DSP and GPU work efficiently together, each being powered up and utilized only when needed, which enhances the processing capacity, speed and efficiency of our Snapdragon processors and the battery life of devices using our processors. Most Snapdragon processors also include our integrated Qualcomm Gobi modem technology for power efficient advanced mobile broadband. Our wireless products also consist of integrated circuits and system software for WLAN, Bluetooth, frequency modulation (FM) and near field communications as well as technologies that enable location data and services, including GPS, GLONASS and BeiDou. Our WLAN, Bluetooth and FM products have been integrated with the Qualcomm Snapdragon processor devices to provide additional connectivity for mobile phones, tablets and consumer electronics. QCT also offers stand alone WLAN, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and Ethernet products for mobile devices, consumer electronics, computers, home appliances and other connected devices. Our networking products include Wi-Fi, Powerline and Ethernet chips, network processors and software. These products enable home and business networks to support the growing number of connected devices, digital media, data services and other smart home applications. QCT utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Integrated circuits are die cut from silicon wafers that have completed the package assembly and test manufacturing processes. The semiconductor package supports the electrical contacts that connect the integrated circuit to a circuit board. Die cut from silicon wafers are the essential components of all of our integrated circuits and a significant portion of the total integrated circuit cost. We employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. Turnkey is when our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. Under the two-stage manufacturing model, we purchase die or wafers from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party suppliers for manufacturing services such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and final test. We rely on independent third-party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits based primarily on our proprietary designs and test programs. Our suppliers also are responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. The primary foundry suppliers for our various digital, analog/mixed-signal, RF and PM integrated circuits are Global Foundries Inc., International Business Machines Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and United Microelectronics Corporation. The primary semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Amkor Technology, Siliconware Precision Industries and STATSChipPAC. The majority of our foundry and semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are located in the Asia-Pacific region.QCT’s sales are primarily made through standard purchase orders for delivery of products. QCT generally allows customers to reschedule delivery dates within a defined time frame and to cancel orders prior to shipment with or without payment of a penalty, depending on when the order is canceled. The market in which QCT operates is intensely competitive. QCT competes worldwide with a number of United States and international designers and manufacturers of semiconductors. As a result of global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological changes, device manufacturer concentrations and the potential for further industry consolidation, we anticipate the market to remain very competitive. We believe that the principal competitive factors for our products may include performance, level of integration, quality, compliance with industry standards, price, time-to-market, system cost, design and engineering capabilities, new product innovation and customer support. QCT also competes in both single- and dual-mode environments against alternative communications technologies including, but not limited to, GSM/GPRS/EDGE, TDMA and TD-SCDMA. 6QCT’s current competitors include, but are not limited to, companies such as Broadcom, Ericsson, HiSilicon Technologies, Intel, Lantiq, Marvell Technology, Maxim Integrated Products, MediaTek, nVidia, Realtek Semiconductor, Samsung Electronics, Spreadtrum Communications (which is controlled by Tsinghua Unigroup), Texas Instruments and VIA Telecom. QCT also faces competition from products internally developed by our customers, including some of our largest customers, and from some early-stage companies. Our competitors devote significant amounts of their financial, technical and other resources to develop and market competitive products and, in some cases, to develop and adopt competitive digital communication or signal processing technologies, and those efforts may materially and adversely affect us. Although we have attained a significant position in the industry, many of our current and potential competitors may have advantages over us, which include, among others: lower cost structures; better known brand names; ownership and control of manufacturing facilities and greater expertise in manufacturing processes; motivation by our customers in certain circumstances to find alternate suppliers or choose alternate technologies; foreign government support of other technologies or our competitors; more extensive relationships with local distribution and original equipment manufacturer companies in emerging geographic regions (such as China); and/or a more established presence in certain device markets.QTL Segment. QTL grants licenses or otherwise provides