Risk Factors” included in this Annual Report. Liquidity and Capital ResourcesOn October 27, 2016, we announced a definitive agreement under which Qualcomm River Holdings will acquire NXP. Pursuant to the definitive agreement, Qualcomm River Holdings has commenced a tender offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of NXP for $110 per share in cash, for estimated total cash consideration to be paid to NXP’s shareholders of $38 billion. The transaction is subject to receipt of regulatory approvals in various jurisdictions and other closing conditions. While we continue to work to close by the end of calendar 2017, the transaction may close in early 2018. In May 2017, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $11.0 billion of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities, of which a portion will be used to fund the purchase price and other related transactions. In addition, we have secured $4.0 billion in committed financing through a Term Loan Facility, which is expected to be drawn on at the close of the NXP transaction. The remaining amount will be funded with cash held by our foreign entities, which will result in the use of a substantial portion of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities.Qualcomm River Holdings and NXP may terminate the definitive agreement under certain circumstances. If the definitive agreement is terminated by NXP in certain circumstances, NXP will be required to pay Qualcomm River Holdings a termination fee of $1.25 billion. If the definitive agreement is terminated by Qualcomm River Holdings under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals or the failure of NXP to complete certain pre-closing reorganization steps in all material respects, Qualcomm River Holdings will be required to pay NXP a termination fee of $2.0 billion. In November 2016, as required by the definitive agreement, we entered into four letters of credit for an aggregate amount of $2.0 billion pursuant to which NXP will have the right to draw amounts to fund the potential termination fee payable to NXP. Each letter of credit is required to be fully cash collateralized in an amount equal to 100% of its face value through deposits with the issuers of the letters of credit. We are restricted from using the funds deposited as collateral while the letters of credit are outstanding. At September 24, 2017, the letters of credit were fully collateralized through bank time deposits and money market funds.Our principal sources of liquidity are our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, cash provided by our debt programs and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans. The following table presents selected financial information related to our liquidity as of and for the years ended September 24, 2017 and September 25, 2016 (in millions): 48 2017 2016 $ Change % ChangeCash, cash equivalents and marketable securities$38,578 $32,350 $6,228 19%Accounts receivable, net3,632 2,219 1,413 64%Inventories2,035 1,556 479 31%Short-term debt2,495 1,749 746 43%Long-term debt19,398 10,008 9,390 94%Net cash provided by operating activities4,693 7,400 (2,707) (37%)Net cash provided (used) by investing activities18,463 (3,488) 21,951 N/MNet cash provided (used) by financing activities5,879 (5,522) 11,401 N/MN/M = Not meaningfulThe net increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was primarily due to the proceeds from the issuance of unsecured floating-rate and fixed-rate notes in May 2017 of approximately $10.95 billion, net of underwriting discounts and offering expenses, and net cash provided by operating activities, partially offset by $3.3 billion in cash dividends paid, the deposit of $2.0 billion that was used to collateralize the letters of credit related to our proposed acquisition of NXP, $1.5 billion in payments to fund acquisitions and other investments, primarily related to our recently formed RF360 Holdings joint venture, $1.3 billion in payments to repurchase shares of our common stock and $751 million of net repayments of our outstanding commercial paper debt. Total cash provided by operating activities decreased primarily due to the $940 million payment in connection with the BlackBerry arbitration and the $927 million payment of the fine imposed by the KFTC, as well as changes in working capital related to an increase in accounts receivable and inventories and the timing of related payments. Total cash provided by operating activities was also impacted by actions taken by Apple and its contract manufacturers, as well as the previously disclosed dispute with another licensee, who did not report or pay royalties due in the third or fourth quarter of fiscal 2017.Our days sales outstanding, on a consolidated basis, increased to 56 days at September 24, 2017 compared to 33 days at September 25, 2016. The increase in accounts receivable and the related days sales outstanding were primarily due to the short payment in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 of royalties reported by and deemed collectible from Apple’s contract manufacturers. We expect these receivables to remain outstanding until we resolve our dispute with Apple. The increase in accounts receivable also resulted from the accounts receivable relating to our RF360 Holdings joint venture, increased revenues related to integrated circuits and the timing of the collection of payments from certain of our other licensees. The increase in inventories was primarily due to inventories relating to our RF360 Holdings joint venture and an increase in the overall quantity of units on hand, partially offset by lower average unit costs. Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at September 24, 2017 consisted of $9.2 billion held by our United States-based entities and $29.4 billion held by our foreign entities. Most of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by our foreign entities are indefinitely reinvested and would be subject to material tax effects if repatriated. However, we believe that our United States sources of cash and liquidity are sufficient to meet our business needs in the United States and do not expect that we will need to repatriate the funds. We believe our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, our expected cash flow generated from operations and our expected financing activities will satisfy our working and other capital requirements for at least the next 12 months based on our current business plans. Recent and expected working and other capital requirements, in addition to our proposed acquisition of NXP, also include the items described below.•Our purchase obligations at September 24, 2017, some of which relate to research and development activities and capital expenditures, totaled $4.3 billion and $1.0 billion for fiscal 2018 and 2019, respectively, and $0.5 billion thereafter. •Our research and development expenditures were $5.5 billion and $5.2 billion during fiscal 2017 and 2016, respectively, and we expect to continue to invest heavily in research and development for new technologies, applications and services for voice and data communications.•Cash outflows for capital expenditures were $690 million and $539 million during fiscal 2017 and 2016, respectively. We anticipate that capital expenditures will be higher in fiscal 2018 as compared to fiscal 2017, primarily due to an increase in estimated capital expenditures of approximately $150 million for the full year impact of capital expenditures related to the manufacturing operations of our RF360 Holdings joint venture. We expect to  49continue to incur capital expenditures in the future to support our business, including research and development activities. Future capital expenditures may be impacted by transactions that are currently not forecasted.•The TFTC imposed a fine on us of approximately 23.4 billion Taiwan Dollars (approximately $778 million based on exchange rates at September 24, 2017), which is due on or before November 7, 2017.•We expect to continue making strategic investments and acquisitions, the amounts of which could vary significantly, to open new opportunities for our technologies, obtain development resources, grow our patent portfolio or pursue new businesses.Debt. In November 2016, we amended and restated our existing Revolving Credit Facility that provides for unsecured revolving facility loans, swing line loans and letters of credit to increase the aggregate amount available to $5.0 billion, of which $530 million and $4.47 billion will expire in February 2020 and November 2021, respectively. At September 24, 2017, no amounts were outstanding under the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility.We have an unsecured commercial paper program, which provides for the issuance of up to $5.0 billion of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. At September 24, 2017, we had $999 million of commercial paper outstanding with weighted-average net interest rates of 1.19% and weighted-average remaining days to maturity of 45 days.In May 2017, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $11.0 billion in nine tranches of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes, with maturity dates starting in 2019 through 2047 and effective interest rates between 1.80% and 4.47%. Net proceeds from the issuance of the notes of $10.95 billion are intended to be used to fund a portion of the purchase price of our planned acquisition of NXP and other related transactions and also for general corporate purposes. Our 2019 floating-rate notes, 2020 floating-rate notes, 2019 fixed-rate notes and 2020 fixed-rate notes issued in May 2017 for an aggregate principal amount of $4.0 billion are subject to a special mandatory redemption at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of such mandatory redemption. The redemption is required on the first to occur of (i) the termination of the NXP purchase agreement or (ii) January 25, 2018 (which reflects the automatic extension of the original expiration date of October 27, 2017 in accordance with the NXP purchase agreement, and as such date may be further extended in accordance with the NXP purchase agreement to a date on or prior to June 1, 2018).In May 2015, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $10.0 billion in eight tranches of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes, with maturity dates in 2018 through 2045 and effective interest rates between 1.65% and 4.74%. Interest is payable in arrears quarterly for the floating-rate notes and semi-annually for the fixed-rate notes. In November 2016, we entered into a Term Loan Facility that provides for senior unsecured delayed-draw term facility loans in an aggregate amount of $4.0 billion. Proceeds from the Term Loan Facility, if drawn, will be used to finance, in part, the proposed acquisition of NXP. At September 24, 2017, no amounts were outstanding under the Term Loan Facility. We may issue additional debt in the future. The amount and timing of such additional borrowings will be subject to a number of factors, including the cash flow generated by United States-based entities, acquisitions and strategic investments, acceptable interest rates and changes in corporate income tax law, among other factors. Additional information regarding our outstanding debt at September 24, 2017 is provided in this Annual Report in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6. Debt.” Capital Return Program. The following table summarizes stock repurchases and dividends paid during fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015 (in millions, except per-share amounts):  Stock Repurchase Program Dividends Total  Shares Average Price Paid Per Share Amount Per Share Amount Amount2017 22.8 $58.87 $1,342 $2.20 $3,252 $4,5942016 73.8 53.16 3,922 2.02 2,990 6,9122015 172.4 65.21 11,245 1.80 2,880 14,125On March 9, 2015, we announced that we had been authorized to repurchase up to $15 billion of our common stock. At September 24, 2017, $1.6 billion remained authorized for repurchase under our stock repurchase program. As a result of our proposed acquisition of NXP and the pending use of a substantial portion of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, we currently expect to repurchase shares in the next few years to offset dilution from the issuance of common stock under our employee benefit plans. We periodically evaluate repurchases as a means of returning capital to stockholders to determine when and if repurchases are in the best interests of our stockholders. 50On October 10, 2017, we announced a cash dividend of $0.57 per share on our common stock, payable on December 15, 2017 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 29, 2017. We intend to continue to use cash dividends as a means of returning capital to stockholders, subject to capital availability and our view that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders, among other factors.Contractual Obligations/Off-Balance Sheet ArrangementsWe have no significant contractual obligations not fully recorded on our consolidated balance sheets or fully disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S-K 303(a)(4)(ii).The following table summarizes the payments due by fiscal period for our outstanding contractual obligations at September 24, 2017 (in millions): Total 2018 2019-2020 2021-2022 Beyond2022 NoExpirationDatePurchase obligations (1)$5,874 $4,348 $1,379 $147 $— $—Operating lease obligations445 98 184 108 55 —Capital lease obligations (2)44 14 27 3 — —Equity funding and financing commitments (3)514 69 — 69 — 376Long-term debt (4)21,000 1,500 6,000 2,000 11,500 —Other long-term liabilities (5)(6)1,957 308 1,448 62 15 124Total contractual obligations$29,834 $6,337 $9,038 $2,389 $11,570 $500(1)Total purchase obligations included commitments to purchase integrated circuit product inventories of $3.5 billion, $846 million, $286 million, $72 million and $27 million for each of the subsequent five years from fiscal 2018 through 2022, respectively; there were no such purchase commitments thereafter. Integrated circuit product inventory obligations represent purchase commitments for raw materials, semiconductor die, finished goods and manufacturing services, such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and final test. Under our manufacturing relationships with our foundry suppliers and assembly and test service providers, cancelation of outstanding purchase orders is generally allowed but requires payment of all costs incurred through the date of cancelation, and in some cases, incremental fees related to capacity underutilization. (2)Amounts represent future minimum lease payments including interest payments. Capital lease obligations are included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at September 24, 2017.(3)Certain of these commitments do not have fixed funding dates and are subject to certain conditions and have, therefore, been presented as having no expiration date. Commitments represent the maximum amounts to be funded under these arrangements; actual funding may be in lesser amounts or not at all.(4)The amounts noted herein represent contractual payments of principal only.(5)Certain long-term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet, such as unearned revenues, are not presented in this table because they do not require cash settlement in the future. Other long-term liabilities as presented in this table include the related current portions, as applicable.(6)Our consolidated balance sheet at September 24, 2017 included $138 million in noncurrent liabilities for uncertain tax positions, some of which may result in cash payment. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions recorded as noncurrent liabilities have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with the taxing authorities.Additional information regarding our financial commitments at September 24, 2017 is provided in this Annual Report in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 3. Income Taxes,” “Note 6. Debt” and “Note 7. Commitments and Contingencies.”Critical Accounting EstimatesThe preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future events. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Although we believe that our estimates and the assumptions supporting our assessments are reasonable, actual results that differ from our estimates could be material to our consolidated financial statements. A summary of our significant accounting policies is included in this  51Annual Report in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1. The Company and Its Significant Accounting Policies.” We consider the following accounting estimates to be critical in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.Impairment of Marketable Securities and Other Investments. We hold investments in marketable securities, with increases and decreases in fair value generally recorded through stockholders’ equity as other comprehensive income or loss. We record impairment losses in earnings when we believe an investment has experienced a decline that is other than temporary. During fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recorded $131 million, $112 million and $163 million, respectively, in impairment losses on our investments in marketable securities. In connection with the proposed NXP transaction, during fiscal 2017, we divested a substantial portion of our marketable securities portfolio in order to finance, in part, that transaction. Given the change in our intention to sell certain marketable securities, we recognized other-than-temporary impairment losses in fiscal 2017 for such marketable securities and may recognize additional losses prior to the sale of such marketable securities still held at September 24, 2017. For the available-for-sale securities that are not expected to be sold to finance the NXP transaction, we concluded that the gross unrealized losses of $1 million were temporary at September 24, 2017. We also hold investments in non-marketable equity instruments in privately held companies that are accounted for using either the cost or the equity method. Many of these investments are in early-stage companies, which are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products of these companies are uncertain and may never develop. We monitor our investments for events or circumstances that could indicate the investments are impaired, such as a deterioration in the investee’s financial condition and business forecasts and lower valuations in recently completed or proposed financings, and we record impairment losses in earnings when we believe an investment has experienced a decline in value that is other than temporary.Valuation of Inventories. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market (replacement cost, not to exceed net realizable value) using the first-in, first-out method. Recoverability of inventories is assessed based on review of future customer demand that considers multiple factors, including committed purchase orders from customers as well as purchase commitment projections provided by customers, among other things. This valuation also requires us to make judgments and assumptions based on information currently available about market conditions, including competition, product pricing, product life cycle and development plans. If we overestimate demand for our products, the amount of our loss will be impacted by our contractual ability to reduce inventory purchases from our suppliers. Our assumptions of future product demand are inherently uncertain, and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. Valuation of Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived and Long-Lived Assets. Our business combinations typically result in the recording of goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. We also acquire intangible assets and property, plant and equipment in other types of transactions. The determination of the recorded value of intangible assets acquired in a business combination requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. For intangible assets acquired in a non-monetary exchange, the estimated fair values of the assets transferred (or the estimated fair values of the assets received, if more clearly evident) are used to establish their recorded values, unless the values of neither the assets received nor the assets transferred are determinable within reasonable limits, in which case the assets received are measured based on the carrying values of the assets transferred. Valuation techniques consistent with the market approach, income approach and/or cost approach are used to measure fair value. An estimate of fair value can be affected by many assumptions that require significant judgment. For example, the income approach generally requires us to use assumptions to estimate future cash flows including those related to total addressable market, pricing and share forecasts, competition, technology obsolescence, future tax rates and discount rates. Our estimate of the fair value of certain assets may differ materially from that determined by others who use different assumptions or utilize different business models and from the future cash flows actually realized. Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested annually for impairment and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying amounts may be impaired. Long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortization, are reviewed for impairment when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets may be based on operational performance of our businesses, market conditions, expected selling price and/or other factors. Although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use, including estimates of future cash flows and discount rates, are consistent with our internal planning, when appropriate. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record an impairment charge on a  52portion or all of our goodwill, other indefinite-lived intangible assets and/or long-lived assets. Furthermore, we cannot predict the occurrence of future impairment-triggering events nor the impact such events might have on our reported asset values. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our acquired businesses are impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. During fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recorded $76 million, $107 million and $317 million, respectively, in impairment charges for goodwill, other indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets. The estimated fair values of our QCT and QTL reporting units were substantially in excess of their respective carrying values at September 24, 2017. Legal and Regulatory Proceedings. We are currently involved in certain legal and regulatory proceedings, and we intend to continue to vigorously defend ourselves. However, the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. A broad range of remedies with respect to our business practices that are deemed to violate applicable laws are potentially available. These remedies may include, among others, injunctions, monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money and the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct and/or to modify our business practices. We disclose a loss contingency if there is at least a reasonable possibility that a material loss has been incurred. We record our best estimate of a loss related to pending legal or regulatory proceedings when the loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Where a range of loss can be reasonably estimated with no best estimate in the range, we record the minimum estimated liability. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability, including the probability of loss related to pending legal or regulatory proceedings, and revise our estimates and update our disclosures accordingly. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable. Revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operations. Income Taxes. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions, and the assessment of our income tax positions involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in various taxing jurisdictions. In addition, the application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Tax laws and regulations themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining our provision for income taxes, including those related to tax incentives, intercompany research and development cost-sharing arrangements, transfer pricing and tax credits. While we believe we have appropriate support for the positions taken on our tax returns, we regularly assess the potential outcomes of examinations by taxing authorities in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Therefore, the actual liability for United States or foreign taxes may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional tax liabilities or potentially reverse previously recorded tax liabilities. We are participating in the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Compliance Assurance Process program whereby we endeavor to agree with the IRS on the treatment of all issues prior to filing our federal return. A benefit of participation in this program is that post-filing adjustments by the IRS are less likely to occur.Our QCT segment’s non-United States headquarters is located in Singapore. We obtained tax incentives in Singapore that commenced in March 2012, including a tax exemption for the first five years, provided that we meet specified employment and incentive criteria, and as a result of the expiration of certain of these incentives, our Singapore tax rate increased in fiscal 2017 and will increase again in fiscal 2027 upon the expiration of the remaining incentives. Our failure to meet these criteria could adversely impact our provision for income taxes.We consider the operating earnings of certain non-United States subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside the United States based on our plans for use and/or investment outside of the United States and our belief that our sources of cash and liquidity in the United States will be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs. On a regular basis, we consider projected cash needs for, among other things, potential acquisitions, such as our proposed acquisition of NXP, investments in our existing businesses, future research and development and capital transactions, including repurchases of our common stock, dividends and debt repayments. We estimate the amount of cash or other liquidity that is available or needed in the jurisdictions where these investments are expected as well as our ability to generate cash in those jurisdictions and our access to capital markets. This analysis enables us to conclude whether or not we will indefinitely reinvest the current period’s foreign earnings. We have not recorded a deferred tax liability of approximately $13.7 billion related to the United States federal and state income taxes and foreign withholding taxes on approximately $39.0 billion of undistributed earnings of certain non-United States subsidiaries indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Should we decide to no longer indefinitely reinvest such earnings outside the United States, for example, if we determine that such earnings are needed to fund future domestic operations or there is not a sufficient need for such earnings outside of the United States, we would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period we make such determination. 53Recent Accounting PronouncementsInformation regarding recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of those pronouncements, if any, on our consolidated financial statements is provided in this Annual Report in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1. The Company and Its Significant Accounting Policies.”