BusinessThis Annual Report (including, but not limited to, the following section regarding Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) contains forward-looking statements regarding our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates” and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this Annual Report. Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements or technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements.Although forward-looking statements in this Annual Report reflect our good faith judgment, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences in results and outcomes include without limitation those discussed under the heading “Risk Factors” below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Annual Report. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Annual Report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.We incorporated in 1985 under the laws of the state of California. In 1991, we reincorporated in the state of Delaware. We operate and report using a 52-53 week fiscal year ending the last Sunday in September. Our 52-week fiscal years consist of four equal quarters of 13 weeks each, and our 53-week fiscal years consist of three 13-week fiscal quarters and one 14-week fiscal quarter. The financial results for our 53-week fiscal years and our 14-week fiscal quarters will not be exactly comparable to our 52-week fiscal years and our 13-week fiscal quarters. The fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 included 53 weeks. The fiscal years ended September 25, 2011 and September 26, 2010 both included 52 weeks.OverviewIn 1989, we publicly introduced the concept that a digital communication technique called CDMA could be commercially successful in cellular wireless communication applications. CDMA stands for Code Division Multiple Access and is one of the main technologies currently used in digital wireless communications networks (also known as wireless networks). CDMA and TDMA (Time Division Multiple Access), of which Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) is the primary commercial form, are the primary digital technologies currently used to transmit a wireless device user’s voice or data over radio waves using a public cellular wireless network. Because we led, and continue to lead, the development and commercialization of CDMA technology, we own significant intellectual property, including patents, patent applications and trade secrets, which applies to all versions of CDMA that we implement in our own products and portions of which we license to other companies. The wireless communications industry generally recognizes that a company seeking to develop, manufacture and/or sell products that use CDMA technology will require a patent license from us.We also continue our leading role in the development and commercialization of Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access (OFDMA)-based technologies for which we have substantial intellectual property. Sales of multimode CDMA and LTE (which stands for "Long Term Evolution" and is an OFDMA-based standard for cellular wireless communication applications) subscriber devices have grown significantly during the past year. Our CDMA licensees’ sales of such multimode CDMA and OFDMA devices are covered by their existing CDMA license agreements with us. We have also licensed companies to make and sell OFDMA products that do not also implement CDMA, and more than 30 companies (including LG, Nokia and Samsung) have royalty-bearing licenses under all or a portion of our patent portfolio for use in such OFDMA single-mode products.Our Revenues. We generate revenues by selling products and services, which include:•integrated circuits (also known as chips or chipsets) and Radio Frequency (RF) and Power Management (PM) chips and system software used in mobile devices and in wireless networks;•integrated circuits for use in wired devices, particularly broadband gateway equipment, desktop computers, televisions and Blu-ray players;1•equipment, software and services used by companies, including those in the transportation industry and governments, to wirelessly manage their assets and workforce;•software products and services for content enablement across a wide variety of platforms and devices for the wireless industry;•software products and services that enable mobile commerce services; and•software and hardware development services.We also generate revenues by licensing portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products. Our Integrated Circuits Business. We develop and supply integrated circuits and system software based on CDMA, OFDMA and other technologies for use in voice and data communications, networking, application processing, multimedia and global positioning system products. Our integrated circuit products and system software are sold to and/or licensed to manufacturers that use our products in wireless devices, particularly mobile phones, tablets, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers and gaming devices, access points and routers, data cards and infrastructure equipment, and in wired devices, particularly broadband gateway equipment, desktop computers, televisions and Blu-ray players. The Mobile Station Modem (MSM) integrated circuits, which include the Mobile Data Modem, Qualcomm Single Chip and Qualcomm Snapdragon processor-based devices, perform the core baseband modem functionality in wireless devices providing voice and data communications, as well as multimedia applications and global positioning functions. In addition, our Snapdragon processors provide advanced application and graphics processing capabilities. Our system software enables the other device components to interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling manufacturers to develop devices utilizing the functionality within the integrated circuits. Our infrastructure equipment Cell Site Modem (CSM) integrated circuits and system software perform wireless standards-compliant processing of voice and data signals in the wireless operator’s base station equipment to and from wireless devices. Because of our experience in designing and developing CDMA- and OFDMA-based products, we not only design the baseband integrated circuit, but the supporting system as well, including the RF devices, PM devices and accompanying software products. This approach enables us to optimize the performance of the wireless device with improved product features and integration with the network system. We also provide support, including reference designs and tools, to enable our customers to reduce the time required to design their products and bring their products to market faster. We plan to add additional features and capabilities to our integrated circuit products to help our customers reduce the cost and size of their products, to simplify our customers’ design processes and to enable more wireless devices and services.Our Licensing Business. Our patent portfolio includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products. We grant licenses to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio to manufacturers of wireless products, such as mobile devices, also known as subscriber units, which include handsets, other consumer devices (e.g., tablets, personal computers, e-readers), machine-to-machine devices (e.g., telematics devices, meter reading devices) and data modem cards, the infrastructure equipment required to establish and operate a network, and equipment to test networks and subscriber units. In partial consideration for such licenses, we collect fixed license fees (payable in one or more installments) and ongoing royalties on products sold by our licensees that incorporate our patented technologies.Our Asset Tracking and Services Business. We design, manufacture and sell equipment, license software and provide services to our customers to manage their assets, products and workforce. We offer satellite- and terrestrial-based two-way wireless information and position location services to transportation and logistics fleets to enable our customers to track the location and monitor the performance of their assets and to deliver and collect data with their personnel.Our Wireless Device Software and Related Services Business. We provide software products and services for the global wireless industry. Our Brew products and services enable wireless operators, device manufacturers and software developers to provide over-the-air and pre-loaded wireless applications and services. Our Plaza products and services enable wireless operators, device manufacturers and publishers to create and distribute mobile content across a variety of platforms and devices. We also offer Xiam wireless content discovery and recommendation products to help wireless operators improve usage and adoption of digital content and services and QChat, a push to talk product optimized for third generation (3G) networks.Our Mobile Commerce Business. In fiscal 2012, we began a pilot of a new product application trademarked as Pay, which is marketed on a standalone basis to quick serve restaurants and retailers. The Pay service enables consumers to make payments to quick serve restaurants and retailers on their mobile devices at the point of sale.Our Other Businesses. We continue to invest in display and other product and services initiatives. We intend to license our next generation interferometric modulator (IMOD) display technology in the future, while we continue to develop and directly commercialize only certain IMOD consumer-targeted mobile products. Our IMOD display technology, based on a micro-electro-mechanical-systems (MEMS) structure combined with thin film optics, is intended to provide performance and power consumption benefits as compared to other display technologies.2Wireless Communications IndustryUse of wireless telecommunications devices has increased dramatically in the past decade. According to Wireless Intelligence estimates as of November 5, 2012, the number of worldwide mobile connections is expected to reach approximately 6.6 billion by the end of 2012 and approximately 8.3 billion by 2016. Growth in the early days of wireless communications was driven by the need to make voice calls in a mobile environment. More recently, increases in demand are primarily driven by the desire to have access to high-speed data services in a mobile environment. This is evidenced by the widespread deployments of 3G (third generation) across the globe and strong traction for 4G (fourth generation). Each generation has enabled successively higher data transmission rates. According to Wireless Intelligence estimates, the number of global 3G/4G connections reached 1.9 billion and is expected to reach approximately 4.0 billion in 2016. (3G/4G includes 3G, 4G and multimode 3G/4G technologies.) There are several drivers for the growth in 3G/4G, including but not limited to:•consumer awareness and desire for data services;•consumer demand for data-centric smartphone devices;•emergence of new data devices; •mature 3G networks with high data rates;•deployments of higher-data rate 4G in developed regions; and•growth of 3G in emerging regions.The last few years have witnessed a significant increase in the consumer’s awareness and willingness to use mobile data services. Applications such as email, access to the mobile Internet, downloading of videos and social networking are driving the demand for 3G/4G services and more capable devices.According to reports from the CDMA Development Group and the Global mobile Suppliers Association (GSA), as of November 2012, approximately 800 wireless networks now support 3G globally, a sign that wireless operators are making network investments to address the growing demand for wireless data. Wireless operators are continuing to make network investments by upgrading their networks. According to GSA, all of the global WCDMA operators have upgraded their networks to offer High Speed Packet Access (HSPA) services, and 50% of HSPA operators have launched HSPA+, an evolution of HSPA. GSA also reports that more than 110 commercial networks support 4G LTE (Long Term Evolution). With support for higher data rates and increased capacity, networks are expected to evolve to keep up with the growing demand for wireless data.The mobile Internet is helping increase demand for 3G/4G smartphones as the ability to access data is simplified and enhanced when using a smartphone. In the early days of the smartphone, these devices were designed primarily for high-end business users. However, innovation and competition are helping to make available a broader set of devices that provide compelling user experiences at consumer acceptable price points, which make such devices more accessible by a larger portion of the subscriber base.The need to stay connected anywhere, anytime is helping drive demand for data connectivity on notebook and netbook computers with either embedded 3G/4G connectivity or via an external 3G/4G USB modem. New device categories, such as tablets and e-readers, have also emerged over the last few years. These new devices take advantage of the capabilities of 3G/4G networks to browse the mobile Internet, and download applications, digital books, newspapers and magazines anywhere. Other emerging device categories, such as machine-to-machine communication (allowing both wireless and wired systems to communicate with other devices), gaming consoles and other consumer electronic devices, are also expected to help further drive global demand for 3G/4G.Demand for wireless voice and data services in emerging regions is driving the rapid transition from 2G (second generation) to 3G. 3G network technology provides an efficient way for wireless operators to offer both voice and data services to address these demands, and since fixed broadband penetration is very low in these regions, 3G presents a cost effective means of providing broadband capabilities to consumers.Wireless TechnologiesThe significant growth in the use of wireless devices worldwide, such as smartphones and tablets, and demand for data services and applications requires constant innovation to further improve the user experience, expand capacity and enable dense deployments of low power nodes, such as picocells and femtocells. To meet these requirements, progressive generations of wireless communications technology standards have evolved. The wireless standards used for mobile communications within individual countries are generally determined by the telecommunication service providers operating in those countries and, in some instances, local government regulations. Such determinations are typically based on economic criteria and the service 3provider’s evaluation of each technology’s ability to provide the features and functionality required for its business plan. More than two decades ago, the European Community developed regulations requiring the use of the GSM standard, a TDMA-based, 2G technology. In addition, several versions of CDMA technology were adopted worldwide as public cellular standards. The first version, known as cdmaOne, is a 2G cellular technology that was first commercially deployed in the mid-1990s. The other subsequent versions of CDMA are referred to as 3G technologies.Second Generation. Compared to first generation analog systems, 2G digital technology provided for significantly enhanced efficiency within a fixed spectrum, resulting in greatly increased voice capacity. 2G technologies also enabled numerous enhanced services, such as SMS texting service, but data services were generally limited to low-speed transmission rates. The main 2G digital cellular technologies in use today are called cdmaOne, a form of CDMA and a technology largely developed and patented by us, and GSM, a form of TDMA. Many GSM operators deployed 2G mobile packet data technologies, such as General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) and Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution (EDGE) in areas serviced by GSM. According to Wireless Intelligence estimates as of November 5, 2012, there were approximately 4.5 billion 2G connections worldwide, representing approximately 70% of total wireless connections.Third Generation. As a result of demand for wireless networks that simultaneously carry both high-speed data and voice traffic, the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), a standards setting organization, adopted the 3G standard known as IMT-2000, encompassing six terrestrial operating radio interfaces, each of which incorporates our intellectual property. Two are TDMA-based, three are CDMA-based and the other is OFDMA-based. The three CDMA-based 3G technologies are known commonly throughout the wireless industry as:•CDMA2000, including 1X (including revisions A through E) and 1xEV-DO (EV-DO or Evolution Data Optimized) (including revisions A through C, developed by 3rd Generation Partnership Project Two (3GPP2)) (all of these use the Frequency Division Duplex (FDD) method); •Wideband CDMA (WCDMA), also known as Universal Mobile Telecommunications Systems (UMTS), including High Speed Packet Access (HSPA), part of 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Releases 5 and 6, and HSPA+, part of 3GPP Releases 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and beyond (all of these use the FDD method); and•CDMA Time Division Duplex (TDD), of which there are currently two versions, Time Division Duplex-CDMA (TD-CDMA) and Time Division-Synchronous CDMA (TD-SCDMA). Both are part of the specifications developed by 3GPP.According to Wireless Intelligence estimates, there were approximately 1.8 billion 3G worldwide connections, representing approximately 29% of total wireless connections. Some of the advantages of 3G CDMA technology over 2G technologies include increased network capacity, improved user experience, higher capacity for data and faster access to data and higher data throughput rates. CDMA2000 and WCDMA are widely deployed today in wireless networks throughout the world. TD-SCDMA has been deployed in China. EV-DO Revision B in the CDMA2000 family was launched in 2010; Release 7 of HSPA+ was launched in 2009; and Release 8 of HSPA+ was launched in 2010. HSPA+ continues to evolve, even as 4G technologies are beginning to be deployed. HSPA+ Release 8 introduced multicarrier operation, which aggregates multiple channels to offer wider bandwidths, supporting 10 MHz of bandwidth in Release 8 and up to 40 MHz in Release 11. 3GPP is making plans to develop specifications for Release 12. There have been widespread developments of Release 8 networks around the world in 2011 and 2012. The various revisions of the 3G CDMA specifications have significantly increased network performance capacity and data speeds. It is expected that future revisions of the 3G CDMA specifications will provide further enhancements. CDMA2000 (1X, 1xEV-DO, EV-DO Revision A/B) networks are deployed by wireless operators that support both voice and a wide range of high-speed wireless data services. Enhancements based upon CDMA2000 Revision E Standard, called 1X Advanced, further increases voice capacity of CDMA2000 1X networks. The standardization for 1X Advanced is complete, devices supporting the technology are available and network deployments are in process. Another set of enhancements based upon 1xEV-DO Revision C, also called DO Advanced, improve the performance of 1xEV-DO Revision A/B networks. The first phase of DO Advanced is deployed in commercial networks. Enhancements based upon these updated standards and improved implementations have been and will continue to be deployed in our products and wireless networks to increase capacity and data rates.GSM operators around the world, including those in the European Community and in the United States, have focused primarily on the UMTS Frequency Division Duplex (FDD) radio interface of the IMT-2000 standard, known as WCDMA, for their network evolution. WCDMA is based on our CDMA technology and incorporates many of our patented inventions (as do all of the CDMA and OFDMA radio interfaces of the IMT-2000 standard). The majority of the world’s wireless device and infrastructure manufacturers (more than 145 and including all leading suppliers) have licensed our technology for use in WCDMA products, enabling them to utilize this WCDMA mode of the 3G standards.The three ITU 3G CDMA radio interfaces are all based on the core principles of CDMA technology, and our intellectual property rights include a valuable patent portfolio essential to implementation of each of the 3G CDMA standards. In addition, 4our patent portfolio includes technologies that contribute to commercially successful product implementations. Generally, we have licensed substantially all of our relevant patents to our CDMA subscriber and infrastructure equipment licensees.These 3G CDMA versions (CDMA2000, WCDMA and TD-SCDMA) require separate implementations that are not interchangeable. While the fundamental core technologies are derived from CDMA and, in addition to other features and functionality, are covered by our patents, their specifications each require unique infrastructure products, network design, air interface protocols and management. However, subscriber roaming amongst systems using different air interfaces is made possible through multimode wireless subscriber devices.Fourth Generation. Release 10 of 3GPP’s Long Term Evolution (LTE), the predominant global OFDMA-based standard, and 802.16m, an upgrade of IEEE 802.16e (WiMAX or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access), have both been approved by the ITU to become what are called IMT-Advanced technologies. Release 10 of LTE and WiMAX 802.16m support additional features, wider bandwidths and higher data rates than previous versions of these OFDMA air interfaces, which are part of  IMT-2000. There is no uniform industry agreement on the 4G definition; 4G is now broadly used to include OFDMA technologies that are part of the ITU’s IMT (IMT-2000 and IMT-Advanced) standards and has also been used in marketing campaigns by certain carriers for the 3G WCDMA evolution to HSPA+. Since LTE typically will be overlaid over existing 3G networks, seamless interoperability with 3G (including all CDMA-based 3G technologies) has been standardized by 3GPP and 3GPP2. The first deployments of LTE have been based on Release 8, formally a part of the 3G IMT-2000 standard. According to Wireless Intelligence estimates, the total number of global 4G LTE connections reached approximately 40 million and is expected to reach approximately 560 million in 2016. WiMAX 802.16e was deployed ahead of LTE and targeted unpaired spectrum using a TDD radio interface. LTE supports both paired spectrum, using LTE FDD, and unpaired spectrum, using LTE TDD, and is able to address many of the unpaired spectrum bands targeted by WiMAX. Compared to WiMAX, LTE is expected to achieve greater economy of scale through its interoperability with 3G. Certain wireless operators have selected WiMAX because of regulatory considerations specific to their networks and spectrum holdings. Many WiMAX operators have announced that they are planning to move to LTE TDD.  For over ten years, we have pursued research and development of OFDMA-based wireless communication technologies, and, as a result, have developed and acquired significant related intellectual property. Accordingly, we believe that each of the OFDMA-based 4G standards incorporates our patented technologies. More than 30 companies (including LG, Nokia and Samsung) have entered into royalty-bearing license agreements under our patent portfolio for use in OFDMA products that do not also implement CDMA-based standards. Multimode products that implement both OFDMA and CDMA technologies will, in most cases, be licensed under our existing CDMA license agreements.Our Engineering Resources. We have significant engineering resources, including engineers with substantial expertise in CDMA, OFDMA and a broad range of other technologies. Using these engineering resources, we expect to continue to develop new versions of CDMA, OFDMA and other technologies, develop alternative technologies for certain specialized applications,  participate in the formulation of new voice and data communication standards and technologies and assist in deploying digital voice and data communications networks around the world.Investments in New and Existing Products, Services and Technologies. We continue to invest in research and development in a variety of ways in an effort to extend the demand for our products and services.We develop, commercialize and actively support 3G CDMA-based technologies, as well as OFDMA-based LTE technologies, products and network operations, to grow our royalty revenues and integrated circuit and related software revenues. From time to time, we may also make acquisitions to meet certain technology needs, to obtain development resources or to pursue new business opportunities.We develop on our own, and with our partners, innovations that are integrated into our product portfolio to further expand the opportunity for wireless and enhance the value of our products and services. These innovations are expected to enable our customers to improve the performance or value of their existing services, offer these services more affordably and introduce revenue-generating broadband data services ahead of their competition.We make investments to provide our integrated circuit customers with chipsets designed on leading-edge technology nodes that combine multiple technologies for use in consumer devices, including smartphones, consumer electronics and other data devices. In addition to 3G and 4G LTE technologies, our chipsets support other wireless and wired connectivity technologies including Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN), Bluetooth, Ethernet, Global Positioning System (GPS), Global Navigation Satellite System (GLONASS), Powerline Communication, Passive Optical Networking, Ethernet-over-Coax (EoC) and Ethernet Switching. Our integrated chipsets often include multiple technologies, including advanced multimode modems, application processors and graphics engines, as well as the tools to connect these diverse pieces of technology. We continue to support Android, Windows Phone/RT and other mobile client software environments in our chipsets.We continue to develop our interferometric modulator (IMOD) and other display technologies. We intend to license our next generation IMOD display technology in the future, while we continue to develop and directly commercialize only certain 5IMOD consumer-targeted mobile products. Our IMOD display technology, based on a micro-electro-mechanical-systems (MEMS) structure combined with thin film optics, is intended to provide performance and power consumption benefits as compared to other display technologies. We make investments in the development of technologies to address the growth of mobile data traffic, including 3G/LTE and Wi-Fi products designed for implementation of small cells, which can be used by carriers to extend the capacity of licensed and unlicensed wireless spectrum.We make strategic investments that we believe open new opportunities for our technology, support the design and introduction of new products and services and/or possess unique capabilities or technology. To the extent that such investments become liquid and meet our strategic objectives, we intend to make regular periodic sales of our interests in these investments that are recognized in net investment income.Revenue Concentrations, Significant Customers and Geographical InformationConsolidated revenues from international customers and licensees as a percentage of total revenues were 95%, 94% and 95% in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. During fiscal 2012, 42%, 22% and 14% of our revenues were from customers and licensees based in China, South Korea and Taiwan, respectively, as compared to 32%, 19% and 17% during fiscal 2011, respectively, and 29%, 27% and 12% during fiscal 2010, respectively. A small number of customers/licensees historically have accounted for a significant portion of our consolidated revenues. In fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, revenues from Samsung Electronics constituted more than 10% of consolidated revenues. In addition, in fiscal 2012, revenues from Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd./Foxconn, its affiliates and other suppliers to Apple Inc. constituted more than 10% of consolidated revenues; in fiscal 2011, revenues from HTC constituted more than 10% of consolidated revenues; and in fiscal 2010, revenues from LG Electronics constituted more than 10% of consolidated revenues.Operating SegmentsQCT Segment. QCT is a leading developer and supplier of integrated circuits and system software based on CDMA, OFDMA and other technologies for use in voice and data communications, networking, application processing, multimedia and global positioning system products. QCT’s integrated circuit products and system software are sold to or licensed to manufacturers that use our products in wireless devices, particularly mobile phones, tablets, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers and gaming devices, access points and routers, data cards and infrastructure equipment, and in wired devices, particularly broadband gateway equipment, desktop computers, televisions and Blu-ray players. The MSM integrated circuits, which include the Mobile Data Modem, Qualcomm Single Chip and Qualcomm Snapdragon processor-based devices, perform the core baseband modem functionality in wireless devices providing voice and data communications, as well as multimedia applications and global positioning functions. In addition, our Snapdragon processors provide advanced application and graphics processing capabilities. QCT’s system software enables the other device components to interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling manufacturers to develop devices utilizing the functionality within the integrated circuits. In fiscal 2012, QCT shipped approximately 590 million MSM integrated circuits for wireless devices worldwide as compared to approximately 483 million and 399 million in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. QCT revenues comprised 63%, 59% and 61% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.QCT utilizes a fabless production model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Integrated circuits are die cut from silicon wafers that have been assembled into packages or modules and have completed the final test manufacturing processes. Die cut from silicon wafers are the essential components of all of our integrated circuits and a significant portion of the total integrated circuit cost. We employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing models to purchase our integrated circuits. Turnkey is when our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. Under the two-stage manufacturing model, we purchase wafers and die from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party manufacturers for probe, assembly and final test services. We rely on independent third-party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of th