Risk Factors” included in this Annual Report. Liquidity and Capital ResourcesOur principal sources of liquidity are our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, cash provided by our debt programs and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans. The following table presents selected financial information related to our liquidity as of and for the years ended September 30, 2018 and September 24, 2017 (in millions): 2018 2017 $ Change % ChangeCash, cash equivalents and marketable securities$12,123 $38,578 $(26,455) (69%)Accounts receivable, net2,904 3,632 (728) (20%)Inventories1,693 2,035 (342) (17%)Short-term debt1,005 2,495 (1,490) (60%)Long-term debt15,365 19,398 (4,033) (21%)Net cash provided by operating activities3,895 5,001 (1,106) (22%)Net cash provided by investing activities4,381 18,463 (14,082) (76%)Net cash (used) provided by financing activities(31,487) 5,571 (37,058) N/MN/M = Not meaningfulThe net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was primarily due to $22.6 billion in payments to repurchase shares of our common stock, $5.5 billion in repayment of long-term debt, $3.5 billion in cash dividends paid and $784 million in capital expenditures, partially offset by net cash provided by operating activities and the release of the restriction on $2.0 billion of deposits used to collateralize the letters of credit related to our proposed acquisition of NXP upon termination of the letters of credit. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased primarily due to the $2.0 billion termination fee paid to NXP and the continued actions taken by Apple and its contract manufacturers who did not report or pay royalties due in fiscal 2018, partially offset by the effect of the $940 million payment in connection with the BlackBerry arbitration in fiscal 2017 and the $927 million payment of the fine related to the KFTC investigation in fiscal 2017.Our days sales outstanding, on a consolidated basis, decreased to 49 days at September 30, 2018 compared to 56 days at September 24, 2017. The decrease in accounts receivable and the related days sales outstanding were primarily due to the timing of integrated circuit shipments and the collection of receivables from certain licensees. The decrease in inventories was primarily due to a decrease in the overall quantity of units on hand.Debt. Our 2016 Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility provides for unsecured revolving facility loans, swing line loans and letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $5.0 billion, of which $530 million and $4.47 billion will expire  51in February 2020 and November 2021, respectively. At September 30, 2018, no amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility.We have an unsecured commercial paper program, which provides for the issuance of up to $5.0 billion of commercial paper. Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes. At September 30, 2018, we had $1.0 billion of commercial paper outstanding with weighted-average net interest rates of 2.35% and weighted-average remaining days to maturity of 16 days.In July 2018, as a result of our termination of the NXP acquisition, the 2018 Revolving Credit Facility, 2016 Term Loan Facility and 2018 Term Loan Facility that were established primarily to fund the proposed acquisition of NXP were terminated in accordance with their terms. We had not borrowed any funds under these facilities. In addition, upon our payment of the NXP termination fee, the four letters of credit for which we had deposited aggregate funds of $2.0 billion as collateral for the potential termination fee payable to NXP were terminated, and we were no longer restricted from using the funds.In May 2017, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $11.0 billion in nine tranches of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes, with maturity dates starting in 2019 through 2047. Effective interest rates were between 2.70% and 4.47% at September 30, 2018. Interest is payable in arrears quarterly for the floating-rate notes and semi-annually for the fixed-rate notes.In May 2018, we initiated private offerings to exchange and repurchase certain of our notes issued in May 2017 that were subject to special mandatory redemption provisions that required redemption on the first to occur of (i) the termination of the NXP purchase agreement or (ii) June 1, 2018 if the NXP transaction had not closed as of such date. We exchanged $122 million of notes and repurchased $71 million of notes in the aggregate. In July 2018, we repurchased $3.8 billion of notes subject to the special mandatory redemption provisions that were not exchanged in the May 2018 private offerings. In August 2018, subsequent to the termination of the NXP purchase agreement, we repurchased the $122 million of new notes issued in May 2018.In May 2015, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $10.0 billion in eight tranches of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes, of which $8.5 billion remains outstanding with maturity dates in 2020 through 2045. Effective interest rates were between 2.93% and 4.73% at September 30, 2018. Interest is payable in arrears quarterly for the floating-rate notes and semi-annually for the fixed-rate notes.  We may issue additional debt in the future. The amount and timing of such additional debt will be subject to a number of factors, including the cash flow generated by our operations, acquisitions and strategic investments, acceptable interest rates and changes in corporate income tax law, among other factors.Additional information regarding our outstanding debt at September 30, 2018 is provided in this Annual Report in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6. Debt.” Income Taxes. The Tax Legislation, which was signed into law during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, resulted in an estimated $5.2 billion charge related to the Toll Charge. We currently estimate that we will pay $2.5 billion for the Toll Charge after application of certain tax credits, which is payable in installments over eight years (8% in each of the first five years, 15% in year six, 20% in year seven and 25% in year eight) beginning on January 15, 2019. This amount may be reduced by excess tax benefits generated in fiscal 2019.We have historically asserted our intention to indefinitely reinvest the operating earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries outside the United States based on our plans for use and/or investment outside of the United States and our belief that our sources of cash and liquidity in the United States would be sufficient to meet future domestic cash needs. The Tax Legislation eliminated certain material tax effects on the repatriation of cash to the United States. Future repatriation of cash and other property held by our foreign subsidiaries will generally not be subject to U.S. federal income tax. As a result, we reevaluated our historic assertion, and as of September 30, 2018, we no longer consider substantially all of our foreign earnings to be indefinitely reinvested in our foreign subsidiaries. Additional information regarding our income taxes is provided in this Annual Report in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 3. Income Taxes.” 52Capital Return Program. The following table summarizes stock repurchases, before commissions, and dividends paid during fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016 (in millions, except per-share amounts):  Stock Repurchase Program Dividends Total  Shares Average Price Paid Per Share (1) Amount Per Share Amount Amount2018 278.8 $65.41 $22,569 $2.38 $3,466 $26,0352017 22.8 58.87 1,342 2.20 3,252 4,5942016 73.8 53.16 3,922 2.02 2,990 6,912(1)Average Price Paid Per Share in fiscal 2018 excludes the impact of the three accelerated share repurchase agreements executed in September 2018 as the final number of shares and average purchase price will be determined at the end of the applicable purchase periods.In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, following the termination of the agreement to acquire NXP, we announced a stock repurchase program authorizing us to repurchase up to $30.0 billion of our common stock, the large majority of which we expect to complete by the end of fiscal 2019. This replaced the existing $10.0 billion stock repurchase authorization announced on May 9, 2018. In August 2018, we completed a “modified Dutch auction” tender offer and paid an aggregate of $5.1 billion, excluding fees and related expenses, to repurchase 76.2 million shares of our common stock. In September 2018, we entered into three accelerated share repurchase agreements (ASR Agreements) to repurchase an aggregate of $16.0 billion of our common stock. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, 178.4 million shares were initially delivered to us under the ASR Agreements and were retired. Pursuant to the terms of the ASR Agreements, the final number of shares and the average purchase price will be determined at the end of the applicable purchase periods, which are scheduled to occur in August 2019 but may occur earlier in certain circumstances. At September 30, 2018, $8.9 billion remained authorized for repurchase under our stock repurchase program. Since September 30, 2018, we repurchased and retired 8.5 million shares of common stock for $542 million.Our stock repurchase program has significantly reduced and will continue to reduce the amount of cash that we have available to fund our operations including research and development, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, dividends and other corporate purposes; and increases our exposure to adverse economic, market, industry and competitive conditions and developments, and other changes in our business and our industry. This stock repurchase program has no expiration date. However, we periodically evaluate repurchases as a means of returning capital to stockholders to determine when and if repurchases are in the best interests of our stockholders and may accelerate, suspend, delay or discontinue repurchases at any time.On October 23, 2018, we announced a cash dividend of $0.62 per share on our common stock, payable on December 20, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on December 6, 2018. We intend to continue to use cash dividends as a means of returning capital to stockholders, subject to capital availability and our view that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders, among other factors.Additional Capital Requirements. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, our expected cash flow generated from operations and our expected financing activities will satisfy our working and other capital requirements for at least the next 12 months based on our current business plans. Recent and expected working and other capital requirements, in addition to the above matters, also include the items described below.•We expect the majority of the charges incurred in connection with our Cost Plan will result in cash payments. Our restructuring accrual was $83 million at September 30, 2018, and we expect to incur additional restructuring and restructuring-related charges of up to $100 million. •Our purchase obligations at September 30, 2018, some of which relate to research and development activities and capital expenditures, totaled $3.7 billion and $630 million for fiscal 2019 and 2020, respectively, and $210 million thereafter. •Our research and development expenditures were $5.6 billion in fiscal 2018 and $5.5 billion in fiscal 2017, and we expect to continue to invest heavily in research and development for new technologies, applications and services for voice and data communications.•Cash outflows for capital expenditures were $784 million in fiscal 2018 and $690 million in fiscal 2017. We expect to continue to incur capital expenditures in the future to support our business, including research and development activities. Future capital expenditures may be impacted by transactions that are currently not forecasted. 53•The EC imposed a fine on us, of which $1.2 billion was accrued at September 30, 2018 (based on the exchange rate at September 30, 2018, including related foreign currency gains and accrued interest). In the third quarter of 2018, we provided financial guarantees in lieu of cash payment to satisfy the obligation while we appeal the EU’s decision. The fine is accruing interest at a rate of 1.50% per annum while it is outstanding.•In August 2019, we have the option to acquire (and the minority owner has the option to sell) the minority ownership interest in the RF360 Holdings joint venture for $1.15 billion. The accreted value of such amount was included in other current liabilities at September 30, 2018.•We expect to continue making strategic investments and acquisitions, the amounts of which could vary significantly, to open new opportunities for our technologies, obtain development resources, grow our patent portfolio or pursue new businesses.Contractual Obligations/Off-Balance Sheet ArrangementsWe have no significant contractual obligations not fully recorded on our consolidated balance sheets or fully disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S-K 303(a)(4)(ii).The following table summarizes the payments due by fiscal period for our outstanding contractual obligations at September 30, 2018 (in millions): Total 2019 2020-2021 2022-2023 Beyond2023 NoExpirationDatePurchase obligations (1)$4,513 $3,673 $794 $45 $1 $—Operating lease obligations413 117 169 84 43 —Capital lease obligations (2)31 14 16 1 — —Equity funding and financing commitments (3)316 35 75 8 — 198Long-term debt (4)15,500 — 2,000 4,000 9,500 —Other long-term liabilities (5)(6)3,318 337 560 225 1,708 488Total contractual obligations$24,091 $4,176 $3,614 $4,363 $11,252 $686(1)Total purchase obligations included commitments to purchase integrated circuit product inventories of $2.6 billion, $322 million, $62 million and $24 million for each of the four years from fiscal 2019 through 2022, respectively; there were no such purchase commitments thereafter. Integrated circuit product inventory obligations represent purchase commitments for raw materials, semiconductor die, finished goods and manufacturing services, such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and final test. Under our manufacturing relationships with our foundry suppliers and assembly and test service providers, cancelation of outstanding purchase commitments is generally allowed but requires payment of costs incurred through the date of cancelation, and in some cases, incremental fees related to capacity underutilization. (2)Amounts represent future minimum lease payments including interest payments. Capital lease obligations were included in other current liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2018. The future lease payments related to our RF360 Holdings joint venture manufacturing facility under construction (Note 7) have not been presented in the table above as the lease term will commence upon completion of the construction project.(3)Certain of these commitments do not have fixed funding dates and are subject to certain conditions and have, therefore, been presented as having no expiration date. Commitments represent the maximum amounts to be funded under these arrangements; actual funding may be in lesser amounts or not at all.(4)The amounts noted herein represent contractual payments of principal only.(5)Certain long-term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet, such as unearned revenues, are not presented in this table because they do not require cash settlement in the future. Other long-term liabilities as presented in this table include the related current portions, as applicable.(6)Our consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2018 included $123 million in other noncurrent liabilities for uncertain tax positions, some of which may result in cash payment. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions recorded as other noncurrent liabilities have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with the taxing authorities.Additional information regarding our financial commitments at September 30, 2018 is provided in this Annual Report in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 3. Income Taxes,” “Note 6. Debt” and “Note 7. Commitments and Contingencies.” 54Critical Accounting EstimatesThe preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical and anticipated results and trends and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, including assumptions as to future events. By their nature, estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Although we believe that our estimates and the assumptions supporting our assessments are reasonable, actual results that differ from our estimates could be material to our consolidated financial statements. A summary of our significant accounting policies is included in this Annual Report in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1. Significant Accounting Policies.” We consider the following accounting estimates to be critical in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.Impairment of Other Investments. We hold investments in non-marketable equity instruments in privately held companies that are accounted for using either the cost or the equity method. Many of these investments are in early-stage companies, which are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products of these companies are uncertain and may never develop. We monitor our investments for events or circumstances that could indicate the investments are impaired, such as a deterioration in the investee’s financial condition and business forecasts and lower valuations in recently completed or proposed financings, and we record impairment losses in earnings when we believe an investment has experienced a decline in value that is other than temporary.Valuation of Inventories. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value using the first-in, first-out method. Recoverability of inventories is assessed based on review of future customer demand that considers multiple factors, including committed purchase orders from customers as well as purchase commitment projections provided by customers, among other things. This valuation also requires us to make judgments and assumptions based on information currently available about market conditions, including competition, product pricing, product life cycle and development plans. As we move to smaller geometry process technologies, the manufacturing lead-time increases, resulting in an increased reliance on our own forecasts of customer demand, rather than our customers’ forecasts. If we overestimate demand for our products, the amount of our loss will be impacted by our contractual ability to reduce inventory purchases from our suppliers. Our assumptions of future product demand are inherently uncertain, and changes in our estimates and assumptions may cause us to realize material write-downs in the future. Valuation of Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived and Long-Lived Assets. Our business combinations typically result in the recording of goodwill, other intangible assets and/or property, plant and equipment, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. We also acquire intangible assets and property, plant and equipment in other types of transactions. The determination of the recorded value of intangible assets acquired in a business combination requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. For intangible assets acquired in a non-monetary exchange, the estimated fair values of the assets transferred (or the estimated fair values of the assets received, if more clearly evident) are used to establish their recorded values, unless the values of neither the assets received nor the assets transferred are determinable within reasonable limits, in which case the assets received are measured based on the carrying values of the assets transferred. Valuation techniques consistent with the market approach, income approach and/or cost approach are used to measure fair value. An estimate of fair value can be affected by many assumptions that require significant judgment. For example, the income approach generally requires us to use assumptions to estimate future cash flows including those related to total addressable market, pricing and share forecasts, competition, technology obsolescence, future tax rates and discount rates. Our estimate of the fair value of certain assets may differ materially from that determined by others who use different assumptions or utilize different business models and from the future cash flows actually realized. Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested annually for impairment and in interim periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets may be impaired. Long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortization, are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets may be based on operational performance of our businesses, market conditions, expected selling price and/or other factors. Although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use, including estimates of future cash flows and discount rates, are consistent with our internal planning, when appropriate. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record an impairment charge on a portion or all of our goodwill, other indefinite-lived intangible assets and/or long-lived assets. Furthermore, we cannot predict the occurrence of future impairment-triggering events nor the impact such events might have on our reported asset values. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist, and that goodwill or other intangible assets  55associated with our acquired businesses are impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. During fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, we recorded $273 million, $76 million and $107 million, respectively, in impairment charges for goodwill, other indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets. The estimated fair values of our QCT and QTL reporting units were substantially in excess of their respective carrying values at September 30, 2018. Legal and Regulatory Proceedings. We are currently involved in certain legal and regulatory proceedings, and we intend to continue to vigorously defend ourselves. Litigation and investigations are inherently uncertain, and we face difficulties in evaluating or estimating likely outcomes or ranges of possible loss in antitrust and trade regulation investigations in particular. Investigations by antitrust and trade regulation agencies are not conducted in a consistent manner across jurisdictions. Further, each country and agency has different sets of laws, rules and regulations, both substantive and procedural, as well as different legal principles, theories and potential remedies, and some agencies may seek to use the investigation to advance domestic policy goals. Depending on the jurisdiction, these investigations can involve non-transparent procedures under which we may not receive access to evidence relied upon by the enforcement agency or that may be exculpatory and may not be informed of the specific legal theories or evidence considered or relied upon by the agency. Unlike in civil litigation in the United States, in foreign proceedings, we may not be entitled to discovery or depositions, allowed to cross-examine witnesses or confront our accusers. As a result, we may not be aware of, and may not be entitled to know, all allegations against us, or the information or documents provided to, or discovered or prepared by, the agency. Accordingly, we may have little or no idea what an agency’s intent is with respect to liability, penalties or the timing of a decision. In many cases the agencies are given significant discretion, and any available precedent may have limited, if any, predictive value in their jurisdictions, much less in other jurisdictions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters. However, the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. A broad range of remedies with respect to our business practices that are deemed to violate applicable laws are potentially available. These remedies may include, among others, injunctions, monetary damages or fines or other orders to pay money and the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct and/or to modify our business practices. If there is at least a reasonable possibility that a material loss may have been incurred associated with a loss contingency, we disclose such fact, and if reasonably estimable, we provide an estimate of the possible loss or range of possible loss. We record our best estimate of a loss related to pending legal or regulatory proceedings when the loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Where a range of loss can be reasonably estimated with no best estimate in the range, we record the minimum estimated liability. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability, including the probability of loss related to pending legal or regulatory proceedings, and revise our estimates and update our disclosures accordingly. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable. Revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operations.  Income Taxes. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions, and the assessment of our income tax positions involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in various taxing jurisdictions. In addition, the application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Tax laws and regulations themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining our provision for income taxes, including those related to tax incentives, intercompany research and development cost-sharing arrangements, transfer pricing and tax credits. While we believe we have appropriate support for the positions taken or plan to take on our tax returns, we regularly assess the potential outcomes of examinations by taxing authorities in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Therefore, the actual liability for U.S. or foreign taxes may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional tax liabilities or potentially reverse previously recorded tax liabilities. We are participating in the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Compliance Assurance Process program whereby we endeavor to agree with the IRS on the treatment of all issues prior to filing our federal return. A benefit of participation in this program is that post-filing adjustments by the IRS are less likely to occur.On December 22, 2017, tax reform legislation known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Legislation) was enacted in the U.S. The Tax Legislation significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax by, among other things, lowering the corporate income tax rate to 21%, implementing a modified territorial tax system and imposing a one-time repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings and profits of U.S.-owned foreign subsidiaries (the Toll Charge). As a fiscal-year taxpayer, we were impacted by certain provisions of the Tax Legislation in fiscal 2018, including the change in the corporate income tax rate and the Toll Charge, while other provisions will be effective starting at the beginning of fiscal 2019, including the implementation of a modified territorial tax system. Accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Legislation requires significant judgments and estimates in the interpretation and calculations of the provisions of the Tax Legislation. 56Given the amount and complexity of the changes in tax law resulting from the Tax Legislation, we have not finalized the accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Legislation related to the Toll Charge. We have made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our consolidated financial statements. The impact of the Tax Legislation related to the Toll Charge may differ from this estimate during the remainder of the one-year measurement period due to, among other things, further refinement of our calculations, changes in interpretations and assumptions we have made, guidance that may be issued and actions we may take as a result of the Tax Legislation. We are in the process of analyzing the effects of new taxes due on certain foreign income, such as GILTI (global intangible low-taxed income), BEAT (base-erosion anti-abuse tax) and FDII (foreign-derived intangible income), and limitations on interest expense deductions (if certain conditions apply), all of which are effective starting in fiscal 2019, as well as other provisions of the Tax Legislation. Our QCT segment’s non-U.S. headquarters is located in Singapore. During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we entered into a new tax incentive agreement in Singapore that results in a reduced tax rate from March 2017 through March 2022, provided that we meet specified employment and investment criteria in Singapore. Our Singapore tax rate will increase in March 2022 as a result of expiration of these incentives and again in March 2027 upon the expiration of tax incentives under a prior agreement. As a result of this new tax incentive, our income tax expense for fiscal 2018 was reduced by approximately $130 million. Our failure to meet these criteria could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. Recent Accounting PronouncementsInformation regarding recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of those pronouncements, if any, on our consolidated financial statements is provided in this Annual Report in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1. Significant Accounting Policies.”