BusinessThis Annual Report (including, but not limited to, the following section regarding Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) contains forward-looking statements regarding our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates” and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this Annual Report. Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements or technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements.Although forward-looking statements in this Annual Report reflect our good faith judgment, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences in results and outcomes include without limitation those discussed under the heading “Risk Factors” below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Annual Report. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Annual Report, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.We incorporated in 1985 under the laws of the state of California. In 1991, we reincorporated in the state of Delaware. We operate and report using a 52-53 week fiscal year ending the last Sunday in September. Our 52-week fiscal years consist of four equal quarters of 13 weeks each, and our 53-week fiscal years consist of three 13-week fiscal quarters and one 14-week fiscal quarter. The financial results for our 53-week fiscal years and our 14-week fiscal quarters will not be exactly comparable to our 52-week fiscal years and our 13-week fiscal quarters. The fiscal years ended September 25, 2011, September 26, 2010 and September 27, 2009 all included 52 weeks.OverviewIn 1989, we publicly introduced the concept that a digital communication technique called CDMA could be commercially successful in cellular wireless communication applications. CDMA stands for Code Division Multiple Access and is one of the main technologies currently used in digital wireless communications networks (also known as wireless networks). CDMA and TDMA (Time Division Multiple Access), of which Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) is the primary commercial form, are the primary digital technologies currently used to transmit a wireless device user’s voice or data over radio waves using a public cellular wireless network. Because we led, and continue to lead, the development and commercialization of CDMA technology, we own significant intellectual property, including patents, patent applications and trade secrets, which applies to all versions of CDMA that we implement in our own products and portions of which we license to other companies. The wireless communications industry generally recognizes that a company seeking to develop, manufacture and/or sell products that use CDMA technology will require a patent license from us.We also continue our leading role in the development and commercialization of Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access (OFDMA)-based technologies for which we have substantial intellectual property. Our CDMA licensees’ sales of multimode CDMA and OFDMA devices are covered by their existing CDMA license agreements with us. We have begun to license companies to make and sell OFDMA products that do not also implement CDMA, and 13 companies (including LG, Nokia and Samsung) have royalty-bearing licenses under all or a portion of our patent portfolio for use in such OFDMA products.     Our Revenues. We generate revenues by selling products and services, which include:•Integrated circuits (also known as chips or chipsets) and Radio Frequency (RF) and Power Management (PM) chips and system software used in mobile devices and in wireless networks;•Integrated circuits for use in wired devices, particularly broadband gateway equipment, desktop computers, televisions and Blu-ray players;•Software products and services for content enablement across a wide variety of platforms and devices for the wireless 1industry;•Equipment, software and services used by companies, including those in the transportation industry and governments, to wirelessly connect with their assets and workforce;•Software products and services that enable mobile commerce services; and•Software and hardware development services.We also generate revenues by licensing portions of our intellectual property to manufacturers of wireless products, such as mobile devices, also known as subscriber units, which include handsets, other consumer devices (e.g., tablets, personal computers, e-readers), machine-to-machine devices (e.g., telematics devices, meter reading devices) and data modem cards, the infrastructure equipment required to establish and operate a network and network and test equipment. Our licensing revenues are comprised of fixed license fees (payable in one or more installments) and ongoing royalties on products sold by our licensees that incorporate our patented technologies.     Our Integrated Circuits Business. We develop and supply integrated circuits and system software based on CDMA, OFDMA and other technologies for use in voice and data communications, networking, application processing, multimedia functions and global positioning system products. Our integrated circuit products and system software are sold to or licensed to manufacturers that use our products in wireless devices, particularly mobile phones, tablets, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers and gaming devices, access points and routers, data cards and infrastructure equipment, and in wired devices, particularly broadband gateway equipment, desktop computers, televisions and Blu-ray players. The Mobile Station Modem (MSM) integrated circuits, which include the Mobile Data Modem, Qualcomm Single Chip and Qualcomm Snapdragon devices, perform the core baseband modem functionality in wireless devices providing voice and data communications, as well as multimedia applications and global positioning functions. In addition, our Snapdragon enabled integrated circuits provide advanced application processing capabilities. Our system software enables the other device components to interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling manufacturers to develop devices utilizing the functionality within the integrated circuits. Our infrastructure equipment Cell Site Modem (CSM) integrated circuits and system software perform wireless standards-compliant processing of voice and data signals in the wireless operator’s base station equipment to and from wireless devices. Because of our experience in designing and developing CDMA- and OFDMA-based products, we not only design the baseband integrated circuit, but the supporting system as well, including the RF devices, PM devices and accompanying software products. This approach enables us to optimize the performance of the wireless device with improved product features and integration with the network system. We also provide support, including reference designs and tools, to enable our customers to reduce the time required to design their products and bring their products to market faster. We plan to add additional features and capabilities to our integrated circuit products to help our customers reduce the costs and size of their products, to simplify our customers’ design processes and to enable more wireless devices and services.     Our Licensing Business. We grant licenses to use portions of our intellectual property portfolio, which includes certain patent rights essential to and/or useful in the manufacture and sale of certain wireless products, and collect fixed license fees and ongoing royalties in partial consideration for such licenses.     Our Wireless Device Software and Related Services Business. We provide software products and services for the global wireless industry. Our Brew products and services enable wireless operators, device manufacturers and software developers to provide over-the-air and pre-loaded wireless applications and services. Our Plaza products and services enable wireless operators, device manufacturers and publishers to create and distribute mobile content across a variety of platforms and devices. We also offer Xiam wireless content discovery and recommendation products to help wireless operators improve usage and adoption of digital content and services and QChat, a push to talk product optimized for third generation (3G) networks.     Our Asset Tracking and Services Business. We design, manufacture and sell equipment, license software and provide services to our customers to enable them to connect wirelessly with their assets, products and workforce. We offer satellite- and terrestrial-based two-way wireless connectivity and position location services to transportation and logistics fleets and other enterprise companies to enable our customers to track the location and monitor the performance of their assets, communicate with their personnel and collect data.     Our Mobile Commerce Business. In fiscal 2011, we launched a new product application trademarked as SWAGG, which is marketed on a standalone basis directly to consumers. SWAGG’s core features include access to merchant loyalty accounts and gift card balances, purchase and gift of virtual stored-value gift cards and access to relevant and targeted offers from participating merchants.      Our Display Business. We continue to develop display technology for the full range of consumer-targeted mobile products. Our interferometric modulator (IMOD) display technology, based on a MEMS structure combined with thin film optics and sold under the “mirasol” brand, is expected to provide performance, power consumption and cost benefits as compared to current display technologies.2Wireless Communications IndustryUse of wireless telecommunications devices has increased dramatically in the past decade. According to Wireless Intelligence estimates as of October 31, 2011, the number of worldwide mobile connections is expected to reach approximately 6.1 billion by the end of 2011 and approximately 7.6 billion by 2015. Growth in the early days of wireless communications was driven by the need to make voice calls in a mobile environment. More recently, increases in demand are primarily driven by the desire to have access to data services in a mobile environment. This is evidenced by the continued transition from 2G (second generation) to 3G services and the emergence of 4G (fourth generation) services. According to Wireless Intelligence estimates as of October 31, 2011, the number of global 3G connections reached 1.5 billion and is expected to reach approximately 3.2 billion in 2015. There are several drivers for the growth in 3G:•Consumer awareness and desire for data services;•Mature 3G networks with high data rates;•Consumer demand for data-centric smartphone devices;•Emergence of new data devices; and•Growth in emerging regions.The last couple of years have witnessed a significant increase in the consumer’s awareness and willingness to use mobile data services. Applications such as email, access to the mobile Internet, downloading of videos and social networking are driving the demand for 3G services and more capable devices.According to the CDMA Development Group and the Global mobile Suppliers Association (GSA) in their October 2011 reports, approximately 752 wireless networks now support 3G, a sign that wireless operators are making network investments to address the growing demand for wireless data. Wireless operators are continuing to make network investments by upgrading their networks. According to the GSA, all of the global WCDMA operators have upgraded their networks to offer High Speed Packet Access (HSPA) services, and 36% of HSPA operators have launched HSPA+, an evolution of HSPA. With support for higher data rates and increased capacity, networks are expected to evolve to keep up with the growing demand for wireless data.The mobile Internet is helping increase demand for 3G smartphones as the ability to access data is simplified and enhanced when using a smartphone. In the early days of the smartphone, these devices were designed primarily for high-end business users. However, innovation and competition are helping to make available a broader set of devices that provide compelling user experiences at consumer acceptable price points, which make such devices more accessible by a larger portion of the subscriber base.The need to stay connected anywhere, anytime is helping drive demand for data connectivity on notebook and netbook computers with either embedded 3G connectivity or via an external 3G USB modem. New device categories, such as tablets and e-readers, have also emerged over the last couple of years. These new devices take advantage of the capabilities of 3G networks to download digital books, newspapers and magazines anywhere. Other emerging device categories, such as machine-to-machine communication (allowing both wireless and wired systems to communicate with other devices), gaming consoles and other consumer electronic devices, will help further drive global demand for 3G.Demand for wireless voice and data services in emerging regions is helping to increase global demand for 3G. 3G provides an efficient way for wireless operators to offer both voice and data services to address these demands, and since fixed broadband penetration is very low in these regions, 3G presents a cost effective means of providing broadband capabilities to consumers.  According to Wireless Intelligence, 3G net additions in emerging regions are expected to surpass 2G net additions starting in the second calendar quarter of 2012.Wireless TechnologiesThe significant growth in the use of wireless devices worldwide, such as smartphones and tablets, and demand for data services and applications requires constant innovation to further improve the user experience, expand capacity and enable dense deployments of low power nodes, such as picocells and femtocells. To meet these requirements, progressive generations of wireless communications technology standards have evolved. The wireless standards used for mobile communications within individual countries is generally determined by the telecommunication service providers operating in those countries and, in some instances, local government regulations. Such determinations are typically based on economic criteria and the service provider’s evaluation of each technology’s ability to provide the features and functionality required for its business plan. More than two decades ago, the European Community developed regulations requiring the use of the GSM standard, a TDMA-based, 2G technology. In addition, several versions of CDMA technology were adopted worldwide as public cellular standards. The first version, known as cdmaOne, is a 2G cellular technology that was first commercially deployed in the mid-1990s. The other 3subsequent versions of CDMA are referred to as 3G technologies.     Second Generation. Compared to first generation analog systems, 2G digital technology provided for significantly enhanced efficiency within a fixed spectrum, resulting in greatly increased voice capacity. 2G technologies also enabled numerous enhanced services, but data services were generally limited to low-speed transmission rates. The main 2G digital cellular technologies in use today are called cdmaOne or IS-95A/B, a technology largely developed and patented by us, and GSM, a form of TDMA. Many GSM operators deployed 2G mobile packet data technologies, such as General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) and Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution (EDGE) in areas serviced by GSM. According to Wireless Intelligence estimates as of October 31, 2011, there were approximately 4.4 billion worldwide 2G connections, approximately 74% of total wireless connections.     Third Generation. As a result of demand for wireless networks that simultaneously carry both high-speed data and voice traffic, the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), a standards setting organization, adopted the 3G standard known as IMT-2000, which encompasses six terrestrial operating radio interfaces, each of which incorporates our intellectual property. Two are TDMA-based, three are CDMA-based and the other is OFDMA-based. The three CDMA-based 3G technologies are known commonly throughout the wireless industry as:•CDMA2000, including 1X (including revisions A through E) and 1xEV-DO (EV-DO or Evolution Data Optimized) (including revisions A through C, developed by 3rd Generation Partnership Project Two (3GPP2));•Wideband CDMA (WCDMA), also known as Universal Mobile Telecommunications Systems (UMTS), including High Speed Packet Access (HSPA), part of 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Release 5 and 6, and HSPA+, part of 3GPP Release 7, 8, 9, 10 and beyond; and•CDMA Time Division Duplex (TDD), of which there are currently two versions, Time Division Duplex-CDMA (TD-CDMA) and Time Division-Synchronous CDMA (TD-SCDMA). Both are part of the specifications developed by 3GPP.According to Wireless Intelligence estimates as of October 31, 2011, there were approximately 1.5 billion worldwide 3G connections, approximately 25% of total wireless connections. Some of the advantages of 3G CDMA technology over 2G technologies include increased network capacity, improved user experience, compatibility with internet protocols, higher capacity for data and faster access to data (Internet) and higher data throughput rates. CDMA2000 and WCDMA are widely deployed today in wireless networks throughout the world. TD-SCDMA has been deployed in China. EV-DO Revision B in the CDMA2000 family was launched in 2010; Release 7 of HSPA+ was launched in 2009; and Release 8 of HSPA+ was launched in 2010. The various revisions of the 3G CDMA specifications have significantly increased performance capacity and data speeds. It is expected that future revisions of the 3G CDMA specifications will provide further enhancements. CDMA2000 (1X, 1xEV-DO, EV-DO Revision A/B) networks are deployed by wireless operators that support both voice and a wide range of high-speed wireless data services. Enhancements based upon CDMA2000 Revision E Standard, called 1X Advanced, will further increase voice capacity of CDMA2000 1X networks. The standardization for these enhancements is complete and deployments are being planned. Another set of enhancements based upon 1xEV-DO Revision C, sometimes called DO Advanced, improve the performance of 1xEV-DO Revision A/B networks. The standardization for these enhancements is also complete, and deployments are being planned. Enhancements based upon these updated standards and improved implementations have been and will continue to be deployed in our products and wireless networks to increase capacity and data rates.GSM operators around the world, including those in the European Community and in the United States, have focused primarily on the UMTS Frequency Division Duplex (FDD) radio interface of the IMT-2000 standard, known as WCDMA, for their network evolution. WCDMA is based on our CDMA technology and incorporates many of our patented inventions (as do all of the CDMA and OFDMA radio interfaces of the IMT-2000 standard). The majority of the world’s wireless device and infrastructure manufacturers (more than 125 and including all leading suppliers) have licensed our technology for use in WCDMA products, enabling them to utilize this WCDMA mode of the 3G technology. To enable GSM operators to deploy WCDMA in the 900MHz spectrum band, the European Union permitted IMT-2000 technologies, which include WCDMA, to be deployed in the lower frequency 900 MHz band. This is called UMTS900.The three ITU 3G CDMA radio interfaces are all based on the core principles of CDMA technology, and our intellectual property rights include a valuable patent portfolio essential to implementation of each of the 3G CDMA standards. In addition, our patent portfolio enables commercially successful product implementations. Generally, we have licensed substantially all of our relevant patents to our CDMA subscriber and infrastructure equipment licensees.These 3G CDMA versions (CDMA2000, WCDMA and TD-SCDMA) require separate implementations that are not interchangeable. While the fundamental core technologies are derived from CDMA and, in addition to other features and functionality, are covered by our patents, their specifications each require unique infrastructure products, network design, air interface protocols and management. However, subscriber roaming amongst systems using different air interfaces is made 4possible through multimode wireless subscriber devices.Fourth Generation. Release 10 of 3GPP’s Long Term Evolution (LTE), the predominant global OFDM technology, and 802.16m, an upgrade of IEEE 802.16e (WiMAX or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access), have both been approved by the ITU to become what are called IMT-Advanced technologies, which used to be the commonly used criteria for a wireless technology to be called 4G. However, there is no uniform industry agreement on the 4G definition; 4G is now broadly used to include OFDMA technologies that are part of the IMT-2000 standard and has also been used in marketing campaigns by certain carriers for the 3G WCDMA evolution to HSPA+. Since LTE typically will be overlaid over existing 3G networks, seamless interoperability with 3G (both HSPA and CDMA 2000) has been standardized by 3GPP and 3GPP2. According to the GSA, 35 commercial LTE networks have been launched as of October 2011. WiMAX was deployed ahead of LTE and targeted unpaired spectrum using a TDD radio interface. LTE supports both paired spectrum, using LTE FDD, and unpaired spectrum, using LTE TDD, and is able to address many of the unpaired spectrum bands targeted by WiMAX. Compared to WiMAX, LTE is expected to achieve greater economy of scale through its interoperability with 3G. Certain wireless operators have selected WiMAX because of regulatory considerations specific to their networks and spectrum holdings. The evolved OFDMA technologies will support additional features, wider bandwidths of up to 100 MHz, and higher data rates than the previous versions. HSPA+ continues to evolve in parallel to LTE and other OFDMA technologies, spanning from Release 8 to Release 11 and beyond. HSPA+ Release 8 introduces multicarrier operation, which aggregates multiple channels to offer wider bandwidths, supporting 10 MHz of bandwidth in Release 8 to up to 40 MHz in Release 11.For over ten years, we have pursued research and development of OFDMA-based wireless communication technologies, and, as a result, have developed and acquired significant related intellectual property. Accordingly, we believe that each of the OFDMA-based 4G standards incorporates our patented technologies. We have 13 companies (including LG, Nokia and Samsung) with royalty-bearing licenses under our patent portfolio for use in OFDMA products that do not also implement CDMA-based standards. Multimode products that implement both OFDMA and CDMA technologies will, in most cases, be licensed under our existing CDMA license agreements.     Our Engineering Resources. We have significant engineering resources, including engineers with substantial expertise in CDMA, OFDMA and a broad range of other technologies. Using these engineering resources, we expect to continue to develop new versions of CDMA, OFDMA and other technologies, develop alternative technologies for certain specialized applications,  participate in the formulation of new voice and data communication standards and technologies and assist in deploying digital voice and data communications networks around the world.     Investments in New and Existing Products, Services and Technologies. We continue to invest in research and development in a variety of ways in an effort to extend the demand for our products and services.We develop, commercialize and actively support 3G CDMA-based technologies as well as the OFDMA-based LTE technology, products and network operations to grow our royalty revenues and integrated circuit and software revenues. From time to time, we may also make acquisitions to meet certain technology needs, to obtain development resources or to pursue new business opportunities.We develop on our own, and with our partners, innovations that are integrated into our product portfolio to further expand the opportunity for wireless and enhance the value of our products and services. These innovations are expected to enable our customers to improve the performance or value of their existing services, offer these services more affordably and introduce revenue-generating broadband data services ahead of their competition.We make investments to provide our integrated circuit customers with chipsets that combine multiple technologies for use in consumer devices, including smartphones, consumer electronics and other data devices. In addition to 3G and LTE technologies, our chipsets support other wireless and wired connectivity technologies including Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN), Bluetooth, Ethernet, Global Positioning System (GPS), Global Navigation Satellite System (GLONASS), Powerline Communication and Passive Optical Networking. Our integrated chipsets often include multiple technologies, including advanced multimode modems, application processors and graphics engines, as well as the tools to connect these diverse pieces of technology. We continue to support multiple mobile client software environments in our chipsets, such as Brew Mobile Platform, Blackberry 7, QNX, Java, Windows Phone, Windows 8, Linux, Android and Google Chrome.We continue to develop our IMOD display technology based on a micro-electro-mechanical-systems (MEMS) structure combined with thin film optics and sell such displays under the “mirasol” brand. Early-stage mirasol displays have been incorporated in a limited number of consumer devices. IMOD display technologies may be included in the full range of consumer-targeted mobile products and are expected to provide performance, power consumption and cost benefits as compared to current display technologies. In June 2009, we commenced operations of a dedicated IMOD display fabrication plant in Taiwan, and in fiscal 2011, we began construction of a new manufacturing facility in Taiwan that is expected to be operational in fiscal 2012.We make strategic investments that we believe open new opportunities for our technology, support the design and 5introduction of new products and services and/or possess unique capabilities or technology. To the extent that such investments become liquid and meet our strategic objectives, we intend to make regular periodic sales of our interests in these investments that are recognized in investment income.Operating SegmentsConsolidated revenues from international customers and licensees as a percentage of total revenues were 94%, 95% and 94% in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. During fiscal 2011, 32%, 19%, 17% and 8% of our revenues were from customers and licensees based in China, South Korea, Taiwan and Japan, respectively, as compared to 29%, 27%, 12% and 9% during fiscal 2010, respectively, and 23%, 35%, 8% and 11% during fiscal 2009, respectively. Revenues from Samsung Electronics constituted a significant portion (more than 10%) of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, and revenues from HTC also constituted a significant portion (more than 10%) of consolidated revenues in fiscal 2011.     Qualcomm CDMA Technologies Segment (QCT). QCT is a leading developer and supplier of integrated circuits and system software based on CDMA, OFDMA and other technologies for use in voice and data communications, networking, application processing, multimedia functions and global positioning system products. QCT’s integrated circuit products and system software are sold to or licensed to manufacturers that use our products in wireless devices, particularly mobile phones, tablets, laptops, data modules, handheld wireless computers and gaming devices, access points and routers, data cards and infrastructure equipment, and in wired devices, particularly broadband gateway equipment, desktop computers, televisions and Blu-ray players. The MSM integrated circuits, which include the Mobile Data Modem, Qualcomm Single Chip and Qualcomm Snapdragon devices, perform the core baseband modem functionality in wireless devices providing voice and data communications, as well as multimedia applications and global positioning functions. In addition, our Snapdragon enabled integrated circuits provide advanced application processing capabilities. QCT’s system software enables the other device components to interface with the integrated circuit products and is the foundation software enabling manufacturers to develop devices utilizing the functionality within the integrated circuits. In fiscal 2011, QCT shipped approximately 483 million MSM integrated circuits for wireless devices worldwide as compared to approximately 399 million and 317 million in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. QCT revenues comprised 59%, 61% and 59% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.QCT utilizes a fabless production business model, which means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made. Integrated circuits are die, cut from silicon wafers, that have been assembled into packages or modules and have completed the final test manufacturing processes. Die cut from silicon wafers are the essential components of all of our integrated circuits and a significant portion of the total integrated circuit cost. We employ both turnkey and two-stage manufacturing business models to purchase our integrated circuits. Turnkey is when our foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering fully assembled and tested integrated circuits. Under the two-stage manufacturing business model, we purchase wafers and die from semiconductor manufacturing foundries and contract with separate third-party manufacturers for probe, assembly and final test services. We refer to this two-stage manufacturing business model as Integrated Fabless Manufacturing (IFM). We rely on independent third-party suppliers to perform the manufacturing and assembly, and most of the testing, of our integrated circuits based primarily on our proprietary designs and test programs. Our suppliers are also responsible for the procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our integrated circuits. The primary foundry suppliers for our various digital, analog/mixed-signal, RF and PM integrated circuits are Freescale Semiconductor, Globalfoundries, IBM, Samsung Electronics, Semiconductor Manufacturing International, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing, Tower Semiconductor and United Microelectronics. The primary semiconductor assembly and test suppliers under our IFM model are Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Amkor Technology, Siliconware Precision Industries and STATSChipPAC. The majority of our foundry and subcontract assembly and test suppliers are located in the Asia-Pacific region.QCT offers a broad portfolio of products, including both wireless device and infrastructure integrated circuits, in support of CDMA2000 1X and 1xEV-DO, as well as the EV-DO Revision A/B evolutions of CDMA 2000 technology. Leveraging our expertise in CDMA, we also developed and offer integrated circuits supporting the WCDMA version of 3G for manufacturers of wireless devices. More than 70 device manufacturers have selected our WCDMA products that support G