 Hi everyone. Welcome to today's Biznology Digital Marketing webinar. I'm Mike Moran, Founder of Biznology and Senior Strategist at Converseon, Revealed Context and SoloSegment. I'm the co-author of Search Engine Marketing Incorporated and Outside-In Marketing and the solo author of Do It Wrong, Quickly. I'm a veteran of IBM managing groups and IBM.com for eight years, retiring from IBM in 2008 as a distinguished engineer. We have an exciting webinar today because I'm joined by James Mathewson, my co-author of Outside-In Marketing, who's gonna be giving us some insights into using keyword knowledge graphs. I'll be asking James questions throughout the next half-hour, and we encourage you to suggest questions for me to ask through the Q&A tab. You can also chat with other attendees through the chat tab, and you can tweet about the webinar with our hashtag, #biznowebinar. We can't get started without giving a shoutout to our sponsors. Gerris Corp is a full-service digital strategy firm that reaches deeper into the conversation than any other agency anywhere, and SoloSegment: Revenue is trapped in your site search. SoloSegment's site search inspector can help you set that revenue free. Let's dive right in. James, you have a great deal of expertise in SEO and keyword knowledge graphs. For those who don't know, James is IBM's Distinguished Technical Marketer for Search, with 20 years of experience in web editorial content strategy and SEO for large and small companies. James, what else should the audience know about your background? Well, primarily, I'm an author. You mentioned Outside-In Marketing, the book that we co-wrote. I also wrote a book called Audience Relevance in Search, and about 1,700 articles, including a monthly article on the Biznology website. Terrific, James. Thanks so much! We're so glad you're here today, but the first question I have, just to get everybody up to speed is, what is a knowledge graph and why is it important? A knowledge graph is a set of relationships between things, entities, and in the case of, let's just say a product knowledge graph, would be all of your products and their relationships, most of which are hierarchical. We have a that product might be related to a product family, which is related to a brand which is related to a business unit. And then, there are also what we call "poly-hierarchical relationships" where, let's just say, you have a family of products that is related to another family, so, for example, Watson Analytics runs on the cloud, so you might say that there's a cloud component to it, and a Watson Analytics component to it, and then you also probably need some services to help people migrate or integrate things, so there's cloud services, and those would be three products or services that are related to each other, horizontally, as it were, as opposed to vertically. Right, so ... I'm getting the feeling that it's kinda what people might normally call a taxonomy or an ontology. Is that kind of the right idea, and maybe you could expand on that a little bit to tie in how a knowledge graph compares to a taxonomy or an ontology? Yeah. An ontology is ... it's an ontology, but a knowledge graph is sort of the visualization of it. You can see the nodes in a knowledge graph, like one of these giant maps with all these things connected to each other and a taxonomy is a kind of ontology in the sense that it's a set of relationships, but all of those relationships between these entities, these things, are hierarchical, in other words, they fit into silos or buckets, whereas an ontology is what we call poly-hierarchical. These things, you can define relationships that go between them and some things can fit into multiple categories and things like that. Whereas a taxonomy, each item is only in one place and can only have one relationship up and down, right? Correct. Correct. Okay. So, for those of us who weren't kind of library science majors and we don't really think about it, what's the benefits of using an ontology as opposed to a taxonomy in kind of business terms? Well, the biggest benefit is that it becomes very difficult to manage data if it can only sit in one bucket. An example is where we have these problems, like cloud security: is that a security topic or is a cloud topic? And if you have a topic that actually encompasses both, then you can help the teams that build content around it or actually, for products and services, you can help them understand how they can work together to solve a customer problem. Customers don't really care where you bucket things; they really just care that you can solve their problems. And, an ontology is just a lot more flexible in helping them do that. I get it. So, it can feel kind of constraining and almost artificial to have the requirement that things can be only in one place. That makes sense. So, let's get specific about how you've used keywords in your knowledge graph, so tell us where the keywords are from and what the purpose of them is and what is it that keywords in a knowledge graph do for you? Well, so the main thing ... I'll start with the business problem that we had. The business problem is that for a lot of the keywords that we were finding in our keyword research tools, we had no content related to them, so they were keywords that we thought our target audiences cared about, they expressed questions or problems that our target audiences needed us to solve, but we didn't have content on it because it didn't seem relevant to the products that we are trying to sell. Most of the marketing that we do starts with a product and you try to build up from there ... you can think of it back in the client journey, starting with somebody purchases a product and working backwards, you get to a point where they're not asking about the brands anymore, they're asking about, you know, "How do I migrate to the cloud, " for example, and we might have several brands that ultimately would help them do that, or maybe a solution that combines several brands. So, how do you know that these keywords that people are searching for are related to the brands? The brands are the ones that have to create the content, and if they don't create the content, then we have these huge gaps. That's one type of problem that we had where we just could not ... we couldn't build the content cause we couldn't convince the business units that it was relevant to their target audiences. The second kind of problem that we had was that we ... oftentimes, for very popular words, multiple brands and business units would want to build content around it because these are things that are more obviously related to their target audiences and are high volume; in other words, there's a lot of queries in Google, so, they could get a lot of organic search traffic and engagement from 'em. Well, we ended up with 40, 50 pages related to the same keywords and that just gums up the works and doesn't help anything. And Google would do things like de-indexing and things so that they could figure out, basically, our mess. And we wanted to reduce that mess by basically governing keywords by the business unit that is ultimately going to be building the content around it, so, we thought, well, the best way to do that is to associate products to keywords, and then the products roll up to the business units so then they can ... then that way, we can govern it, and if you want, I can describe how that works, but- Sure! Okay. Well, let me try and summarize so I make sure I'm following. It sounds like what you needed to do is you needed to persuade the business units that you needed content in areas that they might not have thought, and one of the ways you did that was by showing them that there were an awful lot of Google searches about it, and then ... but, you had to kind of make sure that you were showing them keywords that were related to their products, so that's when you created the ontology that said, "Here are the key words that relate to the products," and the reason it had to be an ontology and not a taxonomy is because sometimes, keywords related to multiple products. Did I follow that? That's exactly right. And so, then it's a question of probabilities, like, to what extent a keyword relates to a product. It might relate to several products, but closer to one than another, and so, then you can kinda build these models that help you map keywords to products and product families, and then you can govern those keywords by the product families that are most closely aligned with them so that then, you can say, like in our keyword, our SEO management tool which is called BrightEdge, we can bucket the keywords by business unit, and then, the teams that build content for those business units, they know what their keywords are, and then they can start to prioritize the content efforts based on the keywords that are assigned to them, and it makes it much more manageable. And then, you can track and help improve over time, how you're doing, not just for a particular page but for a whole family of keywords and the content related to it. That was the main thing that we had to do, and once we did that, we've realized that there was a whole host of benefits outside of just SEO, but we can get to that when you're ready. So, the challenge that we had was "How do you do this?" We tried doing it manually just with one person -- I described his work as like shoveling coal because it's thousands of pages and thousands of keywords and trying to assign and whatever and then go to the stakeholders and ask them, "Do you think ... what do you think?" And they would all disagree anyway, so it was very difficult to make these assignments and to govern it manually. So, we decided to use AI to help us do this. So, there's natural language processing, which is, you basically look at a corpus of information and you extract what we call entities, in this case, keywords, from those and then you build relationships based on the probability that these keywords are together or that, in our case, that every time a product is mentioned, the keywords that are around it are extracted as well, and then we can kinda build relevance relationships between the products and the keywords. But, the main challenge we had there was that natural language processing applications, like what used to be called Alchemy and is now called Watson NLU, they have a standard corpus of information that they used to help you train the system up, which is DBpedia, which is like the database version of Wikipedia. It's like all the information known to man in one database. Well, it's so generic and so broad that it's very difficult to build relevant relationships between keywords and our products. Our products might only take up a tiny fraction of that corpus and then, when you get into that fraction, it ends up being too small. So, we had to build a custom corpus based on our product information, based on our knowledge center, which is thousands and thousands of pages of information about our products. Every time a product is mentioned in that, there's keywords around it, and then also, our developerWorks site, which is a set of forums where our customers, basically, comment about the products, and then, when they do that, they use language that is indicative of how they think about our where our products sit in the marketplace, and we mined that as well. And then, based on that, we were able to build these relationships that when this product is mentioned, this keyword is mentioned. Then we just flipped it over and said, what keywords map to which products based on that. And it's pretty simple when you ultimately unpack it. It's a lot of data and it's a lot of crunching, but the basic methodology is pretty simple. And so, it sounds like the keywords you're talking about are all SEO, rather than paid search keywords, and sounds like you're not doing anything with site search, am I getting that right? So, those are additional, and we can talk about site search in more detail, but those are additional signals that we can have, so you can do paid search and throw a bunch of words against the wall, and then whatever sticks, you know, whatever actually gets clicks and conversions or whatever, that's an additional signal that adds strength to the fact that this keyword goes with this product. You could do the same thing for site search. What happens in site searches, a lot of times, I think, more often than not, people query the actual brand names that you have in your site and then, you look at the content and you try to associate those brand names with the content, with the words that are around it, so those are additional signals, but when we started, we used this ... basically, our corpus for external. I think Google tends -- 70 or 80 percent of the keywords that we mine out of Google are what we call unbranded keywords and so, what we're trying to there is associate the brands with the unbranded keywords and you can, like I said, you can use these other processes to strengthen these relationships as needed. The other thing that we did to strengthen the relationships is we ran a machine learning algorithm against it with actual supervised machine learning. When we first ran it with just the natural language processing, we got about 70 percent accurate. We did unsupervised machine learning, we got about 80 percent accurate. We did supervised machine accurate, we got like 90 percent accurate and that's better than anybody's ever seen, and it was a combination of focusing on the right information, not being so broad and the supervised machine learning, where the person who is actually supervising the learning, throws out all of the what we call laughers, the things that don't fit, obviously to a human and not so obviously to a machine and once you throw all the bad ones out, you have a pretty good, clear understanding of what keywords go with what kind of products. Yeah, and in fact, it sounds like you actually used some semi-supervised machine learning, too, but to throw the--what you were calling the laughers out, where--and to have that human in the loop is one of the things we've found to be some of the most powerful ways of using machine learning. And I think, you said 90 percent's really good, I think people don't understand how good that is because there's a lot of problems like this where people have the assumption that if a human being did it, it would be a hundred percent accurate, and the truth is that usually, it's not. We've had situations very similar to the ones you've looked at ... there's actually been studies out there that show that if you've got enough buckets that you have to throw something into, you can actually do a task with a person, and two days later, give the same person the exact same task, and 35 percent of the time, they don't agree with themselves. And so it's really hard to be consistent when you're a person; we're not that good at that, and if you have enough buckets, you might throw it in a bucket that's almost the same as the one you threw it in two days ago, but not exactly the same, so 90 percent is actually startlingly good, and that sounds like a terrific work that you've done. So, just getting back to site search for one more thing; one of the things you mentioned is that you use site search to kind of strengthen the things that you did and I'm wondering: what kind of allowances did you have to make because the context of site search is different? So, if somebody is searching on Google, they might search for "IBM cloud," but if they are searching in IBM.com in site search, they might just type in "cloud." How did you kind of make some of the allowances so that you got the most out of site search to do that strengthening? Well, you have to have a good system that measures your site search and measures the queries, looks at the actual results that you're giving. Then, you have to be able to measure to what extent those results get clicked, and when people click, do they stay for a while, up to 20, 30 seconds. Or do they click something else when they actually get into those results? So you can kind of measure success in your site search, and then, when they're successful, that's a good signal to you that -- whatever content is on that page, is relevant to the keyword. If they're not successful, then you've got a problem, with content primarily, and then, there's another action. But if you look at those successes, that becomes a strengthening factor. It's like, okay, so then let's add those pages where we had success to our corpus and re-run the natural language processing. It's incremental improvement in the assignments of keywords to content to the products that are on those pages, but it's pretty strong. Terrific. Well, given that those success metrics are what SoloSegment uses to improve site search, I'm sure that they're thrilled that you'd think they had such a good idea. One of the questions I had was that you mentioned earlier, is that there are applications outside of SEO and even other kinds of search for the keyword knowledge graphs, so can you kind of tell us what one of those are or two of those if you have 'em? Yeah, so, the main one is, I think it's a content strategy problem. So, in IBM, we have kind of a three layer cake of marketing content. There's the advertising at the top, which is mostly, the KPI for that is brand health. Then at the bottom, there's what we call the nurturing phase, where basically, people have opted into our offers and all we're trying to do is target them with the next best thing that can help them progress in their journey and ultimately, buy our product. But in the middle, which is the kind of the big unbranded space, that's where you need to have an understanding of what is the most important content to build next? What are your target audience questions that they need answered in order to give them the confidence to work with you in the first place? To actually take one of your offers? And, that's what we call that, the narrative phase. And it's really, it's a pretty big piece of work to try to transform from a more of a transactional kind of content model to a content model that just serves users. It's outside-in, to use our term, and it's easy enough to do that one a small scale, but when you try to do it scaled across all these business units that are all trying to run as fast as they can, it requires this governance, and having all the content that is most important for that business unit, to serve their audiences and then, it informs the briefing process, it informs the actual content writing process and the content development and then publishing and ultimately, the measurement process, so the keyword ontology is sort of the one key part of a foundational component of our end-to-end content management system. That's a big one. The second one that we're working on is -- so, for social media, the thing that marketers really struggle with is listening, and left to their own devices, they will tend to listen around branded words or whatever, and then, they'll do everything as a -- you know, social listening is basically keywords separated by Boolean operators, so whether it's an "and" or an "or" can make a big difference in what you get back and it's as much an art as a science, I think. And, anyway, we're building a library of these queries based on the keywords, so, for each unit, they can have what queries they need to run to get the right social listening and it's all informed by the keyword ontology cause it, basically, it's the same keywords, it's just a different application of it. Very cool, very cool. Getting back to the governance piece -- a lot of times, when people were trying to employ that type of governance process in a large company, there's a lot of political battles and it's your opinion and my opinion, and it can take a really long time to hash things out and people are never really satisfied with it, have you noticed that, because you're using kind of a data-based approach, that it might take away some of those battles, that it maybe, you're almost coming to them with the voice of the customer, rather than just your opinion or somebody else's opinion or an expert's opinion and has that helped to make the governance process easier for you? It has helped, although it's ... every time you get a new stakeholder or a new executive in a unit, or whatever, you have to do the education all over again, but at least you have something to work with. Yeah. It's not just the SEO's opinion or the Content Strategist's opinion against the executive's opinion. Having data and having it be the basis of the argument resolves a lot of conflict. And then, you know, there are times when it's not obvious, one of the things about this is relevance is measured on a scale of zero to one, so -- point seven-five is our threshold for whether it actually belongs in a unit or not, and sometimes, multiple units will appear, like cloud security is one of the ones that I mentioned. So, then, it actually becomes a job of getting people to work together and collaborate on something, and that's not always easy because, you know, like it or not, they're sort of competing against each other for the limited time and attention of the same audience, so there's always gonna be a little bit of conflict at the end of the day, but at least you have a basis, a data-driven basis to make those decisions. That makes sense, and I mean, I think a lot of people, especially in larger companies that have kind of a broad product line the way IBM does, they're used to seeing that kind of intramural competition, where ... for things like cloud security and things like that where you'd wish that we were trying to beat the real competition, but instead, we're spending a lot of time beating each other and I would imaging that that kind of thing might be especially helpful in governing paid search, where you really have to have one approach to manage that keyword. You can't have two different business units bidding against each other. Have you used this kind of approach to kind of help those business units work together to kind of really amplify paid? Well, that's one of the next things we wanna do. We haven't done it yet. It's interesting that you'd would think paid would be the easiest, because we control what goes on the page and everything, but it ends up being the hardest because- Yeah, cause it's "Who's we?" Right? It's money, you know and the money flows from the grassroots up, not from the top down, so- Right. If we managed it all with the same budget, then it would be a lot easier, but ultimately, we have to sort of do some horse trading and you know, "You can have it. I have enough money for the first four hours of the day, you can have it for the ..." and those kinds of decisions, and that's kind of outside of the semantics. It's just a budget management issue, but ... and it actually becomes more complicated with that, but that's something that we are working on. Very cool. So, what are the kind of ways that you maintain the knowledge graph over time or how does it evolve over time? Are there special things that you have to do to kind of introduce changes when the data changes or ... tell me a little bit about how things morph as you're using this over a period of time? Yeah, so the data that comes from Google changes often, at least monthly, and so, words are trending and some are trending up or trending down and you have to have an additional filter for that. Basically, you have to continually run this thing against the keyword data, so we basically, we use BrightEdge as a keyword research platform and a SEO platform and that's the source. We build an API from BrightEdge to this ontology, and so, if a keyword is trending above some threshold, I think it's right now, 200 queries a month threshold, then we say, "Okay, so that's an emerging keyword, let's add it to the list. Let's re-run the model and include it in whatever bucket it belongs in, and then let's start tracking it. Let's assign a preferred landing page to it and let's just start tracking it for effectiveness and let's figure out how we're gonna manage it for the masthead," or what we call the internal search engine. Site search is what you call it, I guess, and those kind of things. You just sort of work it, but the thing is, once you have it built, that sort of day-to-day maintenance becomes a small task. It's a huge task to build it in the first place. Got it. But once it's built, it's like adding whatever iteration. And is it something that's comfortable in the governance process with the stakeholders, the content owners and the business units that they just realize that it changes very frequently, or is it something where you've actually had to work with them to get them to understand this? "The thing that we told you three weeks ago isn't as true today as it was then because this is what shifted," is that been an adjustment for them and is there a way that you've had to kind of work at the communication of that? Actually, I think our internal branding changes faster than the keywords do, and so that's really the bigger challenges is we always have to be adjusting. Our business units have changed and morph edand whatever. They've done horse trading with brands and whatever for the last five years and it's a constant battle of, "Okay, so now this belongs with cloud and ..." So, that's kinda the bigger issue, but, yeah, definitely, because of those, it's an opportunity to say, "Okay, so, here ... I know you had this new offering or this new product, mergers and acquisitions, things like that, and here are the keywords we think are relevant to it, most relevant to it. We ran the model and ... oh, and here are some additional ones." I think that those sorts of things- - we have a consultant for each unit that is supposed to work with them to communicate that out on a monthly basis, a regular cadence and it tends to work pretty well and there's always gonna be mess. That's just kinda big corporations. Those are good words to end on. We're out of time for today, but James, I really wanna thank you so much for this. These are great ideas and especially, I wanna thank our audience for joining us. Later this week, we'll send you all a link to the recording of this webinar, and we also invite you to mark your calendars for our next Biznology interview, "Top Trends in B2B Marketing with Ruth Stevens" on July 10th at 11 am Eastern time. So, sign up for it now at Biznology.com while you're thinking about it and we hope to see everybody back here then. Bye everybody! Bye, thank you! 