 In this video we are going to continue to look at velocity time graphs. We started looking at velocity time graphs in the previous video, we're going to look at another example in this video. so, the example is describe the motion that resulted in the following velocity time graph by stating the initial velocity, final velocity, displacement, acceleration and time taken. The graph is this graph here. So this is sort of the opposite to the previous question, the one we looked at in the previous video, because in that video we were given a description of motion and we had to draw the resulting velocity time graph. We're kind of doing the opposite here, we're working backwards, we've been given the graph we need to describe the motion by finding out these five suvat variables. So let's just have a quick look at it, well it looks pretty straightforward because it's just a straight line. In the previous video it was a kind of line with a kink in it and this one it's just a straight line but it's maybe not as simple as it seems. So the velocity is constantly decreasing, starts at 5 metres per second but it's constantly decreasing from there and it even gets negative so after 2 seconds it gets to zero on the velocity axis so that means that it had no velocity and then it got negative which if you remember means it actually started moving back in the direction it came from. So it's completely changed direction. We're assuming it's one-dimensional motions or something just moving in a line but it was moving along that line in one direction but after 2 seconds it changed direction and started moving back the other way. Let's try and get some actual figures for this. So we'll just start by drawing this dotted line so we can see exactly where the graph comes to an end at 6 seconds and we're going to need this later. Now we'll see why, so key fact is displacement equals area above the t-axis minus area below the t-axis. So we're going to need this to find displacement which we are asked for. Now this is slightly different to the key fact in the previous video where we said that the area underneath the curve or between the curve and the t-axis was the distance traveled. Now that is still true and it would be true here if we found the total area, so the area of the two triangles, the one above the curve and the one below, so the one above the axis and below the axis, and we added those up we get the total distance traveled that's true. But that's not the same as displacement because if the curve goes below the time axis that means the velocity has gotten negative which means the thing is moving back in the direction it came. So it's actually getting closer to the start point, which means the displacement is actually getting smaller as it gets back towards the start point because if you remember if I walk 5 metres off the spot, turn around 180 degrees and walk 5 metres back then because I'm back to where I started my displacement is zero but my distance traveled will be 10 metres. So displacement and distance, they're not always the same thing. So if we want to get displacement then we need to subtract the part below the axis from the part above the axis because the part below the axis is where it was actually moving back towards where it started. So if the area was the exact same, that would mean they had moved back the same distance that it had moved forward and therefore when we subtracted the 2 we'd get zero, which is what we would expect, but the area is actually bigger so we're not going to get a zero. But we'll look at this in a few minutes, let's start by just filling in this table with the information we we know straight away. So we want to find the five variables, s u v a and t, that's what we're asked for. Well u is the initial velocity, we just read it right off the graph when time is zero at the origin velocity is 5. Similarly v the final velocity is minus 10, we can just read that right off the graph. t the time taken is 6 seconds so the line just goes over 6 seconds again we can read that straight from the graph, so it's only s and a that are tricky. So let's think about a first. So we want the acceleration now this is the rate of change of the velocity, so how quickly or slowly was the velocity changing, specifically its how much did the velocity change of a given second. So every second, how much is the velocity changing by. Well let's look at the graph, we can see this red line here on the graph on the time axis 2 seconds so over this 2 seconds the velocity went from 5 to zero. So it changed by 5 seconds. So we can see that here, so this triangle shows us that over 2 seconds the velocity changes by 5. But this is a straight line so it's got a constant rate of change, so we can say therefore that over 1 second it must have changed by 2.5 and we can actually show that if we draw a line going across here for outgoing the length of one second then you cross the time axis then you can see that we've gone 2.5 down the velocity axis. So this is very similar, essentially all we're doing is calculating the rate of change or the slope of this line because acceleration is the rate of change of velocity. So you have a velocity that's represented by a straight line you can calculate its slope to get it's acceleration. So the slope is 2.5 but the acceleration remember is minus 2.5 because the velocity is actually decreasing by 2.5 metres per second every second because the line is sloping down, so the velocity is getting more and more negative not decreasing, so we have to have minus acceleration. Then we just need s. So using the key fact s isn't so bad, it's the displacement, which is the area above the t-axis minus the area below the t-axis and you just want to remember this key fact. Don't worry about too much why this is the case. Well we talked about a little earlier, but if you're unclear at all, don't worry too much about it, just remember it. The displacement is area above t-axis minus area below t-axis. So that's the blue area minus the orangey beige area, we have here. So let's just do that calculation. For s we have to do 2 times 5 divided by 2. Why is it 2 times 5? Well I'm calculating the area of the upper triangle, it's got side lengths 2 and 5 and it's a right-angled triangle so I need 2 times 5 and now I divide by 2. Then the lower triangle is also a right-angled triangle, it has side lengths 4 and 10, you can see so we go from 2 to 6 on the time axis, so that's 4 and then we go from zero down to minus 10. So that's side length 10 on the velocity axis so we do 4 times 10 and once again to get the area we have to divide by 2 because it's a right-angled triangle. So this is 5 minus 20, if you do these calculations, which is minus 15. So we have minus 15 for s, so that's minus 15 metres, and it is a negative number because it's a displacement. So it's not just a distance traveled, it's actually displacement. So essentially what has happened is the thing has moved away from the point it started at but then changed direction and started moving back to this point and then it's actually continued in this direction for longer, so it's gone beyond this point and started moving past the point in the opposite direction, which is the negative direction. So it's actually ended up moving 15 metres away from the point but in the negative direction, even though originally it was moving in the positive direction. Hopefully that makes sense and that is how you can use a velocity time graph to find out information about the motion. 