 questions based on graphs are very often seen in JEE and NEET papers. in this and next three videos we will learn about graphs and their use in physics. say we have graph between y and x and it is a straight line so we know that for a straight line y is proportional to x power one. that is when we have a linear relation between y and x graph is a straight line. else we can have a graph which is bent towards y axis. so for such graphs where Y is proportional to X power n, the power n is greater than 1. if we have a graph which has been towards x axis so for such graphs y proportional to x power n, value of n is less than 1. say for example displacement of a particle moving in a straight line is proportional to root t then its graph that is displacement versus time graph will be bent towards time axis because the power of T is less than 1. so we can simply find this graphs. here we are drawing graphs in first quadrant but graphs in physics may be in any of the four quadrants. now based on the nature of graphs used in physics we are formulating four points which we will use for determining graph or interpreting questions based on graph. four points. look for initial final and some special intermediate points. that is the values at initial point final point and some intermediate points should be looked upon. so if we have options of graphs then wrong options can be a striked out based on these points. say if the initial point does not match with the question or the final point or some special intermediate points which we will discuss in examples then we will strike off those options say for example the current in a wire is given by I is equal to I naught E power minus KT. now four options for this current and time is given by. so among these options let us analyze the expression I equals to I naught E power minus KT. so at t equals to 0 that is the initial point current has value I equals to I naught that means the graph will not start from 0 therefore the third option is incorrect. at T tends to infinity we have I equals to I naught e raise to power minus infinity which gives current as 0. but see it is not equal to 0 it tends to 0 so clearly the first option is incorrect and so is the fourth option because exact 0 is not reacged here it tends to 0 so based on the final point we are left here with only one option so this is the simplest of all the four points which we can use. Thank you 