 Good morning! This video will teach you about "Graphs." Specifically, we're going to talk about how to create and interpret graphs on a coordinate plane, one of the most important skills we cover in 8th grade. Today's first two objectives are directly tied to this skill... First, we need to understand that the coordinate plane is a tool for creating a graph. That graph is going to provide us information about the relationship between two real-world variables. You're also going to be asked today to interpret real-world data when it's graphed on a coordinate plane. So let's take a look at this Coordinate Plane... Here, we see an image of the 'Coordinate Plane." It's created by a two dimensional number line formed by a vertical axis -- which we call the y-axis -- and a horizontal axis, which we call the x-axis. This is going to allow us to plot multiple data points that will provide information about two variables -- x and y -- and the relationship between those two variables. We see three coordinates listed here: (i) a Green Point; (ii) a Blue Point; and (iii) a Red Point. When we list the coordinate values, or the location, of these points on the graph, we always identify the horizontal coordinate first and the vertical coordinate is listed second. We call the point in the middle of the graph the "origin." We calculate the x and y values based on their distance from the origin. So if I look at the red point, it is three units to the right from the origin and two units above. So I could label that red point (3, 2). Similarly, if I look at the blue point, it is three units to the left of the origin, so I can label the x value -3... ... and it is five units above the origin, so I can label the y value 5. Finally, we split the coordinate plane into four quadrants: I, II, III and IV. We call the upper right quadrant "Quadrant I." That's where both x and y are going to take positive values. Then we rotate counterclockwise to label Quadrants II, III and IV. One of the main reasons we teach you to work with graphs on a coordinate plane is so that you can begin to model real world relationships. The coordinate plane allows you to create a visual model for the real-world relationship between two variables. Every point we put on the graph will represent another data point about the relationship. When we model these real-world relationships on the coordinate plane, we usually only use Quadrant I. This is because many real-world quantities can only take positive values. For example, we cannot sell a negative number of tickets here. One of the main reasons we put the graphs of relationships onto a coordinate plane is so that we can measure the rate of change between the two variables. Rate of change is a way for us to ask: "Every time we increase the input variable (x) by 1 unit, what is going to happen to our Y variable?" The real world graph shown here today provides information about a Talent Show Fundraiser. Specifically, it's going to detail the relationship between the number of tickets sold for the fundraiser and how much money, or the total funds, the school brings in. As we can see, the total amount of funds depends on how many tickets are sold. As we start to sell more and more tickets -- as we move right on the graph -- we see that the total funds raised also starts to increase. Look at two data points: the first one (100, 2,000) tells us that if we were to sell 100 tickets, we would get 2,000 dollars in funds. We also see this data point tells us if we sold 50 tickets, we would get $1,000 in funds. This is telling us that every time we go up by 50 tickets we add another $1,000 dollars: 