 In this video we are going to look at velocity time graphs. so, so far in these videos we've been looking at these suvat equations and we've been solving problems in one-dimensional, so motion in one dimension using the suvat equations. In a few videos time we'll go back to the suvat equations and we'll use them to solve problems in two dimensions, so projectile motion which is in two dimensions. But in the meantime, just for a couple videos, we're going to look at velocity time graphs as these are quite common in kinematics and they can be very useful, so it's important to know how they work and how you can use them. So let's look at the following example, a car is moving in a straight line at 5 metres per second after 3 seconds it begins to accelerate at a rate of 1 metre per second per second in the direction of travel. It accelerates like this for 3 further seconds. Draw a velocity time graph of the motion and calculate the total distance traveled. So there's quite a lot of information there, it's quite wordy, but it's not so bad. Let's just start doing what they asked. So the first thing to do is draw a velocity time graph. All the velocity time graph is, is the velocity plotted against the time. So let's get up axis, you'll always have a pair of axes that look like this, you always have time as the x-axis and that's just generally true, it's a common convention whenever you're plotting time against something else you plot time along the x-axis and the other thing along the y-axis, so the velocity is the y-axis in this case. Now I've not drawn actual numbers on to the axes but I'm going to take one of these squares here to be one unit so along the t axis as we go each square is a seconds between each of these lines is one second and going up the v axis is one metre per second, so that's the velocity so it's in metres per second. So they're my units and that's my scale and I will start trying to answer this question. So at the beginning of the problem when time is at zero the car is already moving at 5 metres per second and it continues to do this for 3 seconds, so we start by drawing a line that looks like this. So it's up at 5 on the v axis and it goes along for 3 along the t axis because the car is driving at 5 metres per second for 3 seconds. But then it starts to accelerate, so it says that it accelerates at a constant rate of 1 metre per second for 3 seconds, so after 1 second it's got 1 metre per second quicker, so we'll be here if you look at the axes, the graph again. I've got dot where we'll get to and then after another second it'll be another metre per second quicker so it'll be here and then the same thing after another second, so it's here and that's all the information were given. So we draw a line through these dots and that is our graph, so we've answered the first part of the question. Then it says to calculate the total distance traveled. Now to do this we need to use a key fact and that fact is that the distance traveled is the area under the graph. So don't worry too much about why this is the case often you don't necessarily need to know why and it won't be looked at in too much detail. You could look at it you could go and read about why, but often for the purposes of your studies and certainly for the purpose of this video we're just going to take this as a fact that you need to remember. So the distance traveled is the area under the graph so if you have a velocity time graph with a curve on it and you can calculate the area underneath that curve, that's the distance the object traveled the object that is being represented on the velocity time graph. So we just have to calculate the area underneath this curve so that means the area between the curve and the t axis. So it's this area here, I'm going to draw a dotted line just to show the enclosed area I need to calculate. Now to calculate this directly would be a bit difficult because it's a bit of a funny shape, but if I split it into two smaller shapes it's a lot easier so I have done that here with this dotted line, I've got a rectangle and then half of a square. So if you look at this top part of this triangle it's a right angle triangle that is half of a square with sides 3 and 3. So we just need to calculate this area, now all the areas of the two shapes, add them up and we get the distance traveled. So let's try that. So we say that the rectangle, well it's got one side length 6 and what's the length of the other side, it's 5. So that's just using the axes on my graph. So I can say that the distance traveled, s is equal to 6 times 5 plus the area of the top triangle. Well that has side length 3 and 3. as I said, so every times 3 by 3 we'll get the area of this square here. But we only want half of that area, so we divide by 2 so we get plus 3 times 3 divided by 2. This is equal to 30 plus 9 divided by 2 which is 34.5. and that's in metres because it is a distance. So that is how you can use a velocity time graph to find the total distance traveled by a moving object. 