 Hello. This starts the video about graphs of absolute value functions. In class, we did some -- we explored some graphs of absolute value functions, so I just want to remind you that the graphs of absolute value functions, of absolute value linear functions are in the shape of a V. So we're going to look at the absolute value of X again, as a function. And we're going to graph that over here at the right. So I can make a table and, you know, plug in our standard -- Inputs. And then we will graph those. So if I'm looking at F of negative 3, absolute value of negative 3 is positive 3. So negative 3, positive 3. Right at that point. A negative 2, absolute value of negative 2 is positive 2. So input of negative 2 has an output of positive 2, and so on and so forth, down that table. And if I plot those points, that is where we end up. If I graph those, we see that V. We see that vertex. And there is one side of the V, and here is the other. Looks a little shifted over but my vertex is a zero, zero right there. So let me erase this table now that we don't need that. And if I want to solve F of X equals 2, what is that asking me? Okay, well, solve means generally speaking I want to find out what is X equal to. X is not 2. F of X is 2. So that means the output is 2. And the output is on the Y axis. So I'm looking at here's the Y being 2. Along that red line is all the points where Y is 2. So I want to know specifically when is my absolute value function, that green, equal to 2? Well, at two points. At negative 2 and at positive 2. So we say the solutions, because these are X values that we write, the solutions, set notation -- Is negative 2 and positive 2. So if I look down at those -- if I look at my graph my -- when my output is positive 2 the input that goes with that is down in the X axis, at negative 2 and positive 2. So my solution set is negative 2, positive 2. Okay. So let me erase that line. Okay. Now that we've got that Y equals 2 or F of X equals 2 red line off of there. Let's take a look at solving F of X equals zero. So again, we're wanting solve, so we want to find out the Xs when the output is zero, when the Y is zero. So where is Y equal to zero? Right along that X axis. And the only point that has output of zero is when the input is also zero, which makes sense. We're saying when X is zero, F of zero, does equal zero. That checks. Okay. So let's get rid of that line. And think about when solving F of X is equal to negative 2. Well, negative 2 is right there. When does my function equal negative 2? Never. That function is always positive, F of X equal to the absolute value of X is always positive in this case. So there is no solution. There is no X that you can put in to get out a negative 2. So no solution. So let's think what this tells us in general about -- about absolute value functions. So if we're looking just specifically about the absolute value of X, so the basic parent function of absolute values, and P is a positive number the solution when the absolute value of X is equal to that positive number, for example like above, we had positive 2, are the numbers negative 2 and positive 2? So instead of being specific to 2, positive 2, we're just saying any positive number. So imagine we had talked about 4. When is the -- when is F of X equal to 4? When is the absolute value of X equal to 4. Well, that would be at negative 4 and positive 2. So in general, we're talking about negative P or positive P. So the absolute value of X being equal to P could be negative P or positive P. When is the absolute value of X equal to zero? Only at zero. When is the absolute value of X equal to negative number? So negative P means the opposite of a positive number, a negative number. When can the absolute value be negative? Never. So we say, no solution. The equation, the absolute value of X equal to negative number has no solution. So let's give you one to practice. What I'd like for you to do is to graph F of X equal to negative of the absolute value of X minus 3. So you can do this with a T table or you can also go into Desmos or some graphing technology and graph that, sketch the graph accurately in the space provided. And then I want you to solve for X. Right? When is -- what X value makes F of X equal to negative 3? When is F of X equal to zero? And when is F of X equal to positive 3? And remember to write your solutions set notation. 