 Hello! It's Carlea McAvoy. I wanted to talk about reading graphs today. Sometimes the same information can be given in a number of ways. Here's the results of a survey where people were asked which fruit they found to be the nicest. In this case both graphs have six different types of fruit. You can see they are listed even in the same order apple orange banana and so forth. The graph on the left is a vertical bar graph because the lines are running the bars are running vertically and on the right it's a horizontal bar graph because the bars are horizontal. Notice that they have the same information on the axes the vertical and horizontal axes are just flipped so that on the horizontal axis on the vertical bar graph we have the types of fruit but that is the vertical axis for the horizontal graph and then for the vertical bar graph our vertical axis is the number of people that chose that particular fruit whereas that's on the horizontal axis for the horizontal graph. So which fruit was chosen as the nicest by the most people. In both graphs here we can look for the tallest bar which looks like 40 and that was blueberries and then over here it's the longest bar which is also still same data 40 and still blueberries and then which fruit lost this bizarre popularity contest of being nice, well that would be the shortest bar either vertically or horizontally. It looks like grapes were not considered to be very nice. Okay sometimes data for two different groups are compared side by side as in this double bar graph. What is the horizontal axis telling us? The horizontal axis is the one that runs horizontally and this is telling us the different activities now the name of this graph is what those kids are doing and this is participation in selected leisure activities and notice they have a key. The red is boys ages 5 to 14 the green is girls 5 to 14. So we might and then what's the vertical axis well the vertical axis is talking about percentages so it goes from zero to a hundred percent okay. So that's something to think about and we might ask questions like in what activity is the number of girls greater than the number of boys percent wise, I should say. Well the girls are green so we're looking for place where the green is taller and here's where we see it Arts and Crafts. What does it mean that both of these are the same which is that activity which is about the same it's watching TV or videos and 100% of the kids said that they did at some time watch those and so we can ask questions about that comparing those two different groups on one graph. All right sometimes we can look at more than one thing per bar such as in this graph where we have blue is the aluminum yellow is carbon and iron is that salmon color. What is the horizontal axis showing us here? Well the horizontal axis is showing us there's three different samples sample A, B, and C, and the vertical axis which is running up and down is telling us the weight in grams. So we could ask a question like which sample weighed the least in grams well the one that weighed the least would be the one that's the least tall so this would be this one sample B. If we asked how much did it weigh we'd have to trace over and say it looks like it weighs about 54 grams. Well we might ask which one of these three samples appears to contain the most aluminum, so here's the aluminum in the blue so in this sample obviously this is the least amount. It looks to me like C has the most of everything so the the sample with the most aluminum will be C but we can ask questions about the individual pieces of those three bars or about the bar as a whole. Sometimes rather than using bars we can use pictures like in this pictogram here, pictograph I should say and we're not asking about horizontal and vertical axes here. What we would ask maybe is what does each drop of blood represent and there's this key down here that tells you every drop represents five people. We could ask which blood type seems to be the most prevalent and that would be Type O because it's got more drops than anybody else. How many people came in with type AB AB blood? Well there's two drops in each drop is five people so that would be ten people who came in with type AB blood. Finally a line graph sometimes you can have multiple lines on a single line graph this one represents the rainfall during the first nine days of the month. On our horizontal we have the days represented and on our vertical we have the amount of rainfall in millimeters kind of hard to read. Which days saw the same amount of rain? Well that would be the times when we saw the line being at the same point here this day two and day eight had the same amount two inches. How many more millimeters of rain did they get on day three than on day five? On day three we got 12 inches and on day five we got eight inches so 12 minus 8 they got four more inches on day three. All right have a fantastic day and we'll see you next time. 