 If you think office supplies are boring, think again. We’ve rounded up ten unique Japanese office supplies you didn’t know you needed. You can find all the items mentioned in this video at JetPens.com. Let’s jump right in! King Jim Magflap Clipboard When you’re in a hurry at work, the King Jim Magflap Clipboard keeps your notes organized and secure. The clipboard is magnetized, so it sticks to metal file cabinets, making it easy to grab and go. The front magnetic flap holds papers in place, so they won’t fly away or get crumpled. There’s even a back magnetic flap to make sure each sheet stays put as you flip it over. Kokuyo Security View Clear Folders These Kokuyo Security Folders are lightweight file folders made to hold confidential documents. They’re printed with a special weave pattern, which makes it very difficult to read the text stored inside. The back cover is a translucent white, so make sure there’s nothing sensitive on the back of the paper! Kokuyo Harinacs Stapleless Staplers Never worry about running out of staples again with the Kokuyo Harinacs Stapleless Stapler! Its cleverly-designed blade creates an arrow-shaped flap that tucks through the pages to secure your papers together. Featuring a clear window that lets you see where you’re stapling, you’ll never accidentally staple over a line of text. Choose from 5- or 10-sheet versions. Kokuyo Staple Removers Since most people still use traditional staplers, we recommend keeping a Kokuyo Staple Remover handy. Unlike standard staple removers with sharp teeth, this one has a rounded end so you won’t accidentally poke yourself. To use it, simply slide the tip under the staple until it comes off, then nudge the center slider to dump it in the trash. The remover collects up to ten staples before you have to discard them. Midori Eraser Dust Mini Cleaners Keep your desk nice and clean with the Midori Eraser Dust Mini Cleaner. It doesn’t just pick up eraser dust -- it’ll whisk away small messes, including tiny bits of paper and staples. When you’re done, open and empty it out in the trash. Midori Aluminum Multi Rulers These Midori Aluminum Multi Rulers look small, but they actually extend to double the length! You can easily put them away in any desk drawer once you’re done using them. The durable aluminum is etched with laser-engraved millimeter marks that won’t fade over time. They also serve as protractors -- the central rotator has tick marks at every 15 degrees. Nakabayashi Lifestyle Tool Wall Boxes Keep your desk organized with a Nakabayashi Lifestyle Tool Wall Box. It’s magnetic so you can mount it on your metal filing cabinet and keep all of your everyday essentials within reach. You can also stand it up on your desk and tuck it away at the end of the day. When closed, it’s slim enough to carry in a bag or store on a bookshelf. Ohto Coro Ceramic Letter Openers The cute Ohto Coro Ceramic Letter Opener helps you open envelopes safely and cleanly! To use it, insert a corner of the envelope into the groove and slide the opener along its edge. The Coro can cut in either direction, and its ceramic blade is hidden inside the groove of the opener to keep your fingers safe. Raymay Pencut Premium Scissors The Raymay Pencut Premium Scissors are shaped like pens, so you can store them easily and carry them anywhere. To use them, uncap and slide the buttons down to reveal the handles. The blades are also available with fluorine or titanium coating: fluorine keeps sticky residue from accumulating, and titanium preserves the sharpness of the blades. Zebra Mackee Work Marker Box Opener The Zebra Mackee Work Marker Box Opener is definitely a multitasker. It’s double-sided with a bullet tip on one end and a chisel tip on the other, which provides a fine and bold option to labeling boxes and other containers. Plus, one of the caps acts as a box opener! Instead of a metal blade, it uses a uniquely-shaped plastic tip to cut through tape without damaging the things inside or causing injury. What did you think of these office supplies? Check out the whole Japanese Stationery You Didn’t Know You Needed series by clicking on the playlist link and shop all of these items now at JetPens.com. Thanks for watching! 