 - I'm Robin. - Pleasure to meet you. Is he here? - Is who here? (pirate music) - Henderson. (laughing) Henderson. He's back, he's back. - I'm back. - You got the job! - I got the job! (laughing) (mimicking trumpet) (slower trumpet mimicking) Hey! (fake fighting) (laughing) - How many children are you friends with? - [Judgemental Voice] Boom! And another one bites the dust. You are oh for six, Popeye. - Yeah, yeah, I can count. - You know that means you suck. - Yup, I can read too. - Since when? - It's the stupid hat. I am telling you, it is totally blowing my best feature. - Yeah, company policy is a real drag. (slow saxophone music) - Hey twelve o'clock. - Oh shit, oh shit, okay. Going in, okay, look. And you know what, (crash) screw company policy. - Oh my god, you're a whole new man. - Right? - Well ladies, - Oh god. - Can I get you guys a little taste of Cherries Jubilee? No? Anybody? Banana Boat? Four people, four spoons? Share it in the booth? - [Judgemental Voice] You suck. - Do you have a quarter? - (chuckles) Are you sure you are tall enough for that ride? - Quarter! - Whoa! (quarter clinking) (carnival music) - Do you need help getting up little Stevie? - Whoa! (laughs) - We're going down! We're going down! (elevator falling) - Yeah, no shit Harrington! - (screeching) - Look away! (sighs) (electronic music) - Can you redirect your stream please? (percussive sting) I hate to break it to you, but this is not water. - No, but it's a liquid and if it comes down to me drinking that shit or dying of thirst, I drink. (glass breaking) - Jesus Christ - Ooh Do you still want to drink that? (screeching) - I don't know, but it's possible. - I'm sorry, is there something you two would like to share with the class? (suspenseful beat) (electronic music) - I could just take him out. - Take who out? - The Russian guard. (upbeat music) - And, in the meantime, sling ice cream, behave, and don't get beat up. (screaming) - I'm gonna die in a secret Russian base with Steve "the Hair" Harrington. (mimicking trumpet) - Hey! Boop. - We all die my strange little child friend. It's just a matter of how, and when. - [Confused Voice] Wha? (knife unsheathed) - Would now be a good time to tell you that I don't like doctors? - Whoa! (laughs) - You broadcast that stupid spy shit all over town and we picked it up on our Cerebro and we cracked it in a day! A day! (faint static) A day! (static) A day! (intensified static) You think you are so smart but a couple of kids, who scoop ice cream for a living, (electronic music) cracked your code in a day and now people know you are here. - Ooh, I just got the chills. From this float, not your speech. - (groaning in pain) - I know his taste is a bit pedestrian but dingus has other qualities. - (mimicking trumpet) (falling over) (upbeat music) - I'm Robin She sounds awesome. - She is awesome. (heroic music) 