 The Terrace Let me introduce to you the President of Samsung Electronics JH HAN Hello Everyone! Welcome to our digital launch event. Throughout the last few months, the world we live in has changed dramatically. Most of us are staying at home to keep ourselves, our loved ones and our communities safe. But even before this shift began we started to see the role of the home begin to evolve. For many, the home has transformed into an Office A Classroom A Gym A Café It has also become a playground when all these things come together. Have you heard of the term, "Home-Ludens"? It is derived from "Homo-ludens" which means the ‘instinct to play’. This has always been a human nature. Replace ‘homo’ with ‘home’ and we have ‘Home Ludens’, a term that can be interpreted as ‘those who play at home’. This new term encapsulates the latest trend in how we perceive our homes, from just a living space to a space for play and interaction. Today, we’re seeing some of these changes already taking place. If we look at US households in particular, 83% of them have outdoor living space. And 67% of them use this space more than once a week. So we asked our social channel followers this simple question. Some like to grill outdoors. Some play with their kids. And some love to use their swimming pools. But no matter the activity, it’s perfectly clear – outdoor living spaces are a key part of staying entertained at home. But what if we could enjoy watching screen in our outdoor space? We could transform this part of our home into a theater to watch a concert or perhaps into a stadium to watch a sports game. So today we are introducing our new QLED outdoor screen, The Terrace, which reimagines, redefines and fully enriches the outdoor viewing experience. Before we introduce "The Terrace" in the spirit of listening to consumers, I’d like to share feedback they’ve shared and address how The Terrace incorporates their response. Of course, outdoor environments can change rapidly. We’ve accounted for that. The Terrace is durable under many weather conditions, and resistant to dust and water. The Terrace produces the highest levels of brightness on outdoor screens, along with QLED technology, so consumers enjoy superior picture quality even under sunlight. Just as we customized the display, The Terrace has built-in sound optimized for outdoors. And for an even more immersive audio experience, the Sound Tower and The Terrace Soundbar provide additional surround sound. Perfect for those family moments enjoying sports games, movies and more. It also has all the incredible features of Samsung Smart screen. All the content, apps and services that you enjoyed indoors are now available outdoors. The Terrace reflects everything that "a consumer would want" in order to improve the outdoor experience. Screens Everywhere It's our vision and has been our motivation in product development. As consumers seek personalized experiences, we’re striving toward a world where there’s a perfect screen for every consumer. From The Serif, To The Frame, To The Sero, To, now – The Terrace – which extends the home entertainment experience to your backyard. With those Lifestyle Screens, our QLED 8K lineup, and MicroLED displays like The Wall, Screens Everywhere means Finding the right screen for everyone. Samsung has led the global TV market for 14 consecutive years. We do it by listening to you, and creating products that appeal to your passions. That drives our innovation leading to exciting moments. Thank you for joining us on this exciting journey. 