 thank you very much. And thanks to all of the speakers off this session for these very interesting presentations. You have now a few questions you can also directly ask questions to, to the authors if you have a very specific question via the chat is. There is a way that you can directly address the paper or go to the paper and then directly go into the q&a and then ask a question, there are a few questions have already been asked. And I want to now, moderate a little bit these questions that are still left. Basically, and some of them, I take the freedom also to bring them probably to a more general level. So, basically starting probably with the question that I have on the screen right now, which is about the limitations and barriers. Here, the use of limitations for a Gameboy but of course for anything that is energy harvested yeah you rely on the harvested energy. Yeah, which is clear. And so, the question is here. In this specific case for the Gameboy what is the speech for the interaction papers, it is more for types of interactions and part of it has been addressed in the talk what type of interactions are possible, where basically where are basically the borders that are unlikely to be crossed in the next few years. Yeah, that would be interesting question, questions, so probably, we start with yesterday Winkle, which can directly answer these specific questions for the Gameboy and then continue with the other participants that presented energy harvesting system, what they think is is basically. Yeah, the limits of this technology. Well thank you, can you hear me. I hope so. Yes. Yes, very good. So, the Gameboy operates very close to the real time actually. So, it's very hard to discern the difference between a real Gameboy and the best Wi Fi Gameboy. So in that sense, of course, as you said, we still are limited by energy harvesting right so if there's not enough energy, then you will start noticing the off time more and more and, of course, you cannot do anything when the system is off. So maybe just so you can add upon this because I know you want to always. Yeah, if you if with the Gameboy which you know there's there's a plug right there we have it in blue as well, and orange. I mean, it does depend on you know the type of game the type of environment, kind of just the Gameboy specific level when I'm comparing me playing Tetris on my original you know Nintendo Gameboy from like, way back in the day, it's, it's pretty close I mean we've measured that it's a little bit slower in terms of executing but that's, you know, partly because we're emulating an entire hardware platform. Right, whereas the Gameboy was just directly executing the binary code. Right. I think in terms of like the future, the Gameboy is just you know it's one step right and, oh we can do, we can take intermittent computing devices and we've seen some other great talks that, you know, harvest energy and do machine learning tasks that helped to make decisions for kind of these more classic wireless sensor network problems of deploying something on farms and smart cities and things like that. But I think with this we're also saying that you know batteryless energy harvesting devices, maybe those that are harvesting energy from body generated sources or novel materials are also useful for this whole interactive Internet of Things. And this brings us to a bunch of interesting questions about well again boys cool and cute. But what if we have interactive devices that are, you know, the labels on my food right or the wrappers that I'm putting things in that are giving me sensing sensing values from, you know, the Burger King I got, I probably shouldn't say Burger King from fast food or something like that. So I think we opened up kind of the potential. You know limits and thoughts of what internet of a trillion battery free things more sustainable batteryless devices could do that could Aid Society without causing this gigantic, you know, he weighs in ecological depths. From from having all these batteries in the environment because, while there is a very large supply of lithium, we have a very finite supply of water to help extract that lithium, and that directly affects indigenous people like myself and others who, you know, you can't drink water you can eat food, what are you going to do you don't need a smart device. So I think that's kind of some of the vision that at least I see but I'm definitely interested in what others think of these kind of sustainable devices and where they're going. So who wants to jump in. Dang, can I not take a shot. So, yeah, let me, let me talk a little bit about optasense so basically we are trying to use the opportunity presented by the material scientists, they make this kind of organic semiconductors, that can harvest energy much more efficient than the silicon semiconductors in indoor locations. Right, so they have much higher theoretical limit limitation of energy harvesting efficiency of take currently is like 26.6%, efficiency, compared to the ones we are using in the video which is like commodity solar cell which is like 3.4% for indoor indoor indoor lighting conditions, so they can harness more energy that's why we are trying to collaborate with them. And also, so you can harness the same amount of energy with the light, seven, eight times smaller, and that basically means you can do more things with them. So, yeah. I want to add to that. The advantage of batteries resistant definitely is good for the environment no batteries no lithium, and to make it efficient and like better performance of course there is research going on on having having good materials which are more efficient at harvesting energy and things like that, but I think my overall view or battery system is that you're trading and you're reducing the energy. So you have to create something for that. It could be performance, it could be some kind of user experience or something. And that trade off is something you as a designer research engineer can decide what you want to trade off in that system, and one advantage we have here is like our systems are not blackbox systems, but something which are which is being interacted by users and kind of nti system. So we have a kind of flexibility there on how do we want to design the application, how do we want the system to interact with the user so that this trade off is not like a limitation to the system, but we design our system around that one quick example was like in my paper which was ubiquitous and we designed battery free touch interfaces. It's extremely low power. And what we traded off was the speed, it has it has a higher latency than the traditional touch interfaces we use, and an error rate that has also has a higher rate, and we look at this problems to design by making the interactions longer and things like that. redundant, adding redundant features. So I think that's also an important aspect for battery systems to think in the application domain and like augmenting. To solve this, to help reduce the problem, because of low power. So, I want to add on top of that, that it is true that there are some aspects we have to compromise to make the intermittent systems, usable for us. But that's another interesting area to work on to see how we can do that, because it's not only the environment where we are, the current technology is moving us to a stable system. But if we think that Bosman in like a medical system that continuous monitoring is helpful and there are some products in the market which has a built in glucose monitoring in your hand and you build a, put your phone close to it to read the like the glucose amount in a blood sugar, whenever you want, but that's not actually all you need because study showed that that if you continuously monitor there's some people's blood sugar, suddenly drops and indicates to some specific diseases. So there's some and you cannot ask a person Okay, put a battery in your body and and change it every month, or have 10 devices on your body and change it so this is something where the aspects of batteryless are more so simple system comes that it makes the users, avoiding the burden of changing the batteries, and the works that, I think, a large amount of work is also needed to see how can we minimize the trade off. For example, like in my work zygote what we did is we were trying to minimize the trade off between the energy and the performance and time. So the way we're doing that we are trying to identify how much perform, how much work do we actually need because the perfect and because many of the works are redundant and it varies how much performance that the system needs. So these are I think a very interesting area or aspect of see that how we can minimize this this trade off and make the system more closer to a persistently power system. Okay, thanks a lot. Anything to add from the others. Otherwise I would proceed probably to another question. It was more about the hardware and what we think would be the way to go. Yeah. He was about custom easy. There was no other material also mentioned, I want to add one thing, which I think is important because it is so obvious that there is need for more self powered energy harvesting devices, how open are your basically your designs, do you open them like open hardware, so that others can learn from it, or and. Yeah, probably most of you have had a hardware piece on it. Please give a short comment on where do you see the future for the hardware will go yeah in terms of technology, and whether you, you are able to open your, your system or probably is already opened to so that others can learn from it. I can add to this. So, so my shot at this is that in order to make low power systems, it's very very important that you optimize on the hardware, some way or the other. Either you optimize the power harvesting, or whatever is doing the computation or something part of it. So we can look at novel materials, which can like self generate power and augmenting the system requirements, or in terms of hardware design, we can for future hardware design accounting we can look at systems which are built from discrete components. Without dedicated like without like. And, like, not general purpose system like using microcontrollers and things like that because they consume power, but designed systems for a particular special task with very low component count, and that would immensely helped to save power. And that could be one of the ways to like, build inexpensive disposable devices which run on a very low power budget. And for my project. We intend to open source the software and hardware design for this project so people can try it out and try to build something play with it. Right. But I think there's a. You have a broad question then very specific questions right. Obviously we have a GitHub repo and you can create your own Game Boy, if we tried to sell them. I think we would get a cease and desist letter from Nintendo. Although I think the best comment we got this is probably from twittersphere was that, oh, this sounds like something crazy enough Nintendo would do, so I did appreciate that. But designs are all there for anyone to build it, and it is manufacturable with some skill. But I guess the bigger question is, what, what is the future of these components like a lot of the previous work has used, you know, common off the shelf type components, things you can readily buy that has like kind of the benefit of okay now anyone can go build these systems that we're designing and that's great for saying while here you try and make some battery free devices and deploy them. But obviously, combining a six with non volatile memory that's coming out so an arm chip on a stick with non volatile memory that's mapped right into the address space. That's 100 times more power efficient. That's really where much of this we'll have to end up, if we want to see it at this trillion scale that the Nvidia CTO said yesterday, or two days ago on the merger that that were the Internet of Things was headed. So I think kind of that push will have to happen and we'll see a lot of those new asecs come and trickle back to kind of those of us who play around in cops land, and I think we just have to engage with collaboration and and try and make sure that we're working with people that are building these novel energy harvesters and with people that are building these new asix to explore new applications beyond you know the the fun stuff we're already doing now, right, fine. It has been harder. Yeah, I think, for optasense we've benefited a lot from the improvement of, like, the ARM processor that you know features is kind of low power capability, especially that they can, you know, directly acquired a signal from the ADC and then just store that into the memory and then, so we we try to make the CPU sleep as much as possible and then Sunday night sending the information we want it's needed. So, I think, I think definitely the directory of the industry is constantly improving the commodity hardware, low power perspectives and I think they also helps us to build prototypes much quicker. Okay. Somebody else can you also have hardware, you want to say something is your hardware design also available. And it turns out if it is available or not actually, it's not available yet but on the internet but we of course want to like make this technical, our like technology use worldwide so very like planning to make this open, and another aspect, another question about the idea hardware thing. The one we really struggled with was there is actually a very, like a huge gap between the ACS and non disk on a sick discrete ones and we would like to like make our hardware very like power efficient, and also like very, like, high performance but like e6 are like only made for that mass like production things for all like for example for the smartphones, but they're like things that are like, for example for our purpose our like prepper thing, the thing we wanted to do was like very niche. It was seen from the like mass markets so I think like, if there was a kind of a much more easier process today is like the was a process to make the e6 like more reachable like I heard that Google is like trying to make the basic process they open source so I think, like, if those kind of movements get larger it like more researchers can get involved into like making a 610 like these like low power applications or like get extended like further you thank you. Thank you. Somebody else wants to see something on that issue. So, another essay question block was around, basically, the usage of the, of the technology and how much of say the situation's probably this technology may or may be used needs to be covered. Yeah. Also in terms of what experiments, do you have to do to, sort of, prove that the ideas that you have is really working in situations like if you have something that is doing with activity recognition of course you have to be real time, capable. How much do you have to prove that for all the situation. But it can also be extended to for example, the bus. Lifetime system, where you where you never know exactly, of course, yeah, how, in the future, and the behavior of people are and as, basically, the algorithm is really appropriate for this new novel situations which are not trained. Yeah. So what is the basically the limits that we can, we can do in terms of experimentation in our research paper, and how far. Should we go. Yeah, and I probably want to give this back to you to hear your opinion. Yeah. How thoroughly. Do we need to test every thinkable situation, or is it okay if we say specifically these situations. We selected, and in this situations. Our system is working to, to a certain extent. So this is the question basically to everybody's. I can start with my comments that I really love that there's a, it can be twofold. So at first we do need to have more extensive evolution on how the system works and prediction and estimation, but in addition we will also need the system to evolve with the environment because, as you mentioned that the future is unpredictable. However we predict there can be some components in the future, which we never predicted for example that this 2020 we have COVID in 2019 many of us did not predicted how our life will go in 2020, and the system systems we are, which we are thinking of to be sustainable system and apply in Latin or large skill or in scenarios where it's hard to change your update the system needs to have some self adaptation and need to adapt with whatever is going on so there is a huge need of learning. So, in the future, it can be a part of the lifelong learning, that's a vision that the Mr Trump is not moving forward. Okay, thank you. wants to be next to tell us opinion McHale I'm not sure I'm gonna directly address your question I think but. What an interesting observation about the paper we had in this session is they addressed issues of power, they addressed some particularly that last paper an issue of form factor, you know if we're going to have these things embedded throughout our environments, we're going to have to be concerned with what they look like, and how they get embedded, but we haven't addressed as a community is how we're going to get to the trillions that the game board folks were talking about this internet of trillions and that gets at the manufacturing procedures that have to be used in the, the materials that we're using to produce these items and I'd like to hear other people comment on that. Very good. haven't stepped forward so far. So I can try me a little bit so I'm in terms of this scalability so we've been artisans definitely has looked at that and basically we are saying that by moving from the traditional silicon, you know subtractive processing to more of attitude, manufacturing, and that basically can reduce a lot of the, the cost of manufacturing large scale devices like solar cells or photo diodes. So, basically, they did the long page of the material we are very interested in, like, organic or perovskite, as they can be really they can be a row to row coating, they can they can be compatible with a rotary coating, and they can be process using, you know, liquid solutions and they can be processed under room, room temperature. So that saves a lot of the energy, and in the, in the, in the manufacturing processes. So I think. Yeah, so we need to look at, especially the how the devices like individual components, manufactured and how they can be scaled to trillions or, you know, like in other words is like surfaces of everyday objects. So I was thinking of this from. I guess we can, we can go along with reaching trillions by relying on manufacturing techniques to be put into, you know giant large scale, processes, right and so you have these, you know, many hundred billion dollar fabs right that would make these work and then you could get that scale, but I'm this community I feel is very good at, you know, the DIY technique. Right. Do it yourself. And so I wonder how we can advance. When I hope we can advance you know how new energy harvesting without his materials could be assembled from a bucket of soil, maybe, or from a few things you can get a hardware supply store so or, you know, water, like 3d printed a little micro turbine. Right. And so I think that possibly that's one intermediate way to scale because if you, you can scale by centralizing everything in one place to build it all. Or you can scale by having, you know 5 billion people be able to make their own computational devices that they could then use to benefit their own daily life and I think that's very interesting and inspiring. And if you build these types of systems that we're talking about that harvest energy there, they become much closer to this kind of perpetual, you know, smart dust vision that was you know come up with by the by the person who named his conference right. And I think that's very interesting. I think the relying on people democratizing the development of these devices themselves is very, very interesting and exciting as a potential direction I think for everyone in this in this panel. I guess on the testing side to to make that happen. We have to have some way to take a lot of the things we've talked about because you're talking about a huge kind of array of devices and systems and just this panel on its glorious right. How can we come up with things like you know what's the me bench for sustainable devices so the bench was this great embedded systems computing benchmarking suite, right, what are the new bench tools that are energy aware, because now we have this whole dynamics of energy, how can we quantify and classify energy harvesting devices, generally, how can we replay record energy harvesting. How can we design like is no for us we're thinking is Gameboy now with a new platform that you can test out different things, even if you don't run an emulator you have this piece of hardware that we can all compare against like what is that future for benchmarking that can enable this democratization of battery free IoT is I agree with everything you said there except the point about relying on these mass scale fab locations that that may be possible, but I think actually we're going to have to and I've been influenced by my colleagues here Georgia Tech in chemical engineering, we're saying, think about bulk oriented modular manufacturing practices that are done in almost all industries, other than the integrated circuit industry of computing. And when we get down to the level of these materials, we can actually start thinking about different ways of assembling that that just, they may not produce the the super computers that we're thinking about but for these, much lower demand computation activities that's probably the way to go to get to the trillions quadrillions and beyond. Now, and probably the computing can be distributed. So if you distributed energy How is it to energy How is the devices to be also a great thing. So, probably one person haven't said so much Songyang from Active Directory, is it possible to have heavy. Yeah, I grew it into like you developed to distribute them among a lot of small devices say that are then energy harvested. He's muted. So, probably audio problems. Some somebody else from those that developed algorithms, ml algorithms want a champion. I believe that it is possible and it has a huge. It can be a huge thing if we can decentralize the computation from one device to multiple devices. It also comes with more challenges because if you think about how on the cloud computing work, there's several servers and the way they work they have some communication going on there. And that is one of the most costly thing that goes with goes our immune system because radio modules are communication digitally costly. So this is a very interesting area to see that how we can try it out with the amount of communication, we need to do and allow the system to work in a distributed way. So broadly. Sure we might be able to do something, a distributed nodes on multiple nodes to a single work with a, with minimal or no communication at all so this might be an interesting thing to look at. Okay. Yeah. Thanks a lot. I think we have now reached the time limit for our, our session. I want to again thank all the speakers, especially also for answering the question and answers Yeah, thanks a lot. And I think it was a really inspiring session, at least for me, I guess, although, because we have a lot of viewers for the, for the audience of the UBICOMP obviously, and we can continue talking about that topic in in a booth in, get out of town so you can meet us on the social terrorists and on booth, a. Yeah, and then we can continue asking general questions but also specific questions to some of the authors of the of the specific papers. I will try to go now to gather town myself, but probably I'm not the first one who will reach the booth yesterday took me like 15 minutes until my, my little man has started work, working. Yeah, I don't know why, but probably others can can just straight go to the, to the booth a soldier terrorists. you go to private gatherings on the terrorists who they. Okay. Yeah, thanks also to the fvs Yeah, to jump in and solve the problems that we certainly did have some suddenly appeared. Yeah. Nice chops and. 