 The air in South Korea has been thick with smog for the past couple of days. The government is enforcing "emergency measures" to tackle fine dust, unfortunately it looks like the situation won't be getting better anytime soon. Oh Soo-young has the full story. It's still smog central in the Korean capital. Fine dust density has remained at"extremely bad" levels for days across the northern and central regions of the country,... prompting emergency measures to try to reduce air pollution. "It's the fourth straight day that emergency measures have been in place, a record length of time, as fine dust levels in the capital rose to almost 170 micrograms over the weekend. Eight other cities and provinces have also exceeded the 150 microgram threshold, triggering the highest level of alert. The environment minister has called the situation a national disaster." "Winds from China have slowed down and weakened, dragging in fine particulate matter, while becoming less effective at blowing out the air pollution that's been generated domestically." Under the emergency fine dust reduction law, which went into effect last month, local governments are required to take measures to limit further CO2 emissions. In Seoul, an alternate driving system is in place for all civil servants,... which means only vehicles with even-numbered license plate numbers will be permitted on the streets on Monday. Also, industrial sites have been ordered to reduce their operating hours while power plants have to reduce their output to 80 percent. But experts say these measures can only go so far. "Emergency measures are the bare minimum steps we can take. There needs to be more public awareness and a society-wide resolve to effectively tackle air pollution, which requires sacrificing everyday comforts like taking the elevator or using excessive heating or air conditioning." Minister Cho Myung-rae said at an emergency meeting on Monday that he fears the high levels of fine dust will persist until the middle of this week. In fact, fine dust is likely to spread to the lower and eastern regions of the country on Tuesday,... hitting the cities of Busan and Daegu. Until the smog clears,... children and the elderly are advised to limit their outdoor activities,... and to wear face masks when heading outside. Oh Soo-young, Arirang News. 