 Hi my name is Fiona Small from South West London Television. We're here today with Wandsworth Council to find out more about Smart Bins and how they'll be using technology to keep the borough clean and tidy. So Fiona this bin is an IoT bin. IoT is the Internet of Things. It has a standard wheelie bin inside to reduce manual handling and inside the machine there's a sensor so this unit will alert the council when the bin is nearly full. So at any stage they can log on without coming out to look at the bins and see exactly what the fill level is within the bin. 72% of litter that is at street level ends up in estuaries and it's really not good for the fish or the rivers at all. We really have to do this and there's a lot more interest now from the public in keeping our environment neat and tidy if only for that reason. So it's very important to Wandsworth to keep looking at new ways to keep our streets and our riverside clean and this is our latest baby. We'll be putting the initiative up on our website so that people can read about our initial trial and we will also be updating the website with the progress of the trial as it goes along over the 12-month period. So if you've got a favourite bin you'll be able to see how it's doing. What else is the council doing to keep the borough clean and tidy? More of the same really. We have some very dedicated crews. We spend £4.3 million a year on cleaning our streets and the busiest streets are actually cleaned up to five times a day. Lesser streets may only be cleaned once a week but we aim to keep everything neat and tidy and if you need a particular clean if something's happened you can call one in through the website; and fantastic initiatives from all sorts of teams who are going up and down the river picking up litter, and on our Commons... ... everywhere in fact, and I'm very grateful to all of them. One of those that we've got coming up in June is with Plog-olution who we're funding to do some work in the borough and they're a fantastic organization where you jog and you pick up litter at the same time. So hip. I'm really looking forward to it. Well Councillor Sutters, we thank you and we look forward to finding out more about the Smart Bins and this initiative. I think it's brilliant, especially with times moving - everything is digital and online now so it's really a great initiative and we look forward to finding out more. But if you'd like more information about what Wandsworth council have happening within the borough, you can check out their website. My name is Fiona Small from South West London TV. Thank you. 