 Hello! My name is Amy Sturkey. I am a pediatric physical therapist. And I'm here with my co-instructor. This is Sebastian. He is a seven-year-old with quadriplegic cerebral palsy. And one of the questions I get a lot are people asking me how do I reduce stiffness. Now I've already talked about a couple of ways. One is weight bearing through an extremity, either standing by putting them in a stander an hour a day helps to reduce stiffness. If you want to reduce stiffness in the hands (I've done a video on that before of weight-bearing through the hands) helps reduce stiffness. Actually, the research says that for short term after you do stretching, stretching of whatever muscle has been stretched, reduces the stiffness short term of that muscle afterwards. I've also had some people say that they do hot tubs, and the hot tubs afterwards they'll have some reduction of stiffness that lasts for a while. One of the other things that is used is whole-body vibration to help reduce stiffness. Sebastian is actually not a big fan of it, but you can do it sitting or standing. Or I've done it hands and knees with the hands on it. I've done it all sorts of different ways. We're going to do it just for a little bit, Sebastian, sitting. So I'm just going to hit the power, and I'm going to hit play, and it'll start shaking, shaking, Sebastian. So you can just sit. And you can also from here do weight bearing through the hands, so I'm going to rub his hand forward to get his weight bearing on his hand open, and get him weight bearing down on it. I tend to start at low frequencies on this. I don't think the numbers relate. It goes from 1 to 99. I don't think it relates to hertz. But this the platform shakes this way. And I start off with lower numbers, and I work toward higher. And my experience is the higher the intensity and the longer I do it, the more the reduction in tone. Again it's short term. I've seen the effects last a couple of hours, but it's one way to work on tone reduction. Here I'm going to hit pause. And I will go up to 10 minutes at a time with my clients on the whole body vibration board to get a reduction in tone. I have had clients that hands were tightly fisted that I started off just with their hand on the edge of it, and then gradually worked toward getting their hand open on the outside of it, and then was able to pull them back further. And their hand at the beginning was tightly fisted and when we finished, their hand could...I could loosely ply their hands open without much effort at all. So it can make a dramatic decrease in stiffness and in the tone of someone. Again, it's only short term though it doesn't last for days, it lasts for a couple of hours. This whole-body body vibration unit... there's a lot of different units out for sale. This one is a Pinty P-i-n-t-y. I haven't seen this one available on the market recently, but you're looking for one that alternates back and forth, that's what the research is based on. There's some of them that go up and down or go in a triangular movement. Theoretically, that would work too, but the ones that I've seen the research on and the one way this one works is back and forth. So I hope this is an idea and a couple of other ones that we just talked about that will help you work on reducing tone with your children. Like I say it's a question that I commonly get. I hope this is helpful, and Sebastian and I will see you next time. Thanks! Bye-bye. If you like this video and would like to be notified by email when the next video comes out, click the subscribe button here, and click the golden bell icon, and ensure notifications are enabled on your account. 