 Hello, everybody. Thanks for joining us on Power Africa today across the world, across Nigeria, across West Africa, and across Africa. Thanks for joining this session on the Power Africa 2020. It's virtual events that we have today. For this session, we are going to be looking at Microsoft Azure, how Microsoft Azure is empowering everyone. I hope you guys can hear me. Can I get some confirmation that I'm being heard? Okay. Great. This particular session, I'm just going to be giving a very high-level view, a 360 degrees view of Azure. I know almost everybody has heard of Azure before. What I will try to do is to make sure I point out some of the interesting parts of Azure that we might not know about. I like to call it, ''if you don't know now you know session,'' that's what this session is about. I'm going to be focusing on how the Azure platform is empowering everyone to do their best bit of work and to innovate in their different spaces. That's what I'll be covering in this session. My name is Kolade Kehinde. I'm a senior Microsoft customer engineer and I cover Europe, Middle East, and Africa. Today, I'll just be walking us through the different parts of Azure that can empower us and that can help us do our best work. Microsoft Azure. Azure is Microsoft's Cloud offering that helps us to have access to Cloud-based resources both Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as a Service, and all these different services that we have in Azure. Microsoft as a company, the vision is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more, basically to empower everybody, not just for the tech gurus, or for the technology guys and people around the world, but for everybody. Irrespective of where your business is, irrespective of what you're doing as a person, Microsoft has come up with the Azure Cloud to empower you and to give you leverage in terms of automating your business processes, making it more efficient, and providing a platform to help you take your business activities to the next level. That's what the Microsoft Azure platform is about, empowering everybody. What are some of the offerings? I'm just going to go through some of the things that we have in Azure as a Cloud service. Microsoft Azure, it has different components to it. It has the Infrastructure as a Service, the Platform as a Service, and Software as a Service. Infrastructure as a Service for organizations that still want to run their VMs, they still want to set up their networks, they still want to manage their own storage account. They still want to have [inaudible] control over what they do and over the infrastructure that runs their platforms and the services that they expose to their users. Microsoft Azure provides that. It gives you a reliable infrastructure that you can build on to have something that is robust and something that is reliable for your own platforms and solutions and apps and containers to run on and reliably to provide your services to your costumers. Also, we have the PaaS platform, which is the Platform as a Service, whereby we have all this particular set of resources in Azure that helps you to take your apps and design and help you take your solutions to the next level without even bothering about the infrastructure. As developers, as technology-related people, all you focus on is innovating. Innovating by building solutions. Innovating by creating new things instead of focusing on the infrastructure. On Azure Cloud, we have those Cloud services that give you those Platform as a Service resources on Azure that you can use to deploy applications without worrying too much about infrastructure. I call it the quick fast way to go from development to production. Also, on the Microsoft Azure platform, on the Cloud services, we have the Software as a Service for organizations that are unwilling to even create any application or any solution before they can run their business. The Software as a Service comes as a package software delivered to you in the Cloud and made available to you globally irrespective of where your workers are, where your staffs are, and nowadays with COVID situation we have this here. There's need for everybody to work remotely. With the Software as a Service, it gives organizations that want to allow their staffs to work remotely, work from anywhere around the world, gives them that opportunity to do that so they can work efficiently. They don't have to be in a particular physical location before they can work. They don't have to rely on infrastructure that is exposed to different environmental conditions and on certain environmental requirements before they can run their business. Their business can run anytime, anywhere for their users, for their staffs, and for everybody that allows their business to function in the way they want to so that they can achieve their goals and their objectives. That's what the Microsoft Azure platform is about; Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as a Service, Software as a Service. I'll jump into the next slide where I give examples of these different services and resources that we have on Azure. This is for the Infrastructure as a Service and Platform as a Service. We have different resources in Azure that can help you with your Platform as a Service, with your Infrastructure as a Service. We have things like the edge devices, which are the new set of resources that Microsoft has deployed on Azure to help users that are willing to have a little bit of control over the infrastructure that they run, but at the same time they want to enjoy the reliability of running their platforms in Azure, which is like Azure Stack Hub, I'll still jump deeper into it later in my slide, Azure Stack Edge, Azure Sphere, Azure Kinect, and HoloLens for people who are into gaming that want to design virtual reality experience for their users, brings us also to the server-less resources that we have in Azure. We have web apps. That is one part I love a lot about Azure. Web apps whereby you can easily deploy your app in a Cloud-hosted environment without worrying about the underlying infrastructure or the underlying storage. You just write your code, push it through [inaudible] pipelines and you have them in a Cloud environment that is robust, that can give you business continuity, give you disaster recovery, give you security and all these things out-of-the-box without you worrying about them. We have different technologies that our web apps supports. It'd Python, Java, Ruby on Rails, Django. You're doing Python. You're doing all these different technologies is supported in the web. If, for example, you don't even have some of your technologies with you, if you want some legacy application, you can put them in your containers and also run them on the Azure Web Apps. Also, we have the Azure Mobile Apps. For your mobile apps, you want to do Xamarin apps, you want to do your React Native app to collect your package. You can also do it and deploy it in Azure. We also have mixed reality that brings us to containers. You want to run your container workload irrespective of what you want to run in the Cloud. We have container instances and container platforms on Azure, which is provided as a Platform as a Service. You don't need to worry about installing Docker, or installing Kubernetes yourself. All these resources are available as a Platform as a Service. We also have events and integration for people that want to do event gathering in a central place. We have several different Platform as a Service resources in Azure that gives you that environment to run your event-based integrations. We also have databases irrespective of database technology you want to run. MSSQL server, you want to run blockchain workloads, you want to run your MySQL database, Cosmos DB, MongoDB, and all these different database technologies are also supported. You have analytics from Azure Synapse, which I'll be focusing on a little while in a couple of slides that I have. We also have AI and machine learning, Internet of Things, IoT. IoT is blowing up now. Every device that we have out there can basically have an IoT device to help monitor. You have your doors at home. You have your lights. All these different IoT devices can also integrate with the Azure platform for you to make use of the Azure platform. Then we have the media for your media streaming, for people that want to do things like Azure Batch. You want to process a lot of things in your application. You want to build things that require long running processes, you can use the Azure Batch for it. It brings us down to the infrastructure path, where you have compute, you have networking, storage, security and identity, which is in Infrastructure as a Service that we have in Azure. You want to host your own workload. You want to have a level of security. You want to set up your own network, you want to set up your own firewall, and all these different resources by yourself, you want to control it. You can also do that on the Azure platform. That brings us to what? To the SaaS parts. Before you, I was talking about lots about Power Apps, he's talking lots about having platforms whereby you don't have to write too much code and you still can create apps. Azure also supports those kind of app including things like the Power Platform and Office 365 and Dynamics 365 as the softwares and services offering that we have in Azure. The software as a service, service that we have in Azure includes these three sets of what? Three sets of resources on Azure that we use for [inaudible] and make use of the Azure Platform. Now, a little bit of some things you might not know about. I'll jump with some set of resources. I know a lot who are familiar with the conventional infrastructure as a service, platform as a service, software as a service, and we use it every day on the web apps, to containers, to databases, to VMs, to networks, to firewalls, to load balancers, and all these different resources. But I just want to use opportunity to mention some of the things you probably are not familiar with. The first one here is what? The Azure Digital Twins. This is a very interesting technology that Microsoft has come up with and has on-boarded on the Azure Platform for everybody to use. Azure Digital Twins is a platform as a service offering that enables the creation of knowledge graphs based on digital models of entire environment. What does that mean? That's a lot of drama. What basically that means is, you can create models of your what? Of your environment. If you have a factory, you can create a model of it. If you have a building, you can create a model of it. If you have a farm, for people who are into agriculture, for people that are into energy, for people around railway systems, stadiums, and big events, if you have big public event and you want to watch, model these environments and try to use insights to understand how activities and how different things [inaudible] within the space of that environment. You can use Azure Digital Twins to model these environments and Azure Digital Twins will give you what? Insights into these models. Say, for example, you have one million people attend an event and you want to understand how people interact with different parts of the company in that particular event or you want to simulate a model afterwards to find a way to meet the events more efficient and better for people to attend in later additional styling that you'll be coming up with. Azure Digital Twins helps you with this. It helps you to what? To give these insights, to get these insights from the data for your environment. So it might be something you don't know about. It is available on the Azure Platform. We also have the Azure Blueprints. This is one that I like a lot because I like talking about DevOps a lot, and I like talking about automating the environment right from the project management when you draw the requirement [inaudible] down to where the application is actually deploying to production and where it is supported. Azure Blueprints gives us that particular environment that allows what? To architect everything that has to do with our infrastructure. It allows us to design things like all the requirement, the compliance requirements, the organizational requirements, the technology requirements. If you are designing maybe a Platform-as-a-Service Application that has maybe restricted to some set of users, you can what? Use the Azure Blueprints to what? To create these rules, to create the policies, to create what? The templates. A lot of time people ask me, what is the difference between ARM Templates and Azure Blueprint? That's why I have this diagram. We have to just highlight that. Azure Blueprints what? Covers all these different areas in terms of ARM templates. You can have it in there, your Resource Groups, your Azure policies. All these different components are what you can then architect with what? Your Azure Blueprint. So if you're an enterprise architect, you're a solution provider, and you are looking at creating models and creating a one view of your whole infrastructure and solution, you are looking at Blueprint, you can use the Azure Blueprint. It might be something you don't know about, you can start [inaudible] that today. Again, it brings us to what? The Azure Computer Vision, where we use things like technology to what? To produce insights into our data. We use an AI Service that analyze contents in what? In images and video because we have millions of images and videos that are being generated every day. How do we get insights into this data that we are generating, this rich amount of data? You can use the what? The Azure Computer Vision which includes things like the Text Extraction, the OCR, the Image Understanding, then the Spatial Analysis. I'm going to be talking about one organization that has used the Spatial Analysis to come up with some very brilliant products to help, especially in this time where we have COVID and where we are observing social distancing. We have the Special Analysis, Platform-as-a-Service functionals that is part of the what? Azure Computer Vision, which is a whole product that Microsoft is exposing as cognitive services offering on Azure. Then we go to the Azure Synapse Analytics. What this part helps us with is data warehousing and unmatched time to insights. You have huge data sitting in a SQL database somewhere on-premise or in a Cloud environment, or other third-party Cloud environments. You have device data that's coming in from IoT devices. You want to have data community on your Software-as-a-Service from your Office 365, from your Power Apps. We design Power Apps, we need to send data to Cosmos DB. All these data are coming in but you need to get insights about them. This is what Azure Synapse Analytics helps you with. It gives you that one-stop shop where you can what? Manage the integration of your data into a central place. You can manage the data, you can monitor the data, you can provide proper security to the data, and you can now run analytics on this data, either using SQL Analytics Engines or using the Spark Analytics Engine. You can also warehouse this data using the Azure Data Lake Storage. It's a one-stop shop for your data needs. If you want to ingest data, if you want to manage it, and you want to get insights, most particularly, you have AI models that can help you get insights into your data. The Azure Synapse Analytics is the Platform-as-a-Service offering that Microsoft has produced out there for us to do that. You can also what? Inject your what? Your data into Power BI and that's one great intervention when you use these Azure resources. There's an end-to-end feel from when you generate the stats of the platform to the end, whereby you have a one-stop shop in Azure to what? To give you that one user experience that enables you and that empowers your business, irrespective of what your business is. You've ingested data into Azure Synapse, it has been analyzed, you've run Analytics Engines on them, you've warehoused them, you want to get insights to them so that you can use your Power BI to what? To view these particular insights. People used to say before that content is king. But now, data is king and not just data that is sitting somewhere that you don't have insights into. It is data that you have properly analyzed and you have insights and understanding of the trend and what? The usage of your what? Of your platform and how people are making use of the services you are arranging to what? To better grow your business. That is what the Azure Synapse Analytics thing is about. Then this brings us towards the Azure IoT. IoT is everywhere, Internet of Things, whereby you want to monitor everything. Some few months ago, I had a session at a workshop where a lot of people were [inaudible] and they were talking about IoT. It was amazing [inaudible]. The amount of things that people are doing with IoT now. We've heard of the popular word like Cortana. We have Cortana integrating to your IoT device and giving you insight into how your devices are working and gives you the heads-up on how to what? To better optimize your environment. We have other IoT devices also, we have industry solution accelerators, so on Azure we have different offerings for IoT. We have the one that uses your infrastructure and service. If you only have IoT device and you still want to run your own application to get this data, you can do that in Azure. But if you want a full platform as a service, you can also have that with things like Azure IoT Central, Azure Security Center for IoT, and all these different platforms are available for you on Azure for you to integrate your IoT data. We also expose a lot of APIs and platforms to developers for developers to use. These IoT device include things like the IoT Hub, IoT Edge, and it can also integrate with things like Azure Map and Digital Twin. It is just not one set of tools that most people expose, it is a complete set of tool that you can take and you can use to produce your IoT experience from end-to-end, say you want to monitor your data centers, you want to monitor your firm, you want to monitor the weather around your wind turbines. We're going to be looking at example of organization using it for things like that in the later slides. Now, this is something you might not know about. End-to-end monitoring of your IoT devices, Azure gives you that platform for it. Then we come to the Azure Stack portfolio. Over the years a lot of organizations because of regulatory requirements and compliance requirements, they are not allowed to deploy their application into the Cloud. What has Microsoft done and what has Microsoft done with Azure to leave those costumers out or leave these businesses out? Microsoft came up with the Azure Stack portfolio that gives you these hybrid setup for you to run your apps both on-premise and in the Cloud and on your Edge environment so that you can run your own infrastructure with the power of Azure. You are not just running your environment by yourself with your infrastructure, managing everything by yourself, no. You're running your environment using the infrastructure that Azure is providing, either on your on-premise or in the Cloud or in your Edge server, say we have another data center somewhere for disaster recovery purposes that you want to separate from your present premise, you can do that with Azure Stack portfolio, Azure Stack Edge, the Azure Stack HCI, and the Azure Stack Hub, which brings us to the Azure Arc. You want to have that experience. When Azure started over 10 years ago, a lot of you came on board, but there are some people, like I said earlier, that were being left out, so what did Microsoft do? They've created this Azure Arc platform that help you to unlock new hybrid scenarios by bringing Azure services and management to your infrastructure irrespective of where your infrastructure is including if you want to run data service, Azure SQL Database on-premise, you can do that. Your Postgres database you can run it on-premise. All the Azure management and compliance and governance that is available on the public Cloud, you can also leverage it on your premise by using the Azure Arc. The Azure Arc is a platform that we can use within your environment to make use of Azure within your on-premise environment and helps you to manage all these different parts of your application. It also includes things like DevOps. We have customers that would say, okay, they want to have things like their DevOps pipeline setup in their on-premise environment and they also want to leverage the capabilities of the Cloud, you can put your DevOps Cloud in there. Also, you want to put things like AKS. I'm seeing customers that say, "We want to run our AKS cluster on-premise. You can do that with Azure Arc, whereby it leverages Azure Arc to deploy these resources on-premise. Azure gives us a lot of choice and a lot of flexibilities. We support different applications, different platform from Node.js, to Python, to Java, and being a DevOps Engineer myself I've integrated a lot of different platforms with Azure. Irrespective of the technology you're using, you can integrate it with Azure, irrespective of the databases and middle-wares that you're building your solution on, or that your architecture is based on, you can use Azure to deploy them and to save your costumers. Like we all know Azure, we're in 60 plus regions worldwide, and we have connection from different data centers around the world over 160K miles of fiber and subsea cables that we have created to provide high network bandwidth from different data centers around the world, and also our Edge locations. We have over 170 Edge sites so that if you want to deploy your resources close to your customers, we'll walk you within Microsoft customers from few years back and most of your customers in parts of the world that Azure did not have a lot of data centers, what did we do? We deployed some of their solutions to those Edge sites to help them leverage Azure resources basically. That's what we did with the Azure capabilities and the availability globally. We have them in North America and all these different Edge sites to help everybody that wants to deploy their solution irrespective of where we were and irrespective of where you want to deploy it we'll have access to all these sources. Azure itself is supported by a lot of Fortune 500 companies globally. I cannot start counting them. There are lot of them out there that are leveraging Azure to deploy their infrastructure, especially in this time where we are doing social distancing and everybody is working remotely, a lot of organizations have jumped on the Azure Cloud to help them deliver their solutions to their stuffs and to their customers and end-users. Right now we are going to see some interesting stories of the way different organizations or the way different companies globally have been able to leverage Azure to drive innovation within their business and to help even the community and to help the world at large be a better place for everybody. I'm going to be jumping to some of these stories to help us see how Azure can empower every one of us. There's this company called DNAstack. What they did was they used a combination of Azure resources to develop an infrastructure that helps them to analyze genomic data and they called it COVID Cloud. They have a Cloud infrastructure that is leveraging resources in Azure, like the Azure Machine Learning, the Azure Databricks, the Azure Database for Postgres, and they used the Azure Kubernetes Service for their applications. Their researchers and scientists can quickly analyze data that is coming out of their different labs globally and all their partner medical laboratories globally. They'll get this data and use the Azure Machine Learning to analyze this data and get insights into the data to help put in the process of actually getting the vaccines that are now coming out now that we are now seeing from different organizations globally. The COVID Cloud was built on Azure Machine Learning, Azure Databricks that provided data analytics and AI optimize data to supporting diverse platform and frameworks that the engineers, scientists, the researchers were using to quickly understand the COVID virus itself. They use it to understand it and they use it to build a solution for it so that we can now have a vaccine to help solve these particular problem. You can see how they've leverage Azure Machine Learning to help solve this particular problem by using this Azure resources. You can see implementation of Azure resources for scientists and for researchers, which brings me to the next one, a technology solution called in NEC. They've used the Azure spatial analyses to also provide insights on to how we can do social distancing better, especially in the workplace, especially in public places like restaurants and malls. They've designed a solution that leverage the spatial analysis platform as a service on Azure to design a solution that enables you to divide models that can help keep people safe in this time that we need social distancing. It even goes far beyond that. The computer vision, which the spatial analysis is based on, can also be used for different implementation, for counting people coming in to stadiums, for social distancing like I mentioned, and for entry and exit to understand how people are maybe making use of a mall or making use of a public place. This is another implementation of some of the resources that we have in Azure to help create intelligent solutions using this special analysis to help organization properly maintain a safe workplace environment. Which brings us to this particular innovation that FarmersEdge has done. FarmersEdge is a fund management company. What they do is they take data from different organizations globally and use the Azure IoT, the Azure Machine Learning and AI to analyze this data and give best results to farmers on the best way to actually go through their agricultural process. What am I trying to say? We have data coming in from farms globally, they take that data and they use Azure IoT to gather the data from the different farms. Then they use Azure Machine Learning and AI to analyze this data so that the can even take decisions of how do you want to apply chemicals to your produce, to the plants that you have. When do you grow a particular seed? What time of day should you provide this treatment for the plants that you have grown? All these machine learning and AI data, all of them provide more insights into what the data they have collected. To say, "The people that have implemented their farm in this way or maybe that has grown this particular crop at this time of the year, they saw this so and so amount of growth." Those kind of analysis, the Azure Machine Learning and AI was able to provide insights into this their data and their CEO was saying it has been amazing, it has given them an absolute optimization of how to even grow their seeds and day-to-day, they're making better decisions on how to roll the agricultural system based on these data insights. Traffic safety with Azure IoT. A company in Germany partnered with another solution company and they were able to use Azure IoT to produce a solution that will keep people safe on the highway. There was a huge percentage of people that were facing challenges with using the highway, especially during winter periods where there's a lot of snow and driving visibility is very low. You can't see your road signs, you can see stop signs very well. What these two companies did, the Bosch company in Germany and NDrive in the Netherlands, they came together and built a solution using Azure IoT to gather data for highways so that when they detect any car or any vehicle driving against traffic, they can alert all the vehicles on that path that there's somebody driving against traffic and that can give them a safe environment for everybody to know that, "There's somebody driving against traffic, you need to be careful and drive slowly so that you don't have a head-on collision." Because overtime in the opening, they've been a lot incidences where people drive against traffic and it has lead to collusion, which has lead to a lot of fatal accidentally. They came up with this solution using the Azure IoT on different highways across Europe to gather this data. This data are ingested into the Azure events of an analyze so when they observe that somebody's driving against traffic every other road user on that path are instantly informed. There was a solution they were using before, the solution took six, seven minutes before they can inform the other road users that there's somebody driving against traffic. But with Azure IoT and Azure Event of using the machine learning platform as a service and the offerings that we have on Azure, they were able to reduce that time from minutes to seconds. That's another very, very interesting and fantastic use of the Azure platform. Also, renewable energy production with Azure Digital Twins. This company in Korea, they were able to use the Azure Digital Twins to understand how their wind turbines are generating power, are generating energy. What they did was, they used the Azure Digital Twins to model those environments so that the data that now comes out from there, they were able to gain insights from the data to help determine the best way to run their wind turbines. The best way to design their wind turbines, the best way to place them. At what time of the year should they run it in a particular direction and when it's maybe winter or summer, they can decide to run it in a particular way to get the best energy production from these wind turbines. They used Azure Digital Twins to model their turbines that were scattered around vast piece of land in Korea and at the end of the day, the data and insights that came from these turbines, they used the Azure Digital twins to gain insights into them and they were used to produce more efficient energy production for the organization. That's another very brilliant use of the Azure platform, which brings me to this last one that I have here, designing an anti-bullying system with Azure. A school in Brazil, what they did was, they used Azure Bot Service and using the language incubation service in Azure to design a bot that helps students to get help when they have problems with bullying within the school environment. They were able to leverage the Azure Bot Service that the kids and the students in the school could interact with to get better insight to how they can help solve the problem of bullying and they can reduce bullying within the school premises. They testified to it, at the end of the day, they were able to reduce the number of bullying issues they had because students had the bot service integrated to do reporting or to get help when they are having issues with bullying within the school environment. Now, I've mentioned a lot of resources. I mentioned Platform as a Service, Infrastructure as a Service, Azure Machine Learning, AI, data warehouse, and all these different resources that I've mentioned and everybody's like, how do even I get started? How do I know where to start? What do I need to do? How do I even get ideas? I run a business, how do I get ideas of how to use the Azure resources to better innovate? What I always advise everybody to do is to go to this place, to get started with Azure platform, there is azurecharts.com/solution. I'll share the links with everybody later if you're interested in, that lists all the different resources that we have in Azure, and where you can get different ideas and templates on how to get started. You want to use Azure App Service, you want to use Azure Databricks, you want to use Snaps, you want to use the virtual machine, the virtual machines case load and AKS containers, you want to use DevOps. All of these different templates are available on this place to get you started. You want to know other ideas of how to get started, you want to build the solution, you want to know the set of Azure resources that you'll need to get the solution working and to get it working in an optimal way, you can get started from here. One interesting thing about this place is you can also get stories of how people have done it in the past. You get hands-on experience from people that have used these different Azure resources to automate their business processes, you can get insights from there for you to get started on your solution building journey. That brings us to the end of my session and thank you everybody for joining in on this session. Do you have a question?  What a fantastic talk, thank you so much.  Thank you very much, you're welcome  I think it's really important to note that we live in an era with boundless opportunity and with the Cloud, especially with Azure, we now have the ability to solve problems in ways that weren't even possible just a few years ago. Thank you so much.  Absolutely. You're welcome.  Let's look at some of the comments that we have in the stream. "Planning to take my PL-900 Microsoft exam this week. Glad to be a part of this conference." In response towards that, some of you have been asking about how to prep for the PL-900 exam and a great way to do just that is to go to aguidetocloud.com, the link to the specific resources is at the bottom of your screen now. This will give you a guided, self-paced overview of the various tools within the platform and hopefully prepare you for that exam. Any other questions that you would like to look at from YouTube? David G is asking where do I go to create a Power Platform User Group in my region? Before you start, you really have to think about what platform resonates with the people within your respective regions. It could be WhatsApp, it could be LinkedIn group, it could be Telegram, whatever is accessible is what will work for your group. You really need to try and incentivize and talk to them about the new skills that they will learn to get people to engage thoroughly and once that is set up, feel free to reach out to us and we'll try and amplify that group for you. Don't forget to connect with us and engage with us on Twitter using the hashtag Power Africa. We really want to hear from you guys, we really want to hear about the various tools and the ways that you are using to upscale people in your respective regions. 