 I'm lucky to have lived through several eras of the ongoing revolution in computing. I think you could argue that revolution is a bigger force shaping our world now than it ever has been. Each era of the computing revolution has been defined by boundaries and constraints. We overcome the constraints and push past the boundaries and we then forget the boundaries existed as we accelerate breakthroughs on the path to ubiquity. The great author and futurist Arthur C. Clarke's Profiles of the Future contains a quote that I think embodies the spirit of exploration and discovery perfectly: "The only way of finding the limits of the possible is by going beyond them into the impossible." There are a number of big-picture developments that are going to change how we all approach technology in the future. The end of Moore's law, the explosion of data, the evolution of the edge among them. We've been able to take for granted that there's a PC on every desk and in every home for so long that we forget how impossible of a goal that must have seemed in the late 70s and early 80s. Bill Gates wrote his first commercial program on an Intel 8008 microprocessor. The most powerful GPU used for training AI models right now is billions of times more powerful than this device. If you combined every 8008 ever made, that would still be several orders of magnitude less computing power than you carry around in your pocket in 2020. And that wasn't all. The scarcity of compute at the beginning of the PC era was just one of many obstacles that had to be overcome before we could have personal computing so ubiquitous that we all have the luxury of taking it for granted. And here's the interesting thing: these impossible sounding constraints that Bill Gates and a bunch of other personal computing pioneers confronted in the early days of that era seemed more like challenges and opportunities to them than obstacles that should deter them. None of those pioneers could have accurately predicted what personal computing would become, but they had a pretty good idea of the trends that would enable what they were attempting, as well as the technical challenges that they had to overcome. They invested into those trends and focused their ingenuity and creativity on overcoming those challenges. So today I want to focus specifically on the trends and constraints that are influencing one of the most significant developments in the history of computing: the explosion of large-scale machine learning models and rapid advancements in AI. Microsoft has been able to do some amazing things to drive this trend forward, but none of the major shifts in our computing revolution have happened just because of the efforts of one company. PCs became a phenomenon not because of the PC itself but because of the breadth of things people did with them. PCs are a platform for others to build on top of. The internet changed the world not because of tcp/ip and HTTP but because it was a platform for individuals and entrepreneurs and big businesses to create and innovate. Even what you do every day on your mobile device isn't about the technology in the device but more about the breadth of applications on those devices and the people, content, and services those applications connect you to. At every one of these inflection points, the leaps forward we made were because of the contributions of developers. Any platform is only as good as the developers who use it, so for AI to achieve its full potential it must be a platform, and this platform will need to be powered and delivered at truly unprecedented scale and democratized so everyone can innovate and build on top of it. That's where all of you come in. The future of AI will be in the hands of the developers who can harness its powers. And you won't need to be a data scientist or machine learning specialist to do so. For any developer, the wildest dreams of what you can achieve and create with technology will become accessible as we build AI at scale. The reason that I wake up every morning excited about my job is not because we get to work on these things, but because we get to work on them in service of others. That's why I feel so fortunate to be speaking today with all of you, the explorers who are going to help us expand the boundaries of what is possible. 