 Let's login to Reflect. Depending on my user profile, I can access different projects. Use case 1: As a facility manager, I monitor my fleet of buildings: the Capgemini Offices. I select one of those buildings: the "147", located in Issy-Les-Moulineaux near Paris. I navigate seamlessly in its 3D model, switch to a first person view, navigate in the building, potentially in virtual reality, do clippings, enter the rooms, make measurements. From here, I can switch to higher scale (illustration with ESRI GIS), and visualize all the assets under my supervision. For a given building, I have access to its 360° view with Attributes, 360° view: relationships, 360° view: documents, 360° view: documents, such as pictures, 360° view: documents, such as videos, 360° view: or live IoT / sensor values, such as building occupation rate. Zooming out, I can see that another building, located in Suresnes, is highlighted in red, because a monitoring condition was detected. There is an elevator failure notification. Clicking on the notification switches to the elevator 360° view, in its 3D context. Where I can see all its relevant information, Where I can see all its relevant information,federated into one single 360° view. Starting with: Attributes, 360° view: relationships, 360° view: documents, 360° view: and IoT / Sensors values. I can now take the right action: launch a procedure from Reflect or switch to my CMMS tools (illustration with IBM Maximo). Use case 2: as a maintenance operator, Use case 2: as a maintenance operator, I prepare my intervention. In the context of this technical room, no 3D is available, I visualize the laser scan (point cloud). Within the PC or tablet browser, the viewer streams the scene, according to the network bandwidth. If I need to intervene on this particular tank, i can easily gain access to the 360° view, starting with Attributes, 360° view: relationships, 360° view: documents and IoT / sensor values. I can prepare my intervention efficiently, by easily measuring lengthes, or diameter. Another way to find equipments is to perform a global search, selecting the result zoom in the context of this equipment. Here, we can see a hybrid 3D view, where the cloud points of this valve have been replaced by a CAD model. I have access to all relevant information federated into a single 360° view: Atributes, 360° view: relationships, where I can find the past work orders, Here, the last operation is a seal change. 360° view: documents, 360° view: IoT / sensor values. Here the live valve pression, and its last day or month history. I can setup thresholds to trigger alerts and be notified by SMS, mail, and in-app notifications. At any moment, I can switch to my CMMS in context of this equipment here illustration with IBM Maximo Use case 3: as an infrastructure operator, I prepare my intervention. On this geographical view, I can see a track section 360° view: Attributes, 360° view: relationships, documents, IoT / Sensor values, On this particular track section, a clash was detected between the track safety clearance and the vegetation. I can switch to the 3D view of this track section,, display the safety clearance, and replay the clash detection. I can see that the vegetation clashes at 7 meters high. I can prepare equipment to perform the pruning. 