 Hello! My name is Amy Sturkey. I am here with my co-instructor. His name is Sebastian. Do you want your first name used? This is his nurse. Her name is Brittany. We are going to work on another skill, working on head control. So Sebastian loves to move. He has cerebral palsy. He is seven years old. Since he loves to move one of the things I do was find ways to work on head control moving. We are going go on a scooter board ride. This time I am going to make sure he is holding onto a hoop. To get his hands to open, I push his wrist down and that makes your fingers open up. So, "Whoop" fingers go open, that way I can get him on. When your wrist goes up, and it makes your hands hold on. So wrists down to get the fingers open. Wrists up, I lost this one. Try again. You got it, Sebastian? You got to hold on buddy. Alright. Now to keep him on the scooter board, I have a back on the scooter board. I have also snuck a strap through to help hold his legs. The strap comes from the back loops up around his legs, Exhibit A, and helps hold his legs on, because otherwise he would tend to extend his legs and have trouble staying on. Alright. Sebastian, you got to hold on. Alright, so we can go when he holds his head up. Right now his head is back, so you have got to fix it. You got to fix it. Ready Sebastian? If you want to go, you have to fix it. Thank you. Now, we are going to go. (He lost his grip) Oh, did we? Sebastian, you have to hold on. Got it? So if his wrists are down, so  he is cocked up like that, his hands are more likely to be closed. Alright, you got it? So you got to fix...Hold on. We can not go yet. He has got to fix it. Fix your head. Perfect! Let's go. Uh-oh. You let go. You have got to fix it. Are you ready? Oh, I know it. Alright you got to hold on with those hands Sebastian and you have got your head. Alright, let's go, Sebastian. That is right. You got to fix it. Nice job. Let's go. Sebastian. Oh we lost a hand, Sebastian. You have to hold on. Ready? 1, 2.You got to hold on Sebastian. That is right. Let's go. Let's take a wide loop. Nice job, Sebastian. I love that one Sebastian. Way to go. Fix... oh...You got to fix it. Nice job, Sebastian, so...Oops, fix it for the last time, because we got to talk to the camera. Alright, so I hope this is an easy idea of things that you can work on at home with the scooter board with a back on it's a little bit trickier to navigate. Make sure you use the loop to help keep the legs on the scooter board, and a hoop for him to hold on to. I hope this was helpful, and I look forward to seeing you next time. Thanks! Bye-bye! 