 (upbeat music) AI is not new. It's been around for awhile. The recent adoption of AI is fueled by the accelerated growth of CPU and GPU processing capabilities combined with the explosion of data. And today, it is the essential tool for businesses not only to stay ahead of their competition, but also to remain relevant. Adopting AI is mandatory to bring about innovation, create new business opportunities, and reshape the way companies operate. Before you get started with AI, as an enterprise leader, you should identify the goals or business problems you are trying to address with AI ML. The goals could vary from improving business intelligence, improving productivity, to business transformation and process optimization. Once you've identified your business goals and the metrics you're tracking, how do you get started? Many enterprises have made significant investments in data whether they have built their own data warehouses or acquired data from a third-party provider. This data will be the base for driving your AI and ML initiatives. Once you have your data in place, you will need to have employees with the skillset to both develop, using today's popular machine learning frameworks, and to have the industry knowledge to ensure what they built can have a positive impact on your business. With the right data and the right people, the last and probably the most critical to being successful is having the right technology in terms of infrastructure and software to support AI development and to deploy what was created into production. There are many factors that need to be considered from the start to ensure an enterprise's success in machine learning. Ensuring you provide your end users the right tools they need to perform their job, granting secure access to data, providing a central point of entry to different machine learning languages and frameworks, while providing a self-service UI that reduces the dependency on IT. Once you choose a platform, it needs to grow with your business. It should be scalable to accommodate a team's growth, their adoption of tools and languages and the ability to take what they develop and make it available to the business for use. HPE ML Ops is not a tool, but it is a secure, highly scalable solution for the entire machine learning life cycle from sandbox experimentation, distributed model training, all the way to model deployment in production. With the ability and flexibility to separate compute from storage, the choice to run any machine learning or deep learning application and collaboration features such as source control, model repository and project repository, it is one of the few solutions to offer full end-to-end support of the machine learning life cycle. Even fewer companies have a solution that is agnostic to running on premises, in the cloud, or a combination of them all. The cloud offers many great benefits but they do come with a cost that can grow out of control unless you have tight controls around it. I've seen in many companies where these controls and constraints make for a horrible user experience. When a company decides that they want to move their services and data into a cloud provider, they're essentially handing over all control to the service provider. This can be okay in some instances, but with many regulations around data privacy and security, we find that a lot of companies look for a balance between being on prem and in the cloud. Having the ability to run across a combination of all cloud providers and on prem eliminates the risk of vendor lock in and enables you to take advantage of the best of both worlds. So, the hybrid cloud capability of HPE ML Ops provides a flexibility to choose the right mix of infrastructure and services for your business needs. Many competitors democratize AI by dumbing down machine learning development and by trying to choose a one size fits all development tool. By doing so, it takes away the capabilities of your advanced users and doesn't enable your beginner level data scientists to take advantage of advanced analytics. HPE ML Ops takes the approach of elevating the beginner level data scientist while also enabling the advanced users to go beyond their capabilities. Our approach of allowing users to work with their development tool of choice, along with the ability to easily and quickly deploy complex distributed frameworks enables everyone working in machine learning to achieve greater results without having to know or worry about managing all of the complexities that go into it. Only HPE offers a broad portfolio of software, hardware, and expertise to support customers on their AI journey. (slow music) 