 (upbeat music) - In Microsoft Dynamics, 365 Fraud Protection, the loss prevention capability is a cloud based solution that helps protect revenue by identifying potential fraud on returns and discounts that arise from omni-channel purchases. There are two ways in which you can upload historical data into the system to begin generating reports. You can automatically start syncing your data by selecting the connect to Dynamics 365 Commerce-tab and providing your URL, or you can upload your data with the manual data upload tab. In this example, we have uploaded 18 months of loss prevention data files, detailed reports generated by AI models, provide trend analysis based on the return rate, the discount rate and other key performance indicators. You can quickly filter the data by entering a risk score, to see all staff IDs or point of sale terminal IDs, which are potentially indicative of fraud. In this example, let's track one of the point of sale terminals. The blue line shows the risk profile score over the course of a year. The blue bars show the risk score of this terminal. Note the anomalies during the month of September. Further down the report, we see this terminal has a return ratio in the 100th percentile, classifying it as a potential risk. You can drill down for additional details by selecting return ratio from the dropdown menu. This data indicates that in the month of September, the return ratio doubled. The AI models picked up the anomaly and classified this as a potential risk. Insights into specific transactions are a key capability of the loss prevention feature. Here you see the staff who worked at this terminal in addition to purchase amounts, discounts, and returns. Reviewing the data without filters, you have visibility into a 12 month overview, which provides additional insight into the risk score by percentile. The Dynamics 365 Fraud Protection loss prevention solution allows you to combat fraud associated with returns, improper discounts, merchandise mishandling, and inventory turnover by utilizing adaptive AI technology. (inspirational music) 