 What was it called, the other one? R... Amy, that's all. No, I remember her, because... The Amy robot has a more humanised feature, which makes it a bit more personalised. Look around, robots are everywhere. Hi, everyone. I'm glad to be here. In elderly homes, at airports, industrial plants... Or in a restaurant where, while you are having a chat and a bite with friends, there's suddenly a robot standing in front of you. You could tell there was, like, a 'wow experience' going on. We know that people smile at the robot or even embrace it and take a selfie with it. But we don't know what this does to their behaviour. Do they buy more? Do they return to the restaurant? Do they tell their friends that they are positive? And that's why Gaby, Professor at the School of Business and Economics at Maastricht University, thought: Let's do some research on it. How are people responding, acting, reacting and interacting with robots? We basically have three pillars of research now. We started in the elderly care setting, where we tried to understand how elderly residents react. I'm ready for use. At your service. The second research project was a very up-to-date topic now, on COVID. To what extent can we understand what effects robots have on perceived feelings of loneliness? Hey, Vector, what's the weather in Moscow, Russia? And we did an ethnographic study based on almost 600 posts online... - 22 degrees and cloudy. And there were many links. Many people said: It really helped me to face this pandemic. Or there was a picture with Vector: Let's face the pandemic together. There are people who mostly have Vector activated all the time. 24/7, yes. And as a third pillar, we very recently started a collaboration with a fusion restaurant to understand what the role the robot is. In our project, we combine innovation with service management. Dadawan is using robots, but mostly when the restaurant is not full, and then they're more, like, helping other employees. But we also envision a future in which a robot will be able to do everything on its own. Okay, the future. What about the future of robots? And their behaviour? What do you know? What do you think? I think we have to think about society in a different way. There will be not only one robot, but many different robots for many different tasks. Some will maybe look like a human, maybe some will smile and talk to you, and some may look like a metal box. If I look at our respondents, I would really say that it's as if robots are social company. Andrea recognised me, and now it's getting nervous. So, in my view, the knowledge on behaviour with respect to robots is really in its early stages. It's not known enough, and that offers us, at the university, lots of opportunities to teach our students, involve them in projects, have researchers work on it. That all really sounds like a lot of fun. An awful lot of fun. It's really fantastic, and what I can really see is that it also inspires our students. That's really what makes me tick, to connect research, teaching and societal relevance. Because that is what Maastricht University wants to do. It is a very fun project to work on, and I feel happy and fortunate to have this opportunity at the university. When you talk about academics, oftentimes it's kind of hard to see how what you're doing can impact an actual situation, and with this project, you see, very directly: We're talking about things that are already happening and we're trying to think of ways to improve this. For me, that's a really nice thing to have this practical view. ...from my tray, I will go back automatically in 30 seconds. Sometimes he's snoring. No, really. And hey, Gaby, one more question: Talking about robots, talking about behaviour... I could imagine a lot of other faculties at Maastricht University, but why the School of Business and Economics? Business and economics is about understanding behaviour. In that sense, it's not so strange that there's a strong research group on robots and services at SBE. But what we are strong in is interdisciplinary research. For us, it's important to also make a connection with psychology, but we also work together with health service research, a group at FHML. At this moment, it's really unique, what we're doing here. Taking, really, this very human perspective and looking at them, in the sense of: What value is this robot actually providing? And again, looking at the benefits, but also at the risks, and I think that's where we are quite unique. We've also been recognised for it. So... The Journal of Service Management gave us an award. Even the American Marketing Association recognised our work on robots. Yes, I can feel proud. Also trying to contribute and putting all of my efforts into delivering a proper and good solution. 