 Oh, thanks. So anyway, what did one lightbulb say to the other? You're glowing! Oh, I already told you that one? No, dude. You are glowing. - Hey, wow. - Everyone back away from Luan. All I did was infuse bioluminescence DNA of the Aequorea Victoria jellyfish into a cookie. I call them Glowy-O's. Did you say peas? Oh, you wanna play? Let's play. My calibration seems to be off by about 16 degrees. Lisa, what did you do? I secretly switched Leni's blemish cream for an experimental skin pigmentation ointment I've been working on. - Here's the antidote. - Thank you! Wait a second. I've concocted a special serum that will detect and eliminate urine, AKA Tinkle in H2O. I'm sure no one here would-- [laughing] Hm, unprecedented levels. Dance! Dance, you fool! This is awesome! [laughing] Instead of powering your lab with mega-watts of electricity, why not use a renewable resource? Lincoln, this is genius! Fresh energy, coming at you! This one's gotta be good for at least 75 watts. Mouthwash? My special ghost pepper formula. The tingle means it's working. I call him homo trashilius. Or 'Trashy' for short. [growling] - Let us in! - I'll need some assurances in return! One, I will never again be punished for the explosions in or around the house. This wrist watch can transport you to an alternate dimension in which you'll have ten brothers. Right... Lisa, I think you've been playing with too many kitty chemicals. Holy moly! Say hello to Mr. Reinforced Titanium Alloy Arms. I wanna show you my latest invention, the Ultra Snow-Zooka. Patent pending. And now that I've repurposed my snow tank to a salt-spraying, snow-melting deicer, it's time for some real F-U-N, spelt correctly I might add. School day! School day! School day! Try a little of my patented pizza spray, scientifically proven to attract 8 year-old boys. [coughing] - Gag. - Note to self: go lighter on the anchovies. Say hello to Todd. He's fluent in over 600 languages. Hola. Bonjour. Guten Tag. Goodbye. So I invented this baby to keep me honest. What does it do? OK class, who can recite the Gettysburg Address? Fourscore and-- Ah! I mean, 85 Elm Street. Get it? [laughing] I've constructed a chocolate fountain. It started out as a nuclear fusion device, but I accidentally dropped my chocolate bar in it. I simply input everyone's data in the form of report cards, journals, medical records and DNA samples. Uh, how'd you get our DNA samples? Did I say DNA samples? And that's why I propose we cryogenically freeze Luan for April Fool's Day. She can't prank us if she's frozen solid. Oh, come on. She'll maintain brain function. Well, a little. I recently implanted a tracking chip in both our parental units. A tracking chip? You didn't put those on us, did you? [beeping] No... [screaming] My hair! What have you done? You should have specified that you wanted to keep it. My new ultrasonic mouse trap. It works due to the simple-minded nature of the mice. Not you, Leni! Problem solved. Behold, a simulation of a future made possible by my latest research. Honey, this is amazing! True, but it can't come to fruition until I get my hands on the necessary isotopes. Than you shall have those isotopes! Behold the FriendBot 1000. It can bring me things I need. Thank you, FriendBot. It can also chill juice boxes with its ice vision. [screaming] Care to share my homemade kelp leather? Full of nutrients, but zero taste, so it goes down smooth. Apologies. Turns out my flea powder is more potent than I realized. Yes, the worm hole! Hope you're watching this, Einstein! Here goes nothing. But not end up in the Dark Ages. Luna, you're right. Luan is lying. No I'm not! Oh, yes you are! Behold, my latest invention, lie detecting glasses. They allow me to track micro-expressions, pulse, pupil dilation and perspiration to determine untruths. Lie! Lie! What is that? I anticipated a push-back to my effort to stamp out lying. So, I created a backup system of lie detecting cameras. You'll find them conveniently located in every room of the house. - Gravy? - Excuse you? [screaming] Apologies, first born sibling! Just doing a test run with Gravy Bot, the robot I built to ensure equal gravy distribution. - Ahh! - Behold Robotic Waitress Arms. They balance plates, feature a built-in pepper mill, and condiment dispenser, and the best part is they're voice activated! My new and improved method to elongate Pop-pop's life. Well, it's quite simple really. These sensors will regulate his temperature, improve his muscle tone and much more. As long as he wears them, he's guaranteed to live a long life. 