 Blockchain technology, the buzz word of the last decade! Hey crypto-nation, It'ss Layah Heilpern here with Exodus. Since you’re here, you’ve already taken the first steps in learning about crypto, which means you’ve probably been hearing about this thing called blockchain technology. So, what is a blockchain! Well if you want to understand crypto you need to understand the technology that it’s based on. Before blockchains, we would have to rely on intermediaries like, paypal or banks, when making transactions, so that they can verify everyone has enough money to make a purchase. But there are concerns trusting centralised third parties like these, since humans can be greedy, they can missmange business. We’ve already seen how banks have failed us several times before. So there is where blockchain technology comes in. Blockchain technology can be broken down into 3 main points, so let’s do it. Firstly, the main feature of this technology is that it’s a decentralised distributed ledger system. What does that mean? Think of the term blockchain as exactly how it sounds, a chain of blocks, with the blocks being data. So what happens is, a global network of computers, all confirm and agree on the data before it is added to the chain. This data when we talk about cryptocurrency, refers to confirming transactions. This is one of the most admired and celebrated features, since not one entity is responsible for recording the transactions. We call this trustless. No one can lie or cheat because the data is verified by many different computers, all over the world. This takes us to point number two! Blockchain technology is immutable. This means it is unchangeable and permanent. No matter how much time goes by, every transaction is there on the blockchain forever. This provides a record of every single transaction that has ever taken place. Because of its immutability, we are seeing more and more data outside of crypto being put on the blockchain. For example, in countries where individual rights and freedoms are often questionable, residents are putting the deeds to their houses on the blockchain, because it’s hard proof of their ownership and it cannot be changed. And thirdly, the tech is transparent. This means anyone in the world with an internet connection can view the data on the blockchain. This is another important feature because with transparency comes authenticity and the ability to hold people accountable for any dubious behaviour. So there you have it, blockchain technology is a distributed ledger system, which is immutable, permanent and transparent. If you hold your Bitcoin or other crypto in a personal wallet like Exodus, and not in an online exchange, your money is not in the custody of one centralized entity. Your funds cannot be changed nor can anyone run off with your money, bringing the power directly to you, the individual. This is all thanks to the power of blockchain technology. If this video helped, be sure to give it a thumbs up and subscribe to the channel for more videos from Exodus. 