 Blockchain is the word on the street and  everyone’s lips. From finance to healthcare   and logistics, the world’s movers and shakers  are racing to be the first to adopt blockchain   as the most revolutionary  technology since the Internet. Hey guys, it’s Layah Heilpern with  Exodus. In this Blockchain future series,   I will take you through the futuristic world of  blockchain and its most compelling use cases,   whether it’s tracking the supply chain of  food or securing your digital identity. The future is now. Find out why  blockchain is the next big disruption   that will reshape the way humans live, work,  and play for a better and more equitable world. Welcome to the Blockchain Future Of File Storage   Most of us, if not all of us, require storage for   our pictures, documents, videos, and other digital  content. When storage space on our local drive   is maxed out, we have to move our content to the  cloud or an external data server to save space.    Cloud services such as Dropbox, Google Drive,  Microsoft OneDrive, and Amazon Web Services   offer to host our files on their servers, but at  a cost. Prices can range anywhere from $140 a year   for 2 Terrabytes with Dropbox to $120 a year for  1 Terrabyte with Google Drive. At an enterprise   or national level, these costs can add up to  significant amounts considering the huge amounts   of data that is generated on a daily basis. Costs are one thing, but centralized solutions   and platforms such as Dropbox and Google Drive all  have one problem. And that is, they all present a   single point of failure. This means that a data  outage could leave you without your files for   hours or even permanently. It also means that  a malicious attack could lead to data leaks and   privacy breaches. Can you imagine Dropbox losing  all your data or leaking user account details?  Well, it has happened.   Back in 2012, a Dropbox hack saw   the details of more than 68 million users leaked,  including email addresses and passwords. Affected   users were prompted to update their passwords,  but the breach could have led to far worse damage. In 2014, another Dropbox vulnerability saw  individuals’ mortgage applications and income tax   returns exposed. But laws meant that Dropbox was  not obligated to inform users of the data breach,   even though it had compromised user privacy.   However, even if these centralized services do   hire an increasing number of cyber personnel  in an attempt to tighten up their security,   it still does not solve another problem—your  privacy. Your files are never fully private with a   service like Dropbox because not only does Dropbox  retain the right to access your files at any time,   they also lack zero-knowledge encryption.   Zero-knowledge encryption means that   no one—not even the host such as  Dropbox—has the keys to your data.  So, what fixes all these problems? You  guessed it. Blockchain-based file storage. Perhaps you’ve heard of services  like Sia, Storj, Swarm, Cryptyk,   Bluzelle, and most recently, Filecoin, which  launched its mainnet on 15 October 2020.  Blockchain-based file storage solutions work by  storing your files across multiple computers, or   nodes, on a decentralized network. With no single  point of failure or single authority who has   oversight over your files, these solutions provide  benefits such as greater privacy, faster speeds,   fairer market prices, and minimal file loss. While there are different blockchain-based   file storage models, including hybrid  solutions in the space that store your   files both on and off a blockchain, this is  how typical decentralized file storage works:    Instead of a central server, your data is  uploaded, split up or sharded, encrypted,   and finally distributed across a robust  worldwide network of nodes, with competitive   prices set among the various nodes. From individual users to larger organizations   with unused disk space, anyone can sign up to  be a node, and rent storage to other users.   Prices are set between renters and users,  ensuring a fair free-market driven rate, and   can be transacted using the blockchain’s token.  At the time of this video, renting 1 Terrabyte of   space from the Sia network, for example, costs  about $2 a month at Siacoin’s current price.    Retrieving your files on a decentralized file  storage system works much like BitTorrent and   other Peer-to-Peer clients; where you download  fragments of your file from participating nodes   across the network. Even if one node is  offline, shards of your file are replicated   and saved across many other nodes, so that it  can always be accessed and reconstructed in full   with no downtime. With extra copies of your files  replicated and distributed throughout the network,   you can be assured of little to no file loss.  For example, files hosted on Sia are split into   30 pieces and geographically distributed  around the world. Only 10 segments of the   file are needed to reconstruct the file again.   This also means greater privacy because no single   person holds your entire file, only fragments of  it. And they have no idea what they are storing. Data breaches would be impossible because not  only are files encrypted, they are distributed   and secured across a network with no single  attack point for hackers to compromise.    Also, decentralized file storage means faster  speeds because users are not reliant on a   central server point, which might be located  very far from you. Instead, users will be   accessing storage from peers that are nearby and  efficient, resulting in higher transfer speeds.    Like Airbnb and Uber, decentralized file storage  brings the sharing economy to your desktop.  Users only pay for what they need and are not  locked into a one-size-fits-all subscription-based   model, which leaves little flexibility for when  data storage requirements increase or decrease and   fluctuate. For enterprises, this pay-as-you-rent  model can result in significant cost savings.     For all these compelling reasons  above, competition is slowly   but surely heating up in the  blockchain file storage space,   with everyone jostling to the front with  the best business model. Some are targeting   mass consumer adoption, while others are more  focused on enterprise. Even technology giant   IBM is entering the scene with its own hybrid  multi-cloud blockchain storage solution.     While statistics show there’s a growing demand for  decentralized file storage, there is still a way   to go and complex blockchain technology challenges  to overcome before mass adoption can occur.     However, is blockchain-based file storage the  future? I would give it a resounding, yes. Would you rather trust your data with a  single authority that can be hacked and   leave you empty? Or would you rather put it  in a totally trustless environment, backed by   zero-knowledge encryption and in the hands  of anonymous nodes spread across the world?    Decentralized file storage cuts out the  middlemen as gatekeepers of our sovereign data,   returning back ownership, privacy,  security, and at fairer market prices.    Why put our precious data in the hands of  a few centralized servers when we can tap   into unused storage capacities around  the world, create new micro-economies,   and protect our data from unnecessary censorship? Decentralized file storage can be the  very backbone storage layer of the new   decentralized Internet known as Web 3.0.   If so, it will enable humanity’s most valuable  information—our histories, knowledge and data—to   be stored in the hands of everyone and not just in  the hands of a few, for-profit mega-corporations. This will turn file storage into  what it is: a commodity and utility. Welcome to the future of file storage. The future  is blockchain. The future is decentralized. 