 I'm moving from Virginia to New York, back to Virginia, back to Florida. I have all this medical records. I don't have to go into a doctor's office and start from Ground Zero with paperwork that says "who are you, and have you had this surgery?" It's all there, and I can just share that with someone. And they're working on something very similar there. They're starting it on the student side, because the student side's a little bit easier to tackle then HIPAA. And working on the healthcare side, but obviously the idea there is that it, the primary benefits, is it allows public transparency around the topic. Public transparency's where it would come from and it eliminates the ability to hack through, because of tightening security. And the reason for that tightening security is that it is built in a block. And so the reason is, it's kind of like a block that replicates. And so it's hard for someone to get in and figure out, you know, what is this technology, which block is it stored in, and really getting in to tighten it, Because, you, you ultimately have this idea of... You have this... A block that kind of comes together, and inside that block there's this transaction counter that's keeping up with every single time that it's being shared. Every time I'm sharing my education record, every time I'm sharing my health record, with a third party it's being shared, and it becomes digitally encrypted, that hey, it's been shared, so that record's not the same after being shared from what it was before, in some respects, when you look at the overall bus of it. The overall, the entire model in which it's built so you have these transactions that sit underneath a transaction counter, and so, in what underneath that transaction counter, you have this block header. So you have ultimately, you have these blocks, that you can see here, and you can have many of these from an architectural standpoint, when you have a record. So you as a student have, you would potentially say "okay, I've gone to Elon. I am a third year at Elon, or a fourth year at Elon, and I'm ready to go on to law school. Rather, maybe you stay here, maybe you go to another law school. So you ultimately now have this record. So I've got my student record that, from Elon, I may have some other things in there which is the really neat thing about what what they're looking to include with this, is basically, including into this education record, I want to put that I've volunteered at somewhere else, and I've done all of these things. So you created your own student portal. This beautiful package. You've done some internships and some jobs. Now you go to share this with a provider. The reason that this is hard for another third party to really get in there, is it it's something that I've directly shared with you, my record, and then the system is keeping track of that. And so what a lot of people have used as comparison, which is not even close, is the idea of Google Docs. So I have a Google Doc, and I want to share that Google Doc with you, so I give you permission to it. I either give you permission to read it or I give you permission to edit it. The one difference between Google Docs and using a true blockchain model is that, every time I share that with someone it's encrypted, that this person now has access, and there's a digital signature behind. That this person has access, when did they touch it? And, and, and use that particular item? And if someone else has that particular block, I send that block to someone at my record, and then my record... They add something to it, because I gave them permission, I said I want to go to law school. Now they want to add their law school records to it. They build those on as blocks, so it becomes more like a series. So that series alone is constantly changing so it's hard for someone to come in and say I have the password to encrypt, to break into your system to actually manipulate and tweak around. But that, we will talk about that. It's not completely secure. We'll talk, about there is some options that become more secure, but you start to lose some of the benefits, obviously, as you, as you, as you lose, as you tighten, as you tighten up security for it. Some of the characteristics is, it allows some decentralization. So now this creates ink probes problems in organizations. It does. So the decentralization of something, organizations start to ask questions. And we're gonna look at one of the biggest questions they ask, which is, what's the total cost of ownership? Why do I invest in this technology? Because it's really something it's, it's, a lot like Internet of Things is, in the market. Which is, I can't physically own this. I give you access to your record, it's technically your record. So I create this for you, it's now yours. And so organizations are struggling with that, because organizations oftentimes like to keep ownership of it, and like to be able to say "I want to be the middleman that, that sits in the middle that basically is the middle where, that you tell me who to give access to and I charge someone something for that." That type of model is really creating that decentralization. There's a validation that happens. So you tell them they have access to it. It works and goes much deeper than even digital keys in the old FTP model, where I give someone something I access, and they use the same key over and over and over to access it. It's almost like I can say I'm giving you access to this for seven days. I'm giving you access to this for one transaction. I'm giving you access so you get much deeper than that. The next one is, it's somewhat anonymous from the idea that there's not an organization that's behind it, and this is what's created a lot of challenges and what people have known of is Bitcoin. So Bitcoin is just one example of a blockchain. So you have bitcoins that are actually being used for transactions, and it's hard to trace back, it's, it's all kept inside and locked in, but it's hard for someone from the outside to say "who all has had this before me, if they didn't make a contribution or make an addition to it?" So if I'm using it for medical records, and I go to five different physicians, and I decide not to actually have anything performed by one of them, or maybe some of those are view-only, and don't have the ability to send back transactions into the blockchain. Ultimately there's some anonymous factors there. I can give them access to it, have them look at it, and say "here's my second opinion of what you have, but I don't have anything really, there's no additional medical records that I'm contributing to your files." For example. And then there's an odd ability around... So the two of these are where people say "gosh that's misleading!" You have, it's anonymous, but then there's an odd ability. The odd ability is really around... For the fact that you can lock down a blockchain and say "no one has access to make it to tweak it to change it." It's that edit versus read, and then, there is, if there's any edits into the actual document, into the record itself, all of those are kept in a very secure ,and it's actually logged. They're scripted. That you can see, you know, where that, where this transaction came from, how it was added, was it requested to be added, those types of things. Which a lot of people have a little concern with as well, because they feel like people have the ability to share what they want to share, but not everything, is one of these is obviously one of the challenges people are saying with the blockchain. In some fields, not in all the fields. So really there's three types. So you have this truly your nearly impossible to tamper is this public access blockchain. So that's, there's a, there's, you know, two infrastructure types for it. There's a public, there's a consortium, and there's a private. So some organizations are really looking at this idea of, "I want to have a blockchain to use internally for the purposes of..." and it's a very concrete described type of event that they want to if they want to build it for. I want to build it for legal purposes, or I may buy things abroad and bring them back, and I have my letters of credit in there. So I want to keep it very locked down and it's going to be for my organization what the result of that is, by having it private, they, they're... The way they're building that blockchain out, there is an ability. That's the one that's the least in terms of the public is that nearly impossible to tamper. If there's going to be any tampering, it's mainly you're gonna build that more on a private side, because you're giving them a little bit more freedom in the fact that what you're giving them. You're giving people and typically you're giving this internally, you're giving this to people that you share directly with. I worked on a blockchain early on, we're, it was a consortium which it was basically... I was JPMorgan Bank and Bank of America and Wells Fargo, they clear all their items as on us. Meaning that they clear a cheque at Wells Fargo, if you write a cheque from JPMorgan, and give it to a Wells Fargo customer, they will clear that cheque as if it was their own cheque. And they do that because the three of them have partnered together. And they created a partnership and they've built in one of the first block chains that I worked on was in 2009 when we were building out 2010, when we were building it out and we built it on an infrastructure that wasn't blockchain originally, and it migrated it to blockchain in the 2013 timeframe. So what they've done is they created this partially centralization, where they actually all three of them have their ledgers, that they know exactly how much money to expect, so that, you know I'm... If I'm Bank of America I'm gonna clear your Wells Fargo cheques, twenty million dollars or twenty billion dollars, of your Wells Fargo checks on my bank, and I'm trusting that you're gonna pay me back for that, because we've all, we've reconciled this properly. But they've built that into a blockchain is what one of the things they've used between the three of them, which creates this public access, or restricted, in their case, restricted to the three organizations, that's playing in that space. So that's one of the things, and then obviously your public facing, really is you... People typically think public is the least secure, but in this particular, you know, request, you're, you're enabling less people to... it's more of a "read view" is what really you're giving people the ability on, and it really becomes more of a public decentralized, completely decentralized blockchain infrastructure from a comparison standpoint. Any questions thus far? We'll get a little bit deeper into it as well. So I always turn back to... I'm a former... I came out of Gartner. I was a research director for Gartner years ago under CEB's name. Corporate executive board. And so one of the things that Gartner does is they create these hype cycles. Now we in business they're really good for a lot of things, but they're... At the same time, some people look at them on the business side and they say "oh, you know, I mean, these things are really neat and I like to see them, and I teach these in the in the Big Data course that we have here." We learn quite a bit about these, these hike cycles. but this idea is they actually built entire one devoted to blockchain starting in the 2016 time frame. And so now in 2018, what they do is they take all the different types of blockchain, and they basically put these into a hype cycle, and they build their hype cycle in such a way that they look at this innovation trigger. It's just starting out, you know, it's got a little bit of potential, you know, people are starting to think about this type of a model. And then they put things into this peak. It kind of elevates, or they could start, technically, in peak of inflated expectations. And what that really is, is that people think it's gonna solve everything for them, and then they start getting in there and they're like "oh but you need this and you need that and you need these other tools to really make it successful." And then there's kind of the trough of disillusionment. And this is one that... It really becomes hard especially when we used to create height cycles and we would put none of these... actually contain vendor names, but when we used to work with vendor names as the research director behind the scenes, I would you know come up with all this stuff, and this is the answer, and all customers of CEB or and Gartner would come out and say we've got all this money, can we not move backwards? So you don't see a lot. I always say this, because I've seen the other side, but this trough the trough of disillusionment really is "I've invested in something I have not seen my return." I'm struggling to see it. And we'll talk about why they're not seeing their return in blockchain. It's one particular reason why they're that's there. And so and you, in one of those major reasons is that, you can see Internet of Things is up there as well and it's in the exact same spot. Both of blockchain and Internet of Things have that same position and everybody kind of looks at it and says gosh everything has Internet of Things in it but the real real quest of the question is: who owns that data at the end of the day? And that's been the real challenge at the end of the day because no one Internet of Things is not owned by a person. You don't go to Samsung who has their refrigerator and say give me your Internet of Things. It's, it's something that's there to help improve their product base but it's not something that a one person owns, which we'll talk about that. So you see a lot of different options here. And then you have this slope of enlightenment which means, hey we're coming around, and we're gonna make this work, and we're seeing a lot of neat other repurpose opportunities for the technology. Blockchain doesn't have a repurposed or a slope of this enlightenment, because it's so new technology. So you typically, you give something about five to ten years probably in around 2022 you'll start to see a lot of things fall in that. Which means it was originally created for this, but by the way, it really works in this it works better for this other tech purpose. Not for this other purpose. And then you have this plateau of productivity. Meaning, they're kind of out there using it, you're complementary currencies kind of in that space today. it's kind of been out the longest. I mean blockchain and some of their other sisters have been out the longest. But some of the ones that you really pay particularly attention to, a lot of the ones that's in this innovation trigger, there's a lot of things that's in the innovation trigger that's kind of along the lines of this this healthcare, kind of, because people are now wanting these their health records to be shared and be, you know, the portability of a health record. They're kind of out there in that model. You have kind of this idea of advertising which is one really big. What this is, is there's this idea and there is a blockchain out there, and and I know I owe them research to some colleagues, but ultimately there's some blockchain out there that's been built around advertising, which... There's always been those organizations that hold your information so they actually know that your income level is this, and, and like a great example of that is a company called News Star that you probably never heard of. They actually know who you are but you may not know who they are. But they have a lot of information about you, based out of the DMV Washington DC area, but they kind of own product on every Intel device on computers, they were really early to make really good friends and say can I plug this a little bit of technology onto these computers which keeps track of all the information about people. The idea there is a blockchain for advertising there's something very similar, which is an individual's prototype that's being maintained and being built and for advertising. So this is kind of what I like. My preferences are, you know, to fly with this airline and to rent this rental car. Those types of things are being built out as an early innovation trigger. And there's a couple of providers that want to be leaders there. And there's but really there's a lot in the healthcare that you can see. There's some in the insurance space. A lot in the supply chain. The one that I'm going to talk to you a great deal about  today is education. And so, and talk about kind of what we're doing. One of the big things and one of the biggest investments in the education space. And then there's obviously if you move around there's some peak of inflated inflation expectations. There's some blockchain reward models that's out there. Some coin offerings and the government. There's a whole group around government. So you'll see some of those ideas. So really what is the problem with blockchain and why has adoption been so slow? So adoption really came out in that 2009. Was the early you know invention of this blockchain, and now if you go to conferences it's a big buzzword a lot of people say we need to get into the blockchain. Especially in academia. Corporations look at it and they say I like the idea but I'm really concerned about this total cost of ownership model. What is my total cost of this ownership. I'm gonna build something out there and it can amorph to something much, much, much larger. And then who's maintaining that infrastructure? Who's building on it? Who is actually keeping the lights on, and how do I get compensated for that? I'm going to build a prototype, or I'm going to build a blockchain, to share your student records, so that you can share your student records with anybody. And we've got the the we've got wonderful funders that's willing to do that, that you know that, that just has lots of money that can play around with. Money and buy their kids and stables for graduation. But those types of things will go away, right? Corporations look at it and say I want, I want to know how much money I'm going to make from something. And so the first thing was in 2009 to about 2020, it was a lot longer originally they estimated it would be four years, but this is kind of going into the same model, was it was built to really around existing structures to reduce cost and friction. And so it was this idea of, it cost a lot of money to move things. If you take something as fundamental as your healthcare records. If you move from California to North Carolina, or you're a student that lives in that actually has a home address in Connecticut, and you're down here in school in North Carolina, you go when you have a you have a sickness or a cold you start over. And then you're asking them hey could you get my dental records and they're sending it. There's a huge cost to that and there's a friction to that. There's a little bit of that commercial that happens where your dentist back home may say hey I want to do that crown for a night for them. Why don't you just wait till they come home for Thanksgiving? I'll take care of the crown. You know that's that's $1,000 back to the dentist that wants to do the crown, versus letting you do your crown locally when you need your crown. So that kind of model it's, it's, it really helps reduce the cost of faxing and emailing and requiring transactions you technically as that as the patient or in ownership of that your health records. So you should be able to say who you want to have access and it should be somewhat urgent or instant who you give access to it. And so that's kind of one of those models around enabling technologies but thinking about it from the physician side that says, okay I've got to do a little bit of work to bridge, not much, just an API to bridge, you know, it's basically take something to be able to send over. Send over your data to this record. That cost a little bit of money and organizations are saying, I know I'm going to get something back from this but I also have a chance of potentially losing something in this respect. I could lose the ability of additional business that I could keep here by allowing them this open-ended. And it's characterized by this limited distribution. And that's the whole sense of it. It's, it's there's a network effect that has to happen. And what I mean by network effect is the more people that use something the more people that want to get on it. LinkedIn is a great example of a network effect. Where you basically create your profile as a student if you were the only person on LinkedIn it wouldn't mean very much but because you are on there with 20 you know two billion other people, the idea there is that you can actually quickly share that with other people and it becomes valuable. So the very first was this enabling technologies. In '16 we really started to see a shift. We started to see this change. It was really a redesign of the whole technology platform and instead of making it feel a lot more like an open-source blockchain technology that everybody in the world can just touch, feel, download and do what they need to do with it, there was this really a redesign of it to really go after specific problems. So instead of leaving it open-ended there was more specific problems around it, and it became more of a decentralized distribution. So really it was people started to adopt it. So more legal has been a huge adopter. So if you see share legal contracts, legal agreements, is a huge adopter. So more decentralized where it wasn't just this nebulous anybody can go and get into the blockchain. It became more specialized into the industries. And then complete solutions is forecasted for a 2020 where you really start to get into more decentralization or you know looking at it from a technology stack full-scale implementations across businesses. That's really where they forecast shifting it completely over. And then 2025 has kind of enhanced solutions making it greater with larger transaction volumes. So they kind of you know modified the original time frame and now they're saying around 2025 is when you'll start to see many more transactions going through it versus being more exploratory. Any questions about that or future. Yes? Audience: [inaudible]. So from a competitive nature absolutely. And so that's one of the things I think that's where it kind of gets into that network effect. If many of your peers sign up for something it's kind of a known deal that in order to participate in this space I have to invest in this or I have to participate at least. There's not a huge investment but there is some participation. So you're see you're spot on. I mean that's that's what will happen but then you know you need some incentivized for the early adopters really to push it so that it becomes more of a competitive nature. And so what's happened there is there some nonprofits and there's some entities and I think the government which was on that which was on the forecast as well, government's looking at doing some things. Because they're trying to move more and more people to that to that model. And so then really the rules of engagement. There's two real rules to this engagement now. This is the second reason we talked total cost of ownership was a concern and it was it was actually it was making adoption somewhat stagnant. You know what's my total adoption rates and things like that. There's two things here. One of those is the same problem that happens in IOT Internet of Things. But it's cannot be controlled by any single entity. So there's a lot of entities that wanted to first came out and come out and say hey we're blockchain. We're using blockchain for something, for a particular purpose. But they wanted to control that particular purpose so sometimes one of the things financial institutions were saying was they used to send organizations they used to use years ago use t1 t2 lines. Which is I have a direct underground cable to send you your bank transactions that's how we used to how we used to send bank transactions and not that long ago. Early 90s. In this model though now everything has shifted over and it's all in line and everybody's kind of become they've taken the the flip side and said I everything's online it's so much easier. But the idea that we you can't have you can't say I'm gonna give you your banking blockchain if I the bank are is not be controlling how that that data is coming over to you. So that's kind of one of the biggest concerns with it is this idea that there's you know you cannot be controlled by a single entity. A blockchain relies on more of a decentralized infrastructure. Now what what what organizations have done and I know some have done great job. SAS has done a good job. Microsoft has done a great job. They're attempting to more and more organizations that's in technology are trying to get in there to say how do we kind of make this so that it gets the benefits and it has all of the the attributes of a blockchain for shared date for sharing in the ease of use but still we have some influence. So they started changing words like control to influence. And it's a strong influence organizations are attempting to get in there. But if if that one area could easily be amended somewhat so that it was more of an influence I think where we will see some more adoption. I mean that's one of the reasons their adoptions been somewhat slow is you're asking me to put 20 million dollars into something that I don't have control over and don't see a future that I can do that I can own this for going forward. So that's one of the model and then the other piece is that blockchain is built which this is a rule of engagement that it has no single point of failure. Now this is one people typically like. They like the no single point of failure because of the way that you build it out it's it's it's resistant to cyber attacks which every other technology is being tacked with and it's and it's it's one of the bigger components. But it has what they've done is they built it in such a way that if you don't have one single entity that has complete control over it and you build this more in a public type of a model you lose the ability for for more cyber attacks because it's constantly amending and changing and you remove some single points of failure. That's the what organizations are doing and so they're kind of going from that angle. Where is blockchain? So this is one that I think you're a lot of people are hearing us talk about it and they're like I can't see it I can't feel it I can't touch it it's hard to understand it. Where you really see it is it's kind of a long every industries are starting to play around in block chain. So some of the things that probably are the more popular that we're seeing far far more is in the upper right hand corner. You actually see smart contracts in the upper circle but you basically there's the smart contracts. So two parties are basically creating contracts and they're doing that through protocols that's actually allowing them it's you can see here between two or more parties that's intermediaries so this this contracting is a really big area where you're seeing investment. R&D is definitely playing a lot of research and development and organizations are playing around smart contracts. It's the one that they feel like is is feels very easy to to basically understand and it's one that they can easily see hey what do we have to lose of putting out a contract that's most likely public information in many respects anyways. And so once we see that the other big piece is this identity at your digital identity or your footprint the Internet of Things. So its sister basically or brothers whatever way you want to look at it. Internet of Things that has a similar problem. They're kind of joining forces in some respect and some people are looking at putting their Internet of Things if they're already willing to put that put an investment into Internet of Things they're also willing to put an investment in into blockchain. So they're combining some of those and there's secure voting systems is a great example of one of those. I mean it would be you know we we hear about voting all the time in our media here. But there's an idea that there's there's a lot of work around voting. The registries in in the sense of basically building out and having every transaction so what's the proof of existence? Again a low risk if you have you know kind of from from a registry of some sort. Internet of things is building that digital identity but there also have got their own area property registration. Things that's open to the public to see anyways just like you could go out and almost look up anyone that owns a home and see all of their public information that. Some people hate that some people love that. But that's kind of a model it's already there. It's already directory level information so putting it in a public blockchain has little has a very little implications. There's a big thing around compliance anti-money laundering movement of money and storing that in to blockchain. Financial Services has obviously have been in there so there's traceability they like the audit a traceability of these individual items. So you have some of that component. Healthcare we've talked about and then insurance your like your insurance companies hybrid that are technology oriented. Many insurance companies used to be on every street corner now they've kind of merged up and you've got these GEICO's of the world and and organizations that will service you of completely online. But those types of organizations are really coupling it up with the smart contracts. So they're putting everything out there. So that if I get an accident I can share somehow share my insurance background history with with your records. So you would hope that you would collect that when you at the point of accident. And so some additional components that kind of breaks that down. It really there's really four key areas. So you looked at those are industry specific on the last slide. These are really looking at the idea of four key components they're smart contracts that's actually the legal in escrow wages some of those things you have your digital currencies which was kind of the earliest adopter. But it's been somewhat slow because organ- many countries were even looking at - can we what can we do to prevent more Bitcoin coming in because of transfer pricing because of taxation issues. Some of those concerns that came out. And then you had record-keeping so this is kind of what we talked about the health care the title this is where your your education records would go and then obviously securities and financial space where you had some of those components. Something that's been really big adopters of this is actually a lot of the crowd funding. So this is kind of neat modeling so you know ultimately I'm going to get money from individuals that want to find other and I want and I want to actually sorry I want to build have those things build out from individuals that want to fund it and they can actually easily do that through crowdfunding. And so I'm gonna my last really slide around this is really looking at a case study. So this is a case study that I work on when I'm not teaching classes all the time and trying to really aggressively keep keep forward. But it's one of the things that I have the ability to do is actually work with the foundation and and one of the things that I do is kind of manage out their research development for one of the I'm a fellow for the bill a Melinda Gates Foundation. And they've partnered with National Student Clearinghouse. That organization every student record they have ninety eight point six percent of all student records goes into a data repository and they're very secure. The reason they were built was because they provide financial they provide that to the federal government for lending purposes. So they would say has a student attended before are they a first time student? So they do all of that type of work. And Elon is a big participant so we send all of our data to National Student Clearinghouse. So one of the things that they do they have records that go all the way back to the 60s. So anybody that's attended any institution back from the 60s forward your records are there and they're in there and their repository. So one of the things that the Gates Foundation really was interested in is how do we use blockchain and how do we use blockchain in such a way that we can move education records and we know that you know who's going to fund I mean they're they're funding this and you know the magnitude of double digits. on camera I don't want to say too much. But double digit million dollars they put in this for a three to five year contract. So they've put that money out there and said here it is. And they and that doesn't even include the money from their fellows and everyone that they're that they're putting for the project. So what they did was they went after selected this organization and what they're looking to do is to automate student transcript automation so your movement of those transactions through a blockchain you know helping with enrollment. Helping with academic portability so you they realized we don't have that too much at Elon but 40% of college students started a two-year institution and then go to a four-year institution. So the number of transfer students is picking up and the other big piece that they that they have at the end of our project I mean so we've already got them we've got blockchain built we've got the records in there but they want some machine learning built in there. So something that helps a student to see what will my financial debt be at the end of this of this time from if I go into graduate school or a PhD or whatever to program of study you would like or professional studies. And what's the likelihood. Now this is the one that gets risky but they also ultimately have it in there is through machine learning what's the likelihood that I my background with my records will complete this program. And it doesn't it in there it asks a series of questions in there about like what are you planning are you know family planning you know those types of things and they allow for tweaking throughout there because your life doesn't it's not a it's not a given moment in time you can't say what you're gonna do in three years. But they can actually create create some early indicators in there. But it's built on a blockchain that you the student owns and you can share that with whomever you want the name of it is actually this my hub. Did not name that but that's what they called that my hub. And it'll be completed in 2020. So it had some challenges which is really this you know adoption of it and then it's it creates disruption to the marketplace right. Like so students when you are an Elon student you come to Elon you request a transcript you go to the Registrar you request it registrar goes and gives it to this third party called parchment they send it over. I mean that's how that works at today. So it actually had some objectives but they're what they're looking at it is is really mobilizing education attainment and really allowing you the student to have full control over where your records go. So that's kind of a use case of one that that will use that is going is built on the blockchain technology. And that's kind of the infrastructure and will be maintained long term. From that infrastructure you know to allow you to basically share that build your own history with it. Any questions about that? Yes. Audience: [inaudible] Right so GDPR is around really heavy built around public directories and really looking at public directories came out of London but really built out of public directories. It was actually one that when soon as that happened they were like all the people in this project I mean Gates was like here's the money build book flights tomorrow and we all went and flocked into this into we were all in New York City for a couple of days we all actually went I went to London and the spring of last June where we talked about kind of what's the ramifications. So really the idea is that you have to give people more preferences. And really the idea there is give someone the preference of public directory. So do I want my information. So it used to be years ago in many organizations many education institutions is a great example, healthcare similar, used to basically as soon as you got accepted into an institution you sent your enrolment you showed up in this directory. Oh my goodness my public information my home address or whatever address you used showed up in a directory. So now that you give you more of a control so there it was the idea there is a mandate that started last May that was really designed around helping organizations to think more creatively and more structurally how do I allow an end user to opt out of their information from being publicly seen? And so the idea behind this blockchain for exists is a great example of a blockchain but it's the ideas the student information sits in there. The student could actually elect to lock that down and shut it down where no one can have access and that's one of the options and a preference. So when they go to set it up shut everything down or if they don't shut everything down the default based on GDPR is everything is shut down. And then the student goes in and enables it they say I want to give these two people access. The other thing gdpr said was I can give you a limit to when you have access. So like you can get an access for two years. So I'm going to give Elon university that I'm applying to be an undergraduate two years of my history. So they could they could see two years back. This is a problem because people like Elon say I want to go back further give me long give me more and so the the technology will do what you tell it to do and then the institutions or providers can come back and say I need more than two. I need seven or I need eight or any ten or whatever the case is. And then you would then have to as the user would have to re-enable them. So there's no public directory so to speak coming out of this technology. It's more of a a student sits with their information and they say I want to share it with you and you and you you you specify that in there. But there was a lot of implications that we had to rebuild because of gdpr originally. Right so right so GDPR are in that particular respect there's no directory so much so to speak they are actually selling that data is being sold as a closed channel sale. But what what's happened is the collection of it is open-ended but what ended up happening that you may all notice is GDPR are actually started this as well when you go to websites a lot of people get annoyed they say gosh on every website I have to accept the cookies now. And if you your alternative is if you don't accept the cookies you leave the website but ultimately everybody has set their websites up with these cookies that basically you have to accept or say okay I agree that you're tracking me and you enable you to collect cookies on me while I'm on your website. So some of that was built out was just around transparency but a lot of the concern around that is that a user that wants the content on that website almost is having to be forced to to waive their rights in order to use the technology. So that's the other side of that but that's I mean that's one that's going to get much deeper over the years because it's everybody now is it's opened Pandora's box around transparency and what your information. But there is everyone's required and in this systems the same and so blockchain can do this for you. Everyone is required to keep an audibility or an audit trail so that if you call the a marketing company if you call NuStar right now or you call any of these providers and you say I want to know everywhere you gave my information. Now some of these providers have actually gotten really smart about it. They say I won't give you a name of a person but I will give you a zip code that actually will have the person that will buy your BMW. I will give you a zip code and I will give you a even closer than that I'll give you a census area that's even tighter than the zip code that will allow you to find the people so that's one of the things some of the other there will be some changes there. Yes. Audience: [inaudible] The government's actually investing in blockchain and the first Thursday of every month they meet at a place called loriel Plaza. It's a restaurant a Mexican restaurant in Dupont Circle in DC but they actually they are they are I've been to a couple of those. But it's basically it's it's they're they're really looking at blockchain as their future because it enables it's it's more secure. I mean it's actually more secure than the technology that they were using and putting things in public directory. The IRS is one that we've talked to about blockchainI've - I've been in conversations there they're doing a lot of exploratory they have not yet invested. They've got so many technologies that they're behind on that they're just they're just putting their their interest hat into. So we will we will still have time at the end. But I want to turn it over to Sam and I will load your presentation for you Sam. Thank you very much. So about 25 years ago the executives asked me put together presentation about Bitcoin. And the reason they wanted to do that is some more from the regulatory side you know what happens if we have to do we have we have anti money laundering product. We also have KYC. I don't know if you're familiar with KYC but the banks are all required to do KYC. So if you go in an open account they basically ask you everything you can imagine and whether you bought up vacation home in a a Oh fat country like Cuba or something like that they kind of frown on that stuff. So the other and the question was how does this Bitcoin stuff all play into that. So I started with that and took a look at it. One thing I'll say up front and I found out later from the Treasury Department that all these cryptocurrencies that you were gonna talk about a little bit. Are considered unregulated currencies so banks don't really worry about them right now. They can't deal in them they can't transfer money in them they can't because again they are considered unregulated by the feds. So not so in a conference with 500 people in in the room in the she said just remember that these are unregulated currency as far as the government's concerned so you can't deal in them. I thought she was gonna get stoned right there by 500 people because it was a blockchain conference of all those things. So anyway I took that data and you know I was looking at it and I said let me see if I could do something else with it and in SAS or any SAS programmers in the room? All right. SAS has a product called Visual Investigator it's used by police departments child welfare organizations and things of that nature and I decided that well you know what happens if you had to do an investigation you found out somebody had a Bitcoin address? What if you want to include those transactions? Well I started to take the blockchain and put it into SAS data sets and I rated about five terabytes I realized that wasn't such a good idea. Because at the end what was I gonna prove? So what I did is I found in I found an ID I found the wikileaks ID. I don't know if you know about wikileaks it was kicked off of paypal in 2013 so they went over to bitcoin so they do all their funding through a bitcoin. You can find the address it's published you can send the money so I took all about 28,000 transactions that they had done since 2013 and that was last year so they've probably done a lot more. They running about forty thousand dollars through their account a month. In and out. So I took that and I pulled that data and I put it into Visual Investigator as a use case. So let's say you were investigating me and these were my transactions. So I was able to pull longitude and latitude information. So I had this pretty picture where all the transactions pretty much came for on Bitcoin and what I found out was they come from everywhere. And the other problem you have is that's one address. Probably they have hundreds of addresses and anybody can have those. So so there's a lot of challenges in that space and as I was working with it I discovered that I was able to put it in to do some analytics some basic analytics on how much they spent a month how much they spent a quarter what was their final rate. Because the nice thing about Bitcoin is you can find every transaction. It's back to what they call the Genesis block which is the first block they created in 2009. Bitcoin will be ten years old in January. So what is a blockchain? I think we've taught Joe talked about this quite a bit. It's this thing called a distributed immutable ledger. So Bitcoin created this it's the grandfather a godfather of all big of all block chains. So this whole idea of a ledger and a data store it can maintain anything of value of course Bitcoin does one thing it does transactions that's all it does. I can add other data into your blocks but typically you don't cuz there are some limitations to that. It's basically a linked list of blocks of transaction. So when we look at the, how its organized it's very simple. It's not a terribly complex structure. But it's a linked list of blocks that has, is basically a linked list of transactions. It's secured by asymmetric cryptography and hashing. That's the whole trick to it. But the real thing it's solved is this thing called double spending. So just like when you go to an ATM you could take a dollar out. You can't go to the next ATM and take the same dollar out. You're always taking it you can't double spend. It's the same idea in Bitcoin and they solve this problem so it or any of the cryptocurrencies, they're all pretty much ledgers. So this was a big step for them. I mean that was the biggest proble. That's what banks... I've spent millions and millions of dollars doing in these databases is ensuring that they don't, there's no double spending so you can look at that this is just basically a simple diagram. What's transactions look like in Bitcoin to blow or Bitcoin addresses they, it's really not terribly complex. But it's very secure. Now one thing I'll say about Bitcoin right, they're having a lot of performance problems. They're going to continue to because they just have so many users on there. 95% probably. People in Bitcoin are purely speculative they don't use it for transactions. But if you could imagine if somebody like MasterCard or Visa dropped all the transactions on the Bitcoin it would it would bring it to its knees because Bitcoin can only do 7 transactions a second. So it's very not considered a high rate where visa may get 20 million a day. So let's talk about blockchain components. And the reason I would do that is because when I get into the analytics discussion on how we're how you measure analytics on a blockchain we're gonna break it into two pieces. There's wallets and clients. As you know all when you use Bitcoin whether you do it through an exchange or you download software and create your own wallets your this is how you create and originate transactions. There's this Bitcoin and a lot of them, Etherium, litecoin all these coins are considered broadcast block chains. And the reason they're broadcast is once you put your transaction in there it propagates your transaction across all the nodes and network. And the reason it does that is because the miners all get equal access to them to the transactions. And the miners is what controls consensus. So the miners collect these transactions. They build blocks and they start to consensus process, Bitcoin. Etherium, litecoin Manero zcash all use what's called proof of work. And it's basically this,  like guessing the lottery. So they had these hashing machines that constantly they have, they give you a result. They call it a mathematical puzzle. But it's not all they do is guess at it. They just guess guess I'm guessing guess until they get the result which is required. They get 10 minutes to do it and someone does it before then then they get it and whoever wins the mining gets 12 and a half Bitcoin right now. Which is $80,000. So consensus is again it's the proof of work and the Etherium is trying to move to proof of stake. Which really means whoever has the most money gets to do all the mining. So this is the protocol side of it. And the last piece of it is the datastore. Now everyone says blockchains the data store Its just data, its not blockchain. Its made up of all these components and I call the ones at the top kind of the moving parts of a blockchain. And the, and the datastore is is basically what you know what stores the data itself it could be anything binary a lot of your permissions use key value store databases and some of them use document blockchain. DB uses Mongo which is considered a document database. So what types of block chains do we have here? Joe mentioned three types but I'm gonna break it into two. One is your public block chains. These are cryptocurrencies for the most part they're distributed. So no single point of failure a name an anonymous suit, anonymous identity, Bitcoin keeps no information. Doesn't know your name doesn't know anything. The other side of it is what we call the permission or private shared blockchains. This is your hyper ledger. These are the ones that are open source and more your enterprise level. And the big differences are they use a database. They physically aren't... some of them store binary but for the most part they all these use databases. And they have known identity, so they keep track of who you are and all that type of information. There's lots of projects going in there. He talked about health care. One of the other things about the healthcare records is is you get used as you get old like me all your health records are gonna be collected. And if you've used a drug there there are gonna be companies are gonna want to understand how you use the drug. And you can release that information without them knowing it's you, and you can actually get paid for your data. So that's there's a big side of that stuff with these with these type of these type of block chains. They share a database and they're behind firewalls. So banks are not going to create distributed block chains. tTey may distribute in their data center or multiple data centers but they're never gonna open it up to the world. I mean that's just the way banks are. They're very protective about data and I've worked at a lot of banks. You use new batteries. So let's talk about the blockchain landscape. Cryptocurrencies that's what they're going those the cryptocurrencies. There's over 2000 90 cryptocurrencies. Yeah if we're gonna do AML we're gonna do any kind of regulation on that how do you do that? But of course Bitcoin still is 52%. If you take all the capital value of them all of the cryptocurrencies Bitcoin makes up 52% of it. And the interesting thing here is these are all those initial coin offerings everyone hears about. I've met with the SEC earlier this year and they're scared to death of these things. Because you and I could go out and get on Etherium they've got a project ICO which is a bunch of smart contracts where you can create your own currency. Then you can start writing emails to anybody who wants it and they can actually you can if they you go to an exchange and buy your currency you have crises. There's no reason for you to pay them back I mean once you have it it's yours. So there's a lot of concern because the SEC is concerned about the fraud side of this piece of it. 80% of funding for I see a venture cap for projects on blockchain now is all ICOs. So you have a great idea you go and create your currency people donate to it you're successful the currency has value. They sell the currency and they're millionaires. Any Bitcoin millionaires in the room? 2011 you could buy three for a penny. So you're gonna see a lot of this and I think one of the reasons for this is if you can get if you can create a your own coin and people can buy the coin it's easier to do it that way because you have volumes. Columes of people. There was a gentleman in college it was at a football game and what he did was he took his he took his public key which is what you use you wanna transfer money back and forth. Put it on his shirt and he held a sign up says mom send money. Well people took pictures of that QWERTY code and appeared in two months he had $11,000 worth of Bitcoin because it was just thousands of people were sending him 50 cents or a buck. It was never a lot of money but it over time to contribute itself. There's an idea for you in the future their blockchain projects enterprise. They're just a lot of this is where a lot of the stuffs going and from a sass perspective ,you know we're not we're not gonna really look to do analytics on cryptocurrencies. Everyone's doing that. I go to any one of the conferences and there's hundreds of companies they are doing different forms of analytics more from the financial side. R3Chord is another one it's very popular is for popular ones basically. But there's all types of projects going on in this side. And I think if you're gonna get into blockchain from a from a chance for opportunity. I think the enterprise projects for me. Digital ledger technology investments. Joe mentioned Microsoft they have Microsoft Azure has blockchain as a service. So it is an AWS all AWS is a little raw. But all these companies are big into it I think PwC now has their own blockchain also. Open-source blockchains there's lots of. So you know what I'm looking at the landscape the purpose of this is if I get into a project where any one of these are available how do I deal with the analytics item? And I've met with some of these people at the conference that then have built these chain block chains but there's this is just a few. There's probably 30 of them. Another thing you want to remember too. When companies pull this these open-source projects in and they put them inside their company. They don't, they change them they don't put them back in open-source that becomes intellectual property. So you're gonna see even though these are the starting points most of them don't do that. Sawtooth is Intel's Pipe Ledger, IBM runs that. Ripple is a as a bank the Bank payment system is trying to replace this product called Swift. So what are the challenges here? Blockchains implementations are very diverse. You can look at every blockchain in open source and not a single one of them is gonna do it the same way. And not a single one of them is going to use the same way indata store. So you really if you're gonna do analytics in these environments you really got to be flexible. And the way it's handled programming languages. There's lots of them how many people have heard of Copland? It's a JVM language that's written by Intel the company developed IntelliJ. JetBrains is the name of the company. So there are and there's R3 Corda is written in Kotlin. So if you have all these different environments that you have to integrate with. So there's a lot there's a lot of the go language Bitcoin has a version in Go. That's a google language and of course everyone's heard of java. So the protocol side of it is consensus and defining wallets, mining processes, these are some of the challenges. They're all different and every single one of them can be can be a challenge. As far as how do you get analytics out of that. The data stores themselves can be binary most of the permission versions or no SQL databases are R3 Corda is not even a blockchain. Although they call themselves a blockchain, they create these things called vaults. So if you and I create a transaction you and I can see that transaction but no one else can see that. Because they put it you just you and I would have in that blockchain. And encrypted you know if you're if you're looking at some of the cryptocurrencies from a regulatory perspective ZCash basically encrypts the whole blockchain. When you transact you can see but once you've done transacting it's pretty much all encrypted servers. So I don't know if you've heard of Kafka, Zookeeper. databases. All these permission block chains use some form a database or use these server. Kafka's a message server message bus zookeeper is a management process software. So these these things are the things when you're doing blockchain analytics you're gonna have to deal with. So this will give you an idea what a blockchain basically looks like in all the components. This is the one that I actually developed but just give you an idea. And we'll talk about this in a minute. So from a blockchain analytics, you break a blockchain into two parts. I look at a datastore and the protocol. If you take all the different combinations and this is my little math problem, my dad was a math teacher so you'd be proud of this. I think anyway the bottom line is there's lots of combinations and when you're working with projects with customers or you're walking into this you really want to understand how, which would what they're working with and how can you easily connect to each one of these. So what was my objective? First of all I want to take a look tactically. So if you look at the protocol side of it I honestly believe you can do real-time event based transactions out of your blockchain you know and we want to use a streaming engine. SAS has a great event streaming engine and I'm working with some other colleges too doing some hackathons so not only were the hack smart contracts they can also do the connect it with the event stream processing. I honestly believe this is where your opportunity is in analytics because once it's in the blockchain you may not even be able to read it. It may be maybe encrypted or just you know just it may be difficult to read. But if you can define events in the blockchain and make changes to some like the wallets and the miners you can send events out. You can pretty much track anything you want. Of course was our SAS ia product which is our new version of SAS you can actually look at the datastore. With a little bit of effort you can do it when I did Bitcoin I had to write a bunch of Python code but I got to work. Analytics design in perspective. So I you know you're gonna look at my the blockchain that I have that I wrote was basically purely to demonstrate how to capture analytics in the blockchain. It wasn't designed to be a ledger. It's not a ledgering wasn't designed to be a product. AI in deep learning models I think these things are gonna really be big in block chains. Now all your block chains pretty much are hard-coded. Bitcoin is gonna do mining every set every 10 minutes. If it gets shorter it will make the problem harder so it gets back to ten minutes. But a lot of your block chains in the future I believe are gonna have deep learning models. So sit and watch the blockchain performance and eventually feed back to the blockchain and say either need some more processes or you need some more you need to change out the speed of your of your consensus processes. So I think that's gonna play a big role in it. And also in the and the data side of it. So if you if you're a company and using a blockchain for order management you're going to want to know where all your orders are taken. You're gonna know which party a blockchain is taking most of the transactions. These things are all they do this now with existing systems. So that there's no reason because it's a blockchain they're gonna change their ideas on this. So I pre created a proof, and my proof as you seen all the things about block chains had to be agnostic. I didn't want to say hey it only works with hyper ledger or this only works with r3 Korda. I wanted to be non intrusive. I had to prove that could be non-intrusive. So the worst thing you could happen to a blockchain if you add events it slows the slows it down. That could be the worst thing it can happen. So I had to prove that it was not intrusive. I had to be able to handle multi industry test cases. In this case I have IOT I'll talk about my t example that I have running in a block chain. Transportation and this is and I'll talk a little bit about that it's got to do with people who you get those little scooters and they go somewhere and they park it and then they get out for that and they get in an uber drive five miles on uber and then to get out of the uber and they get on the train and get on the train and they drive the Train and a get off the train walk to work. So what they what there's a whole consortium of people that are actually trying to track that stuff so they can manage cities right. So so they want if you look at any of these companies by themselves they have great systems but what they need to do is create a block chain that sits over top of all of them where the uber can send when when the event happened when they've arrived.The train systems have great networking software they've been right there for years. But when they went to get on the train and when they get off the train they could add events to the blockchain. So at the end of the day the blockchain didn't touch any other intellectual property. They can go into their systems but it basically offers everyone a picture of how the people are moving within the city. And it's probably gonna work in Europe before works in the US. At least in North Carolina. I also wanted to do full hashing and cryptography crypto functionality. And the reason I did that was because I wanted to really test all the math of a blockchain when I'm doing my analytics. So if we could were to hook this to our hyper ledger or some of these other block chains that would work. And of course confidentially scalability risk and governance. So if we talk about confidentiality and I think this is really gonna be big in the IOT space. If you have a emergency room that has all these devices and all these people on there hooked up to their devices and they're dumped and these devices are dumping IOT transactions off into a blockchain but each device has its own private public key. So it's actually encrypting every single transaction goes in the blockchain. Now what's good about that? Well the people who know what persons the hospital knows what persons on that bed and what person's heart where they were listened to. So it knows it was made that we're listened to. But in that blockchain they don't know anything about that. So the beauty of that is is you can take that information that blockchain and you could if, HP hewlett-packard created the device they could take that device and do analytics on that with any out knowing who was who they were listening to. And I think that's gonna be big. Scalability blockchains in permissions space are gonna be put into containers and they're gonna have actually run from a container performance. And I've actually got a blockchain running in in containers so I can actually scale it manually. But be ideal if I could feed AI deep-learning information back to that and increase or decrease the size of my blockchain risk. Of course that has to do with the whole encryption and cryptography side of it. And governance. Every organization is gonna want to keep an eye on their blockchain especially if they're getting revenue off it. Don't let anybody fool you that that this should gonna be like the wild wild west of Bitcoin. But it's not going to be. And IBM for example spending a lot of time in this space on their hyper ledger project. So from an analytics perspective I want to focus on real-time. I think that's really where you're gonna have a lot of opportunity. Because you can catch any kind of event customers users of blockchains can define when they want to do other events. We also want to look at the immutable data store so you have historical type reporting. We want to look at operational and informational. So if if someone's taking orders on the blockchain we want to make sure they can take the orders that be the operational side. And the informational side would basically be where am I making my money on my blockchain? AI deep-learning. This is basically the best by definition is continuous improvement. Looking at content recognition. In the case of our event stream processing engine at SAS you can do text analytics all that stuff's built-in. So once you put events for that data in there you can do all types of analytics on it. And recommendations. You want to use these AI deep learning recommendations to feedback not only to people but also to the blockchain for performance reasons. So this is my architecture layering I've been probably an architect longer than I've been a product manager well that's for sure. But anyway this basically gives you an idea what I put it together. The bottom layer connectors to block chains and it could be events they could be anything they can be connected into the actual components could be a library connecting to hyper ledger. This event blockchain is something that I put in there. This is the blockchain that I built. And and I'm actually looking at actually doing some SASprogramming for smart contracts. I think event contracts might be pretty cool. So I've got some work to do there. The streaming engine, my my little blockchain uses the consensus response request for consensus process. With that the event stream is very fast. So I have I get very high rates on that and obviously the deep learning model built into it. Then there's a whole presentation layer. If you don't want my blockchain you can connect it to any blockchain through a lot of this through these different layers. So how does it fit into SAS? Well this is the SAS ecosystem. One of my sales and one of the sales engineers in Italy put this together. But anyway it shows you the blockchain while you're putting events out of the stream logic side of it. You can actually do the API side at the bottom is more going after the immutable data store. And once you get into the dotted lines the SASecosystem you could pretty much do anything with analytics possible. We've been doing this for over 40 years and we've got a lot of great products along there in that area. And of course you know fraud risk management. This is what a model looks like inside the streaming engine. These blue circles are actually called windows. SSo each one of them makes requests and you can see I've readys completes and all that kind of stuff so you can actually see the performance right inside the model inside of our event stream processing. So this is what it looks like. It has three components to it basically for counting consensus. Each one of these miners make requests in to publish requests into ESP consensus reads the requests and hands out tokens. So only one miner can update at a time so it's pretty it's pretty cool. It's also it's not a broadcast blockchain. It's basically a it's it's a request basically type blockchain. sSo the miners pull all the data in and each one of them. The node controllers round to each one of them. And it's and so by doing this I have lots of events coming out of this. Now those little pictures at the bottom are IOT devices. So I had to prove that this thing was fast enough for handling any blockchain. There's IOT devices when you move them it's like your cell phone gives azimuth information rotation gravity information. I have two of those and I connected them up to a Raspberry Pi. And the Raspberry Pi sends events to the client which in which does all the encryption and sends it over to the to the blockchain over to the miners. Miners update the blockchain and they and they put the data also in ESP seeing do analytics on it. What I found out is these little devices create events every nine milliseconds. So the real with that every nine milliseconds that I'm updating the blockchain every two and a half seconds. As opposed to like Bitcoin does it every 10 minutes. So this was really a there was really a test that I that we can do analytics at speed in any type of blockchains at those speeds. But it was kind of a cool because you get actually there was no latency. I could rotate it and you could see a graph of it of the rotational information and it was updating the blockchain at the same time. Future thoughts. Blockchains. When I originally started looking at block change you know everybody wants the blockchain. It's great for government, it's great for healthcare. But the problem with it's like a hammer. When you have a hammer everything looks like a nail. So there is a problem with that to start with. But I think just ledger things the same problem. Because all these block chains are Ledger's. Now Ledger's are great and IBM uses a use case where they transfer oranges from Florida to New York. And when they do oranges will go through third by train they go through 13 train companies before they get to the destination. And when they get there 30% of the fruit is spoiled. So what they've done is they've introduced the blockchain. So they create ledger transactions in the beginning and then every time they transfer between companies they create another ledger transaction. Makes perfectly sense, but if you have all these IOT devices and they're sitting there spewing vents are they ledger transactions? I don't think they are. So what they're doing is keeping track of temperature. But could you imagine if they're transferring car cars and only 70% of them made it there without being unusable? So I really think in the future you're gonna see a lot of more non ledger transactions. My blockchain is what I call a payload blockchain. So anything you put in it it puts it in the blockchain. High throughput is gonna be critical. anA they're doing a lot of work on that I think R3 Corda has done some interesting stuff of that. Data integrity. I think blockchain is gonna be used for data integrity a lot. So we talked about the hospital how of events coming off these monitors going into the blockchain. One thing you can guarantee is because it's there's a signature on it and a public key you can mathematically proof that it came from where you think it came from. The second thing is that the whole record the whole block is hashed. And then and even the records themselves like Bitcoin have Merkle roots on them. So you can guarantee when you get that data you can run it through a mathematical function instantly and know that that's a valid block. So you can actually be able to load data in from anywhere and be able to prove that it's valid data all the time. IOT will drive performance when your refrigerators telling you need to buy eggs and all that good stuff. It's it's gonna happen. Block chains will connect multiple companies. I think you're gonna see a lot. I think especially in the area of know your customer where banks have to know whether you're a terrorist and things like that. If somewhere to come in and they can't verify it I think they're gonna share that information with other banks and it might be through a blockchain. Very ideal for that in industries. Think you're gonna see a lot of that. Data and block chains will be dissimilar. So right now if you look at most of these block chains a lot of them especially the currencies are all monolithic. They store one thing but I think you're gonna see block chains in the future that I'll actually be able to put pretty much any data in there that you want to. My little blockchain does but mine's also not a ledger. So I think it's going to be a combination of the two. And of course I'm, one of my next steps on it actually to connect up to some of these live databases. The reason I created my own is because I didn't have time to pick one of these and learn it and get it working so. And I think that's it. Are there any questions are you awake? Audience: [inaudible] Yeah okay sure. Okay I'm gonna go back to it. So picture of it there we go so this blockchain here. Basically is an event based blockchain. So these clients each one these clients has their own private public key. So do the node controllers so do the miners. So when event when a client like a transaction or any generates an event in this case it's just events transportation data or IOT data it encrypts it and sends it to the node controller and then node control re encrypts it and adds its packet information and then it goes to the miner. So by the time it gets on a blockchain this block these transactions gotten a lot bigger. But you know the reason I did it this way was how do I know the exact travel of every single transaction? What node control that went through who owns it. All these miners also have their own private public key. So everything in this so the real purpose of that was to prove that we can operate at speed doing still all this encryption. Now I actually used the Bitcoin algorithms which is called a Koblitz curve for those who care. And I also used the same hash 256 at Bitcoin uses. So I used a lot of libraries. The clients are written in a language called go and the miners are written in Java. Block chain is MongoDB. Its a proof it was a proof originally but now that I can put anything in it I'm working with the opioid abuse data that's coming out of the different states they're all concerned about that. And I think blockchain would be great for that because then each one its pharmacies and minors could have their own private public key and they could generate every time a prescription sent they you know they encrypt it and send it over with their key. No one knows that data you can give that day to anybody and let them do analytics on it without knowing who the source is. One of the problems we have we're working with them we're working with an aged state agency right now and they're real they're real concerned about  objuscating all these IDs because if you got the ID it's kind of like Social Security number. You know who the person who's receiving the drugs. But by putting it in this type of a blockchain what I've done is I've actually used a private public key to generate a signature. And that's how it works now. So but no one know it can prove by doing the signature in the public key that it's valid but you don't know who its sources is. And in that that this real that's why I like this payload idea. Because it's not a ledger. You don't really need ledger transactions for every single one of these. But the other thing too is this is a registration blockchain. So no one can know client can send a transaction without it being registered. Because every time it comes in here when it gets to the miner it sends a pass/fail back to the previous process. So when it when the event comes in here if it doesn't inside the advantage stream processing you treat it like a little database. So it'll actually everything every transaction has to match a does a join on a registered entity. Of course mines in tests now. So anybody puts a client up there it's registered automatically but that's that could easily be controlled. So where you see Bitcoin controls it through transactions and through the keys of public key, this one basically is a registration type blockchain, where you would have to register, you could have put another process out here that basically is administration type client. Which basically says okay I'm gonna be able to register this stuff. I think you'll see more than those two. They're very key and then I only keep them the key the public key. But you could keep any, you could add data to that administration function and put that in the blockchain. Awesome so anything else? There well it's kind of technical, I agree I think I'm gonna need to change it around a little bit more for them, folks this is much more of an industry type presentation. But I will work on that. Sure, yeah. 