 Hello crypto fam! For those of  you who are first time viewers,   I’m Kris from Exodus and you regulars, welcome  back. We’re going to take a closer look   at Hedera Hashgraph, and why some people  have called it “The Blockchain Killer”.    Let’s break it down, right after this.    If you're not familiar with Hedara Hashgraph it's a little bit different than your typical crypto project. Hashgraph is an open review consensus algorithm developed in 2016 by Dr  Leemon Baird. Hedera is the decentralized public   network and governing council, owned and governed  by a global council including Baird’s company   Swirlds Corporation, along with corporations  such as Boeing, Deutsche Telekom, Google,   IBM, Tata Communications, LG and more.    Bring them all together and you get Hedera  Hashgraph—the only public distributed ledger   in the world that uses the unique Hashgraph  algorithm, with its very own native token, HBAR. HBAR coins are used to power decentralized  applications, make payments and to secure Hedera’s   Proof-of-Stake network.    Dr Leemon Baird’s Hashgraph technology is a  compelling alternative to blockchain. Some   have even called it the next-generation  blockchain. Similar to a blockchain,   Hashgraph is a decentralized  and public distributed ledger.   But the way it works differs from blockchain  in several ways, and even offers up some vast   improvements.     Hashgraph’s stroke of genius was looking at one of  the fastest and most resilient way primitive human   communication has traveled—through gossip. We  have all shared spicy news in one way or another   and are often shocked by how fast  gossip spreads like wildfire.   In fact, once the word gets out, there’s no way  to stop it. Using gossip as a blueprint, Dr Baird   created the gossip-about-gossip protocol behind  the hashgraph algorithm, which works like this:    Unlike blockchain,   which has miners sequencing data block after block  in a Proof-of-Work protocol, hashgraph uses an   entirely different network architecture or data  structure called Directed Acyclic Graph or DAG. Hashgraph’s DAG is made up of these  spherical containers called “events”,   which are gossipped across the network’s  nodes, like notes along a musical scale.    Let’s say   we have five nodes on the network:  Alice, Bob, Carol, Dave and Ed. Each node gossips out events to other nodes at  random. Each event is a bundle of information   of transaction data along with a timestamp, a  signature and two cryptographic messages also   known as hashes. With just those two hashes, the  ledger can obtain a complete historical graph of   how the information flowed through the network.    Hashgraph solves all the same problems that  a blockchain does, but in a different manner.   Does this mean it is better than Bitcoin  or even Ethereum? Let’s look at some of the   differences.    First, speed.    Bitcoin can handle about 7  transactions per second. Ethereum,   the 2nd largest blockchain can handle about  15 transactions per second. Hedera Hashgraph?  At the fastest levels, Hashgraph is able to  achieve a blazing speed of 10,000 transactions   per second.    Next, transaction fees.    The average transaction fee of Bitcoin and  Ethereumcan be between a few cents to $10 or   more depending on how congested the network is..  Comparatively and because there are no miners to   compensate for their work, Hedera Hashgraph is  able to keep its transaction fee to a minimal   $0.0001 in USD, payed in hbars. This fee does  not change depending on network demand or usage,   making it stable and attractive  for enterprise use and adoption.    And third, security.    Hashgraph has achieved the   highest possible level of security for a consensus  algorithm – asynchronous Byzantine Fault Tolerance   (or aBFT).    Hashgraph’s aBFT network is able to achieve  consensus with 100% finality by assuming that   messages between honest nodes will be delayed,  or never reach their intended recipients,   such as during the case of a malicious attack.      Fast, minimal transaction fees, and a secure network. What more could you ask for? Hedera  also doesn’t require energy-heavy Proof-of-Work   resources. For diversity and stability, Hedera  is governed and backed by a global council of 39   term-limited organizations and  blue-chip enterprises representing   18 industries around the world, including  Australia, Japan, Europe, South America and India.    The potential applications of Hashgraph,   like blockchain, are infinite. From settling  micropayments to music and intellectual property,   supply chain management, decentralized  advertising, sovereign identity, decentralized   finance, the Internet-of-Things and this is just scratching the surface.    Currently, there are more than 300  decentralized applications being   built on the Hashgraph platform, including the  digital healthcare platform Safe Health Systems,   Inc. that’s used by over 150,000 users at Delta,  Arizona State University, and The Coupon Bureau,   an industry-managed platform whos advisory  committee includes the likes of Target,   General Mills, GS1 and others.    If you didn't know anything about Hedera before, now you do so, what do you think? Is Hedera Hashgraph a threat  waiting to usurp blockchain from its throne?  Click the link above and pop on over to the Exodus  blog to take a deeper look at Hedera Hashgraph.  If this video helped you understand Hedera  Hashgraph, give it a like and share with a friend.   And remember to subscribe for  more crypto videos from Exodus.    Until next time, HODL on! 