 Nowadays, all the application like Facebook, WeChat, they store all the data in their servers. So that means their admin can easily access, and hackers can also easily access. So that's a problem with Facebook. So in the future, all this data is not stored on the servers. Yes. You know, our founding father for the Internet is called Licklider. Actually, he graduated from Washington University in St. Louis, the same school I pursued my computer science Ph.D. degree there. At the time, when he proposed the Internet and he named it an intergalactic network that is mesh-network-based, but gradually the Internet becomes centralized and also with TCP/IP. So it's not the fault of TCP/IP, but because this kind of procedure, this we call the evolution, you know because, without blockchain, the Internet will have to go to centralized because TCP/IP and other protocol is very thin. So they need a very thick application layer to do the ledger and the payment easier. That's why carriers come out with a billing solution. That's why Internet carriers are centralized. So, you know, because the Internet is centralized and now blockchain comes out with a solution which can incentivize every mesh node to build really distributed Internet. So this distributed Internet have some problem because it cannot support the wide-area network. It is good for the last mile mesh network. So we still need like the wide-area network, the satellites, the Internet is the best way to solve the problem. Therefore, there comes, you know, Musk, also Blue Origin and a lot of companies want to launch satellites so there will be like, you know, in the starting plan there are 42,000 satellites. I believe there's a lot of other companies, like in China, they will launch the same amount of satellites. Then our Earth will be, you know, will be circled around by all the satellites. That is like garbage that will cause a lot of problems for our Earth. Therefore, Space Ground Integration network can solve the problem of the Internet, but we don't need so many satellites because that would be a problem. So the best way is to optimize on the ground. So we use as little as possible satellites to give a good user experience to all the people who want to be connected. So SmartMesh and the MeshBox focus on optimizing the Space Ground Integration network on the ground. We can share bandwidth, share storage, and share computing power. We call this HyperMesh because we distribute blockchain technology - to distribute our IP infrastructure. So I think that MeshBox is because it has blockchain inside, so it is very powerful. It's not only connecting people, but it's also the basic element for our future value Internet. They have the second layer called a photo network, can support machine-to-machine payment. That is a basic for the Internet of Things or the Internet of everything. Also, because every MeshBox has storage inside. So all our contents, the human being contents, SmartCity contents can be distributed in the MeshBox in a distributed way. And the crypto, you know, with cryptography and all the content would be safe and also, you know, it’s kind of like fault-tolerant and also disaster-tolerant. So the personal data, you know, privacy and security are most important. Right? So, for example, nowadays, all the application like Facebook, WeChat, they store all the data in their servers. So that means their admin can easily access, and hackers can also easily access. So that's a problem with Facebook. So in the future, all this data is not stored on the servers. They are going to be distributed to the MeshBoxes, and with the solution, we are now working with a Tahoe and also IPFS. So, you know, the thing for the government are released like SmartMesh into the government blockchain landscape, and also the government launched Blockchain Interoperability Challenge upon the Living Lab, we build with the SUSS together. The Tahoe is a distributed storage solution, but without blockchain, and now we provide a blockchain and the hardware. So in our solution, we're combining together to provide everybody a personal data, the security and, you know, we call it like disaster recovery. So that is the future of our storage and also can be used to the SmartCity solution. For example, a lot of cameras, the cameras will store all the videos in the cloud. It's expensive. It causes a lot of bandwidth and also, there's no privacy. But stored locally on the MeshBox and after distributed computing, only a necessary part will be delivered to the cloud, and most of that part will be steady locally, so that's our future solution. So I think the HyperMesh is an architecture for the whole world. So talking about the scalability, when there's like ten thousands of satellites around our Earth, then half of the population nowadays without Internet, they will be get connected. But somewhere they don't have like even power. So even though there are satellites, they still cannot get connected. Right? Therefore, for this kind of scalability, we also have one solution, we call it transactive energy. So we are working with NTU Singapore, Nanyang Technological University, and working on the microgrid. The microgrid, they don't have to connect to the national grid, the state grid. So a micro grid will have some solar power, and among the families within the village, people can trade energy. So some houses will have a solar panel, some houses will not have a solar panel, but it doesn't matter. So far, they are connected with, we call it like a universal power hub, and then with a blockchain solution, they can do the energy transactions. That means, we can easily deliver power or generate power for those villages now currently without power. Plus, the satellites, then everywhere on the Earth, can easily have the connectivity. So we mean, this solution actually scales very well and also because everywhere you have a MeshBox, you don't need servers anymore. So the storage and the computing can be distributed among those MeshBoxes. So that means we have the best scalability in the world, and also it is very important for artificial intelligence because for A.I., the most important is the data. So they didn't need big data, but big data is terrible because when A.I. has all the data, then it can be against a human being. So we have to, you know, make these big data distributed. So we call the distributed data market. That can guarantee that A.I. is helping human beings instead of killing. With one MeshBox and the use of Wi-Fi, we can connect to another MeshBox, and another MeshBox can connect to another, and form a Mesh network. So even without the Internet, these MeshBoxes connect each other, can still form a Mesh network, but with one uplink and then all the MeshBoxes and users will be connected into the whole Internet. OK, so the difference between the classical Mesh network and SmartMesh is that we have a blockchain inside. This blockchain and the second layer photo network, they can, you know, count all the traffic and then make a payment between the nodes, guarantee that every node owners can be incentivized by this SMT token and the distributed storage can be incentivized by the MeshToken. So with these two tokens, people can get connectivity and storage and the security. Their data would be secure, stored here very securely in the distributed way. If one MeshBox malfunctions and its data can be recovered from other MeshBoxes. So this will be a foundation for our value Internet. So blockchain, I think, that is the most important technology that will help our human being to protect ourselves because we are in the danger of a space war. The United States will launch like at least 50,000 satellites into our space, and China, Russia, and France will probably altogether launch more than 50,000 satellites into our space. A lot of countries now are developing anti-satellite weapons. OK. So it's so different from like a warship and other, you know, army on the ground. So the satellites are over everybody's head. OK. So we don't want our space to be the battleground. We want peace. Because, you know, space war can destroy our Earth. It's so different from the traditional war. So we want every satellite to be in the peaceful purpose. That is connecting our world. OK, but only blockchain technology can generate consensus. So blockchain technology is not limited by nations, by our territories. So with the blockchain like a token community in every country’s people can join. So that means with blockchain technology, we will have a global consensus that's for peaceful use. The satellites will not be used as a weapon. It will be used to connect everybody, connect everybody's consensus. The blockchain will become more and more important. You know, the president of China, Xi Jinping, for the first time as a leader of one country mentioned about blockchain. So that is because he has the consensus in mind. I hope, you know, every leader of other countries will stand for the blockchain. Do you know why it is important? I would take an example as a SmartCity. So nowadays, every country is developing SmartCity solutions, but it can be very dangerous because all the data is stored in the data center and all the SmartCity data, it's just so critical, but it can be easily hacked. That means the hacker could control all the data, the A.I. can control our data. It can be a very dangerous approach to our world. So blockchain is helping to guarantee the security of the data and also the privacy, also the ownership of the data. So that means blockchain in the long run, it's the most important technology in the world. When the blockchain technology evolves, it'll help actually influence every industry, and every industry would be protected by the blockchain technology. So that's why I think the blockchain is the most important technology in the world. It's more important than A.I. 